                                                 ABSTRACT
          The present invention is directed to compounds of Formula I:
                                           R4       R3
                                   NY
          R5 -Z                                 X
                                      0                 1
  wherein X is N or CRi; Y is N or CR2; Ri is H, alkoxy, halo, triazolyl, pyrimidinyl, oxazolyl,
5 isoxazole, oxadiazolyl, or pyrazolyl; R2 is H, alkyl, alkoxy, or halo; Z is NH or 0; R3 is H, alkyl,
  alkoxy, halo, or triazolyl; R4 is H or alkyl; or R3 and R4, together with the atoms to which they are
  attached, form a 6- membered aryl ring or a 5- or 6-membered heteroaryl ring; R5 is pyridyl,
  pyrazinyl, or pyrimidinyl, wherein the pyridyl, pyrazinyl, or pyrimidinyl is optionally substituted
  with halo or alkyl; and n is 1 or 2. Methods of making the compounds of Formula I are also
0 described. The invention also relates to pharmaceutical compositions comprising compounds of
  Formula I. Methods of using the compounds of the invention are also within the scope of the
  invention.
                                                -601-

            SUBSTITUTED 2-AZABICYCLES AND THEIR USE AS OREXIN RECEPTOR
                                               MODULATORS
   CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
            This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/780,378, filed
 5 March 13, 2013, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
   TECHNICAL FIELD
            The present invention is directed to substituted 2-azabicyclic compounds, pharmaceutical
   compositions comprising them, methods of making them, and methods of using them for the
   modulation of the orexin receptor for the treatment of disease states, disorders, and conditions
 0 mediated by orexin receptor activity.
   BACKGROUND
            Orexin/hypocretin signaling is mediated by two receptors and two peptide agonists. The
   peptides (orexin-A and orexin-B) are cleavage products of the same gene, pre-pro orexin. In the
   central nervous system, neurons producing pre-pro orexin are found solely in the perifornical
 5 nucleus, the dorsal hypothalamus, and the lateral hypothalamus (Peyron et al., 1998, J. Neurosci.
   18: 9996-10015). Orexigenic cells in these regions project to many areas of the brain, extending
   rostrally to the olfactory bulbs and caudally to the spinal cord (Van den Pol, 1999, J. Neurosci.19:
   3171-3182).
            The orexins bind to two high affinity receptors, referred to as orexin- 1 and orexin-2
20 receptors. Orexin- 1 and orexin-2 receptors are G-protein-coupled, seven transmembrane receptors
   that share over 64% amino acid sequence identity with one another. Both receptors are generally
   excitatory, the common cellular response to orexin-induced receptor activation being increases in
   intracellular calcium. Homology between the species orthologs is high and there are no known
   pharmacological differences. Orexin-A and -B are usually considered equal ligands for orexin-2
25 receptor but orexin-B is thought to be 5- to 100-fold weaker ligand than orexin-A at the orexin- 1
   receptor (Sakurai et al., 1998, Cell92: 573-585; Ammoun et al., 2003, J. Pharmacol.Exp. Ther.305:
   507-514).
            Many regions of the brain have fairly selective expression of the orexin- 1 or orexin-2
   receptors (Marcus et al., 2001, J. Comp Neurology435, 6-25; Trivedi et al., 1998, FEBS Letters,
                                                  -1-

   438, 71-75). Orexin-1 receptors are selective for the limbic system (bed nucleus of the stria
   terminalis and amygdala), cingulate cortex and noradrenergic neurons in the locus coeruleus.
   Conversely, the orexin-2 receptor is almost the exclusive orexin receptor in the histaminergic
   neurons in the tuberomammilary nucleus which play a critical role in wake promotion; in
 5 paraventricular neurons and the parabrachial nucleus. In other brain regions like the dorsal raphe,
   the ventral tegmental area or the prefontal cortex both receptors are coexpressed.
           The broad CNS distribution of cells producing orexin, as well as cells expressing the orexin
   receptors, suggests involvement of orexin in a number of physiological functions, including feeding
   and metabolism, regulation of wakefulness and sleep, sympathetic activation and stress response (de
 0 Lecea, 2012, Progress in Brain Research, 198, 15-24; Kukkonen, 2013, Am J. Physiol. Cell
   Physiol., 304, C2-C32). Orexin also plays a key role regulating motivation and reward associated
   with food intake and with drugs of abuse (Mahler et al., 2012, Progress in Brain Research, 198, 79
   121).
           Several lines of evidence indicate that the orexin system is an important modulator of
 5 arousal. Rodents administered orexin intracerebroventricularly spend more time awake (Piper et al.,
   2000, J. Neurosci. 12: 726-730. Orexin-mediated effects on arousal have been linked to orexin
   neuronal projections to histaminergic neurons in the tuberomammillary nucleus (Yamanaka et al.,
   2002, Biochem. Biophys. Res. Comm. 290: 1237-1245). Rodents whose pre-pro orexin gene has
   been knocked out, or whose orexigenic neurons have been killed, display altered sleep/wake cycles
 0 similar to narcolepsy (Chemelli et al., 1999, Cell98: 437-45 1; Hara et al., 2001, Neuron30: 345
   354). Dog models of narcolepsy have been shown to have mutant or non-functional orexin-2
   receptors (Lin et al., 1999, Cell98: 365-376). Orexin signaling as a target for sleep-promoting
   therapies was further validated clinically by findings of attenuated orexin levels and loss of
   orexinergic neurons in human narcoleptic patients (Mignot et al., 2001, Am. J. Hum. Genet. 68: 686
25 699; Minot & Thorsby, 2001, New EnglandJ. Med. 344: 692) or, in rare cases, to mutations in the
   orexin-2 gene (Peyron et al., 2000, Nature Med. 6: 991-997). Disorders of the sleep-wake cycle are
   therefore likely targets for orexin-2 receptor modulator activity. Examples of sleep-wake disorders
   that may be treated by agonists or other modulators that up-regulate orexin-2 receptor-mediated
   processes include narcolepsy, jet lag (sleepiness) and sleep disorders secondary to neurological
30 disorders such as depression. Examples of disorders that may be treated by antagonists or other
   modulators that down-regulate orexin-2 receptor-mediated processes include insomnia, restless leg
                                                  -2-

   syndrome, jet lag (wakefulness) and sleep disorders secondary to neurological disorders such as
   mania, schizophrenia, pain syndromes and the like.
           Evidence has accumulated to demonstrate a clear involvement of orexin signaling in reward
   pathways associated with drug dependence (Mahler et al., 2012, Progressin Brain Research, 198,
 5 79-121). Orexinergic neurons send projections to the ventral tegmental area and other brain regions
   involved in reward processing. Orexin ligands mediate reward behavior, and antagonizing these
   effects with a selective orexin- 1 receptor antagonist in various preclinical model of addiction has
   suggested that these actions are mediated through orexin- 1 receptor. Specifically, a selective
   orexin- 1 antagonist attenuates morphine conditioned place preference and reinstatement (Harris et
 0 al., 2005, Nature, 437, 556-5599; Narita et al., 2006, JNeurosci.,26,398-405; Harris et al., 2007,
   Behav Brain Res, 183, 43-5 1), stress-induced cocaine reinstatement, cocaine-induced behavioral
   and synaptic plasticity (Borgland et al., 2006, Neuron, 49, 589-601), and intake and cue and stress
   induced reinstatement of ethanol (Lawrence et al., 2006, Br J Pharmacol,148, 752-759), in addition
   to attenuating precipitated morphine withdrawal (Sharf et al., 2008, Biol Psychiatry,64, 175-183)
 5 and nicotine self-administration (Hollander et al., 2008, ProcNatl Acad Sci U S A., 105, 19480
   19485). Another recent study has also suggested a role for OX2R (Shoblock et al., 2011,
   Psychopharmacology,215, 191-203).
           Orexin's role in more complex emotional behavior is also emerging (Johnson et al., 2012,
   Progressin Brain Research, 198, 133-16 1). Changes in orexin levels in patients with panic and
 0 posttraumatic stress disorders have been noted as have changes in the prevalence of anxiety
   behaviors in narcoleptic patients (Johnson et al., 2010, Nature Medicine, 16, 111-115; Fortuyn et al.,
   2010, General HospitalPsychiatry,32, 49-56; Strawn et al., 2010, Psychoneuroendocrinology,35,
   1001-1007). Lactate infusion or acute hypercapnia , which causes panic in humans, and are used as
   an animal model of panic, activates orexin neurons in the perifornical hypothalamus. This
25 activation correlates with anxiety in the social interaction test or open field test. Blocking orexin
   signaling with either siRNA or selective orexin- 1 receptor antagonists attenuates panic-like
   responses to lactate (Johnson et al., 2010, Nature Medicine, 16, 111-115; Johnson et al., 2012,
   Neuropsychopharmacology,37, 1911, 1922).
           Cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) levels of orexin are lower in depressed or suicidal patients, and
30 the level of orexin inversely correlates with illness severity (Brundin et al., 2007, European
   Neuropsychopharmacology, 17, 573-579; Salomon et al., 2003, Biol Psychiatry,54, 96-104). A
   positive correlation between orexin- 1 receptor mRNA in the amygdala and depressive behavior in
                                                  -3-

   the forced swim test in mice has been reported (Arendt, 2013, BehavioralNeuroscience, 127, 86
   94).
            The orexin system also interacts with brain dopamine systems. Intracerebroventricular
   injections of orexin in mice increase locomotor activity, grooming and stereotypy; these behavioral
 5 effects are reversed by administration of D2 dopamine receptor antagonists (Nakamura et al., 2000,
   Brain Res. 873: 181-187). Therefore, orexin receptor modulators may be useful to treat various
   neurological disorders; e.g., agonists or up-regulators to treat catatonia, antagonists or down
   regulators to treat Parkinson's disease, Tourette's syndrome, anxiety, delerium and dementias.
            Orexins and their receptors have been found in both the myenteric and submucosal plexus of
 0 the enteric nervous system, where orexins have been shown to increase motility in vitro
   (Kirchgessner & Liu, 1999, Neuron24: 941-95 1) and to stimulate gastric acid secretion in vitro
   (Takahashi et al., 1999, Biochem. Biophys. Res. Comm. 254: 623-627). Orexin effects on the gut
   may be driven by a projection via the vagus nerve (van den Pol, 1999, supra), as vagotomy or
   atropine prevent the effect of an intracerebroventricular injection of orexin on gastric acid secretion
 5 (Takahashi et al., 1999, supra). Orexin receptor antagonists or other down-regulators of orexin
   receptor-mediated systems are therefore potential treatments for ulcers, irritable bowel syndrome,
   diarrhea and gastroesophageal reflux.
            Body weight may also be affected by orexin-mediated regulation of appetite and
   metabolism. Some effects of orexin on metabolism and appetite may be mediated in the gut, where,
 0 as mentioned, orexins alter gastric motility and gastric acid secretion. Orexin antagonists therefore
   are likely to be useful in treatment of overweight or obesity and conditions related to overweight or
   obesity, such as insulin resistance/type II diabetes, hyperlipidemia, gallstones, angina, hypertension,
   breathlessness, tachycardia, infertility, sleep apnea, back and joint pain, varicose veins and
   osteoarthritis. Conversely, orexin agonists are likely to be useful in treatment of underweight and
25 related conditions such as hypotension, bradycardia, ammenorrhea and related infertility, and eating
   disorders such as anorexia and bulimia.
            Intracerebroventricularly administered orexins have been shown to increase mean arterial
   pressure and heart rate in freely moving (awake) animals (Samson et al., 1999, Brain Res. 831: 248
   253; Shirasaka et al., 1999, Am. J. Physiol.277: R1780-R1785) and in urethane-anesthetized
30 animals (Chen et al., 2000, Am. J. Physiol. 278: R692-R697), with similar results. Orexin receptor
   agonists may therefore be candidates for treatment of hypotension, bradycardia and heart failure
                                                   -4-

   related thereto, while orexin receptor antagonists may be useful for treatment of hypertension,
   tachycardia and other arrhythmias, angina pectoris and acute heart failure.
            From the foregoing discussion, it can be seen that the identification of orexin receptor
   modulators, will be of great advantage in the development of therapeutic agents for the treatment of
 5 a wide variety of disorders that are mediated through these receptor systems.
   SUMMARY
            The present invention is directed to compounds of Formula I:
                                           R4        R3
                                   NY
            R5 -Z                               X
                                       0                1
   wherein X is N or CRi; Y is N or CR2; Ri is H, alkoxy, halo,triazolyl, thiazolyl, pyridazinyl,
 0 pyrimidinyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, oxadiazolyl, pyridyl, phenylor pyrazolyl, wherein triazolyl,
   thiazolyl, pyridazinyl, pyrimidinyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, oxadiazolyl, pyridyl, phenyl or pyrazolyl is
   optionally substituted with up to two substituents selected from halo and alkyl; R2 is H, alkyl,
   alkoxy, or halo; Z is NH, N-CH3, N-CH2CH3, N-CH2-cyclopropyl, N-C(=O)CH3, N
   CH2CH20CH3 or 0; R3 is H, alkyl, alkoxy, halo, triazolyl, thiazolyl, pyridazinyl, pyrimidinyl,
 5 oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, oxadiazolyl, pyridyl, phenyl or pyrazolyl, wherein triazolyl, thiazolyl,
   pyridazinyl, pyrimidinyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, oxadiazolyl, pyridyl, phenyl or pyrazolyl is
   optionally substituted with up to two substituents selected from halo and alkyl; R4 is H or alkyl; or
   R3 and R4, together with the atoms to which they are attached, form a 6- membered aryl ring or a 5-
   membered or 6-membered heteroaryl ring; R5 is pyridyl, pyrazinyl, benzoxazolyl, pyridazinyl,
20 naphthyridinyl or pyrimidinyl, wherein the pyridyl, pyrazinyl, benzoxazolyl, pyridazinyl,
   naphthyridinyl or pyrimidinyl is optionally substituted with up to two groups selected from halo,
   alkoxy, hydroxymethyland alkyl; and n is 1 or 2. Enantiomers and diastereomers of the compounds
   of Formula I are also described, as well as the pharmaceutically acceptable salts.
            Methods of making the compounds of Formula I are also described. The invention also
25 relates to pharmaceutical compositions comprising therapeutically effective amounts of compounds
   of Formula I. Methods of using the compounds of the invention are also within the scope of the
   invention.
                                                  -5-

   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
            Figure 1 depicts an Oak Ridge Thermal Ellipsoid Plot Program (ORTEP), shown at 40%
   probability level, of one embodiment of the invention, Example 13.
            Figure 2 depicts an ORTEP, shown at 40% probability level, of one embodiment of the
 5 invention, Example 14.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF ILLUSTRATIVE EMBODIMENTS
            The invention may be more fully appreciated by reference to the following description,
   including the following glossary of terms and the concluding examples.
   The term "alkyl" refers to a straight- or branched-chain alkyl group having from 1 to 12 carbon
 0 atoms in the chain. In some embodiments, an alkyl group is a C I-C6 alkyl group. In some
   embodiments, an alkyl group is a CI-C4 alkyl group. Examples of alkyl groups include methyl (Me)
   ethyl (Et), n-propyl, isopropyl, butyl, isobutyl, sec-butyl, tert-butyl (tBu), pentyl, isopentyl, tert
   pentyl, hexyl, isohexyl, and groups that in light of the ordinary skill in the art and the teachings
   provided herein would be considered equivalent to any one of the foregoing examples. Alkyl groups
 5 of the invention can be substituted with, for example, halogen atoms. One exemplary substitutent is
   fluoro. Preferred substituted alkyl groups of the invention include trihalogenated alkyl groups such
   as trifluoromethyl groups.
            Alkyl groups of the invention can also refer to "cycloalkyl" moieties. Cycloalkyl refers to
   monocyclic, non-aromatic hydrocarbon groups having from 3 to 7 carbon atoms. Examples of
 0 cycloalkyl groups include, for example, cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, 1
   methylcyclopropyl, 2-methylcyclopentyl, and the like.
            The term "alkoxy" includes a straight chain or branched alkyl group with a terminal oxygen
   linking the alkyl group to the rest of the molecule. In some embodiments, an alkoxy group is a Ci
   C6  alkoxy group. In some embodiments, an alkoxy group is a C1-C4 alkoxy group. Alkoxy includes
25 methoxy, ethoxy, propoxy, isopropoxy, butoxy, t-butoxy, pentoxy and so on.
            The term "aryl ring" represents" a mono- or bi-cyclic aromatic, hydrocarbon ring structure.
   Aryl rings can have 6 or 10 carbon atoms in the ring.
            The term "halogen" represents chlorine, fluorine, bromine, or iodine. The term "halo"
   represents chloro, fluoro, bromo, or iodo.
                                                  - 6-

           The term "heteroaryl ring" represents a mono-or bicyclic aromoatic ring structure including
   carbon atoms as well as up to four heteroatoms selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur.
   Heteroaryl rings can include a total of 5, 6, 9, or 10 ring atoms.
           The term "isoxazolyl" represents the following moiety:
 5         The term "isoxazolyl" represents the following moiety:
                1
           5       NC2
             4     3
   The isoxazolyl moiety can be attached through any one of the 3-, 4-, or 5-position carbon atoms.
   Isoxazolyl groups of the invention can be optionally substituted with, for example, one or two alkyl
   groups, for example, one or two methyl groups.
 0         The term "oxazolyl" represents the following moiety:
           4C         2
             5 01
   The oxazolyl moiety can be attached through any one of the carbon atoms.
           The term "oxadiazolyl" represents a 1,2,3-oxadiazole, 1,2,4-oxadiazole, 1,2,5-oxadiazole, or
   1,3,4-oxadiazole moiety:
           5       N2     5       N2       5 N       N2      5 0     2
15           4      3       4    3            4     3         4    3
           The oxadiazolyl moieties can be attached through any one of the carbon or nitrogen atoms.
   Within the scope of the invention, "oxadiazolyl" groups can be substituted with an alkyl or halo
   group, preferably a methyl group.
           The term "pyridyl" represents the following moiety:
               N1
           6      -2
           5          3
20             4
   The pyridyl moiety can be attached through any one of the 2-, 3-, 4-, 5-, or 6-position carbon atoms.
           The term "pyrimidinyl" represents the following moiety:
                                                  -7-

                  N
           6           3
                 4
   The pyrimidinyl moiety can be attached through any one of the 2-, 4-, 5-, or 6-position carbon
   atoms. Within the scope of the invention, "pyrimidinyl" groups of the invention can be substituted
   with halogen, for example fluoro, or alkyl, for example methyl.
 5         The term "pyrazinyl" represents the following moiety:
               6   1   2
           5     N   3
                 4
   The pyrazinyl moiety can be attached through any one of the 2-, 3-, 5-, or 6-position carbon atoms.
           The term "pyridazinyl" represents the following moiety:
                  N
           6     N N2
           5
                 4
 0 The pyridazinyl moiety can be attached through any one of the 3-, 4-, 5-, or 6-position carbon
   atoms.
           The term "pyrazolyl" represents the following moiety:
           5       N 2
             4       3
           The pyrazolyl moiety can be attached through any one of the 1-, 2-, 3-, 4-, or 5-position
15 carbon atoms. Pyrazolyl groups of the invention can be optionally substituted with, for example,
   one or two alkyl groups, for example, one or two methyl groups.
           The term "triazolyl" represents a 1,2,3-triazole or a 1,2,4-triazole moiety:
                     N'_
           5   QN2         5      N
             4     N3        4N
   The triazolyl moieties can be attached through any one of their atoms.
                                                -8-

            The term "imidazolyl" represents the following moiety:
            4C    N3   2
              5     N1
   The imidazolyl moiety can be attached through any one of the 2-, 4-, or 5-position carbon atoms, or
   via the N-I nitrogen atom. Imidazolyl groups of the invention can be optionally substituted with,
 5 for example, one or two alkyl groups, for example, one or two methyl groups.
            The term "thiazolyl" represents the following moiety:
                  S
   The thiazolyl moiety can be attached through any one of the carbon atoms. Thiazolyl groups of the
   invention can be optionally substituted with, for example, one or two alkyl groups, for example, one
 0 or two methyl groups.
            The term "naphthyridinyl" represents the following moiety:
                N      N
   The naphthyridinyl moiety can be attached through any one of the carbon atoms. Naphthyridinyl
   groups of the invention can be optionally substituted with, for example, one or two alkyl groups, for
 5 example, one or two methyl groups, or halo groups.
            The term "imidazothiazolyl" represents the following moiety:
               N       S
   The imidazothiazolyl moiety can be attached through any one of the carbon atoms. imidazothiazolyl
   groups of the invention can be optionally substituted with, for example, one or two alkyl groups, for
20 example, one or two methyl groups.
            "Pharmaceutically acceptable" means approved or approvable by a regulatory agency of the
   Federal or a state government or the corresponding agency in countries other than the United States,
   or that is listed in the U.S. Pharmacopoeia or other generally recognized pharmacopoeia for use in
   animals, and more particularly, in humans.
                                                 - 9-

            "Pharmaceutically acceptable salt" refers to a salt of a compound of the invention that is
   pharmaceutically acceptable and that possesses the desired pharmacological activity of the parent
   compound. In particular, such salts are non-toxic may be inorganic or organic acid addition salts and
   base addition salts. Specifically, such salts include: (1) acid addition salts, formed with inorganic
 5 acids such as hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, sulfuric acid, nitric acid, phosphoric acid, and
   the like; or formed with organic acids such as acetic acid, propionic acid, hexanoic acid,
   cyclopentanepropionic acid, glycolic acid, pyruvic acid, lactic acid, malonic acid, succinic acid,
   malic acid, maleic acid, fumaric acid, tartaric acid, citric acid, benzoic acid, 3-(4
   hydroxybenzoyl)benzoic acid, cinnamic acid, mandelic acid, methanesulfonic acid, ethanesulfonic
 0 acid, 1,2-ethane-disulfonic acid, 2-hydroxyethanesulfonic acid, benzenesulfonic acid, 4
   chlorobenzenesulfonic acid, 2-naphthalenesulfonic acid, 4-toluenesulfonic acid, camphorsulfonic
   acid, 4-methylbicyclo[2.2.2]-oct-2-ene-1-carboxylic acid, glucoheptonic acid, 3-phenylpropionic
   acid, trimethylacetic acid, tertiary butylacetic acid, lauryl sulfuric acid, gluconic acid, glutamic acid,
   hydroxynaphthoic acid, salicylic acid, stearic acid, muconic acid, and the like; or (2) salts formed
 5 when an acidic proton present in the parent compound either is replaced by a metal ion, e.g., an
   alkali metal ion, an alkaline earth ion, or an aluminum ion; or coordinates with an organic base such
   as ethanolamine, diethanolamine, triethanolamine, N-methylglucamine and the like. Salts further
   include, by way of example only, sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, ammonium,
   tetraalkylammonium, and the like; and when the compound contains a basic functionality, salts of
 0 non toxic organic or inorganic acids, such as hydrochloride, hydrobromide, tartrate, mesylate,
   acetate, maleate, oxalate and the like.
            "Pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle" refers to a diluent, adjuvant, excipient or carrier with
   which a compound of the invention is administered. A "pharmaceutically acceptable excipient"
   refers to a substance that is non-toxic, biologically tolerable, and otherwise biologically suitable for
25 administration to a subject, such as an inert substance, added to a pharmacological composition or
   otherwise used as a vehicle, carrier, or diluent to facilitate administration of a agent and that is
   compatible therewith. Examples of excipients include calcium carbonate, calcium phosphate,
   various sugars and types of starch, cellulose derivatives, gelatin, vegetable oils, and polyethylene
   glycols.
30          "Subject" includes humans. The terms "human," "patient," and "subject" are used
   interchangeably herein.
                                                  -10-

           "Treating" or "treatment" of any disease or disorder refers, in one embodiment, to
   ameliorating the disease or disorder (i.e., arresting or reducing the development of the disease or at
   least one of the clinical symptoms thereof). In another embodiment "treating" or "treatment" refers
   to ameliorating at least one physical parameter, which may not be discernible by the subject. In yet
 5 another embodiment, "treating" or "treatment" refers to modulating the disease or disorder, either
   physically, (e.g., stabilization of a discernible symptom), physiologically, (e.g., stabilization of a
   physical parameter), or both. In yet another embodiment, "treating" or "treatment" refers to delaying
   the onset of the disease or disorder.
           In treatment methods according to the invention, a therapeutically effective amountof a
 0 pharmaceutical agent according to the invention is administered to a subject suffering from or
   diagnosed as having such a disease, disorder, or condition. A "therapeutically effective amount"
   means an amount or dose sufficient to generally bring about the desired therapeutic or prophylactic
   benefit in patients in need of such treatment for the designated disease, disorder, or condition.
   Effective amounts or doses of the compounds of the present invention may be ascertained by
 5 routine methods such as modeling, dose escalation studies or clinical trials, and by taking into
   consideration routine factors, e.g., the mode or route of administration or drug delivery, the
   pharmacokinetics of the compound, the severity and course of the disease, disorder, or condition,
   the subject's previous or ongoing therapy, the subject's health status and response to drugs, and the
   judgment of the treating physician. An example of a dose is in the range of from about 0.001 to
 0 about 200 mg of compound per kg of subject's body weight per day, preferably about 0.05 to 100
   mg/kg/day, or about 1 to 35 mg/kg/day, in single or divided dosage units (e.g., BID, TID, QID).
   For a 70-kg human, an illustrative range for a suitable dosage amount is from about 0.05 to about 7
   g/day, or about 0.2 to about 2.5 g/day.
           "Compounds of the present invention," and equivalent expressions, are meant to embrace
25 compounds of the Formula (I) as described herein, which expression includes the pharmaceutically
   acceptable salts, and the solvates, e.g., hydrates, where the context so permits. Similarly, reference
   to intermediates, whether or not they themselves are claimed, is meant to embrace their salts, and
   solvates, where the context so permits.
           As used herein, the term "isotopic variant" refers to a compound that contains unnatural
30 proportions of isotopes at one or more of the atoms that constitute such compound. For example, an
   "isotopic variant" of a compound can be radiolabeled, that is, contain one or more non-radioactive
   or radioactive isotopes, such as for example, deuterium (2 H or D), carbon-13 (13C), nitrogen-15
                                                   - 11 -

   ( 5N), or the like. It will be understood that, in a compound where such isotopic substitution is
   made, the following atoms, where present, may vary, so that for example, any hydrogen may be
   2H/D,  any carbon may be      13C, or any nitrogen may be 15N, and that the presence and placement of
   such atoms may be determined within the skill of the art. Likewise, the invention may include the
 5 preparation of isotopic variants with radioisotopes, in the instance for example, where the resulting
   compounds may be used for drug and/or substrate tissue distribution studies. Radiolabeled
   compounds of the invention can be used in diagnostic methods such as Single-photon emission
   computed tomography (SPECT). The radioactive isotopes tritium, i.e. 3H, and carbon-14, i.e.       14
                                                                                                        C,
   are particularly useful for their ease of incorporation and ready means of detection. Further,
 0 compounds may be prepared that are substituted with positron emitting isotopes, such as 11C, 18F,
   150 and 13N, and would be useful in Positron Emission Topography (PET) studies for examining
   substrate receptor occupancy.
           All isotopic variants of the compounds of the invention, radioactive or not, are intended to
   be encompassed within the scope of the invention. In one aspect, provided herein are deuterated
 5 analogs of compounds of Formula I as described in the Examples section. In one embodiment,
   deuterated analogs of compounds of Formula I comprise deuterium atoms attached to one or more
   positions on the 2-azabicyclic ring, such as bridgehead carbons, or non-bridgehead carbons of the 2
   azabicyclic ring, and preferably comprise one or more deuterium atoms attached to non-bridgehead
   carbons of the 2-azabicyclic ring. Also contemplated within the scope of embodiments described
 0 herein are compounds in which a single proton in compounds of Formula I is replaced with a
   deuterium, or 2 protons in compounds of Formula I are replaced with deuterium, or more than 2
   protons in compounds of Formula I are replaced with deuterium. Deuteration of a compound of
   Formula I may also be effected on one or more substituents (such as e.g., ring A, R1 , R2, or Ri)
   present on the 2-azabicyclic ring.
25          It is also to be understood that compounds that have the same molecular formula but differ
   in the nature or sequence of bonding of their atoms or the arrangement of their atoms in space are
   termed "isomers." Isomers that differ in the arrangement of their atoms in space are termed
   "stereoisomers."
            Stereoisomers that are not mirror images of one another are termed "diastereomers" and
30 those that are non-superimposable mirror images of each other are termed "enantiomers." When a
   compound has an asymmetric center, for example, it is bonded to four different groups, a pair of
   enantiomers is possible. An enantiomer can be characterized by the absolute configuration of its
                                                   - 12 -

    asymmetric center and is described by the R-and S-sequencing rules of Cahn and Prelog, or by the
    manner in which the molecule rotates the plane of polarized light and designated as dextrorotatory
    or levorotatory (i.e., as (+) or (-)-isomers respectively). A chiral compound can exist as either
    individual enantiomer or as a mixture thereof. A mixture containing equal proportions of the
 5  enantiomers is called a "racemic mixture."
             "Tautomers" refer to compounds that are interchangeable forms of a particular compound
    structure, and that vary in the displacement of hydrogen atoms and electrons. Thus, two structures
    may be in equilibrium through the movement of n electrons and an atom (usually H). For example,
    enols and ketones are tautomers because they are rapidly interconverted by treatment with either
 0  acid or base. Another example of tautomerism is the aci-and nitro-forms of phenyl nitromethane,
    that are likewise formed by treatment with acid or base.
             Tautomeric forms may be relevant to the attainment of the optimal chemical reactivity and
    biological activity of a compound of interest.
             Compounds of the invention may also exist as "rotamers," that is, conformational isomers
 5  that occur when the rotation leading to different conformations is hindered, resulting a rotational
    energy barrier to be overcome to convert from one conformational isomer to another.
             The compounds of this invention may possess one or more asymmetric centers; such
    compounds can therefore be produced as individual (R)-or (S)-stereoisomers or as mixtures thereof.
            Unless indicated otherwise, the description or naming of a particular compound in the
 0  specification and claims is intended to include both individual enantiomers and mixtures, racemic or
    otherwise, thereof. The methods for the determination of stereochemistry and the separation of
    stereoisomers are well-known in the art.
             The present invention is directed to compounds of Formula I:
                                                                  R4       R3
                                                          NY
                                   R5 -Z                                X
250
             wherein
                                                    -13-

   X is N or CRi
   Y is N or CR2
   Ri is H, alkoxy, halo, triazolyl, thiazolyl, pyridazinyl, pyrimidinyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl,
            oxadiazolyl, pyridyl, phenyl or pyrazolyl, wherein triazolyl, thiazolyl, pyridazinyl,
 5          pyrimidinyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, oxadiazolyl, pyridyl, phenyl or pyrazolyl is
            optionally substituted with up to two substituents selected from halo and alkyl;
   R2  is H, alkyl, alkoxy, or halo;
   Z is NH, N-CH3, N-CH2CH3, N-CH2-cyclopropyl, N-C(=O)CH3, N-CH2CH20CH3 or 0;
   R3 is H, alkyl, alkoxy, halo, triazolyl, thiazolyl, pyridazinyl, pyrimidinyl, oxazolyl,
 0          isoxazolyl, oxadiazolyl, pyridyl, phenyl or pyrazolyl, wherein triazolyl, thiazolyl,
            pyridazinyl, pyrimidinyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, oxadiazolyl, pyridyl, phenyl or
            pyrazolyl is optionally substituted with up to two substituents selected from halo and
            alkyl;
   R4 is H or alkyl;
 5          or R3 and R4, together with the atoms to which they are attached, form a 6
   membered aryl ring or a 5- or 6-membered heteroaryl ring;
   R5 is phenyl, pyridyl, pyrazinyl, benzoxazolyl, pyridazinyl, naphthyridinyl or pyrimidinyl,
            wherein the pyridyl, pyrazinyl, benzoxazolyl, pyridazinyl, naphthyridinyl or
            pyrimidinyl is optionally substituted with up to two groups selected fromhalo,
 0          alkoxy, hydroxymethyland alkyl; and
   n is 1 or 2.
   In one aspect, the invention is directed to compounds of Formula I:
                                                          R4        R3
                                                 NY
                          R5 -Z                                X
                                                      o                1
   wherein
25 X is N or CRi
   Y is N or CR2
   Ri is H, alkoxy, halo, triazolyl, pyrimidinyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, oxadiazolyl, or pyrazolyl;
   R2  is H, alkyl, alkoxy, or halo;
                                          - 14 -

           Z is NH, or 0;
           R3 is H, alkyl, alkoxy, halo, or triazolyl;
           R4 is H or alkyl;
                    or R3 and R4, together with the atoms to which they are attached, form a 6
 5         membered aryl ring or a 5- or 6-membered heteroaryl ring;
           R5 is pyridyl, pyrazinyl, or pyrimidinyl, wherein the pyridyl, pyrazinyl, or pyrimidinyl is
                    optionally substituted with halo or alkyl; and
           n is 1 or 2.
 0         Enantiomers and diastereomers of the compounds of Formula I are also within the scope of
   the invention. Also within the scope of the invention are the pharmaceutically acceptable salts of
   the compounds of Formula I, as well as the pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the enantiomers
   and diastereomers of the compounds of Formula I.Also within the scope of the invention are
   isotopic variations of compounds of Formula I, such as, e.g., deuterated compounds of Formula I.
 5         In preferred embodiments, Z is NH. In other embodiments, Z is 0. In yet other
   embodiments, Z is NH, N-CH3, N-CH2CH3, N-CH2-cyclopropyl, N-C(=0)CH3, or N
   CH2CH20CH3.
           In preferred embodiments, X is CRi and Y is CR2.
           In other embodiments, X is CRi and Y is N.
 0         In yet other embodiments, X is N and Y is CR2.
           In those embodiments wherein X is CRi, for example, where X is CRi and Y is CR2 or X is
   CRi and Y is N, Ri is H. In other embodiments, Ri is alkoxy, for example, C1-6alkoxy such as
   methoxy or ethoxy.
           In those embodiments wherein X is CRi, for example, where X is CRi and Y is CR2 or X is
25 CRi and Y is N, Ri is halo, preferably F, Cl, or Br.
           In those embodiments wherein X is CRi, for example, where X is CRi and Y is CR2 or X is
   CRi and Y is N, Ri is triazolyl, optionally substituted with up to two substituents selected from halo
   and alkyl, with 1,2,3-triazolyl being preferred. In preferred embodiments, the 1,2,3-triazolyl is
   attached through the 2-position nitrogen atom. In other embodiments, the 1,2,3-triazolyl is attached
30 through the 1-position nitrogen atom.
                                                  - 15 -

           In those embodiments wherein X is CRi, for example, where X is CRi and Y is CR2 or X is
   CRi and Y is N, Ri is pyrimidinyl, optionally substituted with up to two substituents selected from
   halo and alkyl, which can be attached through any available atom.
           In those embodiments wherein X is CRi, for example, where X is CRi and Y is CR2 or X is
 5 CRi and Y is N, Ri is oxazolyl, optionally substituted with up to two substituents selected from halo
   and alkyl, which can be attached through any available atom.
           In those embodiments wherein X is CRi, for example, where X is CRi and Y is CR2 or X is
   CRi and Y is N, Ri is isoxazolyl, optionally substituted with up to two substituents selected from
   halo and alkyl, which can be attached through any available atom.
 0         In those embodiments wherein X is CRi, for example, where X is CRi and Y is CR2 or X is
   CRi and Y is N, Ri is oxadiazolyl, optionally substituted with up to two substituents selected from
   halo and alkyl, which can be attached through any available atom. The oxadiazolyl group can
   optionally be substituted with alkyl, for example methyl. In exemplary embodiments, the
   substituted oxadiazolyl moiety is 1,2,4-oxadiazolyl substituted with methyl.
 5         In those embodiments wherein X is CRi, for example, where X is CRi and Y is CR2 or X is
   CRi and Y is N, Ri is pyridyl, optionally substituted with up to two substituents selected from halo
   and alkyl, which can be attached through any available atom. The pyridyl group can optionally be
   substituted with alkyl, for example methyl or halo.
           In those embodiments wherein X is CRi, for example, where X is CRi and Y is CR2 or X is
 0 CRi and Y is N, Ri is imidazolyl, optionally substituted with up to two substituents selected from
   halo and alkyl, which can be attached through any available atom. The imidazolyl group can
   optionally be substituted with alkyl, for example methyl or halo.
           In those embodiments wherein X is CRi, for example, where X is CRi and Y is CR2 or X is
   CRi and Y is N, Ri is phenyl, optionally substituted with up to two substituents selected from halo
25 and alkyl, which can be attached through any available atom. The phenyl group can optionally be
   substituted with alkyl, for example methyl or halo.
           In those embodiments wherein X is CRi, for example, where X is CRi and Y is CR2 or X is
   CRi and Y is N, Ri is pyrazolyl, optionally substituted with up to two substituents selected from
   halo and alkyl, which can be attached through any available atom. The pyrazolyl group can
30 optionally be substituted with one or two CI-6alkyl, for example methyl.
                                                -16-

           In those embodiments wherein X is CRi, for example, where X is CRi and Y is CR2 or X is
   CRi and Y is N, Ri is thiazolyl, optionally substituted with up to two substituents selected from halo
   and alkyl, which can be attached through any available atom.
           In those embodiments wherein X is CRi, for example, where X is CRi and Y is CR2 or X is
 5 CRi and Y is N, Ri is pyridazinyl, optionally substituted with up to two substituents selected from
   halo and alkyl, which can be attached through any available atom.
           In preferred embodiments wherein Y is CR2, for example, X is CRi and Y is CR2 or X is N
   and Y is CR2, R2 is H. In other embodiments, R2 is alkyl, for example C1-6alkyl such as methyl.
           In those embodiments wherein Y is CR2, for example, X is CRi and Y is CR2 or X is N and
 0 Y is CR2, R2 is alkoxy, for example, C1-6alkoxy such as methoxy or ethoxy.
           In those embodiments wherein Y is CR2, for example, X is CRi and Y is CR2 or X is N and
   Y is CR2, R2 is halo, preferably one of F, Cl, or Br.
           In preferred embodiments, R3 is H. In other embodiments, R3 is alkyl, for example,
   C1-6alkyl such as methyl.
 5         In yet other embodiments, R3 is alkoxy, for example, C1-6alkoxy such as methoxy or ethoxy.
           In still other embodiments, R3 is halo, preferably F, Cl, or Br.
           In other embodiments, R3 is triazolyl, with 1,2,3-triazolyl being preferred. In preferred
   embodiments, the 1,2,3-triazolyl is attached through the 2-position nitrogen atom. In other
   embodiments, the 1,2,3-triazolyl is attached through the 1-position nitrogen atom.
A0         In preferred embodiments, R4 is H. In other embodiments, R3 is alkyl, for example
   C1-6alkyl such as methyl.
           In alternative embodiments, R3 and R4, together with the atoms to which they are attached,
   form a 6- membered aryl ring.
           In other embodiments, R3 and R4, together with the atoms to which they are attached, form a
25 5-membered heteroaryl ring. Preferably, the 5-membered heteroaryl ring includes one nitrogen
   atom.
           In other embodiments, R3 and R4, together with the atoms to which they are attached, form a
   6-membered heteroaryl ring. Preferably, the 6-membered heteroaryl ring includes one nitrogen
   atom.
                                                - 17 -

            In some embodiments of the invention, R5 is a phenyl ring optionally substituted with a one
   or two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl, cyano, alkoxy, and
   halo, or from the group consisting of alkyl and halo. In some embodiments of the invention, R5 is a
   heteroaryl ring. In some of such embodiments, R5 is a heteroaryl optionally substituted with a one
 5 or two substituents independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl, cyano, alkoxy, and
   halo, or from the group consisting of alkyl and halo. In preferred embodiments, R5 is pyridyl, which
   can be attached through any available atom, optionally substituted with halo (preferably F, Cl, or
   Br) or alkyl. In some embodiments, the alkyl is substituted with one or more halogen atoms. A
   preferred substituted alkyl group is trihaloalkyl such as trifluoromethyl. Other substituted alkyl
 0 groups include difluoromethyl or monofluoromethyl. Preferably, R5 is pyridyl substituted at any
   available position with trifluoromethyl.
            In preferred embodiments, R5 is pyrazinyl, which can be attached through any available
   atom, optionally substituted with halo (preferably F, Cl, or Br) or alkyl. In some embodiments, the
   alkyl is substituted with one or more halogen atoms. A preferred substituted alkyl group is
 5 trihaloalkyl such as trifluoromethyl. Other substituted alkyl groups include difluoromethyl or
   monofluoromethyl. Preferably, R5 is pyrazinyl substituted at any available position with
   trifluoromethyl.
            In preferred embodiments, R5 is pyrimidinyl, which can be attached through any available
   atom, optionally substituted with halo (preferably F, Cl, or Br) or alkyl. In some embodiments, the
 0 alkyl is substituted with one or more halogen atoms. A preferred substituted alkyl group is
   trihaloalkyl such as trifluoromethyl. Other substituted alkyl groups include difluoromethyl or
   monofluoromethyl. Preferably, R5 is pyrimidinyl substituted at any available position with
   trifluoromethyl.
            In other embodiments, R5 is benzoxazolyl which can be attached through any available
25 atom, optionally substituted with halo (preferably F, Cl, or Br) or alkyl. In some embodiments, the
   alkyl is substituted with one or more halogen atoms. A preferred substituted alkyl group is
   trifluoromethyl. Other substituted alkyl groups include difluoromethyl or monofluoromethyl.
   Preferably, R5 is benzoxazolyl, pyridazinyl, or naphthyridinyl substituted at any available position
   with trifluoromethyl.
30          In other embodiments, R5 is pyridazinyl which can be attached through any available atom,
   optionally substituted with halo (preferably F, Cl, or Br) or alkyl. In some embodiments, the alkyl
                                                 - 18 -

   is substituted with one or more halogen atoms. A preferred substituted alkyl group is
   trifluoromethyl. Other substituted alkyl groups include difluoromethyl or monofluoromethyl.
   Preferably, R5 is benzoxazolyl, pyridazinyl, or naphthyridinyl substituted at any available position
   with trifluoromethyl.
 5          In other embodiments, R5 is naphthyridinyl which can be attached through any available
   atom, optionally substituted with halo (preferably F, Cl, or Br) or alkyl. In some embodiments, the
   alkyl is substituted with one or more halogen atoms. A preferred substituted alkyl group is
   trifluoromethyl. Other substituted alkyl groups include difluoromethyl or monofluoromethyl.
   Preferably, R5 is benzoxazolyl, pyridazinyl, or naphthyridinyl substituted at any available position
 0 with trifluoromethyl.
            In preferred embodiments, n is 1. In other embodiments, n is 2.
            In some embodiments of Formula I, Ri is H and R3 is as defined above for Formula I,
   preferably R3 is triazolyl, oxazolyl, pyridyl or pyrimidinyl. In other embodiments of Formula I, R3
   is H and Ri is as defined above for Formula I, preferably Ri is triazolyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl,
 5 oxadiazolyl, pyridyl or pyrimidinyl.
                                                                R4
                                                                   _          0
                                                               R              Ox
            In some embodiments of Formula I, the group              Y           is a pyridyl group,
   preferably X is N, R3 is a ring selected from triazolyl, thiazolyl, pyridazinyl, pyrimidinyl, oxazolyl,
   isoxazolyl, oxadiazolyl, pyridyl, phenyl or pyrazolyl; preferably triazolyl or pyridyl or pyrimidinyl;
20 R4 is H or alkyl, preferably methyl; Z is NH or 0, preferably 0; preferably NH, R5 is a heteroaryl,
   preferably pyridyl or pyrazinyl. In some of such embodiments, R3 is a ring at the ortho position
   relative to the carbonyl group in Formula I, and R4 is at the ortho, meta or para position on the
   relative to the carbonyl group in Formula I, preferably R4 is at the meta position adjacent to R3. In
   some other such embodiments, R3 is a ring at the ortho position relative to the carbonyl group in
25 Formula I, and R4 is at the ortho, meta or para position relative to the carbonyl group in Formula I,
   preferably R4 is at the meta position not adjacent to R3. R3 and R5 are optionally substituted as
   described above.
                                                 -19-

                                                               R3 K   ,X
            In some embodiments of Formula I, the group             Y            is a pyridyl group,
   preferably Y is N, Ri is a ring selected from triazolyl, thiazolyl, pyridazinyl, pyrimidinyl, oxazolyl,
   isoxazolyl, oxadiazolyl, pyridyl, phenyl or pyrazolyl; preferably triazolyl or pyridyl or pyrimidinyl;
   R4 is H or alkyl, preferably methyl; Z is NH or 0, preferably 0; preferably NH, Rs is a heteroaryl,
 5 preferably pyridyl or pyrazinyl. In some of such embodiments, Ri is a ring at the ortho position
   relative to the carbonyl group in Formula I, and R4 is at the ortho, meta or para position on the
   relative to the carbonyl group in Formula I, preferably R4 is at the meta position adjacent to Ri. In
   some other such embodiments, Ri is a ring at the ortho position relative to the carbonyl group in
   Formula I, and R4 is at the ortho, meta or para position relative to the carbonyl group in Formula I,
 0 preferably R4 is at the meta position not adjacent to Ri.Ri and R5 are optionally substituted as
   described above.
                                                                3R4     X al
            In some embodiments of Formula I, the group             Y            is a phenyl group, R3 is a
   ring selected from triazolyl, thiazolyl, pyridazinyl, pyrimidinyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, oxadiazolyl,
   pyridyl, phenyl or pyrazolyl; preferably triazolyl or pyridyl or pyrimidinyl at the ortho position; R4
 5 is H or alkyl, preferably methyl; Z is NH or 0, preferably 0; preferably NH, Rs is a heteroaryl,
   preferably pyridyl or pyrazinyl. In some of such embodiments, R3 is a ring at the ortho position
   relative to the carbonyl group in Formula I, and R4 is at the ortho, meta or para position on the
   relative to the carbonyl group in Formula I, preferably R4 is at the meta position adjacent to R3. In
   some other such embodiments, R3 is a ring at the ortho position relative to the carbonyl group in
20 Formula I, and R4 is at the ortho, meta or para position relative to the carbonyl group in Formula I,
   preferably R4 is at the meta position not adjacent to R3.R3 and R5 are optionally substituted as
   described above.
            Also provided herein is a compound of Formula IA:
                                                 - 20 -

                                                             R4      R3
                                                        N        A
                                      R5-Z              NR
                                                           0      R1        IA
            wherein
            ring A is a heteroaryl ring selected from furanyl, thiazolyl, imidazothiazolyl, and pyrazinyl;
            Ri is H, alkoxy, halo, triazolyl, thiazolyl, pyridazinyl, pyrimidinyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl,
 5                   oxadiazolyl, pyridyl, phenyl,or pyrazolyl, wherein triazolyl, thiazolyl, pyridazinyl,
                     pyrimidinyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, oxadiazolyl, pyridyl, phenyl or pyrazolyl is
                     optionally substituted with up to two substituents selected from halo and alkyl;
            R2  is H, alkyl, alkoxy, or halo;
            Z is NH, N-CH3, N-CH2CH3, N-CH2-cyclopropyl, N-C(=O)CH3, N-CH2CH20CH3 or 0;
 0          R3 is H, alkyl, alkoxy, halo, triazolyl, thiazolyl, pyridazinyl, pyrimidinyl, oxazolyl,
                     isoxazolyl, oxadiazolyl, pyridyl, phenyl,or pyrazolyl, wherein triazolyl, thiazolyl,
                     pyridazinyl, pyrimidinyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, oxadiazolyl, pyridyl, phenyl or
                     pyrazolyl is optionally substituted with up to two substituents selected from halo and
                     alkyl;
 5          R4 is H or alkyl;
                     or R3 and R4, together with the atoms to which they are attached, form a 6
            membered aryl ring or a 5- or 6-membered heteroaryl ring;
            R5  is pyridyl, pyrazinyl, benzoxazolyl, pyridazinyl, naphthyridinyl or pyrimidinyl, wherein
                     the pyridyl, pyrazinyl, benzoxazolyl, pyridazinyl, naphthyridinyl or pyrimidinyl is
20                   optionally substituted with up to two substituents selected from halo, alkoxy,
                     hydroxymethylandalkyl; and
            n is 1 or 2.
            Enantiomers and diastereomers of the compounds of Formula IA are also within the scope
   of the invention. Also within the scope of the invention are the pharmaceutically acceptable salts of
25 the compounds of Formula IA, as well as the pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the enantiomers
   and diastereomers of the compounds of Formula IA. Also within the scope of the invention are
   isotopic variations of compounds of Formula IA, such as, e.g., deuterated compounds of Formula
   IA.
                                                   -21-

            In some embodiments, ring A is a furanyl ring. In some embodiments, ring A is a thiazolyl
   ring. In some embodiments, ring A is a imidazothiazolyl ring. In other embodiments, ring A is a
   pyrazinyl ring.
            All of the embodiments described for Formula I above,with respect to the variables Ri, R2,
 5 Z, R3, R4, R5 and n, also apply for Formula IA, and are expressly contemplated herein.
   The invention relates to methods of using the compounds described herein to treat subjects
   diagnosed with or suffering from a disease, disorder, or condition mediated by orexin receptor
   activity. These methods are accomplished by administering to the subject a compound of the
 0 invention. In some embodiments, the compounds described herein are selective for orexin- 1
   receptor activity. In some embodiments, the compounds described herein are selective for orexin-1
   receptor activity over orexin-2 receptor activity.
            Diseases, disorders, and conditions mediated by orexin receptor activity include disorders of
   the sleep-wake cycle, insomnia, restless legs syndrome, jet-lag, disturbed sleep, sleep disorders
 5 secondary to neurological disorders, mania, depression, manic depression, schizophrenia, pain
   syndromes, fibromyalgia, neuropathic pain, catatonia, Parkinson's disease, Tourette's syndrome,
   anxiety, delirium, dementia, overweight, obesity, or conditions related to overweight or obesity,
   insulin resistance, type II diabetes, hyperlipidemia, gallstones, angina, hypertension, breathlessness,
   tachycardia, infertility, sleep apnea, back and joint pain, varicose veins, osteoarthritis, hypertension,
 0 tachycardia, arrhythmias, angina pectoris, acute heart failure, ulcers, irritable bowel syndrome,
   diarrhea gastroesophageal reflux, mood disorders, post-traumatic stress disorder, panic disorders,
   attention deficit disorders, cognitive deficiencies, or substance abuse.
            Compounds of the invention are particularly suited for the treatment of mood disorders,
   post-traumatic stress disorder, panic disorders, attention deficit disorders, cognitive deficiencies, or
25 substance abuse.
            In one aspect, compounds of the invention are particularly suited for the treatment of mood
   disorders. Non-limiting examples of mood disorders include anxiety-related mood disorders,
   depression, panic-related mood disorders, stress related mood disorders and the like. In another
   aspect, compounds of the invention are suitable for the treatment of post-traumatic stress disorder,
30 panic disorders, attention deficit disorders, cognitive deficiencies, or substance abuse (e.g.,
   morphine abuse, cocaine abuse, alcohol abuse and the like). It will be understood that certain
                                                  - 22 -

   disorders such as, for example, depression and/or schizophrenia and/or substance abuse and/or
   cognitive impairments also have elements of anxiety and/or panic and/or stress associated with them
   and the treatment of such conditions and/or combinations of conditions are also contemplated
   within the scope of embodiments presented herein. In some embodiments, advantageously,
 5 compounds of the invention treat a mood disorder (e.g., anxiety) with reduced concomitant sedation
   and/or with reduced effect on sleep (e.g. attenuated arousal effects). In one embodiment,
   compounds of the invention are particularly suited for the treatment of anxious depression. In
   another embodiment, compounds of the invention are particularly suited for the treatment of panic,
   schizophrenia, and substance abuse.
 0          Sleep disorders include, but are not limited to, sleep-wake transition disorders, insomnia,
   restless legs syndrome, jet-lag, disturbed sleep, and sleep disorders secondary to neurological
   disorders (e.g., manias, depressions, manic depression, schizophrenia, and pain syndromes (e.g.,
   fibromyalgia, neuropathic).
            Metabolic disorders include, but are not limited to, overweight or obesity and conditions
 5 related to overweight or obesity, such as insulin resistance, type II diabetes, hyperlipidemia,
   gallstones, angina, hypertension, breathlessness, tachycardia, infertility, sleep apnea, back and joint
   pain, varicose veins and osteoarthritis.
            Neurological disorders include, but are not limited to, Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's
   disease, Tourette's Syndrome, catatonia, anxiety, delirium and dementias.
 0
            In treatment methods according to the invention, a therapeutically effective amount of a
   pharmaceutical agent according to the invention is administered to a subject suffering from or
   diagnosed as having such a disease, disorder, or condition. A "therapeutically effective amount"
   means an amount or dose sufficient to generally bring about the desired therapeutic or prophylactic
25 benefit in patients in need of such treatment for the designated disease, disorder, or condition.
   Effective amounts or doses of the compounds of the present invention may be ascertained by
   routine methods such as modeling, dose escalation studies or clinical trials, and by taking into
   consideration routine factors, e.g., the mode or route of administration or drug delivery, the
   pharmacokinetics of the compound, the severity and course of the disease, disorder, or condition,
30 the subject's previous or ongoing therapy, the subject's health status and response to drugs, and the
   judgment of the treating physician. An example of a dose is in the range of from about 0.001 to
                                                 - 23 -

   about 200 mg of compound per kg of subject's body weight per day, preferably about 0.05 to 100
   mg/kg/day, or about 1 to 35 mg/kg/day, in single or divided dosage units (e.g., BID, TID, QID). For
   a 70-kg human, an illustrative range for a suitable dosage amount is from about 0.05 to about 7
   g/day, or about 0.2 to about 2.5 g/day.
 5          Once improvement of the patient's disease, disorder, or condition has occurred, the dose
   may be adjusted for preventative or maintenance treatment. For example, the dosage or the
   frequency of administration, or both, may be reduced as a function of the symptoms, to a level at
   which the desired therapeutic or prophylactic effect is maintained. Of course, if symptoms have
   been alleviated to an appropriate level, treatment may cease. Patients may, however, require
 0 intermittent treatment on a long-term basis upon any recurrence of symptoms.
            In addition, the compounds of the invention may be used in combination with additional
   active ingredients in the treatment of the above conditions. The additional active ingredients may be
   coadministered separately with a compound of the invention or included with such an agent in a
   pharmaceutical composition according to the invention. In an exemplary embodiment, additional
 5 active ingredients are those that are known or discovered to be effective in the treatment of
   conditions, disorders, or diseases mediated by orexin activity, such as another orexin modulator or a
   compound active against another target associated with the particular condition, disorder, or disease.
   The combination may serve to increase efficacy (e.g., by including in the combination a compound
   potentiating the potency or effectiveness of an active agent according to the invention), decrease one
 0 or more side effects, or decrease the required dose of the active agent according to the invention.
            The compounds of the invention are used, alone or in combination with one or more
   additional active ingredients, to formulate pharmaceutical compositions of the invention. A
   pharmaceutical composition of the invention comprises: (a) an effective amount of at least one
   compound in accordance with the invention; and (b) a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.
25          Delivery forms of the pharmaceutical compositions containing one or more dosage units of
   the active agents may be prepared using suitable pharmaceutical excipients and compounding
   techniques known or that become available to those skilled in the art. The compositions may be
   administered in the inventive methods by a suitable route of delivery, e.g., oral, parenteral, rectal,
   topical, or ocular routes, or by inhalation.
                                                 - 24 -

            The preparation may be in the form of tablets, capsules, sachets, dragees, powders, granules,
   lozenges, powders for reconstitution, liquid preparations, or suppositories. Preferably, the
   compositions are formulated for intravenous infusion, topical administration, or oral administration.
            For oral administration, the compounds of the invention can be provided in the form of
 5 tablets or capsules, or as a solution, emulsion, or suspension. To prepare the oral compositions, the
   compounds may be formulated to yield a dosage of, e.g., from about 0.05 to about 100 mg/kg daily,
   or from about 0.05 to about 35 mg/kg daily, or from about 0.1 to about 10 mg/kg daily. For
   example, a total daily dosage of about 5 mg to 5 g daily may be accomplished by dosing once,
   twice, three, or four times per day.
 0          Oral tablets may include a compound according to the invention mixed with
   pharmaceutically acceptable excipients such as inert diluents, disintegrating agents, binding agents,
   lubricating agents, sweetening agents, flavoring agents, coloring agents and preservative agents.
   Suitable inert fillers include sodium and calcium carbonate, sodium and calcium phosphate, lactose,
   starch, sugar, glucose, methyl cellulose, magnesium stearate, mannitol, sorbitol, and the like.
 5 Exemplary liquid oral excipients include ethanol, glycerol, water, and the like. Starch, polyvinyl
   pyrrolidone (PVP), sodium starch glycolate, microcrystalline cellulose, and alginic acid are suitable
   disintegrating agents. Binding agents may include starch and gelatin. The lubricating agent, if
   present, may be magnesium stearate, stearic acid or talc. If desired, the tablets may be coated with a
   material such as glyceryl monostearate or glyceryl distearate to delay absorption in the
 0 gastrointestinal tract, or may be coated with an enteric coating.
            Capsules for oral administration include hard and soft gelatin capsules. To prepare hard
   gelatin capsules, compounds of the invention may be mixed with a solid, semi-solid, or liquid
   diluent. Soft gelatin capsules may be prepared by mixing the compound of the invention with water,
   an oil such as peanut oil or olive oil, liquid paraffin, a mixture of mono and di-glycerides of short
25 chain fatty acids, polyethylene glycol 400, or propylene glycol.
            Liquids for oral administration may be in the form of suspensions, solutions, emulsions or
   syrups or may be lyophilized or presented as a dry product for reconstitution with water or other
   suitable vehicle before use. Such liquid compositions may optionally contain: pharmaceutically
   acceptable excipients such as suspending agents (for example, sorbitol, methyl cellulose, sodium
30 alginate, gelatin, hydroxyethylcellulose, carboxymethylcellulose, aluminum stearate gel and the
   like); non-aqueous vehicles, e.g., oil (for example, almond oil or fractionated coconut oil),
                                                  - 25 -

   propylene glycol, ethyl alcohol, or water; preservatives (for example, methyl or propyl p
   hydroxybenzoate or sorbic acid); wetting agents such as lecithin; and, if desired, flavoring or
   coloring agents.
            The active agents of this invention may also be administered by non-oral routes. For
 5 example, the compositions may be formulated for rectal administration as a suppository. For
   parenteral use, including intravenous, intramuscular, intraperitoneal, or subcutaneous routes, the
   compounds of the invention may be provided in sterile aqueous solutions or suspensions, buffered
   to an appropriate pH and isotonicity or in parenterally acceptable oil. Suitable aqueous vehicles
   include Ringer's solution and isotonic sodium chloride. Such forms will be presented in unit-dose
 0 form such as ampules or disposable injection devices, in multi-dose forms such as vials from which
   the appropriate dose may be withdrawn, or in a solid form or pre-concentrate that can be used to
   prepare an injectable formulation. Illustrative infusion doses may range from about 1 to 1000
   .mu.g/kg/minute of compound, admixed with a pharmaceutical carrier over a period ranging from
   several minutes to several days.
 5          For topical administration, the compounds may be mixed with a pharmaceutical carrier at a
   concentration of about 0.1% to about 10% of drug to vehicle. Another mode of administering the
   compounds of the invention may utilize a patch formulation to affect transdermal delivery.
            Compounds of the invention may alternatively be administered in methods of this invention
   by inhalation, via the nasal or oral routes, e.g., in a spray formulation also containing a suitable
 0 carrier.
            Exemplary compounds useful in methods of the invention will now be described by
   reference to the illustrative synthetic schemes for their general preparation below and the specific
   examples that follow. Artisans will recognize that, to obtain the various compounds herein, starting
   materials may be suitably selected so that the ultimately desired substituents will be carried through
25 the reaction scheme with or without protection as appropriate to yield the desired product.
   Alternatively, it may be necessary or desirable to employ, in the place of the ultimately desired
   substituent, a suitable group that may be carried through the reaction scheme and replaced as
   appropriate with the desired substituent. Unless otherwise specified, the variables are as defined
   above in reference to Formula (I). Reactions may be performed between the melting point and the
30 reflux temperature of the solvent, and preferably between 0 'C and the reflux temperature of the
   solvent. Reactions may be heated employing conventional heating or microwave heating. Reactions
                                                  - 26 -

   may also be conducted in sealed pressure vessels above the normal reflux temperature of the
   solvent.
                                                                                           Y-X   0
                                                                                     R4     -    OH
            The synthesis of exemplary intermediates having the structure                   R3      is described
   in Schemes 1-6 below and in the Examples section below (Intermediates A-I to A-5 9).
 5
                                                     Scheme 1
                                Br                           N'N                        N'
                          R4A          N                  R4A           N      R4A             N
                       R3A         x3A          30                       +   R3A
                              LY 'XY                              ,                     Y
                               (A)                            (Ila)                   (Ilb)
                                                             N      N
                                                     N' N'N O                   N' N0
                                                 R4 AN                    R4A     N
                                                     R R4         OH +             .4OH
                                               R3A                    + R3A
                                                      (111a)                  (111b)
            Intermediate compounds of formula (Ila) and (IlIb) can be prepared as outlined in Scheme
   1 from commercially available or synthetically accessible compounds of formula (A) where R3A,
10 R4Aare -H, halo, -C 1-4alkyl, -C 1-4alkoxy or R3A and R4A together with the atoms to which they are
   attached form a 6- membered aryl or 6 membered heteroaryl ring and X and Y are as defined in
   formula (I) as above. Compounds of formula (Ila) and (Ilb), are obtained by reacting a compound
   of formula (A), with commercially available 1,2,3-triazole, in the presence K2CO3 in DMF or
   dioxane, at temperatures ranging from about 60 'C to about 100 'C. Compounds of formula (Ila)
15 and (IlIb) are obtained by reacting compounds of formula (II) in the presence of a base such as
   NaOH in a solvent such as EtOH at temperatures ranging from about 80 'C to about 100 'C. One
   skilled in the art will recognize that 1,2,3-triazole can exist in two tautomeric forms defined as 2H
   [1,2,3]triazole and 1H-[1,2,3]triazole thus accounting for the formation of (IIIa) and (IlIb).
                                                   - 27  -

                                                   Scheme 2
                                                  N,N                               N N0
                     Hal                             NN                                       O
              R3A          W                   R3A         W                     ROH
            R4A        -,                    R4A                                 4x
               (IVa) W is CN                    (Va) W is CN                          (||)
               (IVb) W is CO 2Akyl              (Vb) W is CO 2 Akyl
               (IVc) W is CO 2 H
            Intermediate compounds of formula (III) can be prepared as outlined in Scheme 2 from
   commercially available or synthetically accessible compounds of formula (IVa-c). Compounds of
 5 formula (Va) and (Vb) are obtained by reacting compounds of formula (IVa), (IVb) and (IVc)
   where Hal is -Br, or -I; W is CO2H, CO2Alkyl, or CN and R3Aand R4A are -H, halo, -C1-4alkyl,
   -C1-4alkoxy orR3A and R4AtOgether with the atoms to which they are attached form a 6- membered
   aryl or 6 membered heteroaryl ring, and X and Y are as defined in Formula I above, with
   commercially available 1,2,3-triazole, in the presence of, for example, copper(I)iodide, Cs2CO3 and
 0 trans-N,N'-dimethyl-1,2-cyclohexanediamine in, for example, DMF or dioxane, at temperatures
   ranging from about 60 'C to about 120 'C. Compounds of formula (IVc) can be converted to the
   corresponding esters (Vb) by treatment with, for example, alkyl iodide in the presence of a base
   such as K2CO3 in a solvent such as DMF. Compounds of formula (III) are obtained by reacting a
   compound of formula (Va) and (Vb) in the presence of a base such as NaOH in a solvent such as
 5 EtOH at temperatures ranging from about 80 C to about 100 C. One skilled in the art will
   recognize that 1,2,3-triazole can exist in two tautomeric forms defined as 2H-[1,2,3]triazole and 1H
   [1,2,3]triazole thus compounds of formula (Va), (Vb), and (III) can also exist as the NI linked
   variant (structure not shown).It will be understood that the heterocycle in (Va) and (Vb) is not
   limited to triazole and may be any other suitable heterocycle.
20
                                                   Scheme 3
                                      HAL
                                   N      N          N     N                                 N    N
       SN R3A                                                     N                       R3A        O
                                    (VI1)                                                              OH
     R4A                                        R4A                                      R4Ar
                       L     Y1                         Y -,XY                                   1
          (VI)                                        (Vill)                                    (IX)
                                                 -28-

            Intermediate compounds of formula (IX) can be prepared as outlined in Scheme 3 from
   commercially available or synthetically accessible compounds of formula (VI) where      R3A,  R4A are
   H, halo, -C1-4alkyl, -C1-4alkoxy or R3A and R4A together with the atoms to which they are attached
   form a 6- membered aryl or 6 membered heteroaryl ring, and X and Y are as defined in formula (I)
 5 as above, G is SnBu3, or 4,4,5,5 tetramethyl-1,dioxaboralane, and HAL is Cl, or Br, preferably Br.
   Compounds of formula (VIII) are obtained by reacting a compound of formula (VI) with
   commercially available (VII) in the presence of a catalyst such as 1,1 '-Bis(di-tert
   butylphosphino)ferrocene palladium dichloride and a base such as Na2CO3 in a solvent such as 2
   MeTHF or THF at temperatures ranging from about 60 C to about 90 C. Compounds of formula
 0 (IX) are obtained by reacting a compound of formula (VIII) in the presence of a base such as NaOH
   in a solvent such as MeOH at temperatures ranging from about 80 C to about 1000 C or acids such
   as H2SO4 in solvents such as H20 at temparatures ranging from about 80 C to about 100 C. It will
   be understood that the heterocycle in (VII) is not limited to pyrimidine and may be any other
   suitable heterocycle.
 5
                                                  Scheme 4
                       NH2 O                             HO     0
                             SOH                        O                                  IN
                         (X)                                    (XI)
              HO    0                         N' O       0                              HO  0
           HO           N                      O             N                        O         N
                   (XII)                               (XIII)                              (XIV)
            Intermediate compound of formula (XIV) can be prepared as outlined in Scheme 4 from
   commercially available compound (X). Compound (XI) is obtained by reacting compound (X) with
20 commercially available acrolein in a solvent such as 1,4 dioxane at temperatures of about 200 C in,
   for example, a microwave reactor. Compound (XII) can be prepared from compound (XI) by
   treatment with an acid such as HBr in a solvent such as toluene at a temperature of about about 90
    C. Compound (XIII) can be obtained by treatment of compound (XII) with, for example,
                                                - 29 -

  commercially available iodoethane and a base such as K2CO3 in a solvent such as DMF at
  temperatures ranging from about 45 'C to about 65 'C. Compound (XIV) is obtained by treating
  compound (XIII) with a base such as NaOH in a solvent such as MeOH at temperatures ranging
  from about 80 'C to about 100 'C.
5
                                                  Scheme 5
                                                                 N                                 N
                 o
                B-O      + N HALN           -.     R2    j          N            ~-                    N
   R2B                                             R2B                                 R2B     /       OH
                o                                                0                                 0
             (XIV)           (VI1)                             (XV)                              (XVI)
          Intermediate compounds of formula (XVI) are prepared as outlined in Scheme 5 from
  commercially available or synthetically accessible compounds of formula (XIV) where R2B is -H,
0 C1-4alkyl, or -C1-4alkoxy, or R2B is -H, halo, -C1-4alkyl, or -C1-4alkoxy,and HAL is halo, preferably
  Cl, or Br. Compounds of formula (XV) are obtained by reacting a compound of formula (XIV)
  with commercially available (VII) in the presence of a catalyst such as Pd(dppf)Cl2 and a base such
  as Na2CO3 in a solvent such as 2-MeTHF at temperatures ranging from about 75 'C to about 150
  'C. Compounds of formula (XVI) are obtained by reacting a compound of formula (XV) in the
5 presence of a base such as NaOH in a solvent such as MeOH at temperatures ranging from about 80
  'C to about 100 'C. It will be understood that the heterocycle in (VII) is not limited to pyrimidine
  and may be any other suitable heterocycle.
                                                -30-

                                                   Scheme 6
               R3A        Hal                 R3A         Hal     R A  2A        G
                   .Xx                                    w
                     (XVII)                         (XVIII)             (XIX)
                                            XVIIIaW is C0 2H
                                            XVIIIb W is CO 2AIkyl
              R3A          L                                         R3A            L    1A
                                R2A                                                     R2A
           R4A-<             O'lkyl*
                              'Alkyl                                R4A     X        OH
                       X
                        00
                     (XX)                                                     (XXI)
            Intermediate compounds of formula (XXI) can be prepared as outlined in Scheme 6 from
   commercially available or synthetically accessible compounds of formula (XVII) where Hal is Br or
 5 I; and where R3Aand R4A are -H, halo, -C1-4alkyl, -C1-4alkoxy, or R3A and R4A together with the
   atoms to which they are attached form a 6- membered aryl or 6 membered heteroaryl ring.
   Compounds of formula (XVIIIa) can be converted to the corresponding ester (XVIIIb) by treatment
   with, for example, thionyl chloride in a solvent such as MeOH. Compounds of the formula (XX)
   are obtained by reacting compounds of formula (XVIIIb) with commercially available compounds
 0 of the formula XIX where L is a heterocycle such as pyrazole, pyridyl, or oxazole or any other
   heterocycle described herein; G is SnBu3 or 4,4,5,5 tetramethyl-1,dioxaboralane and      RiA and R2A
   are -H, -CI-4alkyl,or -CI-4alkoxy, or RiA and R2A are -H, halo, -C1-4alkyl,or -C1-4alkoxy; in the
   presence of a catalyst such as Pd(Ph3P)4 and a base such as Na2CO3 in a mixture of solvents such as
   DME and H20 at temperatures ranging from about 100 C to about 150 C. Compounds of formula
15 (XXI) are obtained by reacting a compound of formula (XX) in the presence of a base such as
   NaOH in a solvent such as MeOH at temperatures ranging from about 80 C to about 100 C.
                                                 -31-

                                                   Scheme 7
                                                          1. Chiral resolution
                      NO
           \/+ + H2N-PG       +            H+  /          2. NaOH                  NN
                                H    H              PG                          PG                                PG
      (XXI)        (XXIll)      (XXIV)        (XXV)                                 (XXVa)                (XXVb)
   (n is 1 or 2)
                                                                                       1. BH3, then H2O2/NaOH
                                                                                       2. Pd/C, H2 , PG
                                                                                       3.[O]
                      O [R]1.                    BH3, then H20 2/NaOH                          [R] or
                                              N.[O                    ~                                         N
             H                           'PG  3. Pd/C, H2, PG                  O         'PG 1. NH2-Q     Z       PG
      (XXVI)                       (XXV)                                         (XXVIl)       2. [R]       (XXVIll)
                                                                                            (Q is OH or Bn)
                                                                                            (Z is OH or NH2)
              According to Scheme 7, compound (XXV), where n is 1 or 2, is obtained by reaction of
   (XXII), (XXIII) where PG of H2N-PG is H, benzyl (Bn), methyl benzyl, and the like, and (XXIV)
 5 in an aqueous medium where H' is HCl, AcOH and the like as described in C. Chiu et al.Synthetic
   Communications1996,26, 577-584 and S. Larsen et al. J. Am. Chem. Soc.1985, 107, 1768-1769. In
   a particularly preferred embodiment, a compound of formula (XXV), where n is 1, is obtained by
   reacting, for example, commercially available cyclopentadiene, (+)-a-methyl-benzylamine and
   formaldehyde in an aqueous medium with AcOH. Enantio-enriched compounds of formula (XXVa)
 0 and (XXVb) are obtained by chiral resolution of (XXV) using a chiral acid, such as commercially
   available L or D-dibenzoyl tartaric acid and the like, followed by formation of the free base using a
   base such as aqueous NaOH and the like, as described in C. Chiu et al.Synthetic
   Communicationsl996,26, 577-5 84. In a preferred embodiment, a compound of formula (XXV) is
   treated with, for example, D-dibenzoyl tartaric acid followed by a base such as aqueous NaOH to
15 afford an enantio-enriched compound of formula (XXVa). Compound (XXVII) is obtained from
   (XXVa) through a hydroboration/oxidation sequence of the olefin to install the hydroxyl group;
   followed by, for example, an optional one-pot palladium-mediated hydrogenolysis and PG "swap"
   (i.e. methyl benzyl to Boc); and subsequent oxidation of the hydroxyl group using an oxidant such
   as IBX, S03-pyridine, Swem conditions [(COCl) 2 , DMSO, Et3N], and the like, in a solvent such as
20 EtOAc, DMSO, DCM, and the like, at temperatures ranging from about -78 'C to room
   temperature (about 23 'C). In a preferred embodiment, a compound of formula (XXVa) where PG
   is methyl benzyl, is treated with, for example, BH3 followed by H202 and NaOH to install the
                                                 - 32 -

   hydroxyl group, and, for example, a one-pot palladium mediated hydrogenolysis using hydrogen
   gas (1 atm), Pd/C, and Boc20, in EtOH at room temperature (23 C) exchanges the methyl benzyl
   for a Boc group. The Boc-protected intermediate is oxidized with, for example, IBX in refluxing
   such as, for example, EtOAc to afford a compound of formula (XXVII). Compound (XXVb) could
 5 also be subjected to the same set of transformations as compound (XXVa) to obtain the
   corresponding opposite enantiomer (structure not shown).
            A compound of formula (XXVIII) where Z is OH, is obtained from reduction ([R]) of the
   ketone in a compound of formula (XXVII), with a reducing agent such as L-Selectride, NaBH4 and
   the like, in a solvent such as THF, MeOH and the like at temperatures ranging from about -78 'C to
 0 room temperature (about 23 'C). Alternatively, the racemic form of a compound of formula
   (XXVIII) can be obtained from reduction of commercially available (R/S)-tert-butyl 6-oxo-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane-2-carboxylate as described in R. Nencka et al. Tetrahedron2012,68,
   1286-1298.
            An alternative route to a compound of formula (XXVII) can be prepared from commercially
 5 available (1S,4R)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]hept-5-en-3-one (XXVI). A compound of formula (XXV) is
   obtained from treatment of compound (XXVI) with a reducing agent such as LiAlH4 and the like,
   followed by protection of the free amine with a suitable protecting group. A compound of formula
   (XXVII) is obtained from a compound of formula (XXV) by a hydroboration/oxidation sequence of
   the olefin to install the hydroxyl group; followed by oxidation of the hydroxyl group using an
 0 oxidant such as IBX, SO3-pyridine, Swern conditions [(COCl)2, DMSO, Et3N], and the like, in a
   solvent such as EtOAc, DMSO, DCM, and the like at temperatures ranging from about -78 'C to
   room temperature (about 23 C); and, optionally, a one-pot palladium mediated hydrogenolysis and
   PG "swap" (i.e. Bn to Boc). In a preferred embodiment, a compound of formula (XXV) where PG
   is Bn is subjected to the conditions described in F. Carroll et al. J. of Med. Chem. 1992, 35, 2184
25 2191, followed by PG swap (Bn to Boc) to obtain a compound of formula (XXVII) where PG is
   Boc.
            A compound of formula (XXVIII) where Z is NH2, is obtained by reacting a compound of
   formula (XXVII) with an amine NH2-Q, where         Q is OH or Bn, followed by reduction of the
   corresponding oxime or imine with a suitable reducing agent such as NaBH4 (with or without a
30 metal salt additive such as NiCl2 and the like), Raney Ni (H2 atm), Zn(BH4)2, and the like in a
   solvent such as MeOH and the like. In a particular embodiment, the oxime intermediate from
   reaction of a compound of formula (XXVII) with an amine NH2-Q, where           Q is OH, is obtained by
                                                 -33-

   reacting a compound of formula (XXVII) with commercially available hydroxylamine
   hydrochloride and triethylamine in EtOH at temperatures ranging from room temperature (about 23
   'C) to reflux. The oxime intermediate is reduced with NaBH4 in combination with NiCl2 in MeOH
   to give a compound of formula (XXVIII) where Z is NH2. Alternatively, the imine intermediate
 5 from reaction of a compound of formula (XXVII) with an amine NH2-Q, where        Q is Bn, is obtained
   by reacting a compound of formula (XXVII) with commercially available benzylamine. In-situ
   reduction of the imine intermediate with a reducing agent such as sodium triacetoxyborohydride and
   the like, followed by debenzylation under, for example, palladium mediated hydrogenolysis affords
   a compound of formula (XXVIII) where Z is NH2.
 0           Referring to Scheme 7, the synthesis of compounds wherein n is 2 is described in the
   Examples section, for instance in Intermediates C-I - C-11, and in Examples 248- 283.
                                                   Scheme 8
                                                                      Y--X     O
                                              -PG                  R 4 t
                                                                 HOH
                        R5-U                                           R3 (XXXII)-         N      R
                              R5-H
     Z        PG             RZ       PG                RZ                            Z
      (XXVIll)                   (XXIX)                    (XXX)                         (XXXI)
    (Z is OH or NH2)
    (U is F, CI, Br, I, OTf)
             According to Scheme 8, a compound of formula (XXIX), where Z is 0 or NH, is obtained
 5 from a compound of formula (XXVIII), by a SNAr reaction or metal mediated cross-coupling
   reaction with a compound R5-U; where R5-U is a suitable commercially available or synthetically
   accessible halogen-substituted heteroaryl compound, where R5 is defined in formula (I) as above
   and W is F, Cl, Br, I, or OTf. A compound of formula (XXIX) where Z is 0, is obtained from a
   compound of formula (XXVIII), where Z is OH, by SNAr coupling with a compound R5-W as
20 described above, in the presence of a base, such as NaH, K2CO3 and the like, in a solvent such as
   DMF at temperatures ranging from room temperature (about 23 'C) toabout 90 'C. In a preferred
   embodiment the base is NaH and the solvent is DMF. A compound of formula (XXIX), where Z is
   NH, is obtained from a compound of formula (XXVIII), where Z is NH2, by metal mediated cross
   coupling with a compound R5-W as described above, in the presence of a palladium catalyst, a
25 phosphine ligand such as BINAP and the like, a base such as NaOtBu and the like, in a solvent such
   as toluene, DME, and DMF, at temperatures ranging from room temperature (about 23 'C) to about
   100 'C. In a preferred embodiment the palladium catalyst is Pd(OAc)2, the ligand is BINAP, the
                                                 - 34 -

   base is NaOtBu, and the solvent is toluene. Alternatively, a compound of formula (XXIX) where Z
   is NH, is obtained from a compound of formula (XXVIII), where Z is NH2, by SNAr coupling with
   a compound R5-W as described above, in the presence of a base, such as NaH, K2CO3 in a solvent
   such as DMF at temperatures ranging from room temperature (about 23 'C) to about 90 'C. In a
 5 preferred embodiment the base is K2CO3 and the solvent is DMF. Removal of PG (where PG is
   Boc, Bn, methyl benzyl, and the like) in compounds of formula (XXIX) is accomplished using
   methods known to one skilled in the art to give compounds of formula (XXX). In a preferred
   embodiment, where PG is Boc in a compound of formula (XXIX) and Z is 0 or NH, is treated with,
   for example, HCl in dioxane to afford a compound of formula (XXX).
 0          A compound of formula (XXXI) is obtained from a compound of formula (XXX), by
   reaction of a compound of formula (XXX) with a compound of formula (XXXII), under amide
   bond formation conditions. Compounds of formula (XXXII), where X, Y, R3, and R4 are as defined
   in formula (I), are commercially available, as described, or synthetically accessible appropriately
   substituted aryl or heteroaryl carboxylic acids or acid salts. A compound of formula (XXX), either
 5 as a free base or as an acid salt, is reacted with a compound of formula (XXXII) in the presence of a
   dehydrating agent such as HOBt/EDAC, CDI, HATU, HOAT, T3P; a suitably selected base such as
   DIPEA, TEA; in an organic solvent or mixture thereof, such as toluene, MeCN, EtOAc, DMF,
   THF, DCM to afford a compound of formula (XXXI). In a particularly preferred embodiment a
   compound of formula (XXXI) is obtained using, for example, the dehydrating agent HATU, the
 0 base DIPEA, and the solvent DMF; or the dehydrating agent T3P, the base Et3N, and the solvent
   mixture of DCM/DMF. Alternatively, one skilled in the art can transform a compound of formula
   (XXXII) to the corresponding acid chloride or an activated ester before amide formation with a
   compound of formula (XXX).
            Referring to Scheme 8, the synthesis of compounds wherein n is 2 is described in the
25 Examples section, for instance in Intermediates C-1 - C-11, and in Examples 248-283.
            In one group of embodiments, provided herein is a compound of Formula I of Examples l
   84 with structures and names as set forth in the Examples section. In another group of
   embodiments, provided herein is a compound of Formula I of Examples 1-4, 7-92, 94-204, 206,
   208-660 with structures and names as set forth in the Examples section below. In yet another
30 embodiment, provided herein is a compound of Formula I of Examples 85-92, 94-204, 206, 208
   660 with structures and names as set forth in the Examples section below.In one group of
   embodiments, provided herein is a compound of Formula IA selected from Examples 5, 6, 93, 205,
                                                  -35-

  and 207having the structures and names as set forth in the Examples section below. In one group of
  embodiments, provided herein is a compound of Formula I or Formula IA having structures and
  names as set forth in Table 2 below.
5 EXAMPLES
                                              Abbreviations:
  Term                                                                   Acronym
  Acetic Acid                                                            HOAc
  Acetonitrile                                                           ACN
  Apparent                                                               app
  Aqueous                                                                aq
  Atmosphere                                                             atm
  2-(1H-9-Azobenzotriazole-1-yl)-1,1,3,3-tetramethylaminium
                                                                         HATU
  hexafluorophosphate
  Benzyl                                                                 Bn
  2,2'-bis(diphenylphosphino)- 1,1'-binaphthalene                        BINAP
  [1,1 '-Bis(di-tert-butylphosphino)ferrocene]dichloropalladium(II)      PdCl2(dtbpf)
  Broad                                                                  br
  tert-Butylcarbamoyl                                                    Boc/Boc
  Dichloromethane                                                        DCM
  Diisopropylethylamine                                                  DIPEA
  1,2-Dimethoxyethane                                                    DME
                                               -36-

Term                                         Acronym
N,N-Dimethylformamide                        DMF
Dimethylsulfoxide                            DMSO
Doublet                                      d
Electrospray ionization                      ESI
Enantiomeric excess                          ee
Ethanol                                      EtOH
Ethyl Acetate                                EtOAc, or EA
Grams                                        g
Hertz                                        Hz
High-pressure liquid chromatography          HPLC
Hours                                        h
Liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry  LCMS
Mass spectrometry                            MS
Mass to charge ratio                         m/z
Methanol                                     MeOH
Microliter                                   pL
Milligrams                                   mg
Milliliter                                   mL
Millimoles                                   mmol
                                        -37-

Term                                    Acronym
Minute                                  min
Molar                                   M
Multiplet                               m
Normal                                  N
Nuclear magnetic resonance              NMR
Palladium on carbon                     Pd/C
Palladium hydroxide on carbon           Pd(OH) 2/C
Parts per million                       ppm
Phenyl                                  Ph
Propylphosphonic anhydride              T3P
Retention time                          Rt
Room temperature                        rt
Quartet                                 q
Singlet                                 S
Supercritical Fluid Chromatography      SFC
Temperature                             T
Thin layer chromatography               TLC
Times                                   X
Triethylamine                           TEA
                                   -38-

   Term                                                                    Acronym
   Trifluoroacetic acid                                                    TFA
   Triplet                                                                 t
   Chemistry:
           In obtaining the compounds described in the examples below and the corresponding
   analytical data, the following experimental and analytical protocols were followed unless otherwise
 5 indicated.
           Unless otherwise stated, reaction mixtures were magnetically stirred at room temperature
   (rt) under a nitrogen atmosphere. Where solutions were "dried," they were generally dried over a
   drying agent such as Na2SO4 or MgSO4. Where mixtures, solutions, and extracts were
   "concentrated", they were typically concentrated on a rotary evaporator under reduced pressure.
 0 Reactions under microwave irradiation conditions were carried out in a Biotage Initiator or CEM
   Discover instrument.
           Where compounds were "purified via silica gel chromatography" normal-phase flash
   column chromatography was performed on silica gel (SiO 2) using prepackaged cartridges, eluting
   with the indicated solvents.
 5         Where compounds were purified by "Shimadzu Method X" the method employed was
   either:
           Preparative reverse-phase high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) was performed
   on a Shimadzu LC-8A Series HPLC with an Inertsil ODS-3 column (3 [m, 30 x 100mm, T = 45
   'C), mobile phase of 5% ACN in H20 (both with 0.05% TFA) was held for 1 min, then a gradient
20 of 5-99% ACN over 6 min, then held at 99% ACN for 3 min, with a flow rate of 80 mL/min.
   or
           Preparative reverse-phase high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) was performed
   on a Shimadzu LC-8A Series HPLC with an XBridge C18 OBD column (5 [m, 50 x 100mm),
   mobile phase of 5% ACN in H20 (both with 0.05% TFA) was held for 1 min, then a gradient of 5
25 99% ACN over 14 min, then held at 99% ACN for 10 min, with a flow rate of 80 mL/min.
                                               -39-

            Where compounds were purified by "Agilent Prep Method X" the method employed was
   either:
            Preparative reverse-phase high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) was performed
   on a Agilent 1100 Series HPLC with an XBridge C18 OBD column (5 [Im, 30 x 100mm), mobile
 5 phase of 5% ACN in 20mM NH40H was held for 2 min, then a gradient of 5-99% ACN over 15
   min, then held at 99% ACN for 5 min, with a flow rate of 40 m/min.
            or
            Preparative reverse-phase high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) was performed
   on a Agilent 1100 Series HPLC with an XBridge C18 OBD column (5 [Im, 50 x 100mm), mobile
 0 phase of 5% ACN in 20mM NH40H was held for 2min, then a gradient of 5-99% ACN over 15
   min, then held at 99% ACN for 5 min, with a flow rate of 80 m/min.
            Where compounds were purified by "Gilson Prep Method X" the method employed was:
   Preparative reverse-phase high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) was performed on a
   Gilson HPLC with an XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 50mm), mobile phase of 5-99% ACN in
 5 20 mM NH40H over 10 min and then hold at 99 ACN for 2 min, at a flow rate of 80 m/min.
            Mass spectra (MS) were obtained on an Agilent series 1100 MSD using electrospray
   ionization (ESI) in positive mode unless otherwise indicated. Calculated (calcd.) mass corresponds
   to the exact mass.
            Where acids are employed for amide bond coupling the free acid or acid salt may be used
 0 interchangeably.
           Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectra were obtained on Bruker model DRX
   spectrometers. The format of the 'H NMR data below is: chemical shift in ppm downfield of the
   tetramethylsilane reference (multiplicity, coupling constant J in Hz, integration). Definitions for
   multiplicity are as follows: s = singlet, d = doublet, t= triplet, q = quartet, m = multiplet, br = broad.
25 For compounds that are present as a mixture of rotamers the ratio is represented so that the total is 1,
   e.g. 0.80:0.20. Alternatively,H NMR data may be reported for only the major rotamer as indicated,
   or the data may be reported for one or more rotamers such that the total is less than 1. It will be
   understood that for compounds comprising an exchangeable proton, said proton may or may not be
   visible on an NMR spectrumdepending on the choice of solvent used for running the NMR
30 spectrum and the concentration of the compound in the solution.
                                                  - 40 -

          Chemical names were generated using ChemDraw Ultra 12.0 (CambridgeSoft Corp.,
  Cambridge, MA) or ACD/Name Version 10.01 (Advanced Chemistry).
          Compounds designated (R/S) are racemic compounds where the relative stereochemistry is
  as drawn.
5         Examples 63-65, 68-72, 75, 78-79, 81-82, 84, 164-165, 303-419, 421-660 are suitable for
  preparation using methods analogous to the methods described in the synthetic schemes and in the
  Examples section.
  INTERMEDIATES
      Intermediate              Name                 Structure             Reference
                                                            N  -      Prepared according
                         2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-              N          to WO 2011/050198
           A-1i
                          2-yl)benzoic acid        C     (     OH     Intermediate 2
                                                           0
                              3-fluoro-2-            F     N          Prepared according
           A-2              (pyrimidin-2-                      N      to WO 2011/050198
                                                               OH
                           yl)benzoic acid                            Intermediate 50
                          6-methyl-2-(2H-              N              Prepared according
           A-3              1,2,3-triazol-2-                          to WO 2011/050198
                                                                 OH
                           yl)nicotinic acid                          Intemediate 70
                                                              0
                          6-methyl-2-(1H-                     W-:N    Prepared according
                                                       N      N
           A-4              1,2,3-triazol-1-                          to WO 2011/050198
                                                           .-    OH
                           yl)nicotinic acid                          Intemediate 71
                                                              0
                                              -41-

Intermediate         Name                  Structure            Reference
              4-methoxy-2-(2H-                            Prepared according
     A-5        1,2,3-triazol-2-             a         N  to WO 2011/050198
                                                       OH
               yl)benzoic acid                            Intemediate 54
                                                    0
                  2-fluoro-6-                   N         Prepared according
     A-6        (pyrimidin-2-                       N     to WO 2011/050198
                                                    OH
               yl)benzoic acid                            Intermediate 14
                                           F    0
                                                          Prepared according
                  5-fluoro-2-                      N      to WO 2011/050198
     A-7        (pyrimidin-2-                          H  Intermediate 13
                                                 x    OH
               yl)benzoic acid.          F
                                                  0
                  3-ethoxy-6-                     O       WO 2010/063663
             methylpicolinic acid                     OH  Description 39
                                                  0
                                                     N'N  Commercially
     A-9     2-(4H-1,2,4-triazol-               N         available, CAS
              4-yl)benzoic acid             x       OH
                                                          167626-65-5
                                                0
                                                   N      Prepared according
               5-fluoro-2-(2H                      N/     to WO 2011/050198
    A-10        1,2,3-triazol-2-                       O
               yl)benzoic acid           F         0 OH   Intermediate 1
                                                 N-       Prepared according
               2-fluoro-6-(2H                   N /       to WO 2011/050198
    A-l1        1,2,3-triazol-2-                       H
                            acd(
                       yl~bnzoi                     OH    Intermediate 12
               yl)benzoic acid
                                            F   0
                                  - 42 -

Intermediate        Name                    Structure             Reference
                                                     N -/   Prepared according
               4-fluoro-2-(2H-           F           N      to WO 2011/050198
    A-12        1,2,3-triazol-2-                        OH  Intermediate 4
               yl)benzoic acid
                                                            Prepared analogous
              2-methoxy-6-(2H-                              to Intermediate A-X
                                                     N)
    A-13        1,2,3-triazol-2-                      OH    using 2-bromo-6
               yl)benzoic acid                              (2H-1,2,3-triazol-2
                                             0     0
                                                            yl)benzoic acid
                                                    F
             5-(4-fluorophenyl)-                   \        Commercially
    A-14     2-methylthiazole-4-                            available, CAS
               carboxylic acid              S \       0     433283-22-8
                                                 N    OH
                                                            Prepared according
                4-methoxy-2-                          N     to WO 2011/050198
    A-15        (pyrimidin-2-                            OH Intermediate 88
               yl)benzoic acid
                                                            Prepared according
               3-fluoro-2-(2H-               F     N        to WO 2011/050198
    A-16        1,2,3-triazol-2OH                           Intermediate 5
               yl)benzoic acid
                       6-                    S              Commercially
             methylimidazo [2,1 -             NN
    A-17                                   Nr               available, CAS
                 b]thiazole-5-                 -      OH    avalaleCA
                                                            77628-51-4
               carboxylic acid                     0
                                  - 43 -

        Intermediate                Name                 Structure              Reference
                                  3-fluoro-2-             F     |          Commercially
                                                               0
            A-18               methoxybenzoic                     OH       available, CAS
                                      acid                                 106428-05-1
                                                               0
   Synthesis of 3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)benzonitrile (Intermediate in the synthesis of intermediate
   A-2)
               N -N
            F             N
 5          To a solution of 3-fluoro-2-(4,4,5,5-tetramethyl-1,3,2-dioxaborolan-2-yl)benzonitrile (4.98
   g, 19.1 mmol) and 2-bromopyrimidine (3.85 g, 23 mmol) in THF (96 mL) was added Na2CO3 (6 g,
   57.4 mmol) followed by water (43 mL). The reaction mixture was degassed with N2 for 10 minutes.
   PdCl2(dtbpf) (374 mg, 0.57 mmol) was added and the reaction mixture was stirred at 80 'C for 5h.
   The solution was cooled to room temperature and a mixture of EtOAc and water was added. The
 0 aqueous was extracted twice with EtOAc and the combined organic layers were dried over MgSO4,
   filtered and evaporated. The title compound was precipitated by dissolving the residue in a
   minimum amount of EtOAc and then adding hexanes. The solid was filtered, washed with hexanes
   and dried to afford the title compound (2.46 g, 64%). MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C1 H6FN3, 199.1;
   m/z found 200.1 [M+H]+. 1H NMR (400 MHz, Chloroform-d) 6 9.02 - 8.91 (m, 2H), 7.65 (dt, J=
15 7.7, 1.0 Hz, 1H), 7.60 - 7.52 (m, 1H), 7.51 - 7.43 (m, 1H), 7.41 (t, J= 4.9 Hz, 1H).
   Intermediate A-19: 5-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)picolinic acid.
              N
                 N
            N   OH
              0
                                                 - 44 -

            Step A: 5-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)picolinonitrile. To 3-bromo-5-methylpicolinic
   acid (1.5 g, 7.6 mmol) in DMF (19 mL) was added K2CO3 (1.2 g, 8.4 mmol) and 2H-1,2,3-triazole
   (440 pL, 7.6 mmol). The mixture was heated to 100 'C for 16 h, cooled to room temperature and
   extracted with EtOAc (2X). The combined organics were dried (Na2SO4) and concentrated.
 5 Purification via silica gel chromatography (5-60% EtOAc in hexanes) gave the title compound (490
   mg, 35%) 'H NMR (500 MHz, Chloroform-d) 8.58 - 8.53 (m, 1H), 8.29 - 8.24 (m, 1H), 7.98 (s,
   2H), 2.54 (s, 3H)and 5-methyl-3-(1H-1,2,3-triazol-1-yl)picolinonitrile (387 mg, 27%).
            Step B: (sodium 5-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)picolinate).  To a solution of the title
   compound of Step A (489 mg, 2.6 mmol) in EtOH (7 mL) was added 4 N NaOH (660 pL, 2.6
 0 mmol). The mixture was heated at 100'C for 24 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo
   to a white solid which was used without further purification in subsequent steps. MS (ESI) mass
   calcd. for C9H8N402, 204.1; m/z found 205.0 [M+H]*.
   Intermediate A-20: 6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)picolinic acid.
               N
             N    OH
 5             0
            Step A: 6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)picolinonitrile. To 3-bromo-6
   methylpicolinonitrile (2.2 g, 11 mmol) in DMF (28 mL) was added K2C03 (1.7 g, 12 mmol) and
   2H-1,2,3-triazole (650 pL, 11 mmol). The mixture was heated to 100 'C for 36 h, cooled to rt and
   extracted with EtOAc. The combined organics were dried (Na2SO4) and concentrated. Purification
20 via silica gel chromatography (10-100% EtOAc in hexanes) gave the title compound (1 g, 48%).
            Step B: 6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)picolinic acid. To a solution of the title compound
   of Step A (730 mg, 4 mmol) in EtOH (10 mL) was added 4 N NaOH (1 mL, 4 mmol). The mixture
   was heated at 100'C for 24 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo to a white solid
   which was used without further purification in subsequent steps. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for
25 C9H8N402, 204.1; m/z found 205.1 [M+H]*.
   Intermediate A-21: 3-ethoxyisoquinoline-4-carboxylic acid.
                                                - 45 -

                  N   O
                          OH
                   -   0
            Step A: ethyl 3-hydroxyisoquinoline-4-carboxylate. To a suspension of ethyl 3
   aminoisoquinoline-4-carboxylate (583 mg, 2.70 mmol) in 6.8 mL of H2SO4 5N cooled to 0 'C was
   added sodium nitrite (223 mg, 3.24 mmol, dissolved in 1 mL of water). The reaction mixture was
 5 stirred at 0 'C for 2.5 h and then NaOH(aq) IN was added until pH=7. The aqueous phase was
   extracted twice with DCM and the combined organic phases were dried over MgSO4, filtered and
   evaporated to give the title compound of Step A which was used without further purification in the
   next step (583 mg, 99%). MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C12Hi1NO3, 217.1; m/z found 218.1 [M+H]*.
            Step B: ethyl 3-ethoxyisoquinoline-4-carboxylate. To the title compound of Step A (583 mg,
 0 2.68 mmol) in THF (13 mL) was added triphenylphosphine (1.06 g, 4.03 mmol), ethanol (0.24 mL,
   4.03 mmol) and DIAD (0.79 mL, 4.03 mmol). The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature
   for 16h and then the solvent was evaporated. The crude was purified via silica gel chromatography
   (0-30% EtOAc in hexanes) to afford the title compound of Step B (498 mg, 76%). MS (ESI) mass
   calcd. for C14H15NO3, 245.1; m/z found 246.1 [M+H]*.1 H NMR (500 MHz, Chloroform-d) 6 8.97
 5 (s, 1H), 7.91 - 7.82 (m, 2H), 7.65 - 7.60 (m, 1H), 7.42 - 7.36 (m, 1H), 4.59 - 4.48 (m, 4H), 1.48
   1.39 (m, 6H).
            Step C: 3-ethoxyisoquinoline-4-carboxylic acid. The title compound of Step B (492 mg, 2
   mmol) dissolved in MeOH (15 mL) was added NaOH(aq) 2M (2.5 mL). The reaction mixture was
   stirred at 60 'C for 16h and then NaOH(aq) 4M (2 mL) was added and the mixture was stirred at 70
20 'C for 4h. MeOH was evaporated and the aqueous phase was cooled to 0 'C and acidified with the
   addition of HCl(aq) 6N. The solid was filtered, washed with cold water and dried to afford the tilte
   compound (285 mg, 65%). MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C12Hi1NO3, 217.1; m/z found 218.1 [M+H]*.
   1H  NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 13.36 (s, 1H), 9.15 (s, 1H), 8.13 - 8.06 (m, 1H), 7.82 - 7.70 (m,
   2H), 7.54 - 7.47 (m, 1H), 4.50 (q, J = 7.0 Hz, 2H), 1.35 (t, J = 7.0 Hz, 3H).
25
       Intermediate                 Name                Structure                Reference
                                                - 46 -

                              3-methyl-2-(2H-                                Prepared according
            A-22               1,2,3-triazol-2-                   'N         to WO 2011/050198
                                                                   OH
                               yl)benzoic acid                               Intermediate 82
                                                                0
                                 4-fluoro-2-                      N          Prepared according
            A-23                (pyrimidin-2-                        N       to WO 2011/050198
                                                                     OH
                               yl)benzoic acid                               Intermediate 87
   Intermediate A-24: 2-methoxy-6-(pyrimidin-2-yl)benzoic acid
            NI
       'N      N
        /'     OH
            Step A: Methyl 2-methoxy-6-(pyrimidin-2-yl)benzoate. In a microwave vial was dissolved
 5 methyl 2-methoxy-6-(4,4,5,5-tetramethyl-1,3,2-dioxaborolan-2-yl)benzoate (CAS 1146214-77-8)
   (500 mg, 1.71 mmol) and 2-bromopyrimidine (344 mg, 2.05 mmol) in THF (8.5 mL). Na2CO3 (544
   mg, 5.14 mmol) was then added followed by water (4 mL) and the reaction mixture was degassed
   with N2 for 10 minutes. PdCl2(dtbpf) (CAS 95408-45-0)(45 mg, 0.069 mmol) was then added and
   the reaction mixture was heated at 80 'C for 4 h. The mixture was cooled to room temperature and
 0 water and EtOAc added. The reaction mixture was extracted with EtOAc (3X). The combined
   organic layers were dried over Na2SO4, filtered and concentrated. The crude was purified via silica
   gel chromatography (0-70% EtOAc in hexanes) to afford the title compound (265 mg, 63%).MS
   (ESI) mass calcd. for C13H12N203, 244.1; m/z found 245.1 [M+H].H NMR (400 MHz,
   Chloroform-d) 6 8.78 (d, J = 4.9 Hz, 2H), 7.99 (dd, J = 7.9, 0.9 Hz, 1H), 7.49 (t, J = 8.1 Hz, 1H),
15 7.19 (t, J = 4.8 Hz, 1H), 7.09 (dd, J = 8.3, 0.9 Hz, 1H), 3.90 (s, 3H), 3.89 (s, 3H).
            Step B: 2-methoxy-6-(pyrimidin-2-yl)benzoic acid. To a solution of the title compound of
   Step A (265 mg, 1.09 mmol) in THF (4 mL) was added 2 M NaOH (2 mL). The mixture was heated
   at 50'C for 72 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and concentrated in vacuo to
   remove THF. Then, 1 M HCl(aq) was added and the aqueous was extracted with 10:1 DCM/2,2,2
20 trifluoroethanol (3X). The combined organic layers were dried over Na2SO4, filtered and
                                                  - 47 -

   concentrated to give intermediate A-24, which was used without further purification in subsequent
   steps. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C12HioN203, 230.1; m/z found 231.1 [M+H]*.1 H NMR (500 MHz,
   DMSO-d6) 6 12.63 (s, 1H), 8.86 (d, J = 4.9 Hz, 2H), 7.77 (dd, J = 7.9, 1.0 Hz, 1H), 7.51 (t, J = 8.1
   Hz, 1H), 7.45 (t, J = 4.9 Hz, 1H), 7.25 (dd, J = 8.4, 1.0 Hz, 1H), 3.83 (s, 3H).
 5
   Intermediate A-25: 7-ethoxyquinoline-8-carboxylic acid
            0     OH
         O,         N
            Step A: 7-methoxyquinoline-8-carboxylic acid. In separate batches (1 g) a mixture of 2
   amino-6-methoxybenzoic acid (11 g, 66 mmol) and acrolein (4.8 mL, 72 mmol) in 1,4-dioxane (66
 0 mL) was heated in a microwave reactor for 20 min at 200 'C. After combining the reactions, the
   mixture was concentrated and purified via silica gel chromatography (0-10% MeOH in DCM) to
   give the title compound (2.8 g, 20%). MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C11H19NO3, 203.1; m/z found 204.0
   [M+H]*.
            Step B: 7-hydroxyquinoline-8-carboxylic acid. The title compound of Step A (2.9 g, 14.1
 5 mmol) in HBr (14 mL) was heated at 90 'C for 1 h. The mixture was then concentrated washed
   with PhCH3 and used without further purification in subsequent steps.
            Step C: ethyl 7-ethoxyquinoline-8-carboxylate.    To the title compound of Step B (800 mg,
   3.9 mmol) and K2CO3 (1.4 g, 10.4 mmol) in DMF (15 mL) was added iodoethane (560 mL, 6.9
   mmol). After stirring overnight at room temperature, the reaction was concentrated and purified via
20 silica gel chromatography (0-30% EtOAc in hexanes) to give the title compound. MS (ESI) mass
   calcd. for C14H15NO3, 245.1; m/z found 246.0 [M+H]*.
            Step D: 7-ethoxyquinoline-8-carboxylic acid. To the title compound of Step C (1.3 g, 5.4
   mmol) in THF (22 mL) and H20 (11 mL) was added LiOH hydrate (675 mg, 16.5 mmol) and
   MeOH. The mixture was heated at 67 'C for 12 h. Additional LiOH hydrate (675 mg, 16.5 mmol)
25 was added and the heating was continued at 70 'C for 1 day. Additional LiOH hydrate (1.4 g, 33
   mmol) was added and the heating was continued at 75 'C for 1 day. The reaction was allowed to
   cool to room temperature, acidified to pH=3 with 1 N HCl(aq) and concentrated. Purification via
                                                - 48 -

   prep HPLC gave the title compound (1 g, 84%). MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C12HiiNO3, 217.1; m/z
   found 218.0 [M+H]*.
   Intermediate A-27: 3-methyl-2-(oxazol-2-yl)benzoic acid
                0
 5             OH
             Step A: ethyl 3-methyl-2-(oxazol-2-yl)benzoate. In a microwave vial was dissolved ethyl 2
   iodo-3-methylbenzoate (627 mg, 2.16 mmol) and 2-(tributylstannyl)oxazole (0.54 mL, 0.07 mmol)
   in DME (2.59 mL). The solution was degassed with N2 for 5 minutes then Cul (21 mg, 0.11 mmol)
   and Pd(PPh3)4 (125 mg, 0.11 mmol) were added. The reaction was purged with N2 and heated at
 0 150 'C for 1 h. The reaction was cooled to room temperature, filtered through a pad of Celite and
   purified via silica gel chromatography (0-40% EtOAc in hexanes) to give the title compound of step
   A (333 mg, 67%). MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C13H13NO3, 231.1; m/z found 232.1 [M+H]* 1H NMR
   (500 MHz, Chloroform-d) 6 7.89 - 7.82 (m, 1H), 7.79 (d, J = 0.8 Hz, 1H), 7.48 - 7.43 (m, 2H), 7.30
   (d, J= 0.9 Hz, 1H), 4.17 (q, J= 7.1 Hz, 2H), 2.27 (s, 3H), 1.18 (t, J= 7.1 Hz, 3H).
 5           Step B: 3-methyl-2-(oxazol-2-yl)benzoic acid. To the title compound of step A (166 mg,
   0.72 mmol) was added MeOH (7.2 mL) and IM NaOH(ag) (7.2 mL). MeOH was evaporated and
   then 1 M HCl(ag) was added. To the solution was added DCM and the aqueous was extracted with
   DCM (3X). The combined organic layers were dried over MgSO4, filtered and evaporated to give
   the title compound (145 mg). MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C11H9NO3, 203.1; m/z found 204.1
20 [M+H]*.1 H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 8.20 (s, 1H), 7.79 - 7.68 (m, 1H), 7.65 - 7.49 (m, 2H),
   7.35 (s, 1H), 4.34 (s, 1H), 2.20 (s, 3H).
        Intermediate                Name                 Structure              Reference
                                                               N
                                                                  I :::    Prepared according
                             3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-             N'N
             A-28                                                N         to WO 2011/050198
                              2-yl)picolinic acid        N       OH        Intermediate 72
                                                              0
                                                  - 49 -

                                                                            Commercially
                                1H-indole-7-
            A-29              c                                     OH      available, CAS
                              carboxylic acid             N                  608
                                                          NH     Or         1670-83-3
   Intermediate A-30: 2-methoxy-6-(1H-pyrazol-5-yl)benzoic acid
    HN
              0 OH
            Step A: Ethyl 2-methoxy-6-(1H-pyrazol-5-yl)benzoate. In a microwave vial was dissolved
 5 ethyl 2-bromo-6-methoxybenzoate (500 mg, 1.54 mmol) and 5-(4,4,5,5-tetramethyl-1,3,2
   dioxaborolan-2-yl)-1H-pyrazole (330 mg, 1.70 mmol) in DME (10 mL) and water (2 mL). Na2CO3
   (259 mg, 3.09 mmol) was then added followed by Pd(PPh3)4 (89 mg, 0.077 mmol) and the reaction
   mixture was degassed with N2 for 10 minutes. The reaction mixture was then heated at 100 'C for 1
   h in the microwave. The mixture was cooled to room temperature, filtered through Celite and
 0 washed with EtOAc and DCM. The crude solution was concentrated in vacuo and directly purified
   via silica gel chromatography (10-80% EtOAc in hexanes) to afford the title compound (125 mg,
   33%).MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C13H14N203, 246.3; m/z found 247.1 [M+H]*.1 H NMR (400 MHz,
   Chloroform-d) 6 7.63 (d, J = 2.2 Hz, 1H), 7.44 - 7.37 (m, 1H), 7.24 (d, J = 8.1 Hz, 1H), 6.94 (dd, J=
   8.3, 0.9 Hz, 1H), 6.53 (d, J = 2.3 Hz, 1H), 4.29 (q, J = 7.2 Hz, 2H), 3.88 (s, 3H), 1.25 - 1.16 (m, 3H).
15          Step B: 2-methoxy-6-(1H-pyrazol-5-yl)benzoic acid. Prepared analogous to intermediate A
   24 step B to give title compound. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C11HioN203, 218.1; m/z found 219.1
   [M+H]*.1 H NMR (500 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 12.85 (br. s, 1H), 7.71 (d, J= 2.2 Hz, 1H), 7.39 (t, J = 8.0
   Hz, 1H), 7.35 - 7.28 (m, 1H), 7.04 (dd, J = 8.3, 1.0 Hz, 1H), 6.51 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 3.80 (s, 3H).
20 Intermediate A-31: 2-(1,4-dimethyl-1H-pyrazol-5-yl)benzoic acid
            N N
               OH
            0
                                                -50-

             Step A: Methyl 2-(1,4-dimethyl-1H-pyrazol-5-yl)benzoate. Prepared analogous to
   intermediate A-30 step A to give title compound. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C13H14N202, 230.1; m/z
   found 231.1 [M+H]*.1 H NMR (400 MHz, Chloroform-d) 6 8.04 (dd, J = 7.8, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 7.61 (td, J
   =  7.5, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 7.53 (td, J = 7.7, 1.4 Hz, 1H), 7.35 (s, 1H), 7.28 (dd, J = 7.6, 1.4 Hz, 1H), 3.71
 5 (s, 3H), 3.58 (s, 3H), 1.84 (s, 3H).
             Step B: 2-(1,4-dimethyl-1H-pyrazol-5-yl)benzoic acid. To a solution of the title compound
   of Step A (680 mg, 2.95 mmol) in MeOH (15 mL) was added 4 M LiOH (4 mL). The mixture was
   heated at 50'C overnight. MeOH was removed and HCl added until pH=2. White solids
   precipitated from the reaction mixture and the precipitate was filtered, washed with EtOAc and
 0 collected to give intermediate A-3 1, which was used without further purification in subsequent
   steps. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for    C12H12N202,   216.1; m/z found 217.1 [M+H]*.1 H NMR (400 MHz,
   DMSO-d6) 6 12.87 (s, 1H), 7.95 (dd, J = 7.8, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 7.67 (td, J = 7.5, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 7.59 (td, J=
   7.6, 1.4 Hz, 1H), 7.33 (dd, J = 7.6, 1.4 Hz, 1H), 7.25 (s, 1H), 3.48 (s, 3H), 1.77 (s, 3H).
         Intermediate               Name                   Structure               Reference
                                  2-bromo-3-                     Br          Commercially
             A-33                                                            available, CAS
                              fluorobenzoic acid            /       OH
                                                                             132715-69-6
                                                                 0
 5
   Intermediate A-33: 3-fluoro-2-(1H-1,2,3-triazol-1-yl)benzoic acid
       F     N-N
            x OH
               OH
             0
             To 3-fluoro-2-iodobenzoic acid (4.5 g, 16.9 mmol) dissolved in dioxane (33.8 mL) and H20
   (0.09 mL) was added Cs2CO3 (11.02 g, 33.8 mmol), Cul (161 mg, 0.85 mmol), 2H-1,2,3-triazole
20 (1.96 mL, 33.8 mmol), and trans-N,N-dimethyl-1,2-cyclohexanediamine (0.53 mL, 3.38 mmol).
   The mixture was then heated to 100 'C overnight, cooled to room temperature, diluted with H20,
   and extracted with EtOAc. The aqueous layer was then acidified and extracted with EtOAc. The
                                                  -51 -

   combined organics were dried and concentrated. From this concentrate a solid precipitated to
   provide intermediate A-33 (285 mg, 8%). MS (ESI) mass calcd for C9H6FN302, 207.0; m/z found
   208.1 [M+H]. 1H NMR (500 MHz, Methanol-d4)           6.81 - 6.77 (m, 1H), 6.46 - 6.40 (m, 2H), 6.30
   6.23 (m, 1H), 6.18 - 6.12 (m, 1H).
 5 Intermediate A-34: 2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)benzoic acid.
       F
    N     NO
               OH
            Step A: 5-fluoro-2-iodopyrimidine. To a solution of 2-chloro-5-fluoropyrimidine (4 mL, 32
   mmol) in propionitrile (33 mL) was added chlorotrimethylsilane (12 mL, 97 mmol) and sodium
   iodide (15 g, 97 mmol), and the reaction mixture was heated to 150 'C for 1 h. Upon completion of
 0 the reaction, the reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and the solvent removed. The
   residue was taken up in EtOAc and a solution of saturated NaHCO3. The organic layer was dried
   over MgSO4, filtered and evaporated. Purification via silica gel chromatography (0-20% EtOAc in
   hexanes) gave the title compound (2.82 g, 39%).
            Step B: 2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)benzonitrile. In a microwave vial was dissolved 2
 5 cyanophenylboronic acid (500 mg, 3.40 mmol) in THF (15 mL), and the reaction mixture was
   degassed with N2. Then, the title compound of step A (915 mg, 4.08 mmol), Na2CO3 (1.08 g, 10.2
   mmol), water (5 mL), and PdCl2(dtbpf) (CAS 95408-45-0)(89 mg, 0.14 mmol) were added, and
   the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h and then heated via microwave heating
   to 75 'C for 2 h. The mixture was cooled to room temperature and water and EtOAc added. The
20 reaction mixture was extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were dried over MgSO4,
   filtered and concentrated. The crude was purified via silica gel chromatography (0-30% EtOAc in
   hexanes) to afford the title compound (280 mg, 41%). MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C11H6FN3, 199.1;
   m/z found 200.0 [M+H]*.
            Step C: 2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)benzoic acid. A solution of the title compound of step B
25 (1.24 g, 6.22 mmol) in H2SO4 (6 mL) and water (6 mL) was stirred at 80 'C for 1 h. Then, the
   reaction mixture was cooled to 0 'C and the aqueous phase extracted with DCM (2X). A solution of
   20 M NaOH (11 mL) was added to the aqueous layer until pH ~3-4. The aqueous layer was
                                                - 52 -

   extracted again with EtOAc and DCM. The combined organic layers were dried over MgSO4,
   filtered and concentrated to afford the title compound (672 mg, 50%). MS (ESI) mass calcd. for
   CiiH7FN202, 218.1; m/z found 219.1 [M+H]*.
 5 Intermediate A-35: 3-fluoro-2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)benzoic acid.
          F
       N    NO
    F I
                  OH
   Prepared analogous to Intermediate A-34, substituting 2-cyanophenylboronic acid with (2-cyano-6
   fluorophenyl)boronic acid (CAS 656235-44-8). MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C11H6F2N202, 236.0; m/z
   found 237.1 [M+H]*.
 0
   Intermediate A-36: 2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-3-methylbenzoic acid
         F
      N     N
                  OH
            Step A: Methyl 2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-3-methylbenzoate. A solution of methyl 3
   methyl-2-(4,4,5,5-tetramethyl-1,3,2-dioxaborolan-2-yl)benzoate (CAS 887234-98-2) (3 g, 11
15 mmol) in THF (30 mL) was degassed with N2. Then, 2-chloro-5-fluoropyrimidine (1.6 mL, 13.04
   mmol), Na2CO3 (3.45 g, 32.6 mmol), water (10 mL), and Pd(dppf)C12(354 mg, 0.434 mmol) were
   added, and the reaction mixture was stirred at 100 'C overnight. The mixture was cooled to room
   temperature and water and EtOAc added. The reaction mixture was extracted with EtOAc. The
   combined organic layers were dried over MgSO4, filtered and concentrated. The crude was purified
20 via silica gel chromatography (0-40% EtOAc in hexanes) to afford the title compound (1.07 g,
   40%).
                                                  -53-

          Step B: 2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-3-methylbenzoic acid. To a solution of the title
  compound of Step A (1.46 g, 5.93 mmol) in MeOH (20 mL) was added 1 M NaOH (12 mL), and
  the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The solvent was removed and the
  crude was diluted with water until pH = 10. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc. The
5 aqueous layer was further acidified with 12 M HCl(aq) until pH = 2 and extracted with EtOAc. The
  combined organic layers were dried over MgS04, filtered and concentrated to afford the title
  compound (1.19 g, 83%). MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C12H9FN202, 232.1; m/z found 233.1 [M+H]*.
      Intermediate               Name                  Structure            Reference
          A-37             2-(pyrimidin-2-                                Commercially
                           yl)benzoic acid          N     NO              available, CAS
                                                                OH         400892-62-8
          A-38             5-methyl-2-(2H-                            Prepared analogous to
                            1,2,3-triazol-2-           'N     O       WO 2011/050200
                           yl)nicotinic acid        N           OH    Intermediate 47,
                                                                      Example 160
          A-39           2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-                         Commercially
                                                     N    N           Cmecal
                          2-yl)nicotinic acid          N      0       available, CAS
                                                    N           OH    1369497-44-8
          A-40             6-methyl-3-(2H-                            2012/089606
                            1,2,3-triazol-2-              N           Intermediate D40.
                                                           ,-   OH
                           yl)picolinic acid
                                                       NO
                                              - 54 -

    Intermediate             Name                 Structure          Reference
        A-41              6-methyl-3-                          WO 2010/122151
                         (pyrimidin-2-          N    NO        Intermediate D28
                       yl)picolinic acid                   OH
                                                     N
        A-42            3-(pyrimidin-2-                        WO 2010/122151
                       yl)picolinic acid        N    NO        Intermediate D105
                                                           OH
                                                     N
        A-43          3-phenylpyrazine-                        Commercially
                      2-carboxylic acid                 O      available, CAS 288 1
                                                N          OH  85-8
                                                     N
        A-44            1H-indazole-7-          N-NH     0     Commercially
                        carboxylic acid                     OH available, CAS
                                                               677304-69-7
        A-45           3-phenylfuran-2-                        Commercially
                        carboxylic acid                        available,
                                                               CAS169772-63-8
                                                          OH
Intermediate A-46: 5-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)nicotinic acid.
 N    NO
 N         OH
                                          - 55 -

            Step A: Methyl 5-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)nicotinate. To a sealed tube containing methyl
   2-chloro-5-methylnicotinate (CAS 65169-43-9) (745 mg, 4.01 mmol), Cul (38 mg, 0.2 mmol), LiCl
   (169 mg, 4.01 mmol), and Pd(PPh3)4 (231 mg, 0.2 mmol) in toluene (15 mL) was added 2
   (tributylstannyl)pyrimidine (1.5 mL, 4.4 mmol), and the reaction mixture was heated at 120 'C
 5 overnight. The reaction mixture was diluted with water and extracted with DCM. The combined
   organic layers were dried over MgSO4, filtered and evaporated. Purification via silica gel
   chromatography (0-50% EtOAc in hexanes) gave the title compound (494 mg, 52%). MS (ESI)
   mass calcd. for C12Hi1N302, 229.1; m/z found 229.99.
            Step B: 5-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)nicotinic acid. To a solution of the title compound of
 0 step A (466 mg, 2.03 mmol) in MeOH (10 mL) was added 10 M NaOH (1 mL), and the reaction
   mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The solvent was removed and the crude was diluted
   with water and acidified with 6 M HCl(aq) until pH      = 3. The aqueous layer was saturated with solid
   NaCl and extracted with 20% iPrOH in CHCl3 (3X). The combined organic layers were dried over
   MgSO4, filtered and concentrated to afford the title compound (432 mg, 99%). MS (ESI) mass
 5 calcd. for C11H9N302, 215.1; m/z found 216.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz, Methanol-d4) 6 8.90
   (br. s, 2H), 8.64 (br. s, 1H), 8.17 (s, 1H), 7.55 (br. s, 1H), 2.51 (s, 3H).
   Intermediate A-47: Lithium 5-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)picolinate.
      N '- NO
                  O Li
           -N
20          Step A: Methyl 5-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)picolinate. Prepared analogous to intermediate
   A-46, step A substituting methyl 2-chloro-5-methylnicotinate with methyl 3-bromo-5
   methylpicolinate. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C12Hi1N302, 229.1; m/z found 230.0 [M+H]*.
            Step B: Lithium 5-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)picolinate. To a solution of the title compound
   of step A (592 mg, 2.58 mmol) in THF (5 mL) was added 4 M LiOH (0.8 mL) and water (1.5 mL),
25 and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2.5 h. The solvent was removed and
   the crude reaction mixture placed under vacuum overnight to give the title compound (591 mg),
   which was used in the next step without further purification. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for Ci 1H9N302,
                                                   -56-

   215.1; m/z found 216.1 [M+H].      1H NMR (500 MHz, Methanol-d4) 6 8.83 (d, J= 4.9 Hz, 2H), 8.39
   (br. s, 1H), 8.23 - 8.18 (m, 1H), 7.38 (t, J= 4.9 Hz, 1H), 2.44 (s, 3H).
   Intermediate A-48: 3-fluoro-2-(oxazol-2-yl)benzoic acid.
    F      /       OH
       N     O
             Step A: 2-bromo-N-(2,2-dimethoxyethyl)-6-fluorobenzamide. To a solution of 2-bromo-6
   fluorobenzoic acid (2 g, 9.1 mmol) in DMF (27 mL) was added HBTU (5.20 g, 13.7 mmol) and
   DIPEA (4.7 mL, 27 mmol), and the reaction mixture was stirred for 10 min. Then, 2,2
   dimethoxyethylamine (1.3 mL, 11.9 mmol) was added and the reaction mixture stirred at room
 0 temperature for 12 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc and washed with saturated
   aqueous NaHCO3. The combined organic layers were dried over MgSO4, filtered and concentrated.
   Purification via silica gel chromatography (0-25% EtOAc in hexanes) gave the title compound (2.3
   g, 82%).
             Step B: 2-(2-bromo-6-fluorophenyl)oxazole. To P205 (6.4 g, 22.6 mmol) was added
 5 methanesulfonic acid (52 mL, 801 mmol), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature
   for 1 h. Then, the title compound of step A (2.3 g, 7.54 mmol) was added to the reaction mixture,
   and the mixture heated to 140 'C for 2 h. DCM was added and the mixture was slowly poured into a
   saturated solution of aqueous NaHCO3 on ice. The mixture was extracted with DCM. The combined
   organic layers were dried over MgSO4, filtered and concentrated. Purification via silica gel
20 chromatography (0-10% EtOAc in hexanes) gave the title compound (1.5 g, 82%). MS (ESI) mass
   calcd. for C9HsBrFNO, 240.95; m/z found 242.0 [M+H]*.
             Step C: Methyl 3-fluoro-2-(oxazol-2-yl)benzoate. A solution of the title compound of step B
   (2.18 g, 8.99 mmol), Pd(OAc)2 (40 mg, 0.18 mmol), 1,1'-bis(diphenylphosphino)ferrocene (199
   mg, 0.36 mmol), and Et3N (3.7 mL, 27 mmol) in 1:1 MeOH/1,4-dioxane (36 mL) was degassed
25 with N2 for 15 min. Then, the mixture was stirred at 95 'C under an atmosphere of carbon
   monoxide overnight. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc and washed with a solution of
   NaHCO3. The organic layer was separated, dried over MgSO4, filtered, and concentrated.
                                                 - 57 -

   Purification via silica gel chromatography (0-12% EtOAc in hexanes) gave the title compound (1.7
   g, 83%). MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C11H8FNO3, 221.1; m/z found 222.0 [M+H]*.
             Step D: 3-fluoro-2-(oxazol-2-yl)benzoic acid. To a solution of the title compound of step C
   (1.65 g, 7.46 mmol) in MeOH (22 mL) was added 2 M NaOH (7.5 mL), and the reaction mixture
 5 was stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction mixture was acidified with 1 M HCl(aq) and
   the solvents evaporated in vacuo. The mixture was diluted with water and extracted with DCM. The
   combined organic were dried over MgSO4, filtered and concentrated to afford the title compound
   (905 mg, 58%). MS (ESI) mass calcd. for CioH6FNO3, 207.0; m/z found 208.0 [M+H]*. MP           =  182
   OC.
 0
   Intermediate A-49: 5-fluoro-2-(oxazol-2-yl)benzoic acid.
     /  -\
    O    N
           i    OH
       F
             Step A: Methyl 5-fluoro-2-(oxazol-2-yl)benzoate. To a solution of methyl 2-bromo-5
   fluorobenzoate (1.1 g, 4.8 mmol) and 2-(tri-n-butylstannyl)oxazole (1.3 mL, 6.2 mmol) in toluene
 5 (14 mL) was added Pd(PPh3)4 (550 mg, 0.476 mmol), and the reaction mixture was heated via
   microwave heating to 150 0 C for 30 min. The reaction mixture was diluted with water and extracted
   with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were dried over MgSO4, filtered and concentrated.
   Purification via silica gel chromatography (0-40% EtOAc in hexanes, followed by a second column
   0-10% EtOAc in hexanes) gave the title compound (553 mg, 52%). MS (ESI) mass calcd. for
20 CliH6FNO3, 221.1; m/z found 222.1 [M+H]*.
             Step B: 5-fluoro-2-(oxazol-2-yl)benzoic acid. Prepared analogous to intermediate 48, step
   D, to give the title compound (858 mg, 99%). MS (ESI) mass calcd. for CioH6FNO3, 207.0; m/z
   found 208.1 [M+H]*.
   Intermediate A-50: 2-fluoro-6-(oxazol-2-yl)benzoic acid.
                                                 -58-

    O    N
                OH
             F
            Prepared analogous to intermediate 48, substituting 2-bromo-6-fluorobenzoic acid with 2
   bromo-3-fluorobenzoic acid. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for CioH6FNO3, 207.0; m/z found 208.0
   [M+H]*.
 5
   Intermediate A-51: 4-fluoro-2-(3-methyl-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5-yl)benzoic acid
          N
       N     O
                  OH
    F
            Step A: 5-(2-bromo-5-fluorophenyl)-3-methyl-1,2,4-oxadiazole. To a solution of bromo-5
   fluorobenzoyl chloride (2.17 g, 9.13 mmol) in THF (18 mL) was added DIPEA (1.7 mL, 10 mmol).
 0 Then, acetamide oxime (676 mg, 9.13 mmol) was added portionwise, and the reaction mixture was
   stirred at 70 'C for 16 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc and washed with a saturated
   solution of NaHCO3. The combined organic layers were dried over MgSO4, filtered and
   concentrated. Purification via silica gel chromatography (0-20% EtOAc in hexanes) gave the title
   compound (2.35 g, 57%). MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C9H6BrFN20, 255.96; m/z found 257.0
15 [M+H]*.
            Step B: 4-fluoro-2-(3-methyl-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5-yl)benzoic acid. Prepared analogous to
   intermediate 48, steps C and D, to give the title compound. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for CioH7FN203,
   222.0; m/z found 223.0 [M+H]*.
20 Enantiopure Route A (2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-6-ol):
                                                 -59-

   Intermediate B-1: (1S,4R)-2-((R)-1-phenylethyl)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]hept-5-ene
            Intermediate B-I was prepared according to the procedure of C. Chiu et al. [Synthetic
   Communications 1996, 26, 577-5 84] with the substitution of (+)-a-Methyl-benzylamine for (-)-a
 5 Methyl-benzylamine and D-dibenzoyl tartaric acid for L- dibenzoyl tartaric acid. MS (ESI) mass
   calcd. for C14H17N, 199.1; m/z found 200.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz, Chloroform-d) 6 7.36
   7.25 (m, 4H), 7.23 - 7.17 (m, 1H), 6.35 - 6.30 (m, 1H), 6.11 (dd, J= 5.7, 2.0 Hz, 1H), 4.16 - 4.12
   (m, 1H), 3.05 (q, J= 6.5 Hz, 1H), 2.89 (dd, J= 8.9, 3.1 Hz, 1H), 2.85 - 2.81 (m, 1H), 1.65 - 1.59 (m,
   1H), 1.48 - 1.43 (m, 1H), 1.37 - 1.31 (m, 4H).
 0
   Intermediate B-2: (1S,4R,6S)-2-((R)-1-phenylethyl)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-6-ol
    HOi         N
            Intermediate B-2 was synthesized according to the procedure of F. Carroll et al. [J. Med.
   Chem.1992, 35, 2184-219 1] on a similar substrate. A 1 M solution of BH3-THF (1 M BH3-THF in
 5 THF, 359.3 mL, 359.3 mmol) was added dropwise via addition funnel to a stirred solution of
   intermediate B-1 (35.8 g, 179.6 mmol) in THF (359 mL) at 0 'C. Upon complete addition of BH3
   THF, the reaction mixture was stirred at 0 'C for 2 h. Then, excess BH3 was quenched with a
   solution of THF-H20. A 3 M NaOH (132 mL) solution was added followed by the dropwise
   addition of H202 (30% w/w in H20, 140 mL), and the reaction mixture was warmed to 40 'C and
20 stirred for 1.5 h. The biphasic mixture was then cooled to room temperature and K2CO3 (17 g)
   added in one portion. The resulting mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure to remove
   THF and re-dissolved in DCM. The crude reaction mixture was washed with H20 and the aqueous
   phase extracted with DCM (3X). The combined organics were then washed with brine, dried with
   Na2SO4, filtered, and concentrated to give a clear oil, which was further purified by silica gel
25 chromatography (5-10% MeOH (with 10% 2 M NH3) in DCM) to give intermediate B-2 as a clear
   oil (20.2 g, 93.0 mmol, 52%). MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C14H19NO, 217.2; m/z found 218.1
                                                - 60 -

   [M+H]*. 'H NMR (500 MHz, Chloroform-d) 6 7.34 - 7.27 (m, 4H), 7.24 - 7.19 (m, 1H), 4.03 (d, J
   = 6.9 Hz, 1H), 3.46 (q, J = 6.5 Hz, 1H), 3.01 (s, 1H), 2.56 - 2.48 (m, 1H), 2.42 - 2.33 (m, 1H), 2.25
   (dd, J= 8.8, 1.3 Hz, 1H), 1.82 (ddd, J= 13.1, 6.9, 2.2 Hz, 1H), 1.53 - 1.43 (m, 2H), 1.33 - 1.28 (m,
   1H), 1.27 (d, J= 6.5 Hz, 3H).
 5
   Intermediate B-3: (1S,4R,6S)-tert-butyl 6-hydroxy-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane-2-carboxylate
    HO         N
               Boc
            To a solution of intermediate B-2 (500 mg, 2.3 mmol) in EtOH (11.5 mL) was added Boc20
   (603 mg, 2.76 mmol) and 10 wt% Pd/C wet Degussa (490 mg, 0.46 mmol). The reaction mixture
 0 was stirred under an atmosphere of H2 (balloon) at room temperature for 22 h. Then, the reaction
   mixture was filtered through a pad of Celite and washed with EtOAc. The filtrate was concentrated
   to a clear oil to give the title compound in quantitative yield, which was used without further
   purification. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C11H19NO3, 213.1; m/z found 158.1 [M+2H-tBu]*. 1H NMR
   (400 MHz, Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers) 6 4.08 - 3.99 (m, 1H), 3.99
 5 3.92 (m, 1H), 3.18 - 3.09 (m, 1H), 2.80 (dd, J= 28.1, 9.2 Hz, 1H), 2.18 - 1.37 (m, 14H).
   Intermediate B-4: (1 S,4R)-tert-butyl 6-oxo-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptane-2-carboxylate
             N
             Boc
            To a solution of intermediate B-3 (7 g, 33 mmol) in EtOAc (219 mL) was added IBX (24.5
20 g, 39.4 mmol), and the heterogeneous reaction mixture was stirred at 80 'C overnight. Upon
   completion, the reaction mixture was then filtered through Celite, washed with EtOAc and
   concentrated to a white solid. The crude reaction mixture was re-dissolved in EtOAc and washed
   once with a 5% aqueous Na2CO3 solution. The aqueous layer was further extracted with EtOAc
   (2X) and the combined organics were washed with brine, dried with Na2SO4, filtered, and
25 concentrated to afford intermediate B-4 as a light yellow solid (6.12 g, 28.9 mmol, 88%), which was
   used in the next step without further purification. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C11H17NO3, 211.1; m/z
   found 156.1 [M+2H-tBu]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz, Chloroform-d) 6 4.32 - 4.04 (m, 1H), 3.45 (ddd, J
                                                 -61-

   = 9.6, 3.1, 1.8 Hz, 1H), 3.25 - 3.04 (m, 1H), 2.89 -2.77 (m, 1H), 2.21 (ddd, J= 18.0, 4.6, 1.8 Hz,
   1H), 2.04 - 1.96 (m, 1H), 1.95 - 1.82 (m, 1H), 1.75 - 1.66 (m, 1H), 1.45 (s, 9H).
   Intermediate B-5: (1 S,4R,6R)-tert-butyl 6-hydroxy-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptane-2-carboxylate
           N
 5  OH     Boc
            A 1 M solution of L-Selectride (1 M in THF, 19.8 mL, 19.8 mmol) was added to a solution
   of intermediate B-4 (1.67 g, 7.91 mmol) in dry THF (40 mL) at -78 'C, and the reaction mixture
   was stirred at that temperature for 3 h. Then, the reaction mixture was warmed to 0 'C and a 3 M
   NaOH (8.4 mL) solution was added followed by a solution of H202 (30% w/w in H20, 4.3 mL).
 0 The resulting mixture was warmed to room temperature and stirred for 2 h. The biphasic mixture
   was then concentrated in vacuo to remove THF and the aqueous layer extracted with DCM (3X).
   The combined organics were washed with brine, dried with Na2SO4, filtered, and concentrated to an
   oil, which was further purified by silica gel chromatography (10-90% EtOAc in hexanes), to give
   intermediate B-2 as a white solid (1.16 g, 5.44 mmol, 67%). MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C11H19NO3,
 5 213.1; m/z found 158.1 [M+2H-tBu]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz, Chloroform-d, Compound present as a
   mixture of rotamers) 6 4.38 - 4.10 (m, 2H), 3.36 (br. s, 1H), 3.09 (dd, J= 9.6, 1.4 Hz, 1H), 2.54
   1.38 (m, 14H), 1.16 - 1.00 (m, 1H).
   Intermediate B-5 can also be prepared from commercially available (1S,4R)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.1]hept-5-en-3-one. The procedure is as follows:
20
   Enantiopure Route B (2-azabicyclo[2.2.1] heptan-6-ol):
   Intermediate B-6: (1S,4R,6S)-2-benzyl-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-6-ol
    HO         N
               Bn
            To a round bottom flask containing commercially available, (1 S,4R)-2
25 azabicyclo[2.2.1]hept-5-en-3-one (2.0 g, 18.3 mmol), in THF (100 mL) at 0 'C was added a
   solution of LiAlH4 (1 M in THF, 40.3 mL, 40.3 mmol), and the reaction mixture was refluxed
                                                 - 62 -

   overnight. The reaction mixture was then cooled to 0 'C and carefully quenched by the dropwise
   addition of H20 (15 mL). Celite and solid Na2CO3 were added to the slurry and the reaction mixture
   was vigorously stirred at room temperature for 3 h. The slurry was then filtered and the solids
   washed with THF. Benzyl bromide (2.4 mL, 20.2 mmol) and an aqueous solution of Na2CO3 (3.2 g
 5 in 30 mL H20) were added to the filtrate and the reaction mixture stirred at room temperature
   overnight. Upon completion of the reaction, the reaction mixture was extracted with EtOAc (3X).
   The combined organics were washed with H20, brine, dried with MgSO4, filtered, and concentrated
   to provide crude (1S,4R)-2-benzyl-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]hept-5-ene as a yellow oil, which was
   directly hydroborated according to the procedure of F. Carroll et al. [J. Med. Chem.1992, 35, 2184
 0 2191]. The crude alcohol was purified by silica gel chromatography (0-15 % MeOH (with 50%
   NH40H) in DCM) to give intermediate B-6 as a clear oil (2.66 g, 13.1 mmol, 710%over 3 steps).
   MS (ESI) mass calcd for C13H17NO, 203.1; m/z found 204.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Chloroform-d) 6 7.39 - 7.28 (m, 4H), 7.26 - 7.21 (m, 1H), 4.18 - 4.09 (m, 1H), 3.76 - 3.66 (m, 2H),
   3.06 (br. s, 1H), 2.51 (dt, J= 9.0, 3.0 Hz, 1H), 2.44 - 2.35 (m, 2H), 1.90 - 1.81 (m, 1H), 1.68 - 1.53
 5 (m, 2H), 1.38 - 1.30 (m, 1H).
   Intermediate B-7: (IS,4R,6R)-2-benzyl-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-6-ol
          N
   OH     Bn
           Intermediate B-7 was prepared from intermediate B-6 according to the procedure of F.
20 Carroll et al. [J. Med. Chem. 1992, 35, 2184-2191]. MS (ESI) mass calcd for C13H17NO, 203.1; m/z
   found 204.1 [M+H]*.1 H NMR (500 MHz, Chloroform-d) 6 7.37 - 7.22 (m, 5H), 4.56 (s, 1H), 4.05
   3.94 (m, 1H), 3.80 (d, J= 13.0 Hz, 1H), 3.62 (d, J= 12.9 Hz, 1H), 3.20 - 3.11 (m, 1H), 2.77 (d, J=
   9.2 Hz, 1H), 2.45 - 2.34 (m, 2H), 1.88 - 1.79 (m, 1H), 1.76 - 1.64 (m, 1H), 1.30 (d, J= 10.4 Hz,
   1H), 0.99 (dt, J= 13.3, 2.9 Hz, 1H).
25
   Intermediate B-5: (1 S,4R,6R)-tert-butyl 6-hydroxy-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptane-2-carboxylate
    4
          N
    OH    Boc
                                                 -63-

            To a solution of intermediate B-7 (3.41 g, 16.8 mmol) in EtOH (168 mL) was added Boc20
   (5.49 g, 25.2 mmol) and 20 wt% Pd(OH)2/C (2.36 g, 3.36 mmol). The reaction mixture was stirred
   under an atmosphere of H2 (balloon) at room temperature overnight. Then, the reaction mixture was
   filtered through a pad of Celite and washed with EtOAc. The filtrate was concentrated to a clear oil,
 5 which was further purified by silica gel chromatography (10-60% EtOAc in hexanes), to give
   intermediate B-5 as a white solid (3.1 g, 1.5 mmol, 87%).    [U]D 2 0 -11.2 (c 0.0065, MeOH). MS (ESI)
   mass calcd. for C1iH19NO3, 213.1; m/z found 158.1 [M+2H-tBu]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers) 6 4.39 - 4.12 (in, 2H), 3.35 (br. s, 1H),
   3.08 (dd, J= 9.4, 1.4 Hz, 1H), 2.56 - 1.39 (in, 14H), 1.15 - 0.99 (in, 1H).
 0
   Racemic Route (2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-6-ol):
   Intermediate B-8: (R/S)-tert-butyl 6-hydroxy-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1 ]heptane-2-carboxylate
           N
    OH     Boc
            Intermediate B-8 was prepared from commercially available (R/S)-tert-butyl 6-oxo-2
 5 azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane-2-carboxylate following the procedure of R. Nencka et. al.
   [Tetrahedron2012,68, 1286-1298]. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C11H19NO3, 213.1; mlz found 158.1
   [M+2H-tBu]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz, Chloroform-d) 6 4.39 - 4.08 (in, 2H), 3.36 (br.s, 1H), 3.10 (dd, J
   =  9.6, 1.4 Hz, 1H), 2.56-1.41 (in, 14H), 1.17 - 1.01 (in, 1H).
20 Enantiopure Route (2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-6-amine):
   Intermediate B-9: (1 S,4R)-tert-butyl 6-(hydroxyimino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptane-2-carboxylate
    HO-N           oc
            To a flask containing Intermediate B-4 (1.0 g, 4.7 mmol) dissolved in EtOH (20 mL) was
   added NEt3 (2.0 ml, 14.4 mmol), and hydroxylamine hydrochloride (789 mg, 2.40 mmol) and the
25 reaction mixture was brought to reflux. Upon completion, the reaction mixture was concentrated,
   diluted with H20, and the aqueous layer extracted with EtOAc (3X). The combined organics were
                                                 - 64 -

   then washed with H20, brine, dried with MgSO4, filtered, and concentrated to provide intermediate
   B-9 as an off-white solid (1.018 g) which was used without further purification. MS (ESI) mass
   calcd. for C11Hi8N203, 226.1; m/z found 171.1 [M+2H-tBu]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz, Chloroform-d) 6
   7.71 and 7.41 (2s, 1H), 4.62 and 4.48 (2s, 1H), 3.40 - 3.33 (m, 1H), 3.15 - 2.96 (m, 1H), 2.79 - 2.70
 5 (m, 1H), 2.54 - 2.43 (m, 1H), 2.29-2.19 (m, 1H), 1.87 - 1.64 (m, 1H), 1.61 - 1.53 (m, 1H), 1.45 (s,
   9H).
   Intermediate B- 10: (1 S,4S,6R)-tert-butyl 6-amino-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptane-2-carboxylate
        4N
    NH2 Boc
 0          A mixture of NiCl2 (1.15 g, 8.84 mmol) and intermediate B-9 (1.0 g, 4.4 mmol) in MeOH
   (30 mL) was cooled to -35 'C and NaBH4 (3.34 g, 88.4 mmol) was added portion wise to the
   reaction mixture over 30 min. Upon complete addition of NaBH4, the reaction mixture was stirred
   for an additional 25 min and then warmed to room temperature. After 30 min at room temperature
   the reaction mixture was quenched with H20 and concentrated under reduced pressure to a dark
 5 brown residue, which was re-dissolved in a mixture of DCM and 15% aqueous NaOH solution, and
   the aqueous layer extracted with DCM (3X). The combined organics were dried with MgSO4,
   filtered, and concentrated to provide intermediate B- 10 (209 mg). 5 N NH40H solution was then
   added to the aqueous layer along with DCM, NaCl, and Celite and after several minutes of stirring
   the mixture was filtered to remove solids. The filtrate was then transferred to a separatory funnel,
20 the layers separated, and the aqueous layer extracted with DCM (2X). The combined organics were
   dried with MgSO4, filtered, and concentrated to provide additional intermediate B-10 (582 mg)
   which was combined with the above fraction to provide intermediate B-10 (791 mg) as a brown oil
   which was used without further purification. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C11H2aN202, 212.2; m/z
   found 213.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz, Chloroform-d) 6 4.13 - 3.92 (m, 1H), 3.41 - 3.27 (m,
25 2H), 2.99 (dd, J= 24.3, 9.6 Hz, 1H), 2.51 - 2.39 (m, 1H), 2.16 - 2.05 (m, 1H), 1.68 - 1.57 (m, 1H),
   1.47 (s, 10H), 1.22 - 1.07 (m, 2H), 0.85 - 0.74 (m, 1H).
   Route A (2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-6-ol and 2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-6-amine):
                                                - 65 -

   Intermediate C-1: (R/S)-2-benzyl-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]oct-5-ene
         Bn
            Intermediate C-I was prepared according to the procedure of S. Larsen et al. [J. Am. Chem.
   Soc. 1985, 107, 1768-1769]. To a solution of phenylmethanamine (3.92 g, 27.3 mmol) in H20 (5
 5 mL) was added aqueous formaldehyde (2.03 mL, 27.3 mmol, 37 wt. % in H20). After 2 minutes,
   1,3-cyclohexadiene (2 mL, 21 mmol) was added and the reaction mixture was heated to 55 'C for 4
   days. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and diluted with H20 and extracted
   with Et2O (2X). The organic layer was discarded and the aqueous layer was basified with solid
   KOH and further extracted with Et2O (2X). The organic layer was washed with brine, dried with
 0 MgSO4, filtered, and concentrated. The concentrate was further purified by silica gel
   chromatography (100% DCM to 100% MeOH (with 10% 2 M NH3) in DCM) to give intermediate
   C-I as a brown oil, which contained minor impurities. Intermediate C-I was used without further
   purification. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C14H17N, 199.1; m/z found 200.1 [M+H]*.
 5 Intermediate C-2: (R/S)-2-benzyl-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-6-ol
    HOaN
               Bn
            Intermediate C-2 was synthesized according to the procedure of F. Carroll et al. [J. Med.
   Chem.1992, 35, 2184-219 1] on a similar substrate. A 1 M solution of BH3-THF (1 M BH3-THF in
   THF, 1.11 L, 1.11 mol) was added dropwise via addition funnel to a stirred solution of intermediate
20 C-i (37 g, 186 mmol) in THF (250 mL) at 0 'C. Upon complete addition of BH3-THF, the reaction
   mixture was stirred at 0 'C for 3 h. Then, excess BH3 was quenched with a solution of THF-H20. A
   4 M NaOH (100 mL) solution was added followed by the dropwise addition of H202 (30% w/w in
   H20,   100 mL), and the reaction mixture was warmed to 40 'C and stirred overnight. The biphasic
   mixture was then cooled to room temperature and K2C03 added portionwise. The resulting mixture
25 was concentrated under reduced pressure to remove THF. Solid NaCl was added to the remaining
   aqueous layer and the crude mixture extracted with EtOAc (3X). The combined organics were then
   washed with brine, dried with Na2SO4, filtered, and concentrated to give a yellow-orange oil, which
   was further purified by silica gel chromatography (0-100% EtOAc in hexanes followed by10%
                                                - 66 -

   MeOH (with 10% 2 M NH3) in DCM) to give intermediate C-2 as a yellow oil (20.7 g, 95.3 mmol,
   510%), which contained minor impurities. Intermediate C-2 was used without further purification.
   MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C14H19NO, 217.2; m/z found 218.2 [M+H]*.
 5 Intermediate C-3: (R/S)-tert-Butyl 6-hydroxy-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octane-2-carboxylate
    HO
               Boc
            To a solution of intermediate C-2 (20.7 g, 95.3 mmol) in EtOH (477 mL) was added Boc20
   (27.1 g, 124 mmol) and 10 wt% Pd/C wet Degussa (5 g, 4.77 mmol). The reaction mixture was
   stirred under an atmosphere of H2 (balloon) at room temperature for 48 h. Analysis of the crude
 0 reaction mixture showed that the majority of the mixture was the deprotected amine, 2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-6-ol. An additional equivalent of Boc20 (27.1 g, 124 mmol) was added, and
   the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. Then, the reaction mixture was
   filtered through a pad of Celite and washed with EtOAc. The filtrate was concentrated to a yellow
   oil to give intermediate C-3, which was used without further purification. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for
 5 C12H21NO3, 227.2; m/z found 172.2 [M+2H-tBu]*.
   Intermediate C-4A: (R/S)-tert-Butyl 6-oxo-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octane-2-carboxylate
    o 04N    Boc
            To a solution of intermediate C-3 (21.6 g, 95.0 mmol) in EtOAc (380 mL) was added IBX
20 (31.9 g, 114 mmol), and the heterogeneous reaction mixture was stirred at 80 'C overnight. Upon
   completion, the reaction mixture was then filtered through Celite, washed with EtOAc and
   concentrated. The crude reaction mixture was re-dissolved in EtOAc and washed once with a 5%
   aqueous Na2CO3 solution. The aqueous layer was further extracted with EtOAc (2X) and the
   combined organics were washed with brine, dried with Na2SO4, filtered, and concentrated to a
25 brown residue. The concentrate was further purified by silica gel chromatography (0-35% EtOAc in
   hexanes), to give intermediate C-4A as a yellow solid. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C12H19NO3, 225.1;
   m/z found 170.1 [M+2H-tBu]*. Analytical HPLC using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x
                                                - 67 -

   4.6mm), mobile phase of 10-l100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 2min and then hold at 100% ACN
   for 2 min, at a flow rate of 2.5 mL/min (Temperature   = 45 C). Rt =  1.91 min at 280 nm.
   Intermediate C-4B: (lS,4R)-tert-butyl 6-oxo-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octane-2-carboxylate
             N
 5  O'       Boc
           The title compound was obtained as a single enantiomer by Chiral SFC purification of
   Intermediate C-4A performed using a Chiralpak IC column (5pm, 250 x 20 mm), mobile phase of
   20% iPrOH: 80% C02, and a flow rate of 80 mL/min (Temperature         = 35 C). Elution was
   monitored following absorbance at 250nm. The enantiomeric purity was confirmed by analytical
 0 SFC using a Chiralpak IC column (5pm, 150 x 4.6 mm), mobile phase of 20% iPrOH+(0.3%
   iPrNH2): 80% C02, and a flow rate of 3 mL/min over 7 minutes (Temperature        = 35'C). Elution was
   monitored following absorbance at 250nm. Enantiopurity 100%, which elutes at one peak (1.56 min
   retention time). MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C12H19NO3, 225.1; m/z found 170.1 [M+2H-tBu]*. 1H
   NMR (500 MHz, Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers) 6 4.42 - 4.15 (m, 1H),
 5 3.62 - 3.34 (m, 2H), 2.49 - 2.32 (m, 3H), 2.21 - 2.06 (m, 1H), 1.97 - 1.85 (m, 1H), 1.79 - 1.68 (m,
   1H), 1.66 - 1.56 (m, 1H), 1.45 (s, 9H).
   Intermediate C-4C: (1R,4S)-tert-butyl 6-oxo-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octane-2-carboxylate
     N
     Boc     0
20         The title compound was obtained as a single enantiomer by Chiral SFC purification of
   Intermediate C-4A performed using using a Chiralpak IC column (5pm, 250 x 20 mm), mobile
   phase of 20% iPrOH: 80% C02, and a flow rate of 80 mL/min (Temperature         = 35 C). Elution was
   monitored following absorbance at 250nm. The enantiomeric purity was confirmed by analytical
   SFC using a Chiralpak IC column (5pm, 150 x 4.6 mm), mobile phase of 20% iPrOH+(0.3%
25 iPrNH2): 80% C02, and a flow rate of 3 mL/min over 7 minutes (Temperature        = 35'C). Elution was
   monitored following absorbance at 250nm. Enantiopurity 100%, which elutes at one peak (2.18 min
   retention time). MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C12H19NO3, 225.1; m/z found 170.1 [M+2H-tBu]*. 1H
                                                - 68 -

   NMR (500 MHz, Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers) 6 4.41 - 4.13 (m, 1H),
   3.57 - 3.31 (m, 2H), 2.46 - 2.31 (m, 3H), 2.22 - 2.08 (m, 1H), 1.96 - 1.86 (m, 1H), 1.83 - 1.68 (m,
   1H), 1.67 - 1.56 (m, 1H), 1.45 (s, 9H).
 5 Intermediate C-5A: (R/S)-tert-Butyl 6-hydroxy-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octane-2-carboxylate
          N
   OH     Boc
           A 1 M solution of L-Selectride (1 M in THF, 1.7 mL, 1.7 mmol) was added to a solution of
   intermediate C-4A (150 mg, 0.666 mmol) in dry THF (3 mL) at -78 'C, and the reaction mixture
   was stirred at that temperature for 3 h. Then, the reaction mixture was warmed to 0 'C and a 3 M
 0 NaOH (0.71 mL) solution was added followed by a solution of H202 (30% w/w in H20, 0.37 mL).
   The resulting mixture was warmed to room temperature and stirred for 2 h. The biphasic mixture
   was then concentrated in vacuo to remove THF and the aqueous layer extracted with DCM (3X).
   The combined organics were washed with brine, dried with Na2SO4, filtered, and concentrated to an
   oil, which was further purified by silica gel chromatography (10-100% EtOAc in hexanes), to give
 5 intermediate C-5A as a white solid (114 mg, 0.502 mmol, 75%). MS (ESI) mass calcd. for
   C12H21NO3, 227.2; m/z found 172.2 [M+2H-tBu]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz, Methanol-d4) 6 3.97 - 3.86
   (m, 2H), 3.38 - 3.20 (m, 2H), 2.09 - 2.00 (m, 1H), 1.96 - 1.87 (m, 1H), 1.87 - 1.79 (m, 1H), 1.62
   1.48 (m, 3H), 1.46 (d, J= 4.9 Hz, 9H), 1.43 - 1.37 (m, 1H).
20 Intermediate C-5B: (1S,4R,6R)-tert-butyl 6-hydroxy-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octane-2-carboxylate
          N
   OH     Boc
           Intermediate C-5B was prepared analogous to Intermediate C-5A substituting racemic
   Intermediate C-4A for enantiopure Intermediate C-4B. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C12H21NO3, 227.2;
   m/z found 172.1 [M+2H-tBu]*.
25
                                                 - 69 -

   Intermediate C-6A: (R/S)-tert-butyl 6-(hydroxyimino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octane-2-carboxylate
    HON            Boc
             To a flask containing Intermediate C-4A (324 mg, 1.44 mmol) dissolved in EtOH (5 mL)
   was added NEt3 (1 ml, 7.2 mmol), and hydroxylamine hydrochloride (300 mg, 4.32 mmol) and the
 5 reaction mixture was heated to 70 'C overnight. Upon completion, the reaction mixture was cooled
   to room temperature, concentrated, diluted with H20, and the aqueous layer extracted with EtOAc
   (3X). The combined organics were then dried with MgSO4, filtered, and concentrated to provide
   intermediate C-6A as a light purple solid (351 mg) which was used without further purification. MS
   (ESI) mass calcd. for C12H2oN203, 240.2; m/z found 184.1 [M+2H-tBu]*.
 0
   Intermediate C-6B: (lS,4R)-tert-butyl 6-(hydroxyimino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octane-2-carboxylate
    HON            Boc
             Intermediate C-6B was prepared analogous to Intermediate C-6A substituting racemic
   Intermediate C-4A for enantiopure Intermediate C-4B. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C12H2oN203,
 5 240.2; m/z found 241.2 [M+H]*.
   Intermediate C-7A: (R/S)-tert-butyl 6-amino-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octane-2-carboxylate
        4N
    NH2 Boc
             A mixture of NiCl2 (373 mg, 2.88 mmol) and intermediate C-6A (346 mg) in MeOH (12
20 mL) was cooled to -35 'C and NaBH4 (1.09 g, 28.8 mmol) was added portion wise to the reaction
   mixture. Upon complete addition of NaBH4, the reaction mixture was warmed to room temperature.
   After 2 h at room temperature the reaction mixture was quenched with H20. Celite was added and
   the crude reaction mixture was stirred for 30 min. The crude reaction mixture was filtered and the
   filtrate concentrated under reduced pressure to a dark brown residue, which was re-dissolved in a
25 mixture of DCM and 15% aqueous NaOH solution. The aqueous layer was extracted with DCM
                                                 - 70 -

   (3X). The combined organics were filtered through Celite, dried with MgSO4, filtered, and
   concentrated to provide intermediate C-7A (308 mg) as a brown oil which was used without further
   purification. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C12H22N202, 226.2; m/z found 227.2 [M+H]*.
 5 Intermediate C-7B: (1S,4R,6R)-tert-butyl 6-amino-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octane-2-carboxylate
       4N
    NH2 Boc
           Intermediate C-7B was prepared analogous to Intermediate C-7A substituting racemic
   Intermediate C-6A for enantiopure Intermediate C-6B. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C12H22N202,
   226.2; m/z found 227.2 [M+H]*.
 0
   Alternative routes (2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-6-ol):
   Intermediate C-8: (R/S)-2-((R)-1-phenylethyl)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]oct-5-ene
      ZIN
           Intermediate C-8 was prepared according to the procedure of C. Chiu et al. [Synthetic
 5 Communications 1996, 26, 577-584] on a similar substrate. To a solution of H20 (5.4 mL) and 12
   M HCl (5 mL) was added (+)-a-methyl-benzylamine (6.95 mL, 54.6 mmol), and the reaction
   mixture was stirred at room temperature for 5 minutes. Then, aqueous formaldehyde (4.06 mL, 54.6
   mmol, 37 wt. % in H20) and 1,3-cyclohexadiene (4 mL, 42 mmol) were added and the reaction
   mixture heated to 55 'C for 4 days. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and
20 diluted with H20 and the crude reaction mixture extracted with Et2O (2X). The aqueous phase was
   basified with KOH, extracted with Et20 (2X), saturated with solid NaCl, and extracted once more
   with Et2O. The combined organics were dried with Na2SO4, filtered, and concentrated to give an
   orange oil, which was further purified by silica gel chromatography (0-10% MeOH (with 10% 2 M
   NH3) in DCM) to give intermediate C-8 as a yellow-orange oil (ca. 3:1 dr). Intermediate C-8 was
25 carried forward as a mixture of diastereoisomers. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C15H19N, 213.2; m/z
   found 214.2 [M+H]*.
                                                - 71 -

   Intermediate C-9: (R/S)-2-((R)-1-phenylethyl)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-6-ol
    HO
           Intermediate C-9 was synthesized according to the procedure of F. Carroll et al. [J. Med.
 5 Chem.1992, 35, 2184-219 1] on a similar substrate. A 1 M solution of BH3-THF (1 M BH3-THF in
   THF, 68 mL, 68 mmol) was added dropwise via addition funnel to a stirred solution of intermediate
   C-8 (2.88 g, 13.5 mmol) in THF (42 mL) at 0 'C. Upon complete addition of BH3-THF, the reaction
   mixture was stirred at 0 'C for 2 h. Then, excess BH3 was quenched with a solution of THF-H20. A
   4 M NaOH (8 mL) solution was added followed by the dropwise addition of H202 (30% w/w in
 0 H20, 8 mL), and the reaction mixture was warmed to 40 'C and stirred for 2 h. The biphasic
   mixture was then cooled to room temperature and K2C03 added in one portion. The resulting
   mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure to remove THF and re-dissolved in DCM. The
   crude reaction mixture was washed with H20 and the aqueous phase extracted with DCM (3X). The
   combined organics were then washed with brine, dried with Na2SO4, filtered, and concentrated and
 5 the concentrate was further purified by silica gel chromatography (0-10% MeOH (with 10% 2 M
   NH3) in DCM) to give intermediate C-9 as an orange-brown foam (1.35 g, 5.84 mmol, 43%). MS
   (ESI) mass calcd. for C15H21NO, 231.2; m/z found 232.2 [M+H]*.
   Intermediate C-10: (R/S)-tert-butyl 6-hydroxy-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octane-2-carboxylate
    HO        N
20            Boc
           Intermediate C- 10 was prepared analogous to Intermediate C-3 substituting racemic
   Intermediate C-2 for schlemic Intermediate C-9. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C12H21NO3, 227.2; mlz
   found 172.2 [M+2H-tBu]*. Intermediate C- 10 can be carried forward to Intermediate C-4A, which
   can be obtained as a single enantiomer (Intermediate C-4B or C-4C) by Chiral SFC purification as
25 described above.
                                                - 72 -

   Intermediate C-11: (R/S)-2-benzyl-6-hydroxy-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-3 -one
    HO
           aN
               Bn
            Intermediate C-Il was synthesized according to the procedure in US3674793.A mixture of
   7-oxabicyclo[4. 1.0]heptane-3-carboxylic acid methyl ester (268.0 g, 1.72 mol) and benzylamine
 5 (170.0 g, 1.58 mol) in ethanol (1.3 L) was heated to reflux for 20 h and the reaction mixture was
   evaporated. The oily residue was stirred at 200 'C for 2 h to distill off low-boiling byproducts. The
   resulting oil was cooled to room temperature, diluted with a solution of sodium hydroxide (51.0 g,
   1.27 mol) in methanol (1.0 L) and heated to reflux for 10 min. The reaction mixture was cooled to
   room temperature and diluted with a mixture of brine (1.5 L) and water (750 mL). The aqueous
 0 layer was extracted with dichloromethane (3X) and the combined organic layers were dried with
   MgSO4, filtered, and concentrated. The oily residue was triturated with diisopropyl ether (400 mL)
   to give intermediate C-11 (190.0 g, 0.82 mol, 48%) as a white solid.MS (ESI) mass calcd. for
   C14H17NO2, 231.1; m/z found 232.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (300 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 7.43 - 7.12 (m,
   5H), 4.99 (d, J= 3.3 Hz, IH), 4.48 (d,J= 14.7 Hz, IH), 4.39 (d,J= 14.7 Hz, IH), 3.76 - 3.61 (m,
 5 IH), 3.31 - 3.23 (m, IH), 2.38 - 2.24 (m, IH), 2.15 - 1.91 (m, 2H), 1.79 - 1.51 (m, 2H), 1.45 - 1.16
   (m, 2H).
   Intermediate C-2: 2-benzyl-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-6-ol
    HO         N
               Bn
20          To a suspension of lithium aluminum hydride (54.4 g, 1.43 mol) in THF (180 mL) under
   argon at 0 'C was added a solution of intermediate C-11 (170.0 g, 716.4 mmol) dropwise as a
   solution in THF (720 mL). The reaction mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature, then
   carefully heated to 60 'C and stirred for 2 h. The resulting suspension was cooled to 0 'C and
   diluted with diethyl ether (540 mL). To this suspension was added sodium sulfate decahydrate (450
25 g) in small portions. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 h. The suspension was
   filtered and the filtrate evaporated. The residue was triturated with hexane (100 mL) to give
   intermediate C-2 (130.2 g, 0.60 mol, 84%) as a white solid. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C14H19NO,
   217.2; m/z found 218.3 [M+H]*.1 H NMR (300 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 7.41 - 7.25 (m, 4H), 7.25 - 7.10
                                                - 73 -

   (m, 1H), 4.50 (d, J= 3.6 Hz, 1H), 3.97 - 3.86 (m, 1H), 3.71 (d, J = 14.7 Hz, 1H), 3.66 (d, J = 14.4
   Hz, 1H), 2.61 (d, J= 9.3 Hz, 1H), 2.48 - 2.32 (m, 2H), 1.94 (t, J = 11.1 Hz, 1H), 1.82 - 1.66 (m,
   2H), 1.66 - 1.56 (m, 1H), 1.52 - 1.37 (m, 2H), 1.32 - 1.15 (m, 1H). Intermediate C-2 can be carried
   forward to Intermediate C-4A, which can be obtained as a single enantiomer (Intermediate C-4B or
 5 C-4C) by Chiral SFC purification as described above.
   Example 1: (R/S)-(2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)(6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                        N
            N    O
    F3C     N           N-N
                          / N
 0         Step A: (R/S)-tert-butyl 6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane-2-carboxylate. To intermediate B-8 (100 mg, 0.469 mmol) dissolved in
   DMF (3 mL) was added NaH (28 mg, 0.70 mmol, 60% dispersion in mineral oil). After 5 minutes
   2-chloro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazine (0.087 mL, 0.70 mmol) was then added and the mixture
   heated to 90 'C. After heating at 90 'C for 3.5 h, the mixture was cooled to room temperature,
 5 quenched with saturated NH4Cl solution, and diluted with EtOAc and H20. The aqueous layer was
   extracted with EtOAc (3X). The combined organics were washed with H20, brine, dried with
   MgSO4, filtered and concentrated. Purification via silica gel chromatography (0-20% EtOAc in
   hexanes) gave the title compound (151 mg, 0.420 mmol, 90%). MS (ESI) mass calcd. for
   C16H2oF3N303, 359.1; m/z found 304.1 [M+2H-tBu]* 1H NMR (400 MHz, Chloroform-d.
20 compound present as a mixture of rotamers) 6 8.46 - 8.41 (m, 1H), 8.27 - 8.24 and 8.16 - 8.12 (2m,
   1H), 5.45 - 5.30 (m, 1H), 4.63 - 4.48 (m, 1H), 3.48 - 3.33 (m, 1H), 3.28 - 3.13 (m, 1H), 2.67 - 2.54
   (m, 1H), 2.32 - 2.19 (m, 1H), 1.85 - 1.04 (m, 12H).
           Step B: (R/S)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptane - xHCl.
   To the title compound of step A (151 mg, 0.42 mmol) in EtOAc (1 mL) was added 4 M HCl in
25 dioxane (6 mL). After 3.25 h, the reaction was concentrated to give the title compound of step B
   which was used without further purification. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for CI H12F3N30, 259.1; m/z
   found 260.1 [M+H]*.
                                                 - 74 -

           Step C: (R/S)-(2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)(6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone. To the title compound of step B (43 mg) and intermediate
   A-1 (24 mg, 0.13 mmol) in DMF (1.5 mL) was added DIPEA (0.4 mL, 2.32 mmol) and HIATU (48
   mg, 0.13 mmol). Upon completion of the reaction, purification was performed using Agilent Prep
 5 Method X to give the title compound (9 mg). MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C2oH17F3N602, 430.1; m/z
   found 431.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz, Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of
   rotamers (0.80:0.20), major rotamer reported) 6 8.25 (s, 1H), 8.02 - 7.98 (m, 1H), 7.87 - 7.79 (m,
   3H), 7.32 (ddd, J= 8.2, 7.4, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 7.04 (dd, J= 7.7, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 6.81 (t, J= 7.5 Hz, 1H),
   4.97 (dt, J= 10.2, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.03 - 3.96 (m, 1H), 3.62 (dt, J= 11.0, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.44 (dd, J=
 0 10.9, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 2.68 - 2.63 (m, 1H), 2.27 - 2.18 (m, 1H), 1.48 (dt, J= 13.6, 3.6 Hz, 1H), 1.40 (d,
   J= 10.6 Hz, 1H), 1.33 - 1.25 (m, 1H).
   Example 2: (R/S)-(6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)(6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
   2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                        NN
            N   O
    F3C     N           N-N
 5                          N
           Prepared analogous to Example 1 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-20.
   MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C2oHi8F3N702, 445.1; m/z found 446.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.78:0.22), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.30 - 8.27 (m, 1H), 8.05 - 8.00 (m, 2H), 7.83 (s, 2H), 7.11 - 7.07 (m, 1H), 5.01 (dt, J= 10.2, 3.2
20 Hz, 1H), 4.27 - 4.23 (m, 1H), 3.70 (dt, J= 11.0, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.49 (dd, J= 11.0, 1.4 Hz, 1H), 2.72
   2.67 (m, 1H), 2.30-2.21 (m, 4H), 1.60 - 1.48 (m, 3H).
   Example 3: (R/S)-(3-ethoxyisoquinolin-4-yl)((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                                                - 75 -

                            0
                       N         N
            N      0
    F3C     N
           Prepared analogous to Example 1 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-21.
   MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C23H21F3N403, 458.2; m/z found 459.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, major rotamer reported) 6 8.72 (d, J=
 5 0.8 Hz, 1H), 7.77 - 7.72 (m, 1H), 7.71 - 7.68 (m, 1H), 7.64 - 7.58 (m, 2H), 7.52 - 7.47 (m, 1H), 7.30
   (ddd, J= 8.1, 6.8, 1.1 Hz, 1H), 4.87 (dt, J= 10.2, 3.4 Hz, 1H), 4.68 - 4.39 (m, 3H), 3.87 (dt, J=
   11.1, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.56 (dd, J= 11.1, 1.6 Hz, 1H), 2.83 - 2.77 (m, 1H), 2.35 - 2.26 (m, 1H), 2.01
   1.95 (m, 1H), 1.84 - 1.75 (m, 1H), 1.56 - 1.38 (m, 4H).
 0 Example 4: (R/S)-5-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)(6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone
            N   O
    F3C     N           N-N
                            N
           Prepared analogous to Example 1 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-19.
   MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C2oHi8F3N702, 445.1; m/z found 446.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
15 Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.88:0.12), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.34 (d, J= 1.3 Hz, 1H), 8.00 - 7.95 (m, 2H), 7.84 - 7.80 (m, 2H), 7.62 - 7.59 (m, 1H), 5.10 (dt, J=
   10.3, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 4.27 - 4.24 (m, 1H), 3.71 (dt, J= 11.0, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.49 (dd, J= 11.0, 1.5 Hz,
   1H), 2.76 - 2.70 (m, 1H), 2.34 - 2.22 (m, 4H), 1.71 - 1.54 (m, 3H).
                                                - 76 -

   Example 5: (R/S)-(5-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-methylthiazol-4-yl)(6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                             F
                        N
            N    O                S
                       0ON
    F3C
           Step A: (R/S)-tert-butyl 6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
 5 azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane-2-carboxylate. To intermediate B-8 (200 mg, 0.94 mmol) dissolved in
   DMF (5 mL) was added NaH (56 mg, 1.41 mmol, 60% dispersion in mineral oil). After 5 minutes
   2-chloro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridine (340 mg, 1.87 mmol) was then added and the mixture heated
   to 80 'C. After heating at 80 'C for 5.75 h, the mixture was cooled to room temperature, quenched
   with saturated NH4Cl solution, diluted with H20, and the aqueous layer extracted with EtOAc (3X).
 0 The combined organics were washed with H20, brine, dried with MgSO4, filtered and concentrated.
   Purification via silica gel chromatography (0-30% EtOAc in hexanes) gave the title compound (300
   mg, 0.84 mmol, 89%). MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C17H21F3N203, 358.2; m/z found 359.2
   [M+H]*.1 H NMR (400 MHz, Chloroform-d) 6 8.47 - 8.37 (m, 1H), 7.84 - 7.69 (m, 1H), 6.87 - 6.68
   (m, 1H), 5.45 - 5.29 (m, 1H), 4.63 - 4.52 (m, 1H), 3.47 - 3.34 (m, 1H), 3.26 - 3.11 (m, 1H), 2.66
 5 2.52 (m, 1H), 2.31 - 2.16 (m, 1H), 1.80 - 1.09 (series of m, 12H).
           Step B: (R/S)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane - xHCl.
   To the title compound of step A (300 mg, 0.84 mmol) in EtOAc (1 mL) was added 4 M HCl in
   dioxane (5 mL). After 7 h, the reaction was concentrated to give the title compound of step B (243
   mg) which was used without further purification. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C12H13F3N20, 258.1;
20 m/z found 259.1 [M+H]*.
           Step C: (R/S)-(5-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-methylthiazol-4-yl)(6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone. To the title compound of step B (30 mg) and
   intermediate A-14 (24 mg, 0.10 mmol) in DMF (1 mL) was added DIPEA (0.1 mL, 0.58 mmol) and
   HATU (38 mg, 0.10 mmol). Upon completion, the reaction was diluted with H20 and the aqueous
25 layer extracted with EtOAc (3X). The combined organics were washed with H20, brine, dried with
   MgSO4, filtered, and concentrated. Purification of the concentrate was performed using Agilent
   Prep Method X to give the title compound (40.3 mg). MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C23H19F4N302S,
                                                 - 77 -

   477.1 m/z found 478.1 [M+H]+. 1H NMR (400 MHz, Chloroform-d, Compound present as a
   mixture of rotamers (0.85:0.15), major rotamer reported) 6 8.19 - 8.14 (m, 1H), 7.63 - 7.57 (m, 1H),
   7.49 - 7.41 (m, 2H), 7.12 - 7.01 (m, 2H), 6.61 - 6.54 (m, 1H), 5.03 (dt, J= 10.3, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 4.64
   4.58 (m, 1H), 3.56 - 3.51 (m, 2H), 2.66 - 2.58 (m, 1H), 2.44 (s, 3H), 2.26 - 2.15 (m, 1H), 1.53 (d, J=
 5 10.8 Hz, 1H), 1.45 - 1.35 (m, 2H).
   Example 6: (R/S)-(6-methylimidazo[2,1-b]thiazol-5-yl)(6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                        N
            N   O                N
    F3C
 0         Prepared analogous to Example 5 substituting intermediate A- 14 with intermediate A- 17.
   MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C19H17F3N402S, 422.1; m/z found 423.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   Chloroform-d) 6 8.08 (br.s, 1H), 7.54 - 7.37 (m, 2H), 6.68 (d, J= 4.5 Hz, 1H), 6.53 - 6.41 (m, 1H),
   5.22 - 5.08 (m, 1H), 4.98 - 4.85 (m, 1H), 3.87 - 3.65 (m, 1H), 3.57 - 3.46 (m, 1H), 2.77 - 2.71 (m,
   1H), 2.39 (s, 3H), 2.36 - 2.24 (m, 1H), 2.04 - 1.95 (m, 1H), 1.85 (d, J= 10.5 Hz, 1H), 1.49 (dt, J
 5 13.6, 3.5 Hz, 1H).
   Example 7: (R/S)-(2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)(6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                     4N
            N   O
    F3C                 N-N
20         Prepared analogous to Example 5 usingintermediate A-1. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for
   C21Hi8F3N502, 429.2; m/z found 430.1 [M+H]*. H NMR (400 MHz, Chloroform-d, Compound
   present as a mixture of rotamers, major rotamer reported) 6 8.02 - 7.99 (m, 1H), 7.87 - 7.74 (m, 4H),
   7.35 - 7.29 (m, 1H), 7.03 (dd, J= 7.7, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 6.84 - 6.78 (m, 2H), 5.00 (dt, J= 10.1, 3.3 Hz,
                                                - 78 -

   1H), 4.07 - 4.03 (m, 1H), 3.61 (dt, J= 11.0, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.40 (dd, J= 10.9, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 2.65 - 2.60
   (m, 1H), 2.25 - 2.16 (m, 1H), 1.45 - 1.37 (m, 2H), 1.33 - 1.25 (m, 1H).
   Example 8: (R/S)-(3-ethoxyisoquinolin-4-yl)(6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
 5 azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                            0
                       N      -N
            N   O
    F3C
           Prepared analogous to Example 5 usingintermediate A-21 and additional purification using
   Shimadzu Prep Method X. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C24H22F3N303, 457.2; m/z found 458.2
   [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz, Chloroform-d) 6 8.71 (s, 1H), 7.81 - 7.76 (m, 1H), 7.71 - 7.68 (m,
 0 1H), 7.61 (d, J= 8.2 Hz, 1H), 7.46 (ddd, J= 8.4, 6.8, 1.3 Hz, 1H), 7.29 - 7.23 (buried m, 1H), 7.10
   (dd, J= 8.7, 2.5 Hz, 1H), 6.11 (d, J = 8.6 Hz, 1H), 4.91 (dt, J = 10.3, 3.4 Hz, 1H), 4.68 - 4.66 (m,
   1H), 4.65 - 4.58 (m, 1H), 4.49 - 4.40 (m, 1H), 3.86 (dt, J = 11.2, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.58 (dd, J = 11.1, 1.7
   Hz, 1H), 2.84 - 2.76 (m, 1H), 2.36 - 2.24 (m, 1H), 1.99 - 1.94 (m, 1H), 1.80 (d, J= 10.4 Hz, 1H),
   1.50 (dt, J= 13.7, 3.8 Hz, 1H), 1.44 (t, J= 7.1 Hz, 3H).
 5
   Example 9: (R/S)-(5-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)(6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone
            N   O
    F3 C     /'         N-N
           Prepared analogous to Example 5 usingintermediate A-19. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for
20 C21H19F3N602, 444.2; m/z found 445.2 [M+H]*. 'H NMR (400 MHz, Chloroform-d, Compound
   present as a mixture of rotamers (0.93:0.07), major rotamer reported) 6 7.98 - 7.95 (m, 1H), 7.95
   7.92 (m, 1H), 7.82 (s, 2H), 7.71 (dd, J= 8.8, 2.6 Hz, 1H), 7.67 - 7.64 (m, 1H), 6.88 - 6.83 (m, 1H),
                                                - 79 -

   5.02 (dt, J= 10.2, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 4.28 - 4.21 (m, 1H), 3.68 (dt, J= 10.9, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.45 (dd, J=
   11.0, 1.2 Hz, 1H), 2.71 - 2.64 (m, 1H), 2.28 (s, 3H), 2.28 - 2.17 (m, 1H), 1.59 - 1.46 (m, 3H).
   Example 10: (R/S)-(7-ethoxyquinolin-8-yl)(6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
 5 azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                        N
            N   O
    F3 C                   N
           Prepared analogous to Example 5 usingintermediate A-25. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for
   C24H22F3N303, 457.2; m/z found 458.2 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was obtained on a Agilent 1100
   Series using a XBridge C18 column (5um, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase of 10-100% ACN in 20
 0 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow rate of 1 mL/min
   (Temperature = 30 'C). Rt = 6.49 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
   Example 11: (R/S)-(3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)(6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                       N
            NO0
    F3 C                N-        F
15                     L     N
           Prepared analogous to Example 5 usingintermediate A-2. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for
   C23H18F4N402,    458.1; m/z found 459.2 [M+H]*. 'H NMR (400 MHz, Chloroform-d, Compound
   present as a mixture of rotamers (0.82:0.18), major rotamer reported) 6 8.86 (d, J = 4.9 Hz, 2H),
   8.14 - 8.10 (m, 1H), 7.79 (dd, J= 8.8, 2.6 Hz, 1H), 7.30 - 7.26 (m, 1H), 7.10 - 7.03 (m, 1H), 6.95
20 6.81 (m, 3H), 5.06 (dt, J= 10.2, 3.4 Hz, 1H), 4.27 - 4.23 (m, 1H), 3.34 - 3.30 (m, 2H), 2.57 - 2.51
   (m, 1H), 2.25 - 2.14 (m, 1H), 1.46 - 1.40 (m, 1H), 1.36 (dt, J= 13.6, 3.6 Hz, 1H), 0.94 - 0.87 (m,
   1H).
                                                - 80 -

   Example 12: (R/S)-(4-methoxy-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)(6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
   2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone
               NO                     /
    F3C
                             N
 5         To the title compound of Example 5 step B (20 mg) and intermediate A-15 (15 mg, 0.066
   mmol) was added DCM (0.8 mL) and DIPEA (0.05 mL, 0.29 mmol). T3P (0.11 mL, 0.18 mmol,
   50% solution in DMF) was then added dropwise and the mixture heated to 45 'C. Upon completion
   the reaction was quenched with saturated NaHCO3 solution and the aqueous layer extracted with
   EtOAc (3X). The combined organics were washed saturated NaHCO3 solution, brine, dried with
 0 MgSO4, filtered, and concentrated. Purification of the concentrate was performed using Agilent
   Prep Method X to give the title compound(9.3 mg). MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C24H21F3N403, 470.2;
   m/z found 471.2 [M+H]*.1 H NMR (400 MHz, Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of
   rotamers (0.82:0.18), major rotamer reported) 6 8.78 (d, J= 4.8 Hz, 2H), 8.11 - 8.09 (m, 1H), 7.83
   7.77 (m, 1H), 7.70 (d, J= 2.6 Hz, 1H), 7.20 (t, J= 4.9 Hz, 1H), 6.96 (d, J= 8.4 Hz, 1H), 6.87 - 6.80
 5 (m, 1H), 6.45 (dd, J= 8.4, 2.7 Hz, 1H), 5.03 (dt, J= 10.1, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.16 - 4.12 (m, 1H), 3.81 (s,
   3H), 3.62 (dt, J= 10.9, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.40 (dd, J= 10.8, 1.4 Hz, 1H), 2.66 - 2.60 (m, 1H), 2.26 - 2.16
   (m, 1H), 1.45 - 1.35 (m, 2H), 1.29 - 1.17 (m, 1H).
   Example 13: (R/S)-4-methoxy-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)(6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
20 yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                        N
            N    O
     3FC                 N-N
           Prepared analogous to Example 5 usingintermediate A-5. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for
   C22H2oF3N503,   459.1; m/z found 460.2 [M+H]*. 'H NMR (400 MHz, Chloroform-d, Compound
                                               - 81 -

   present as a mixture of rotamers (0.88:0.12), major rotamer reported) 6 8.11 - 8.07 (m, 1H), 7.84
   7.75 (m, 3H), 7.37 (d, J= 2.5 Hz, 1H), 6.96 (d, J= 8.5 Hz, 1H), 6.81 (d, J= 8.7 Hz, 1H), 6.37 (dd, J
   = 8.5, 2.5 Hz, 1H), 5.01 (dt, J= 10.1, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.08 - 4.01 (m, 1H), 3.80 (s, 3H), 3.58 (dt, J=
   10.9, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.39 (dd, J= 10.9, 1.4 Hz, 1H), 2.65 - 2.58 (m, 1H), 2.25 - 2.14 (m, 1H), 1.45
 5 1.35 (m, 2H), 1.30 - 1.22 (m, 1H).
            An ORTEP of Example 13 is depicted in Figure 1.
   Example 14: (R/S)-(5-fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)(6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                       N          F
            N   O
    F 3C               N-N
 0
            Prepared analogous to Example 5 usingintermediate A-10. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for
   C21H17F4N502,   447.1; m/z found 448.1 [M+H]*. 'H NMR (400 MHz, Chloroform-d, Compound
   present as a mixture of rotamers (0.85:0.15), major rotamer reported) 6 8.09 - 8.05 (m, 1H), 7.85
   7.78 (m, 4H), 7.00 (ddd, J= 9.0, 7.6,2.9 Hz, 1H), 6.82 (d, J= 8.7 Hz, 1H), 6.78 (dd, J= 8.1, 2.9 Hz,
 5 1H), 5.02 (dt, J= 10.2, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.06 - 4.01 (m, 1H), 3.59 (dt, J= 10.9, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.40 (dd, J
   = 10.9, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 2.66 - 2.60 (m, 1H), 2.28 - 2.17 (m, 1H), 1.47 - 1.37 (m, 2H), 1.34 - 1.27 (m,
   1H).
           An ORTEP of Example 14 is depicted in Figure 2.
20 Example 15: (R/S)-2-methoxy-6-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)(6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                            0
                       N
            N   O
    F3 C               N-N
                            N
                                                - 82 -

            Prepared analogous to Example 5 usingintermediate A-13. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for
   C22H2oF3N503,    459.2; m/z found 460.2 [M+H]*. 'H NMR (400 MHz, Chloroform-d, Compound
   present as a mixture of rotamers, major rotamer reported) 6 8.00 - 7.95 (m, 1H), 7.82 (s, 2H), 7.73
   (d, J= 10.6 Hz, 1H), 7.46 (dd, J= 8.2, 0.9 Hz, 1H), 7.28 - 7.21 (m, 1H), 6.75 - 6.71 (m, 1H), 6.42
 5 (dd, J= 8.4, 0.9 Hz, 1H), 4.82 (dt, J= 10.2, 3.4 Hz, 1H), 4.18 - 4.12 (m, 1H), 3.63 - 3.58 (m, 1H),
   3.57 (s, 3H), 3.37 (dd, J= 11.0, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 2.58 - 2.52 (m, 1H), 2.19 - 2.09 (m, 1H), 1.74 - 1.66
   (m, 1H), 1.45 - 1.37 (m, 1H), 1.32 - 1.23 (m, 1H).
   Example 16: (R/S)-(3-fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)(6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
 0 yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                     CN
            NO0
                       0
    F3 C                         F
            Prepared analogous to Example 5 usingintermediate A-16. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for
   C21H17F4N502,    447.1; m/z found 448.1[M+H]*. 'H NMR (400 MHz, Chloroform-d, Compound
   present as a mixture of rotamers (0.86:0.14), major rotamer reported) 6 8.14 - 8.09 (m, 1H), 7.89 (s,
 5 2H), 7.83 - 7.78 (m, 1H), 7.16 (ddd, J= 9.9, 8.1, 1.6 Hz, 1H), 6.98 - 6.81 (m, 3H), 5.06 (dt, J= 10.1,
   3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.19 - 4.15 (m, 1H), 3.38 - 3.30 (m, 2H), 2.59 - 2.53 (m, 1H), 2.26 - 2.16 (m, 1H), 1.50
   - 1.43 (m, 1H), 1.39 - 1.30 (m, 1H), 1.19 - 1.10 (m, 1H).
   Example 17: (R/S)-(3-methyl-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)(6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
20 yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                     CN
            NO0
    F3 C                /  \
            Prepared analogous to Example 5 usingintermediate A-22. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for
   C22H2oF3N502,    443.2 m/z found 444.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz, Chloroform-d, Compound
                                                - 83 -

   present as a mixture of rotamers (0.85:0.15), major rotamer reported) 6 8.15 - 8.11 (m, 1H), 7.86
   7.77 (m, 3H), 7.24 - 7.19 (m, 1H), 6.99 - 6.82 (m, 3H), 5.09 (dt, J= 10.1, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.25 - 4.19
   (m, 1H), 3.31 - 3.23 (m, 2H), 2.57 - 2.50 (m, 1H), 2.27 - 2.11 (m, 4H), 1.53 - 1.47 (m, 1H), 1.37
   1.28 (m, 1H), 1.27 - 1.21 (m, 1H).
 5
   Example 18: (R/S)-(2-fluoro-6-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)(6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                             F
                        N
            N   O
                       O
    F3C                 N-N
                            N
           Prepared analogous to Example 5 usingintermediate A-11. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for
 0 C21H17F4N502,    447.1; m/z found 448.1 [M+H]*. 'H NMR (400 MHz, Chloroform-d, Compound
   present as a mixture of rotamers, major rotamer reported) 6 8.04 - 8.02 (m, 1H), 7.85 - 7.72 (m, 4H),
   7.32 - 7.26 (m, 1H), 6.92 - 6.88 (m, 1H), 6.61 (td, J= 8.4, 1.0 Hz, 1H), 5.00 - 4.94 (m, 1H), 4.03
   4.00 (m, 1H), 3.65 (dt, J = 11.0, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.44 (dd, J = 10.9, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 2.68 - 2.60 (m, 1H),
   2.28 - 2.17 (m, 1H), 1.46 - 1.37 (m, 2H), 1.31 - 1.25 (m, 1H).
 5
   Example 19: (R/S)-(5-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)(6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                        N          F
            NO0
    F3 C
                       \    N
           Prepared analogous to Example 5 usingintermediate A-7. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for
20 C23Hi8F4N402, 458.1 m/z found 459.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz, Chloroform-d, Compound
   present as a mixture of rotamers (0.88:0.12), major rotamer reported) 6 8.77 (d, J= 4.9 Hz, 2H),
   8.22 (dd, J= 8.8, 5.6 Hz, 1H), 8.11 - 8.06 (m, 1H), 7.82 (dd, J= 8.7, 2.5 Hz, 1H), 7.19 (t, J= 4.9
                                                - 84 -

   Hz, 1H), 6.98 (ddd, J= 8.8, 7.9, 2.7 Hz, 1H), 6.85 (d, J= 8.8 Hz, 1H), 6.77 (dd, J= 8.6, 2.7 Hz,
   1H), 5.03 (dt, J= 10.1, 3.4 Hz, 1H), 4.16 -4.11 (m, 1H), 3.66 (dt, J= 10.8, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.42 (dd, J
   = 10.8, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 2.70 - 2.63 (m, 1H), 2.30 - 2.19 (m, 1H), 1.50 - 1.39 (m, 2H), 1.35 - 1.27 (m,
   1H).
 5
   Example 20: (R/S)-(4-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)(-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
   2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone
              NO
    F3 C                             F
                       \    N
           Prepared analogous to Example 5 usingintermediate A-23. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for
 0 C23H18F4N402, 458.1 m/z found 459.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz, Chloroform-d, Compound
   present as a mixture of rotamers (0.84:0.16), major rotamer reported) 6 8.80 (d, J= 4.8 Hz, 2H),
   8.12 - 8.09 (m, 1H), 7.93 (dd, J= 9.9,2.6 Hz, 1H), 7.83 - 7.78 (m, 1H), 7.25 - 7.21 (m, 1H), 7.01
   (dd, J= 8.4, 5.6 Hz, 1H), 6.85 - 6.81 (m, 1H), 6.63 - 6.55 (m, 1H), 5.03 (dt, J= 10.1, 3.3 Hz, 1H),
   4.16 - 4.09 (m, 1H), 3.65 (dt, J= 10.8, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 3.46 - 3.36 (m, 1H), 2.69 - 2.62 (m, 1H), 2.29
 5 2.17 (m, 1H), 1.48 - 1.37 (m, 2H), 1.31 - 1.23 (m, 1H).
   Example 21: (R/S)-(2-(4H-1,2,4-triazol-4-yl)phenyl)(6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                       N
              NOO
   F3 C                    N
                       NN
20         Prepared analogous to Example 5 usingintermediate A-9. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for
   C21H18F3N502, 429.1 m/z found 430.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MIHz, Chloroform-d, Compound
   present as a mixture of rotamers (0.84:0.16), major rotamer reported) 6 8.44 (s, 2H), 8.03 - 7.95 (m,
                                                - 85 -

   1H), 7.80 (dd, J= 8.9, 2.5 Hz, 1H), 7.44 - 7.34 (m, 1H), 7.30 - 7.24 (m, 1H), 7.08 - 6.92 (m, 2H),
   6.83 (d, J= 8.7 Hz, 1H), 5.04 - 4.94 (m, 1H), 3.90 (br.s, 1H), 3.47 - 3.32 (m, 2H), 2.65 - 2.57 (m,
   1H), 2.26 - 2.13 (m, 1H), 1.52 - 1.33 (m, 2H), 1.05 - 0.86 (m, 1H).
 5 Example 22: (R/S)-(6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)(6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
   2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
             N     O
    F3C                   N
                              N
             Prepared analogous to Example 5 usingintermediate A-20. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for
   C21H19F3N602, 444.2; m/z found 445.1 [M+H]+. 1H NMR (400 MHz, Chloroform-d, Compound
 0 present as a mixture of rotamers (0.82:0.18), major rotamer reported) 6 8.05 - 7.98 (m, 2H), 7.83 (s,
   2H), 7.71 - 7.66 (m, 1H), 7.10 - 7.05 (m, 1H), 6.86 - 6.80 (m, 1H), 5.01 - 4.93 (m, 1H), 4.28 - 4.22
   (m, 1H), 3.68 (dt, J= 10.9, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.46 (dd, J= 10.9, 1.2 Hz, 1H), 2.67 - 2.62 (m, 1H), 2.28
   2.16 (m, 4H), 1.53 - 1.42 (m, 3H).
 5 Example 23: (6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1R,4S,6S)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
    /N
          \     N
                       0    N
     N    ,N                         F
                                     F
                                  F
             The title compound, absolute configuration confirmed by Example 25, was obtained as a
   single enantiomer by Chiral SFC purification of Example 22 performed using a Chiralpak IC
20 column (5um 250 x 21 mm), mobile phase of 20% EtOH: 80% C02, and a flow rate of 40 mL/min
   (Temperature = 40     4C). Elution was monitored following absorbance at 270nm. The enantiomeric
   purity was confirmed by analytical SFC using a Chiralpak IC column (5um 250 x 4.6 mm), mobile
   phase of 20% EtOH: 80% C02, and a flow rate of 2 mL/min over 45 minutes (Temperature = 40
                                                - 86 -

    C). Elution was monitored following absorbance at 270nm. (enantiopurity >98%) which elutes as
   two peaks with an initial minor peak followed by a second major peak (due to rotamers), 6.77 min
   and 23.40 min retention time). MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C21H19F3N602, 444.2; m/z found 445.2
   [M+H]*. 1H NMR data is in agreement with Example 22.
 5
   Example 24: (6-methyl-3-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
            N   O
    F 3C                N-N
            The title compound, absolute configuration confirmed by Example 25, was obtained as a
 0 single enantiomer by Chiral SFC purification of Example 22 performed using a Chiralpak IC
   column (5um 250 x 21 mm), mobile phase of 20% EtOH: 80% C02, and a flow rate of 40 mL/min
   (Temperature = 40 *C). Elution was monitored following absorbance at 270nm. The enantiomeric
   purity was confirmed by analytical SFC using a Chiralpak IC column (5um 250 x 4.6 mm), mobile
   phase of 20% EtOH: 80% C02, and a flow rate of 2 mL/min over 45 minutes (Temperature = 40
 5  C). Elution was monitored following absorbance at 270nm. (enantiopurity >98%) which elutes as
   two peaks with an initial minor peak followed by a second major peak (due to rotamers), 7.75 min
   and 11.79 min retention time). MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C21H19F3N602, 444.2; m/z found 445.2
   [M+H]*. 1H NMR data is in agreement with Example 22.
20 Example 25: (6-methyl-3-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                        NIN
            N    O
    F3 C     //         N-N
                                               - 87 -

            Step A: (1 S,4R,6R)-tert-butyl 6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane-2-carboxylate. To intermediate B-5 (422 mg, 1.98 mmol) dissolved in
   DMF (8 mL) was added NaH (119 mg, 2.97 mmol, 60% dispersion in mineral oil). After 5 minutes
   2-chloro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridine (718 mg, 3.96 mmol) was then added and the mixture heated
 5 to 80 'C. After heating at 80 'C for 4.75h, the mixture was cooled to room temperature, quenched
   with saturated NH4Cl solution, diluted with H20, and the aqueous layer extracted with EtOAc
   (3X).The combined organics were washed with H20, brine, dried with MgSO4, filtered and
   concentrated. Purification via silica gel chromatography (0-25% EtOAc in hexanes) gave the title
   compound (622 mg, 1.74 mmol, 88%). MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C17H21F3N203, 358.2; m/z found
 0 359.2 [M+H]* 1H NMR (400 MHz, Chloroform-d, compound present as a mixture of rotamers
   (0.75:0.25)) 6 8.44 - 8.37 (m, 1H), 7.80 - 7.74 (m, 0.75H), 7.73 - 7.66 (m, 0.25H), 6.82 - 6.77 (m,
   0.75H), 6.73 - 6.68 (m, 0.25H), 5.44 - 5.37 (m, 0.25H), 5.34 (dt, J= 10.1, 3.2 Hz, 0.75H), 4.58
   4.53 (m, 1H), 3.44 - 3.34 (m, 1H), 3.20 (dd, J= 9.6, 1.3 Hz, 0.75H), 3.13 (d, J= 9.5 Hz, 0.25H),
   2.61 - 2.52 (m, 1H), 2.29 - 2.15 (m, 1H), 1.79 - 1.58 (m, 2H), 1.47 - 1.23 (m, 3H), 1.12 (s, 7H).
 5          Step B: (1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptane
   xHCl. To the title compound of step A (622 mg, 1.74 mmol) in EtOAc (1 mL) was added 4M HCl
   in dioxane (10 mL). After 2h, the reaction was concentrated to give the title compound of step B
   (507 mg) which was used without further purification. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C12H13F3N20,
   258.1; m/z found 259.1 [M+H].
 0          Step C: (6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
   To the title compound of step B (100 mg) and intermediate A-20 (84 mg, 0.37 mmol) in DMF (4
   mL) was added DIPEA (0.3 mL, 1.74 mmol) and HATU (142 mg, 0.37 mmol). Upon completion,
   the reaction was diluted with H20 and the aqueous layer extracted with EtOAc (3X). The combined
25 organics were washed with H20, brine, dried with MgSO4, filtered, and concentrated. Purification
   of the concentrate was performed using Agilent Prep Method Xto give the title compound (112 mg).
   The enantiomeric purity was confirmed by analytical SFC using a Chiralpak IC column (5um 250 x
   4.6 mm), mobile phase of 20% EtOH: 80% C02, and a flow rate of 2 mL/min over 45 minutes
   (Temperature = 40 C). Elution was monitored following absorbance at 270nm. (100% single
30 enantiomer) which elutes as two peaks with an initial minor peak followed by a second major peak
   (due to rotamers), 7.69 min and 11.90 min retention time). MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C21H19F3N602,
   444.2; m/z found 445.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR data is in agreement with Example 22.
                                                 - 88  -

   Example 26: (4-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
               NO
   F3 C                               F
                       \    N
 5         Prepared analogous to Example 25 substituting intermediate A-20 with intermediate A-23.
   MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C23Hi8F4N402, 458.1 m/z found 459.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.85:0.15), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.80 (d, J= 4.8 Hz, 2H), 8.13 - 8.07 (m, 1H), 7.95 - 7.90 (m, 1H), 7.84 - 7.78 (m, 1H), 7.23 (t, J=
   4.8 Hz, 1H), 7.01 (dd, J= 8.4, 5.6 Hz, 1H), 6.87 - 6.81 (m, 1H), 6.59 (ddd, J= 8.5, 7.9, 2.7 Hz, 1H),
 0 5.03 (dt, J= 10.1, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.15 - 4.10 (m, 1H), 3.65 (dt, J= 10.8, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.44 - 3.38 (m,
   1H), 2.69 - 2.62 (m, 1H), 2.29 - 2.18 (m, 1H), 1.48 - 1.37 (m, 2H), 1.34 - 1.23 (m, 1H).
   Example 27: (3 -fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                       N
            NO0
   F3C                           F
15                        ,,N
           Prepared analogous to Example 25 substituting intermediate A-20 with intermediate A-2.
   MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C23H18F4N402, 458.1 m/z found 459.2 [M+H]*. 'H NMR (400 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.88:0.12), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.86 (d, J = 4.9 Hz, 2H), 8.14 - 8.08 (m, 1H), 7.79 (dd, J = 8.8, 2.5 Hz, 1H), 7.30 - 7.26 (m, 1H),
20 7.10 - 7.02 (m, 1H), 6.95 - 6.80 (m, 3H), 5.06 (dt, J= 10.3, 3.4 Hz, 1H), 4.28 - 4.22 (m, 1H), 3.34
   3.30 (m, 2H), 2.56 - 2.51 (m, 1H), 2.25 - 2.15 (m, 1H), 1.45 - 1.40 (m, 1H), 1.36 (dt, J= 13.6, 3.6
   Hz, 1H), 0.95 - 0.86 (m, 1H).
                                                - 89 -

   Example 28: (5-methyl-3-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                       N
            NOO
   F3 C                N--N
 5          Prepared analogous to Example 25 substituting intermediate A-20 with intermediate A-19.
   MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C21H19F3N602, 444.2 m/z found 445.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.86:0.14), major rotamer reported) 6
   7.98 - 7.92 (m, 2H), 7.83 (s, 2H), 7.75 - 7.69 (m, 1H), 7.67 - 7.63 (m, 1H), 6.89 - 6.83 (m, 1H), 5.02
   (dt, J= 10.3, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 4.27 - 4.21 (m, 1H), 3.69 (dt, J= 10.9, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.51 - 3.42 (m, 1H),
 0 2.70 - 2.64 (m, 1H), 2.33 - 2.16 (m, 4H), 1.58 - 1.46 (m, 3H).
   Example 29: (6-methyl-2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                       N
                NON
   F3C                 N-N
                           N
15          Prepared analogous to Example 25 substituting intermediate A-20 with intermediate A-3.
   MS (ESI) mass calcd. C21H19F3N602, 444.2 m/z found 445.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.83:0.17), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.06 - 8.02 (m, 1H), 7.88 (s, 2H), 7.80 (dd, J= 8.7, 2.5 Hz, 1H), 7.31 - 7.24 (m, 1H), 6.82 (d, J= 8.7
   Hz, 1H), 6.61 (d, J= 7.8 Hz, 1H), 4.98 (dt, J= 10.1, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.06 - 4.02 (m, 1H), 3.62 (dt, J=
20 11.0, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.41 (dd, J = 10.9, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 2.68 - 2.61 (m, 1H), 2.56 (s, 3H), 2.27 - 2.14 (m,
   1H), 1.48 - 1.40 (m, 2H), 1.37 - 1.29 (m, 1H).
                                                - 90 -

   Example 30: (3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                       N
           N    O      O
   F3C                  N-N
                            N
           Prepared analogous to Example 25 substituting intermediate A-20 with intermediate A-28.
 5 MS (ESI) mass calcd. C2oH17F3N602, 430.1 m/z found 431.2 [M+H]*. 'H NMR (400 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.80:0.20), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.17 (dd, J= 8.4, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 7.95 - 7.91 (m, 1H), 7.88 - 7.81 (m, 3H), 7.72 (dd, J= 8.7, 2.6 Hz,
   1H), 7.20 (dd, J= 8.3, 4.7 Hz, 1H), 6.86 (d, J= 8.8 Hz, 1H), 5.03 (dt, J= 10.2, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 4.27
   4.23 (m, 1H), 3.74 - 3.68 (m, 1H), 3.47 (dd, J= 11.0, 1.3 Hz, 1H), 2.71 - 2.66 (m, 1H), 2.29 - 2.19
 0 (m, 1H), 1.64 - 1.48 (m, 3H).
   Example 31: (3-fluoro-2-methoxyphenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                       N
           NO0
   F3C                 O         F
15         Prepared analogous to Example 25 substituting intermediate A-20 with intermediate A- 18.
   MS (ESI) mass calcd. C2oH18F4N203, 410.1 m/z found 411.1 [M+H]*. 'H NMR (400 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.83:0.17), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.01 - 7.97 (m, 1H), 7.74 - 7.71 (m, 1H), 6.92 (ddd, J = 11.5, 8.1, 1.7 Hz, 1H), 6.79 (d, 8.7 Hz, 1H),
   6.67 - 6.49 (m, 2H), 5.07 (dt, J= 10.1, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 4.43 - 4.38 (m, 1H), 3.90 (d, J= 1.7 Hz, 3H),
20 3.69 (dt, J= 11.1, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 3.45 (dd, J= 11.1, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 2.76 - 2.70 (m, 1H), 2.33 - 2.21 (m,
   1H), 1.90 - 1.83 (m, 1H), 1.75 - 1.69 (m, 1H), 1.44 (dt, J= 13.5, 3.6 Hz, 1H).
                                               -91-

   Example 32: (3-methyl-2-(oxazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                      N
           NO
   F3 0               0
           Prepared analogous to Example 25 substituting intermediate A-20 with intermediate A-27.
 5 MS (ESI) mass calcd. C23H2oF3N303, 443.1 m/z found 444.2 [M+H]*. 'H NMR (400 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.81:0.19), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.07 - 8.03 (m, 1H), 7.81 - 7.73 (m, 2H), 7.30 - 7.25 (m, 1H), 7.18 - 7.13 (m, 1H), 6.91 - 6.80 (m,
   3H), 5.04 (dt, J= 10.2, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 4.22 - 4.17 (m, 1H), 3.49 - 3.41 (m, 1H), 3.40 - 3.33 (m, 1H),
   2.63 - 2.57 (m, 1H), 2.44 (s, 3H), 2.26 - 2.16 (m, 1H), 1.49 (d, J= 10.4 Hz, 1H), 1.41 - 1.26 (m,
 0 2H).
   Example 33: (3-fluoro-2-(1H-1,2,3-triazol-1-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
   2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                      N
           NO
   F3C                           F
                        N
15         Prepared analogous to Example 25 substituting intermediate A-20 with intermediate A-33.
   MS (ESI) mass calcd. C21H17F4N502, 447.1 m/z found 448.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.76:0.24), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.20 - 8.15 (m, 1H), 7.92 - 7.88 (m, 1H), 7.87 - 7.80 (m, 2H), 7.24 - 7.16 (m, 1H), 7.07 - 6.99 (m,
   1H), 6.92 - 6.85 (m, 2H), 5.14 (dt, J= 9.9, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 4.28 - 4.24 (m, 1H), 3.37 - 3.31 (m, 1H),
20 3.30 - 3.24 (m, 1H), 2.62 - 2.56 (m, 1H), 2.32 - 2.21 (m, 1H), 1.42 - 1.31 (m, 2H), 0.94 - 0.89 (m,
   1H).
                                                - 92 -

   Example 34: (6-methyl-2-(1 H-1,2,3-triazol- 1-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                       N
            NO0
                                N
   F3C
                         N
            Prepared analogous to Example 25 substituting intermediate A-20 with intermediate A-4.
 5 MS (ESI) mass calcd. C21H19F3N602, 444.2 m/z found 445.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.87:0.13), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.44 (d, J = 1.2 Hz, 1H), 8.09 - 8.05 (m, 1H), 7.84 - 7.78 (m, 2H), 7.28 (d, J = 7.8 Hz, 1H), 6.88
   6.83 (m, 1H), 6.65 (d, J= 7.8 Hz, 1H), 5.05 (dt, J= 10.1, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.13 - 4.06 (m, 1H), 3.73 (dt,
   J= 11.0, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.38 (dd, J= 10.9, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 2.72 - 2.65 (m, 1H), 2.50 (s, 3H), 2.31 - 2.21
 0 (m, 1H), 1.73 - 1.67 (m, 1H), 1.51 - 1.40 (m, 2H).
   Example 35: (3-fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
   2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                       N
            NO0
   F 3C     -          N-N       F
15          Prepared analogous to Example 25 substituting intermediate A-20 with intermediate A- 16.
   MS (ESI) mass calcd. C21H17F4N502, 447.1 m/z found 448.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.85:0.15), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.14 - 8.08 (m, 1H), 7.89 (s, 2H), 7.80 (dd, J = 8.7, 2.5 Hz, 1H), 7.16 (ddd, J = 9.9, 8.2, 1.6 Hz, 1H),
   6.98 - 6.81 (m, 3H), 5.06 (dt, J= 10.1, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.21 - 4.13 (m, 1H), 3.39 - 3.30 (m, 2H), 2.60
20 2.52 (m, 1H), 2.26 - 2.15 (m, 1H), 1.51 - 1.43 (m, 1H), 1.39 - 1.30 (m, 1H), 1.20 - 1.10 (m, 1H).
   Example 36: (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                                                - 93 -

                    4 N
           N    O     O
   F3C                  N-N
                           -N
           Prepared analogous to Example 25 substituting intermediate A-20 with intermediate A-1.
   MS (ESI) mass calcd. C21Hi8F3N502, 429.1 m/z found 430.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.87:0.13), major rotamer reported) 6
 5 8.04 - 7.98 (m, 1H), 7.89 - 7.74 (m, 4H), 7.36 - 7.28 (m, 1H), 7.02 (dd, J= 7.7, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 6.85
   6.77 (m, 2H), 4.99 (dt, J = 10.2, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.10 - 4.00 (m, 1H), 3.61 (dt, J = 10.9, 3.3 Hz, 1H),
   3.40 (dd, J= 10.9, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 2.67 - 2.58 (m, 1H), 2.26 - 2.15 (m, 1H), 1.47 - 1.23 (m, 3H).
   Example 37: (3-ethoxy-6-methylpyridin-2-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
 0 2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                        N
           NO0
                      0
   F3C
           Prepared analogous to Example 25 substituting intermediate A-20 with intermediate A-8.
   MS (ESI) mass calcd. C21H22F3N303, 421.2 m/z found 422.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.83:0.17), major rotamer reported) 6
15 7.92 - 7.88 (m, 1H), 7.71 - 7.66 (m, 1H), 6.92 (d, J = 8.5 Hz, 1H), 6.87 - 6.82 (m, 2H), 5.00 (dt, J =
   10.2, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.68 - 4.63 (m, 1H), 4.05 - 3.85 (m, 2H), 3.72 (dt, J= 11.0, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.51 (dd,
   J= 11.0, 1.6 Hz, 1H), 2.74 - 2.68 (m, 1H), 2.31 - 2.16 (m, 4H), 1.96 - 1.88 (m, 1H), 1.78 - 1.70 (m,
   1H), 1.48 (dt, J= 13.5, 3.6 Hz, 1H), 1.43 - 1.35 (m, 3H).
20 Example 38: (2-fluoro-6-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                                                - 94 -

                            F
            N   O
   F3C       /
                          \ N
            Prepared analogous to Example 25 substituting intermediate A-20 with intermediate A-6
   and substituting purification by Agilent Prep Method Xby silica gel chromatography (15-80%
   EtOAc (with 10% MeOH) in hexanes). MS (ESI) mass calcd. C23Hi8F4N402, 458.1; mlz found
 5 459.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz, Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers
   (0.78:0.22), major rotamer reported) 6 8.81 (d, J= 4.9 Hz, 2H), 8.11 - 8.05 (m, 1H), 8.05 - 8.00 (m,
   1H), 7.77 (dd, J= 8.7, 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.31 - 7.27 (m, 1H), 7.23 (t, J= 4.8 Hz, 1H), 6.91 (d, J= 8.7 Hz,
   1H), 6.72 - 6.64 (m, 1H), 4.97 (dt, J = 10.1, 3.4 Hz, 1H), 4.14 - 4.09 (m, 1H), 3.68 (dt, J = 10.9, 3.2
   Hz, 1H), 3.46 (dd, J= 10.9, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 2.65 (s, 1H), 2.28 - 2.18 (m, 1H), 1.48 - 1.38 (m, 2H), 1.25
 0 - 1.18 (m, 1H).
   Example 39: (2-methoxy-6-(1H-pyrazol-5-yl)phenyl)((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                       N
            N      0
   F3C
                         'N  H
                         N'
15          Prepared analogous to Example 25 substituting intermediate A-20 with intermediate A-30.
   MS (ESI) mass calcd. C23H21F3N403, 458.2; m/z found 459.3 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, major rotamer reported) 6 8.00 (s, 1H),
   7.75 (dd, J= 8.7, 2.6 Hz, 1H), 7.62 - 7.57 (m, 1H), 7.34 - 7.26 (m, 1H), 7.25 - 7.21 (m, 1H), 6.76
   (d, J = 8.7 Hz, 1H), 6.53 (d, J = 2.0 Hz, 1H), 6.46 (d, J = 8.4 Hz, 1H), 4.84 (dt, J = 10.2, 3.4 Hz,
20 1H), 4.15 (s, 1H), 3.54 - 3.46 (m, 4H), 3.34 (d, J= 10.8 Hz, 1H), 2.49 (s, 1H), 2.19 - 2.07 (m, 1H),
   1.55 - 1.22 (m, 3H).
                                                 - 95 -

   Example 40: (2-methoxy-6-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                            0
            N   O
   F3       .            N
                         \N
            Prepared analogous to Example 25 substituting intermediate A-20 with intermediate A-24.
 5 MS (ESI) mass calcd. C24H21F3N403, 470.2; m/z found 471.1 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC using a
   XBridge C18 column (5um, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over
   2min and then hold at 100% ACN for 2 min, at a flow rate of 2.5 mL/min (Temperature        = 45 C). Rt
   = 2.01 and 2.24 min (major rotamers) at 254 nm.
 0 Example 41: (2-(1,4-dimethyl- 1H-pyrazol-5 -yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
   2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                    4N
            N   O
   F3C
                         N'N
            Prepared analogous to Example 25 substituting intermediate A-20 with intermediate A-3 1.
   MS (ESI) mass calcd. C24H23F3N402, 456.2; m/z found 457.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
15 Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.74:0.26), major rotamer reported) 6
   7.95 - 7.90 (m, 1H), 7.75 (dd, J= 9.0, 1.7 Hz, 1H), 7.39 (s, 1H), 7.30 - 7.27 (m, 1H), 7.13 (dd, J=
   7.7, 0.7 Hz, 1H), 7.03 (dd, J= 7.7, 0.8 Hz, 1H), 6.91 - 6.87 (m, 1H), 6.80 (d, J= 8.8 Hz, 1H), 4.96
   4.91 (m, 1H), 4.05 - 4.03 (m, 1H), 3.61 (s, 3H), 3.39 - 3.35 (m, 1H), 3.34 - 3.29 (m, 1H), 2.54 - 2.49
   (m, 1H), 2.19 - 2.10 (m, 1H), 2.08 (s, 3H), 1.44 - 1.34 (m, 2H), 0.95 - 0.89 (m, 1H).
20
   Example 42: (1H-indol-7-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                                                - 96 -

                       N
            NO0
    F3C                   HNR
           Prepared analogous to Example 25 substituting intermediate A-20 with intermediate A-29
   and substituting purification by Agilent Prep Method Xby silica gel chromatography (0-60% EtOAc
   (with 10% MeOH) in hexanes). MS (ESI) mass calcd. C21H18F3N302, 401.1; m/z found 402.1
 5 [M+H]*. 'H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 10.82 (s, 1H), 7.92 (br. s, 1H), 7.62 (dd, J= 8.9, 2.7 Hz,
   1H), 7.32 (d, J= 7.9 Hz, 1H), 7.21 (t, J= 2.8 Hz, 1H), 6.93 (d, J= 7.3 Hz, 1H), 6.69 (t, J= 7.5 Hz,
   1H), 6.57 (d, J= 8.7 Hz, 1H), 6.32 - 6.25 (m, 1H), 5.06 (dt, J= 10.0, 3.1 Hz, 1H), 4.67 (br. s, 1H),
   3.60 - 3.53 (m, 1H), 3.52 - 3.44 (m, 1H), 2.70 - 2.62 (m, 1H), 2.29 - 2.17 (m, 1H), 2.06 - 1.99 (m,
   1H), 1.73 (d, J= 10.2 Hz, 1H), 1.30 (dt, J= 13.4, 3.5 Hz, 1H).
 0
   Example 43: (5-fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
   2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                       N           F
            N   O
    F3C                N-N
           Prepared analogous to Example 25 substituting intermediate A-20 with intermediate A-10.
15 MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C21H17F4N502, 447.2; m/z found 448.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.91:0.09), major rotamer reported)S
   8.09 - 8.03 (m, 1H), 7.84 - 7.81 (m, 1H), 7.81 - 7.78 (m, 3H), 7.05 - 6.95 (m, 1H), 6.82 (d, J= 8.7
   Hz, 1H), 6.78 (dd, J= 8.1, 2.9 Hz, 1H), 5.01 (dt, J= 10.1, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.07 - 3.99 (m, 1H), 3.58 (dt,
   J= 11.0, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.40 (dd, J = 10.9, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 2.67 - 2.60 (m, 1H), 2.29 - 2.17 (m, 1H), 1.46
20 - 1.37 (m, 2H), 1.33 - 1.27 (m, 1H).
   Example 44: (4-fluoro-2-(2H- 1,2,3 -triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
   2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                                                - 97 -

                      4N
            N    O     O               F
    F3C                  N-N
                            SN
            Prepared analogous to Example 25 substituting intermediate A-20 with intermediate A-12.
   MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C21H17F4N502, 447.2; m/z found 448.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.88:0.12), major rotamer reported)S
 5 8.13 - 8.07 (m, 1H), 7.83 (s, 2H), 7.81 - 7.78 (m, 1H), 7.63 (dd, J= 9.5, 2.5 Hz, 1H), 7.02 (dd, J=
   8.5, 5.9 Hz, 1H), 6.82 (d, J= 8.7 Hz, 1H), 6.52 (td, J= 8.1, 2.5 Hz, 1H), 5.01 (dt, J= 10.2, 3.3 Hz,
   1H), 4.03 (s, 1H), 3.63 (dt, J= 11.0, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.40 (dd, J= 10.9, 1.4 Hz, 1H), 2.68 - 2.61 (m,
   1H), 2.28 - 2.16 (m, 1H), 1.46 - 1.38 (m, 2H), 1.38 - 1.28 (m, 1H).
 0 Example 45: (2-bromo-3 -fluorophenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                      4N
            NO
    F3C                            F
            Prepared analogous to Example 25 substituting intermediate A-20 with intermediate A-32.
   MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C19Hi5BrF4N202, 458.0; m/z found 459.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
15 Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.82:0.18), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.03 (s, 1H), 7.78 (dd, J= 8.7, 2.5 Hz, 1H), 6.94 (td, J= 8.3, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 6.87 - 6.81 (m, 1H), 6.73
   (br. s, 1H), 6.63 (br. s, 1H), 5.15 - 5.06 (m, 1H), 4.23 (br. s, 1H), 3.73 (dt, J= 11.1, 3.3 Hz, 1H),
   3.45 (dd, J= 11.0, 1.6 Hz, 1H), 2.80 - 2.71 (m, 1H), 2.37 - 2.25 (m, 1H), 1.99 - 1.89 (m, 1H), 1.84
   1.71 (m, 1H), 1.46 (dt, J= 13.6, 3.6 Hz, 1H).
20
   Example 46: (2-fluoro-6-(2H- 1,2,3 -triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
   2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                                                  - 98 -

                              F
                       N
            N   O
    F3C                 N-N
                           SN
           Prepared analogous to Example 25 substituting intermediate A-20 with intermediate A-11.
   MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C21H17F4N502, 447.2; m/z found 448.2 [M+H]. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.81:0.19), major rotamer reported) 6
 5 8.05 - 8.00 (m, 1H), 7.83 (s, 2H), 7.80 - 7.77 (m, 1H), 7.77 - 7.72 (m, 1H), 7.32 - 7.27 (m, 1H), 6.89
   (d, J= 8.8 Hz, 1H), 6.60 (td, J= 8.4, 1.0 Hz, 1H), 4.96 (dt, J= 10.1, 3.4 Hz, 1H), 4.06 - 3.96 (m,
   1H), 3.64 (dt, J= 10.9, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.44 (dd, J= 10.9, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 2.69 - 2.60 (m, 1H), 2.28 - 2.16
   (m, 1H), 1.51 - 1.34 (m, 2H), 1.30 - 1.22 (m, 1H).
 0 Example 47: ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(2-fluoro
   6-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone
                            F
          N     O
   Br                 N
                         / N
           Step A: (1 S,4R,6R)-tert-butyl 6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1 ]heptane-2
   carboxylate. To intermediate B-5 (101 mg, 0.474 mmol) dissolved in DMF (3 mL) was added NaH
15 (38 mg, 0.95 mmol, 60% dispersion in mineral oil). After 5 minutes the sides of the flask were
   rinsed with additional DMF (1.0 mL) and 5-bromo-2-fluoropyridine (0.078 mL, 0.76 mmol) was
   then added and the mixture heated to 70 'C. After heating at 70 'C for 3.25h, the mixture was
   cooled to room temperature, quenched with saturated NH4Cl solution, diluted with H20, and the
   aqueous layer extracted with EtOAc (3X).The combined organics were washed with H20, brine,
20 dried with MgSO4, filtered and concentrated. Purification via silica gel chromatography (0-25%
   EtOAc in hexanes) gave the title compound (149 mg, 0.40 mmol, 85%). MS (ESI) mass calcd. for
                                                       1H NMR (400 MHz, Chloroform-d, compound is
   Ci6H21BrN203,   368.1; m/z found 369.1 [M+H].
   present a mixture of rotamers (0.75:0.25)) 6 8.20 - 8.11 (m, 1H), 7.63 (dd, J= 8.8, 2.6 Hz, 0.75H),
                                                - 99 -

   7.58 (dd, J= 8.8, 2.6 Hz, 0.25H), 6.63 (dd, J= 8.8, 0.7 Hz, 0.75H), 6.57 - 6.52 (m, 0.25H), 5.29 (dt,
   J= 9.8, 3.0 Hz, 0.25H), 5.22 (dt, J= 10.1, 3.2 Hz, 0.75H), 4.57 - 4.49 (m, 1H), 3.43 - 3.31 (m, 1H),
   3.19 (dd, J= 9.5, 1.3 Hz, 0.75H), 3.15 - 3.09 (m, 0.25H), 2.59 - 2.50 (m, 1H), 2.26 - 2.13 (m, 1H),
   1.77 - 1.66 (m, 1H), 1.65 - 1.56 (m, 1H), 1.43 (s, 2H), 1.41 - 1.23 (m, 1H), 1.16 (s, 7H).
 5          Step B: (1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane - xHCl. To
   the title compound of step A (149 mg, 0.404 mmol) in EtOAc (1.5 mL) was added 4M HCl in
   dioxane (5 mL). After 3.25h, the reaction was concentrated to give the title compound of step B
   (128 mg) which was used without further purification. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C1LH13BrN20,
   268.0; m/z found 269.0 [M+H].
 0          Step C: ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(2
   fluoro-6-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone. To the title compound of step B (30 mg) and
   intermediate A-6 (24 mg, 0.11 mmol) in DMF (1.5 mL) was added DIPEA (0.25 mL, 1.45 mmol)
   and HIATU (41 mg, 0.11 mmol). Upon completion the reaction was diluted with H20 and the
   aqueous layer extracted with EtOAc (3X). The combined organics were washed with H20, brine,
 5 dried with MgSO4, filtered, and concentrated. Purification of the concentrate was performed using
   Agilent Prep Method X to give the title compound (20 mg). MS (ESI) mass calcd. C22H18BrFN402,
   468.1; m/z found 469.1 [M+H]*. 'H NMR (400 MHz, Chloroform-d, Compound present as a
   mixture of rotamers (0.79:0.21), major rotamer reported) 6 8.80 (d, J= 4.8 Hz, 2H), 8.08 (d, J= 8.0
   Hz, 1H), 7.77 (d, J= 2.5 Hz, 1H), 7.64 (dd, J= 8.8, 2.5 Hz, 1H), 7.39 - 7.30 (m, 1H), 7.23 (t, J= 4.9
 0 Hz, 1H), 6.81 - 6.72 (m, 2H), 4.86 (dt, J= 10.1, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.11 - 4.02 (m, 1H), 3.65 (dt, J= 10.9,
   3.1 Hz, 1H), 3.44 (dd, J= 10.8, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 2.66 - 2.59 (m, 1H), 2.25 - 2.15 (m, 1H), 1.42 - 1.34
   (m, 2H), 1.22 - 1.13 (m, 1H).
   Example 48: ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(3-fluoro
25 2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone
                       N
           N    0
   Br           O              F
                      \   N
                                               -100-

           Prepared analogous to Example 47 substituting intermediate A-6 with intermediate A-2. MS
   (ESI) mass calcd. C22Hi8BrFN402, 468.1; m/z found 469.1 [M+H]*.        1H NMR
                                                                                   (400 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.88:0.12), major rotamer reported) 1H
   NMR (400 MHz, Chloroform-d) 6 8.85 (d, J = 4.9 Hz, 2H), 7.90 - 7.83 (m, 1H), 7.66 (dd, J = 8.8,
 5 2.5 Hz, 1H), 7.29 - 7.26 (m, 1H), 7.16 - 7.07 (m, 1H), 7.05 - 6.96 (m, 1H), 6.91 (dd, J= 7.5, 1.3 Hz,
   1H), 6.67 (d, J= 8.7 Hz, 1H), 4.96 (dt, J= 10.1, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.27 - 4.16 (m, 1H), 3.34 - 3.24 (m,
   2H), 2.52 (s, 1H), 2.23 - 2.11 (m, 1H), 1.40 (d, J= 10.8 Hz, 1H), 1.31 (dt, J= 13.5, 3.6 Hz, 1H),
   0.98 - 0.87 (m, 1H).
 0 Example 49: (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                NO N
          NII;  00         \
   Br                 N-N
                          N
           Prepared analogous to Example 47 substituting intermediate A-6 with intermediate A-1. MS
   (ESI) mass calcd. C2aHi8BrN5O2, 439.1; m/z found 440.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
 5 Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.89:0.11), major rotamer reported) 6
   7.85 (dd, J= 8.2, 1.1 Hz, 1H), 7.81 (s, 2H), 7.75 (dd, J= 2.5, 0.7 Hz, 1H), 7.64 (dd, J= 8.7, 2.6 Hz,
   1H), 7.41 - 7.35 (m, 1H), 7.05 (dd, J= 7.7, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 6.91 (td, J= 7.6, 1.2 Hz, 1H), 6.65 (d, J
   8.7 Hz, 1H), 4.89 (dt, J= 10.2, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.05 - 3.97 (m, 1H), 3.59 (dt, J= 10.9, 3.2 Hz, 1H),
   3.38 (dd, J= 10.9, 1.4 Hz, 1H), 2.63 - 2.56 (m, 1H), 2.23 - 2.12 (m, 1H), 1.41 - 1.33 (m, 2H), 1.29
20 1.23 (m, 1H).
                                               - 101 -

   Example 50: ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(6-methyl
   3-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone
           N   O
   Br                  N-N
                           N
            Prepared analogous to Example 47 substituting intermediate A-6 with intermediate A-20.
 5 MS (ESI) mass calcd. C2oH19BrN602, 454.1; m/z found 455.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.85: 0.15), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.03 (d, J= 8.4 Hz, 1H), 7.82 (s, 2H), 7.70 (dd, J= 2.6, 0.7 Hz, 1H), 7.56 (dd, J= 8.8, 2.6 Hz, 1H),
   7.14 (d, J= 8.4 Hz, 1H), 6.66 (dd, J= 8.6, 0.7 Hz, 1H), 4.82 (dt, J= 10.2, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.23 - 4.16
   (m, 1H), 3.65 (dt, J= 11.0, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.43 (dd, J= 10.9, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 2.63 - 2.58 (m, 1H), 2.30 (s,
 0 3H), 2.23 - 2.11 (m, 1H), 1.48 - 1.33 (m, 3H).
   Example 51: (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((3-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                  N
                 0
                       N
15          Step A: (1 S,4R,6R)-tert-butyl 6-((3-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane-2-carboxylate. To intermediate B-5 (101 mg, 0.474 mmol) dissolved in
   DMF (3 mL) was added NaH (38 mg, 0.95 mmol, 60% dispersion in mineral oil). After 5 minutes
   the sides of the flask were rinsed with additional DMF (1.0 mL) and 2-fluoro-3
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridine (0.091 mL, 0.76 mmol) was then added and the mixture heated to 70 'C.
20 After heating at 70 'C for 3 h, the mixture was cooled to room temperature, quenched with saturated
   NH4Cl solution, diluted with EtOAc and H20. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc (3X).
   The combined organics were washed with H20, 5% aqueous LiCl, brine, dried with Na2SO4,
   filtered, and concentrated. Purification via silica gel chromatography (0-35% EtOAc in hexanes)
                                                -102-

   gave the title compound (87 mg, 0.24 mmol, 510%) as a white solid. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for
   C17H21F3N203,    358.2; m/z found 303.1 [M+2H-tBu]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz, Chloroform-d,
   Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, (0.68:.0.32), major rotamer reported) 6 8.35 - 8.25 (m,
   1H), 7.90 - 7.82 (m, 1H), 6.96 (dd, J = 7.5, 5.0 Hz, 1H), 5.32 (dt, J = 10.1, 3.1 Hz, 1H), 4.64 - 4.58
 5 (m, 1H), 3.42 (dt, J= 9.5, 3.1 Hz, 1H), 3.15 (d, J= 9.5 Hz, 1H), 2.61 - 2.56 (m, 1H), 2.27 - 2.15 (m,
   1H), 1.76 - 1.66 (m, 1H), 1.63 (br. s, 1H), 1.48 (dt, J= 13.5, 3.5 Hz, 1H), 1.08 (s, 9H).
            Step B: (1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptane
   xHCl. To the title compound of step A (86 mg, 0.24 mmol) in EtOAc (1 mL) was added 4M HCl in
   dioxane (3 mL). After 2h, the reaction was concentrated to give the title compound of step B (76.5
 0 mg) as a white solid and used without further purification. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C12H13F3N20,
   258.1; m/z found 259.1 [M+H]*.
            Step C: (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((3-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone. To the title compound of step B (25 mg) and
   intermediate A-I (18 mg, 0.093 mmol) in DMF (0.8 mL) was added DIPEA (75 pL, 0.44 mmol)
 5 and HATU (36 mg, 0.093 mmol), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h.
   The reaction was quenched by the addition of H20 and the aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc
   (3X). The combined organics were washed with H20, 5% aqueous LiCl, brine, dried with Na2SO4,
   filtered, and concentrated. Purification via silica gel chromatography ( 0 - 6 0 % EtOAc in hexanes)
   gave the title compound (29 mg). MS (ESI) mass calcd. C21Hi8F3N502, 429.1; m/z found 430.1
 0 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz, Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers,
   (0.76:0.24), major rotamer reported) 6 7.93 - 7.82 (m, 4H), 7.81 (s, 2H), 7.07 (dd, J = 7.7, 1.5 Hz,
   1H), 6.93 - 6.86 (m, 1H), 6.75 (td, J = 7.6, 1.2 Hz, 1H), 5.04 (dt, J = 10.2, 3.4 Hz, 1H), 4.15 - 4.04
   (m, 1H), 3.66 (dt, J = 10.9, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 3.38 (dd, J = 10.9, 1.4 Hz, 1H), 2.66 - 2.60 (m, 1H), 2.27
   2.15 (m, 1H), 1.48 (dt, J = 13.3, 3.6 Hz, 1H), 1.44 - 1.37 (m, 1H), 1.36 - 1.28 (m, 1H).
25
   Example 52: (6-methyl-3-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                                                - 103  -

      N                  N_
            CF 3  N-N
            Prepared analogous to Example 51 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-20.
   MS (ESI) mass calcd. C21H19F3N602, 444.2; m/z found 445.0 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, (0.72:0.28), major rotamer reported) 6
 5 8.01 (d, J = 8.5 Hz, 1H), 7.83 - 7.78 (in, 4H), 7.05 (d, J = 8.4 Hz, 1H), 6.85 - 6.78 (in, 1H), 4.97 (dt,
   J= 10.4, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.31 (br. s, 1H), 3.70 (dt, J= 10.9, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 3.42 (d, J= 10.9 Hz, 1H),
   2.66 - 2.62 (in, 1H), 2.23 - 2.14 (in, 1H), 2.10 (s, 3H), 1.58 - 1.15 (in, 3H).
   Example 53: (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
 0 yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                     4 N
            N    NH O
   F 3C                  N-N
                           'N
            Step A: (1 S,4S,6R)-tert-butyl 6-((5 -(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane-2-carboxylate. To a microwave vial containing degassed toluene (9 mL)
   was added Pd(OAc)2 (24 mg, 0.035 mmol) and racemic BINAP (22 mg, 0.035 mmol) at room
15 temperature and the reaction mixture was purged with N2 for 5 min. Then, 2-chloro-5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridine (159 mg, 0.874 mmol), intermediate B-10 (204 mg), and sodium tert
   butoxide (121 mg, 1.22 mmol) were added and the reaction mixture heated to 70 'C overnight.
   Upon completion of the reaction, the mixture was cooled to room temperature, filtered through
   Celite and the filter pad washed with EtOAc. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo and the crude
20 residue subjected directly to silica gel chromatography (0-50% EtOAc in hexanes) to give the title
   compound of step A (198 mg, 0.554 mmol, 63%). MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C17H22F3N302, 357.2;
   m/z found 358.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz, Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of
   rotamers, major rotamer reported) 6 8.33 (s, IH), 7.55 (d, J = 8.8 Hz, IH), 6.37 (d, J = 8.8 Hz, IH),
   5.11 - 4.97 (in, IH), 4.41 (s, IH), 4.27 - 4.18 (in, IH), 3.44 - 3.36 (in, IH), 3.08 (d, J= 9.7 Hz, IH),
                                                 -104-

   2.62 - 2.55 (m, 1H), 2.39 - 2.26 (m, 1H), 1.68 - 1.61 (m, 1H), 1.45 - 1.43 (m, 1H), 1.48 and 1.22
   (two s, 9H).
            Step B: Step B: (1 S,4R,6R)-N-(5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan
   6-amine - xHCl. To the title compound of step A (198 mg, 0.554 mmol) in EtOAc (3 mL) was
 5 added 4M HCl in dioxane (14 mL). After lh, the reaction was concentrated to give the title
   compound of step B (183 mg), which was used without further purification. MS (ESI) mass calcd.
   for C12H14F3N3, 257.1; m/z found 258.1 [M+H]*.
            Step C: (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone. To the title compound of step B (30 mg) and
 0 intermediate A-1 (19 mg, 0.10 mmol) in DMF (1 mL) was added DIPEA (94 pL, 0.55 mmol) and
   HATU (38 mg, 0.10 mmol), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The
   reaction was quenched by the addition of H20 and the aqueous layer was extracted with 4:1
   EtOAc/hexanes (3xX). The combined organics were washed with H20, 5% aqueous LiCl, brine,
   dried with Na2SO4, filtered, and concentrated. Purification via silica gel chromatography (2 5 - 10 0 %
 5 EtOAc (with 10% MeOH) in hexanes) gave the title compound (20 mg). MS (ESI) mass calcd.
   C21H19F3N60, 428.2; m/z found 429.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6, Compound
   presents as a mixture of rotamers, major rotamer reported) 6 8.10 (s, 2H), 7.94 - 7.77 (m, 1H), 7.70
   (d, J = 8.1 Hz, 1H), 7.67 - 7.49 (m, 2H), 7.28 (td, J = 7.7, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 6.96 - 6.82 (m, 1H), 6.77
   6.56 (m, 2H), 3.96 (br. s, 1H), 3.64 (br. s, 1H), 3.33 - 3.25 (m, 1H), 3.23 - 3.14 (m, 1H), 2.15 - 2.00
 0 (m, 1H), 1.44 - 1.33 (m, 1H), 1.23 - 1.03 (m, 2H), * 1 H buried under DMSO-d6 peak.
   Example 54: (6-methyl-3-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                       N
                 NH
   F3C                  N-N
                          'N
25          Prepared analogous to Example 53 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-20
   and substituting purification by silica gel chromatography withAgilent Prep Method X. MS (ESI)
   mass calcd. C21H2oF3N70, 443.2; m/z found 444.2 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was obtained on a
                                                 - 105 -

   Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5um, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase of 10-100%
   ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow rate of 1
   mL/min (Temperature = 30 C). Rt = 5.92 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
 5 Example 55: (3-methyl-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
   2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                    4 N
   F 3C                N-N
          Prepared analogous to Example 53 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-22
   and substituting purification by silica gel chromatography withAgilent Prep Method X.MS (ESI)
 0 mass calcd. C22H21F3N60, 442.2; m/z found 443.2 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was obtained on a
   Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5um, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase of 10-100%
   ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow rate of 1
   mL/min (Temperature = 30 C). Rt = 6.85 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
 5 Example 56: (7-ethoxyquinolin-8-yl)((iS,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                       N
          N      NH
                      0
   F3C                     N
          Prepared analogous to Example 53 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-25
   and substituting purification by silica gel chromatography withAgilent Prep Method X.MS (ESI)
20 mass calcd. C24H23F3N402, 456.2; m/z found 457.2 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was obtained on a
   Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5um, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase of 10-100%
   ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow rate of 1
   mL/min (Temperature = 30 C). Rt = 6.45 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
                                                -106-

   Example 57: (5-fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
   2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                        N           F
           N     NH
   F 3C                 N-N
                             N
 5         Prepared analogous to Example 53 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A- 10.
   MS (ESI) mass calcd. C21Hi8F4N60, 446.1; m/z found 447.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   Methanol-d4) 6 7.95 (s, 2H), 7.91 - 7.84 (m, 1H), 7.81 (dd, J= 9.0, 4.7 Hz, 1H), 7.56 (d, J= 8.1 Hz,
   1H), 7.12 - 7.02 (m, 1H), 6.78 - 6.67 (m, 1H), 6.67 - 6.47 (m, 1H), 4.02 - 3.91 (m, 1H), 3.85 (br. s,
   1H), 3.42 (dt, J = 11.1, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.30 - 3.27 (m, 1H), 2.63 - 2.55 (m, 1H), 2.26 - 2.14 (m, 1H),
 0 1.51 - 1.40 (m, 1H), 1.28 - 1.16 (m, 2H).
   Example 58: (5-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                                    F
           N3CNH
   F3C '                   N
15         Prepared analogous to Example 53 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-7 and
   substituting purification by silica gel chromatography withAgilent Prep Method X.MS (ESI) mass
   calcd. C23H19F4N50, 457.2; m/z found 458.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d, Compound
   presents as a mixture of rotamers (0.90:0.10), major rotamer reported) 6 8.87 (d, J    = 4.9 Hz, 2H),
   8.03 (dd, J = 8.8, 5.6 Hz, 1H), 7.88 (br. s, 1H), 7.64 - 7.49 (m, 2H), 7.45 (t, J = 4.9 Hz, 1H), 7.04
20 (td, J= 8.6, 2.8 Hz, 1H), 6.70 - 6.53 (m, 2H), 3.96 (br. s, 1H), 3.73 (br. s, 1H), 3.23 - 3.13 (m, 1H),
   2.15 - 2.02 (m, 1H), 1.37 (d, J= 9.7 Hz, 1H), 1.21 - 0.99 (m, 3H). *1 H buried under DMSO-d6
   peak.
                                                 -107-

   Example 59: (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                        N
            N;NH
   F3C      N            N-N
                             N
            Step A: (1 S,4S,6R)-tert-butyl 6-((5 -(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2
 5 azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane-2-carboxylate. To intermediate B-10 (44 mg) and 2-chloro-5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyrazine (45 mg, 0.25 mmol) dissolved in DMF (2 mL) was added K2CO3 (43 mg,
   0.31 mmol) and the mixture heated to 70 'C. After heating at 70 'C for 3.5h, the mixture was
   cooled to room temperature, diluted with H20, and the aqueous layer extracted with EtOAc
   (3X).The combined organics were washed with H20, brine, dried with MgSO4, filtered and
 0 concentrated. Purification via silica gel chromatography (0-45% EtOAc in hexanes) gave the title
   compound (31 mg, 0.087 mmol, 42%). MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C16H21F2N402, 358.2; m/z found
   303.1 [M+2H-tBu]*.1 H NMR (500 MHz, Chloroform-d) 6 8.38 - 8.25 (m, 1H), 7.93 - 7.76 (m, 1H),
   6.25 - 6.12 and 5.57 - 5.44 (2m, 1H), 4.50 - 4.38 (m, 1H), 4.34 - 4.11 (m, 1H), 3.46 - 3.33 (m, 1H),
   3.16 - 3.01 (m, 1H), 2.66 - 2.57 (m, 1H), 2.42 - 2.29 (m, 1H), 1.95 - 0.80 (m, 12H).
 5          Step B: (1 S,4R,6R)-N-(5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-6-amine
    xHCl. To the title compound of step A (31 mg, 0.087 mmol) in EtOAc (0.5 mL) was added 4M
   HCl in dioxane (4 mL). After 1.5 h additional 4 M HCl in dioxane (2 mL) was added. After an
   additional 1.25 h, the reaction was concentrated to give the title compound of step B (31 mg)which
   was used without further purification. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C11H13F3N4, 258.1; m/z found
20 259.1 [M+H]*.
            Step C: (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone. To the title compound of step B (29 mg) and
   intermediate A-1 (18 mg, 0.096 mmol) in DMF (2.0 mL) was added DIPEA (0.1 mL, 0.58 mmol)
   and HATU (37 mg, 0.096 mmol). Upon completion the reaction was diluted with H20 and the
25 aqueous layer extracted with EtOAc (3X). The combined organics were washed with H20, brine,
   dried with MgSO4, filtered, and concentrated. Purification of the concentrate was performed using
   Agilent Prep Method Xto give the title compound (8 mg). MS (ESI) mass calcd. C2oHi8F3N70,
   429.2; m/z found 430.2 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a
                                                 - 108   -

   XBridge C18 column (5um, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over
   8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature = 30 'C). Rt
   = 6.27 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
 5 Example 60: (2-(2H- 1,2,3 -triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrimidin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                     ( N
            N     NH
    F3C      -N         N-N
                          'N
           Step A: (1 S,4S,6R)-tert-butyl 6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrimidin-2-yl)amino)-2
 0 azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptane-2-carboxylate. To a microwave vial containing intermediate B- 10 (218
   mg, 1.03 mmol) in MeCN (5 mL) was added 2-chloro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrimidine (225 mg, 1.23
   mmol) and Et3N (0.21 mL, 1.54 mmol), and the reaction mixture was sealed and heated to 90 'C
   overnight. Upon completion of the reaction, the mixture was cooled to room temperature and
   diluted with H20. The reaction mixture was extracted with EtOAc (3X). The combined organics
 5 were concentrated and the concentrate subjected directly to silica gel chromatography (0-50%
   EtOAc in hexanes) to give the title compound of step A (263 mg, 0.734 mmol, 71%). MS (ESI)
   mass calcd. for C16H21F3N402; 358.2, m/z found 303.1 [M+2H-tBu]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers) 5 8.54-8.36 (m, 2H), 6.18 - 6.09 and
   5.82-5.71 (two m, 1H), 4.49-4.36 (m, 1H), 4.34-4.23 (m, 1H), 3.45 - 3.31 (m, 1H), 3.12 (3.00, 1H),
20 2.63-2.55 (m, 1H), 2.38-2.27 (m, 1H), 1.77 - 1.18 (m, 12H), 1.12-1.02 (m, 1H).
           Step B:(1S,4R,6R)-N-(5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrimidin-2-yl)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-6
   amine - xHCl. To the title compound of step A (263 mg, 0.73 mmol) in EtOAc (2 mL) was added
   4M HCl in dioxane (6 mL), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 5h. The
   reaction was concentrated to give the title compound of step B (230 mg), which was used without
25 further purification. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C1 H13F3N4, 258.1; m/z found 259.1 [M+H].
           Step C: (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrimidin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone. To the title compound of step B (35 mg) and
                                                -109-

   intermediate A-1 (25 mg, 0.13 mmol) in DMF (1 mL) was added DIPEA (0.1 mL, 0.58 mmol) and
   HATU (50 mg, 0.13 mmol), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The
   reaction was quenched by the addition of H20 and the aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc
   (2X). The combined organics were concentrated and the concentrate subjected directly to
 5 purification via Agilient Prep Method X to give the title compound (34 mg). MS (ESI): mass calcd.
   for C2oHi8F3N70, 429.2; m/z found, 430.9 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was obtained on a Agilent
   1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase of 10-100% ACN in
   20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow rate of 1 mL/min
   (Temperature   = 30 C). Rt  = 6.18 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
 0
   Example 61: (6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((iS,4S,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
            N    NH
    F3 C    N          N-N
                           N
            Prepared analogous to Example 59 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-40.
 5 MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C2oH19F3N80, 444.2; m/z found, 445.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.88:0.12), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.23 (s, IH), 8.16 (d, J= 8.4 Hz, IH), 7.92 (s, IH), 7.86 (s, 2H), 7.73 (s, IH), 7.32 (d, J= 8.4 Hz,
   IH), 4.34 - 4.29 (m, IH), 4.19 - 4.11 (m, IH), 3.72 (dt, J= 11.0, 3.2 Hz, IH), 3.33 (dd, J= 11.1, 1.6
   Hz, IH), 2.83 - 2.77 (m, IH), 2.60 (s, 3H), 2.49 - 2.39 (m, IH), 2.00 - 1.93 (m, IH), 1.75 - 1.69 (m,
20 1H), 1.21 (dt, J= 13.2, 3.6 Hz, IH).
                                               -110-

   Example 62:(6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyrimidin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                       N    N
             N   NH
    F3 C               N-N
                         1N
            Prepared analogous to Example 60 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-40.
 5 MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C2oH19F3N80, 444.2; m/z found, 445.9 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.73:0.27), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.52 - 8.44 (m, 1H), 8.36 - 8.30 (m, 1H), 8.21 (d, J= 8.5 Hz, 1H), 7.99 (s, 2H), 7.39 (d, J= 8.5 Hz,
   1H), 4.24 - 4.15 (m, 1H), 4.12 - 4.00 (m, 1H), 3.60 (dt, J= 11.1, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 3.35 - 3.32 (m, 1H),
   2.75 - 2.70 (m, 1H), 2.48 (s, 3H), 2.43 - 2.30 (m, 1H), 1.76 - 1.62 (m, 2H), 1.39 - 1.29 (m, 1H).
 0
   Example 63: (4-methyl-2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5 -(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
   2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                    4N
            N    NH
                      01
   F3C                 N-N
                         'N
15 Example 64: (4-methyl-2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5 -(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
   2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                       N
           ;N ; N H 0
   F3C      N          N-N
                         IN
                                                - 111 -

   Example 65: (4-methyl-2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyrimidin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                  4N
           rN rNH\/
   F3C     AN           N-N
                          'N
 5 Example 66: (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                       N
    F3 C                NH        F
                          \,N
            Prepared analogous to Example 53 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-2.MS
   (ESI): mass calcd. for C23H19F4N50, 457.2; m/z found, 458.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
 0 Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.93:0.07), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.90 (d, J = 5.0 Hz, 2H), 7.93 (s, 1H), 7.57 (dd, J = 8.9, 2.5 Hz, 1H), 7.49 (t, J = 5.0 Hz, 1H), 7.10
   7.03 (m, 1H), 6.91 - 6.83 (m, 1H), 6.84 - 6.76 (m, 1H), 6.60 - 6.52 (m, 1H), 4.17 (s, 1H), 4.14 - 4.03
   (m, 1H), 3.23 (s, 2H), 2.57 - 2.49 (m, 1H), 2.27 - 2.17 (m, 1H), 1.54 (d, J = 11.3 Hz, 1H), 1.26 - 1.17
   (m, 1H), 1.04 (d, J = 10.0 Hz, 1H).
15
   Example 67: (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
    F3C     N                     F
                             N
                                                -112-

           Prepared analogous to Example 59 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-2. MS
   (ESI): mass calcd. for C22Hi8F4N60, 458.1; m/z found, 459.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.83:0.17), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.89 (d, J= 4.9 Hz, 2H), 8.12 (s, 1H), 7.72 (d, J= 1.4 Hz, 1H), 7.37 (t, J= 5.0 Hz, 1H), 7.18 - 7.11
 5 (m, 1H), 7.07 (d, J = 7.5 Hz, 1H), 4.52 (s, 1H), 4.41 - 4.28 (m, 1H), 3.59 - 3.48 (m, 1H), 3.24 (d, J=
   11.6 Hz, 1H), 2.79 - 2.69 (m, 1H), 2.49 - 2.38 (m, 1H), 1.81 - 1.71 (m, 2H), 1.15 - 1.05 (m, 1H). 1H
   buried under solvent.
   Example 68: (3 -fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5 -(trifluoromethyl)pyrimidin-2
 0 yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
          CN>rNH
    F3 C                         F
           Prepared analogous to Example 60 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-2. MS
   (ESI): mass calcd. for C22Hi8F4N60, 458.1; m/z found, 459.9 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (600 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.89:0.11), major rotamer reported) 6
 5 8.91 (d, J= 4.9 Hz, 2H), 8.55 - 8.50 (m, IH), 8.24 - 8.19 (m, IH), 7.49 (t, J= 5.0 Hz, IH), 7.16
   7.08 (m, IH), 7.06 - 6.96 (m, IH), 6.89 (d, J = 7.8 Hz, IH), 4.16 (s, IH), 4.14 - 4.07 (m, IH), 3.28
   3.26 (m, IH), 3.26 - 3.21 (m, IH), 2.58 - 2.52 (m, IH), 2.24 - 2.14 (m, IH), 1.54 (d, J= 10.0 Hz,
   IH), 1.34 - 1.28 (m, IH), 1.09 - 1.01 (m, IH).
20 Example 69: (2-(3-methyl-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
   2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                       N
           N    NH
                         N
                                                - 113 -

  Example 70: (3 -fluoro-2-(3 -methyl-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
  (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                      N
             N NH
  F 3C           H   OF
                        N'o
5
  Example 71: (4-fluoro-2-(3-methyl-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
  (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                NHO
   F3 C
                        N
           N    NH
0 Example 72: (3-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-5-methylpyridin-2-yl)((
                     0F                                              1S,4S,6R)-6-((5
  (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo
   F3 C    N                                         [2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                         N
                         N
                    F
                                             - 114 -

   Example 73: (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                        N
           NO0
                  N    0
    F 3C                 N      F
           Prepared analogous to Example 76 substituting intermediate A-40 with intermediate A-2.
 5 The enantiomeric purity of the title compound was confirmed by analytical SFC using a Chiralpak
   AZ-H column (5pm, 250 x 4.6 mm), mobile phase of 35% EtOH+(0.2%TEA): 65% C02, and a
   flow rate of 2 mL/min over 45 minutes (Temperature  =  40 C). Elution was monitored following
   absorbance at 220nm. Enantiopurity 100%, which elutes as a major peak (Rt = 10.8 min). MS (ESI):
   mass calcd. for C24H2oF4N402, 472.2; m/z found, 473.2 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was obtained on
 0 a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase of 10-100%
   ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow rate of 1
   mL/min (Temperature = 30 C). Rt = 7.18 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
   Example 74: (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
 5 yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone
                        N
             f~     N/
    F3C    N                    F
                           N
   Prepared analogous to Example 77 substituting intermediate A-40 with intermediate A-2. MS (ESI):
   mass calcd. for C23H19F4N502, 473.2; m/z found, 474.1 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was obtained on
   a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase of 10-100%
20 ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow rate of 1
   mL/min (Temperature = 30 C). Rt = 6.39 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
                                              - 115 -

   Example 75: (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrimidin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone
                         N
   F3C        N           N       F
                        \     N
 5 Example 76: (6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
            N   O
    F3C                   N-N
            Step A: (1 S,4R,6R)-tert-butyl 6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octane-2-carboxylate. To intermediate C-5B (196 mg, 0.862 mmol) dissolved in
 0 DMF (7 mL) was added NaH (69 mg, 1.7 mmol, 60% dispersion in mineral oil). After 5 minutes 2
   chloro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridine (250 mg, 1.38 mmol) was then added and the mixture stirred at
   room temperature for 90 min. The reaction mixture was quenched with saturated NH4Cl solution,
   and diluted with EtOAc and H20. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc (3X). The
   combined organics were washed with H20, brine, dried with MgSO4, filtered and concentrated.
15 Purification via silica gel chromatography (0-50% EtOAc in hexanes) gave the title compound (250
   mg, 0.671 mmol, 78%). MS (ESI) mass calcd. for Ci8H23F3N203, 372.2; m/z found 373.0 [M+H]*.
            Step B: (1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octane
   xHCl. To the title compound of step A (250 mg, 0.671 mmol) in EtOAc (8 mL) was added 4 M
   HCl in dioxane (0.84 mL), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The
20 reaction was then concentrated to give the title compound of step B which was used without further
   purification. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C13H I5F3N20, 272.1; mlz found 273.1 [M+H]*.
            Step C: (6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone. To the title compound
                                                -116-

   of step B (35 mg) and intermediate A-40 (75 mg, 0.15 mmol, 42% purity) in DMF (1 mL) was
   added DIPEA (0.13 mL, 0.77 mmol) and HATU (54 mg, 0.14 mmol), and the reaction mixture was
   stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction mixture was diluted with MeOH and subjected
   directly to purification using Agilent Prep Method X to give the title compound (28 mg). MS (ESI):
 5 mass calcd. for C22H21F3N602, 458.2; m/z found, 459.2 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was obtained on
   a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase of 10-100%
   ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow rate of 1
   mL/min (Temperature = 30 C). Rt = 7.14 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
 0 Example 77: (6-methyl-3-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone
                NO
                          N
    F3 CINIINN
            Step A: (1 S,4R,6R)-tert-butyl 6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octane-2-carboxylate. To intermediate C-5B (52 mg, 0.23 mmol) dissolved in
 5 DMF (2 mL) was added NaH (18 mg, 0.46 mmol, 60% dispersion in mineral oil). After 5 minutes
   2-chloro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazine (45 pL, 0.37 mmol) was then added and the mixture stirred at
   room temperature for 1 h. The reaction mixture was quenched with saturated NH4Cl solution, and
   diluted with EtOAc and H20. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc (3X). The combined
   organics were washed with H20, brine, dried with MgSO4, filtered, and concentrated. Purification
20 via silica gel chromatography (0-50% EtOAc in hexanes) gave the title compound (75 mg, 0.20
   mmol, 88%). MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C17H22F3N303, 373.1; m/z found 317.9 [M+2H-tBu]*.
            Step B: (1S,4R,6R)-6-((5 -(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octane
   xHCl. To the title compound of step A (75 mg, 0.20 mmol) in EtOAc (3 mL) was added 4M HCl in
   dioxane (0.25 mL), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. Analysis of
25 the reaction mixture showed unreacted starting material. An additional equivalent of 4M HCl in
   dioxane (0.25 mL) was added and the reaction mixture stirred at room temperature overnight. The
                                                -117-

   reaction was concentrated to give the title compound of step B (55 mg), which was used without
   further purification. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C12H14F3N30, 273.1; m/z found 274.1 [M+H]*.
            Step C: (6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone. To the title compound
 5 of step B (27 mg) and intermediate A-40 (58 mg, 0.12 mmol) in DMF (1 mL) was added DIPEA
   (0.1 mL, 0.59 mmol) and HATU (41 mg, 0.11 mmol), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room
   temperature overnight. The reaction was diluted with MeOH and the crude reaction mixture
   subjected directly to purification via Agilent Prep Method X to give the title compound (5.2 mg).
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C21H2F3N702, 459.2; m/z found, 460.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
 0 CDCl3) 6 8.28 - 8.24 (m, 1H), 8.15 - 8.11 (m, 1H), 8.08 - 8.02 (m, 1H), 7.83 - 7.79 (s, 2H), 7.13
   7.09 (d, J = 8.3 Hz, 1H), 5.03 - 4.94 (m, 1H), 3.84 - 3.75 (m, 2H), 3.68 - 3.58 (m, 1H), 2.77 - 2.63
   (m, 1H), 2.29 - 2.24 (s, 3H), 2.25 - 2.18 (m, 3H), 1.93 - 1.81 (m, 1H), 1.71 - 1.62 (m, 1H), 1.50
   1.43 (m, 1H).
 5 Example 78: (6-methyl-3-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyrimidin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone
                  N O       N
           rN    0     0
   F3C                   N-N
                           'N
   Example 79: (6-methyl-3-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
20 (trifluoromethyl)pyrimidin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone
            N    NH
   F3C                   N-N
                                                  1,N
                                                - 118 -

   Example 80: (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone
                       N
    F3C     N                    F
                            N
            Prepared analogous to Example 83 substituting intermediate A-40 with intermediate A-2.
 5 MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C23H2oF4N60, 472.2; m/z found, 472.9 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was
   obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase
   of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow
   rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature = 30 C). Rt = 6.44 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
 0 Example 81: (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrimidin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone
                       N
           rN>NH\/
                        N_
   F3 0                          F
   Example 82: (6-methyl-3-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
15 (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone
                       NN
            N    NH
                      0
   F 3C                 N-N
                                                1,N
                                              - 119 -

   Example 83:(6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone
            N     NH
    F 3C    N           N-N
 5          Step A:(1S,4R,6R)-tert-butyl 6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octane-2-carboxylate. To a microwave vial containing intermediate C-7B (193 mg,
   0.853 mmol) in MeCN (4 mL) was added 2-chloro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazine (0.1 mL, 0.82
   mmol) and Et3N (0.14 mL, 1.02 mmol), and the reaction mixture was sealed and heated to reflux
   bench top overnight. Upon completion of the reaction, the crude reaction mixture was concentrated
 0 and subjected directly to silica gel chromatography (0-50% EtOAc in hexanes) to give the title
   compound of step A (245 mg, 0.658 mmol, 77%) MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C17H23F3N402; 372.2,
   m/z found 373.2 [M+H]*.
            Step B:(1S,4R,6R)-N-(5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-6-amine
   xHCl. To the title compound of step A (245 mg, 0.658 mmol) in EtOAc (8 mL) was added 4M HCl
 5 in dioxane (0.82 mL), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The
   reaction was concentrated to give the title compound of step B (179 mg), which was used without
   further purification. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C12HI5F3N4, 272.1; m/z found 273.1 [M+H]*.
            Step C: (6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone. To the title
20 compound of step B (35 mg) and intermediate A-40 (75 mg, 0.15 mmol, 42 % purity) in DMF (1.3
   mL) was added DIPEA (0.13 mL, 0.77 mmol) and HATU (54 mg, 0.14 mmol), and the reaction
   mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction was diluted with MeOH and the
   crude reaction mixture subjected directly to purification via Agilent Prep Method X to give the title
   compound (26 mg). MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C21H21F3N80, 458.2; m/z found, 459.2 [M+H]*.
25 Analytical HPLC was obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x
   4.6mm), mobile phase of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100%
                                                -120-

   ACN for 3 min, at a flow rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature      = 30 'C). Rt = 5.97 min (major rotamer) at
   254 nm.
   Example 84: (6-methyl-3-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
 5 (trifluoromethyl)pyrimidin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone
                       N      N
            N    NH
   F3C       AN        N-N
                          'N
   Example 85: (3 -fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-(6- 2H)-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
              D        N
            NO0
    F3C                          F
 0                           N
            Prepared analogous to Example 27 where the reduction of intermediate B-5 is carried out
   with NaBD4 instead of L-Selectride. MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C23H17DF4N402, 459.1; m/z found,
   460.1 [M+H].    1H NMR (500 MHz, Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers
   (0.83:0.17), major rotamer reported) 6 8.91 (d, J  = 5.0 Hz, 2H), 8.19 - 8.13 (m, 1H), 7.96 (dd, J=
15 8.7, 2.6 Hz, 1H), 7.50 (t, J= 5.0 Hz, 1H), 7.18 - 7.13 (m, 1H), 7.06 - 6.97 (m, 2H), 6.88 (dd, J= 7.6,
   1.1 Hz, 1H), 4.33 - 4.23 (m, 1H), 3.27 - 3.24 (m, 2H), 2.59 - 2.53 (m, 1H), 2.30 - 2.21 (m, 1H), 1.54
   (d, J= 10.6 Hz, 1H), 1.37 (dd, J= 13.5, 3.6 Hz, 1H), 1.01 - 0.91 (m, 1H).
   Example 86: (3 -fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
20 yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]- (3- 2H, 2 H)-heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                                                - 121 -

                          D
                            F
                       N
               NO
    F3 0                         F
                         \,N
            Prepared analogous to Example 27 where the Diels-Alder reaction to intermediate B-I is
   carried out with formaldehyde-d2 instead of formaldehyde. MS (ESI): mass calcd. for
   C23H16D2F4N402,    460.1; m/z found, 461.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz, Chloroform-d, Compound
 5 present as a mixture of rotamers (0.88:0.12), major rotamer reported) 6 8.86 (d, J = 4.9 Hz, 2H),
   8.15 - 8.09 (m, 1H), 7.79 (dd, J= 8.8, 2.5 Hz, 1H), 7.30 - 7.27 (m, 1H), 7.10 - 7.03 (m, 1H), 6.96
   6.86 (m, 2H), 6.84 (d, J= 8.7 Hz, 1H), 5.07 (dt, J= 10.1, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.31 - 4.19 (m, 1H), 2.56
   2.48 (m, 1H), 2.27 - 2.12 (m, 1H), 1.46 - 1.40 (m, 1H), 1.36 (dt, J= 13.6, 3.6 Hz, 1H), 0.96 - 0.86
   (m, 1H).
 0
   Example 87: (2-(2H- 1,2,3 -triazol-2-yl)pyridin-3 -yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5 -(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                  C    NN
                                N
    F3 C%
            Prepared analogous to Example 25 substituting intermediate A-20 with intermediate A-39.
15 MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C2oH17F3N602, 430.1; m/z found, 431.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.88:0.12), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.43 (dd, J= 4.8, 1.8 Hz, 1H), 8.18 - 8.11 (m, 1H), 8.11 - 8.02 (m, 2H), 7.95 (dd, J= 8.6, 2.5 Hz,
   1H), 7.71 - 7.55 (m, 1H), 7.12 - 6.90 (m, 2H), 5.08 (dt, J= 10.1, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 4.01 (s, 1H), 3.57 (dt,
   J= 11.1, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.35 (dd, J= 11.1, 1.7 Hz, 1H), 2.75 - 2.64 (m, 1H), 2.37 - 2.24 (m, 1H), 1.57
20 (d, J= 10.4 Hz, 1H), 1.53 - 1.35 (m, 2H).
   Example 88: (5-methyl-2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                                                - 122 -

                       N
            N    O
    F3 C               N-N
            Prepared analogous to Example 25 substituting intermediate A-20 with intermediate A-38.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C21H19F3N602, 444.2; m/z found, 445.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.90:0.10), major rotamer reported) 6
 5 8.26 - 8.21 (m, 1H), 8.19 - 8.14 (m, 1H), 8.05 (s, 2H), 7.98 (dd, J= 8.7, 2.6 Hz, 1H), 7.50 - 7.46 (m,
   1H), 6.99 (d, J = 8.8 Hz, 1H), 5.06 (dt, J = 10.4, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 4.05 - 3.97 (m, 1H), 3.54 (dt, J = 11.0,
   3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.35 (dd, J= 11.1, 1.6 Hz, 1H), 2.68 - 2.62 (m, 1H), 2.32 - 2.19 (m, 1H), 2.08 (s, 3H),
   1.56 (d, J= 10.7 Hz, 1H), 1.47 - 1.35 (m, 2H).
 0 Example 89: (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
            NO0
    F3 C
                     F
            Prepared analogous to Example 25 substituting intermediate A-20 with intermediate A-34.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C23Hi8F4N402, 458.1; m/z found, 459.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
15 Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, (0.85:0.15), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.85 - 8.80 (m, 2H), 8.17 (dd, J = 8.1, 1.3 Hz, 1H), 8.09 - 8.03 (m, 1H), 7.95 (dd, J = 8.8, 2.6 Hz,
   1H), 7.39 - 7.31 (m, 1H), 7.05 - 6.96 (m, 2H), 6.92 (td, J = 7.5, 1.2 Hz, 1H), 5.11 (dt, J = 10.2, 3.3
   Hz, 1H), 4.16 - 4.10 (m, 1H), 3.61 (dt, J = 10.9, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.35 - 3.33 (m, 1H), 2.74 - 2.65 (m,
   1H), 2.36 - 2.26 (m, 1H), 1.59 - 1.53 (m, 1H), 1.46 (dt, J = 13.4, 3.7 Hz, 1H), 1.41 - 1.32 (m, 1H).
20
   Example 90: (3-fluoro-2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                                                - 123 -

                        N
            NO 0
    F3 C                          F
                     F
            Prepared analogous to Example 25 substituting intermediate A-20 with intermediate A-35.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C23H17F5N402, 476.1; m/z found, 477.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, (0.81:0.19), major rotamer reported) 6
 5 8.88 (d, J = 0.7 Hz, 2H), 8.21 - 8.15 (m, 1H), 7.96 (dd, J = 8.8, 2.6 Hz, 1H), 7.19 - 7.13 (m, 1H),
   7.07 - 6.99 (m, 2H), 6.91 (dd, J = 7.6, 0.9 Hz, 1H), 5.17 (dt, J = 10.2, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.31 - 4.21 (m,
   1H), 3.35 - 3.32 (m, 1H), 3.27 - 3.23 (m, 1H), 2.63 - 2.59 (m, 1H), 2.32 - 2.25 (m, 1H), 1.65 - 1.56
   (m, 1H), 1.39 (dt, J = 13.6, 3.6 Hz, 1H), 1.20 - 1.05 (m, 1H).
 0 Example 91: (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-3-methylphenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                        N
            NO0
    F3 C                N
                     F
            Prepared analogous to Example 25 substituting intermediate A-20 with intermediate A-36.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C24H2oF4N402, 472.2; m/z found, 473.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
15 Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, (0.81:0.19), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.85 (d, J = 0.8 Hz, 2H), 8.21 - 8.10 (m, 1H), 7.96 (dd, J = 8.8, 2.6 Hz, 1H), 7.25 - 7.18 (m, 1H),
   7.08 - 6.96 (m, 1H), 6.96 - 6.79 (m, 2H), 5.17 (dt, J= 10.2, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.33 - 4.23 (m, 1H), 3.27
   3.16 (m, 2H), 2.58 (s, 1H), 2.33 - 2.22 (m, 4H), 1.62 - 1.56 (m, 1H), 1.37 (dt, J = 13.5, 3.6 Hz, 1H),
   1.21 - 1.02 (m, 1H).
20
                                                - 124 -

   Example 92: (6-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5 -(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
   2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N      ...
            N   O
    F3CN
                           N
           Prepared analogous to Example 25 substituting intermediate A-20 with intermediate A-4 1.
 5 MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C23H2oF3N502, 455.2; m/z found, 456.2 [M+H]*. 'H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, (0.90:0.10), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.87 (d, J = 4.9 Hz, 2H), 8.47 (d, J = 8.2 Hz, 1H), 8.05 - 7.99 (m, 1H), 7.86 (dd, J = 8.8, 2.5 Hz,
   1H), 7.42 (t, J= 4.9 Hz, 1H), 7.22 (d, J= 8.2 Hz, 1H), 6.91 - 6.87 (m, 1H), 4.99 (dt, J= 10.3, 3.4
   Hz, 1H), 4.32 - 4.25 (m, 1H), 3.66 (dt, J= 10.9, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.39 (dd, J= 10.9, 1.6 Hz, 1H), 2.71
 0 2.66 (m, 1H), 2.33 - 2.24 (m, 1H), 2.19 (s, 3H), 1.62 - 1.54 (m, 1H), 1.49 (dt, J= 13.4, 3.7 Hz, 1H),
   1.44 - 1.32 (m, 1H).
   Example 93: (3-phenylpyrazin-2-yl)((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
            N   O
                                 N
    F3 C
15
           Prepared analogous to Example 25 substituting intermediate A-20 with intermediate A-43.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C23H19F3N402, 440.1; m/z found, 441.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, major rotamer reported) 6 8.52 (d, J       = 2.4
   Hz, 1H), 8.04 - 8.01 (m, 1H), 7.93 (d, J= 2.5 Hz, 1H), 7.89 (dd, J= 8.8, 2.7 Hz, 1H), 7.75 - 7.71
20 (m, 2H), 7.56 - 7.53 (m, 3H), 6.91 - 6.84 (m, 1H), 4.95 (dt, J= 10.3, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.11 - 3.99 (m,
   1H), 3.38 - 3.34 (m, 2H), 2.57 - 2.52 (m, 1H), 2.27 - 2.12 (m, 1H), 1.45 - 1.35 (m, 2H), 0.68 - 0.59
   (m, 1H).
                                               - 125 -

   Example 94: (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((6-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                        N
    F3C     N     0
                                  F
                             N
            Step A: (1 S,4R,6R)-tert-butyl 6-((6-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
 5 azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane-2-carboxylate. To intermediate B-5 (50 mg, 0.23 mmol) dissolved in
   DMF (1 mL) was added NaH (19 mg, 0.47 mmol, 60% dispersion in mineral oil). After 5 minutes
   the sides of the flask were rinsed with additional DMF (1 mL) and 2-fluoro-6
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridine (0.045 mL, 0.38 mmol) was then added and the mixture stirred overnight
   at room temperature. The mixture was quenched with saturated NH4Cl solution, diluted with
 0 EtOAc and H20. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc (3X). The combined organics were
   washed with H20, 5 % aqueous LiCl, brine, dried with Na2SO4, filtered, and concentrated.
   Purification via silica gel chromatography ( 0 - 4 0 % EtOAc in hexanes) gave the title compound (29
   mg, 0.080 mmol, 34%) as a clear oil. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C17H21F3N203, 358.2; mlz found
   303.1 [M+2H-tBu]*.
 5          Step B: (1 S,4R,6R)-6-((6-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptane
   xHCl. To the title compound of step A (28 mg, 0.078 mmol) in EtOAc (1 mL) was added 4M HCl
   in dioxane (0.1 mL). After 4h, the reaction was concentrated to give the title compound of step B
   (23 mg) as a pink solid and used without further purification. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for
   C12H13F3N20,    258.1; m/z found 259.1 [M+H]*.
20          Step C: (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((6-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone. To the title compound of step B (23 mg) and
   intermediate A-2 (25 mg, 0.094 mmol) in DMF (1.1 mL) was added DIPEA (81 pL, 0.47 mmol)
   and HATU (33 mg, 0.086 mmol), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h.
   The reaction was quenched by the addition of H20 and the aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc
25 (3X). The combined organics were concentrated. Purification of the concentrate was performed
   using Agilent Prep Method Xto give the title compound (15 mg). MS (ESI): mass calcd. for
   C23Hi8F4N402, 458.1; m/z found, 459.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz, Methanol-d4, Compound
                                                -126-

   present as a mixture of rotamers, (0.84:0.16), major rotamer reported) 6 8.89 (d, J = 4.9 Hz, 2H),
   7.95 - 7.88 (m, 1H), 7.48 (t, J = 5.0 Hz, 1H), 7.33 (d, J= 7.5 Hz, 1H), 7.17 - 7.10 (m, 2H), 7.05
   6.99 (m, 1H), 6.86 (dd, J = 7.9, 1.0 Hz, 1H), 5.12 (dt, J= 10.2, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.29 - 4.25 (m, 1H),
   3.26 (t, J = 3.0 Hz, 1H), 3.25 (s, 1H), 2.58 (s, 1H), 2.32 - 2.24 (m, 1H), 1.60 (d, J = 10.1 Hz, 1H),
 5 1.38 (dt, J= 13.5, 3.6 Hz, 1H), 1.11 - 1.05 (m, 1H).
   Example 95: (3 -fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((4-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                  N
         NOO
          NN
                            F
      CF3              N
 0          Step A: (1 S,4R,6R)-tert-butyl 6-((4-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane-2-carboxylate. To intermediate B-5 (101 mg, 0.47 mmol) dissolved in
   DMF (3 mL) was added NaH (38 mg, 0.95 mmol, 60% dispersion in mineral oil). After 5 minutes
   the sides of the flask were rinsed with additional DMF (1 mL) and 2-chloro-4
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridine (0.10 mL, 0.76 mmol) was then added and the mixture heated to 70 'C.
 5 After heating at 70 'C for 3 h, the mixture was cooled to room temperature, quenched with saturated
   NH4Cl solution, diluted with EtOAc and H20. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc (3X).
   The combined organics were washed with H20, 5% aqueous LiCl, brine, dried with Na2SO4,
   filtered, and concentrated. Purification via silica gel chromatography ( 0 -4 0 % EtOAc in hexanes)
   gave the title compound (16 mg, 0.045 mmol, 10%) as a yellow-brown solid. MS (ESI) mass calcd.
20 for C17H21F3N203, 358.2; m/z found 359.1 [M+H]+. 1H NMR (400 MHz, Chloroform-d) 6 8.34
   8.23 (m, 1H), 7.12 - 7.04 (m, 1H), 7.01 - 6.92 (m, 1H), 5.35 (dt, J = 10.1, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 4.56 - 4.49
   (m, 1H), 3.41 (dt, J = 9.5, 3.1 Hz, 1H), 3.27 - 3.17 (m, 1H), 2.60 - 2.55 (m, 1H), 2.28 - 2.16 (m, 1H),
   1.80 - 1.71 (m, 1H), 1.68 - 1.62 (m, 1H), 1.53 - 0.93 (m, 1OH).
            Step B: (1 S,4R,6R)-6-((4-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptane
25 xHCl. To the title compound of step A (16 mg, 0.045 mmol) in EtOAc (0.1 mL) was added 4M
   HCl in dioxane (0.1 mL). After 3h, the reaction was concentrated to give the title compound of step
                                                 - 127  -

   B (16 mg) and used without further purification. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C12H13F3N20, 258.1; m/z
   found 259.2 [M+H]*.
            Step C: (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((4-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone. To the title compound of step B (16 mg) and
 5 intermediate A-2 (13 mg, 0.060 mmol) in DMF (0.6 mL) was added DIPEA (56 pL, 0.33 mmol)
   and HATU (23 mg, 0.060 mmol), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h.
   The reaction was quenched by the addition of H20 and the aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc
   (3X). The combined organics were washed with H20, 5% aqueous LiCl, brine, dried with Na2SO4,
   filtered, and concentrated. Purification of the concentrate was performed using Agilent Prep
 0 Method Xto give the title compound (3.4 mg). MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C23Hi8F4N402, 458.1; m/z
   found, 459.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz, Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of
   rotamers, (0.80:0.20), major rotamer reported) 6 8.90 (d, J = 5.0 Hz, 2H), 8.07 (d, J = 5.3 Hz, 1H),
   7.49 (t, J = 5.0 Hz, 1H), 7.20 - 7.11 (m, 3H), 7.03 - 6.97 (m, 1H), 6.91 - 6.87 (m, 1H), 5.16 (dt, J =
   10.2, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.28 - 4.23 (m, 1H), 3.28 - 3.24 (m, 2H), 2.61 - 2.54 (m, 1H), 2.32 - 2.20 (m, 1H),
 5 1.56 (d, J = 10.6 Hz, 1H), 1.38 (dt, J = 13.6, 3.6 Hz, 1H), 1.04 - 0.96 (m, 1H).
   Example 96: (3 -fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                   N
                 0
        ACF3       N-       F
20          Step A: (1 S,4R,6R)-tert-butyl 6-((3-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane-2-carboxylate. To intermediate B-5 (101 mg, 0.47 mmol) dissolved in
   DMF (3 mL) was added NaH (38 mg, 0.95 mmol, 60% dispersion in mineral oil). After 5 minutes
   the sides of the flask were rinsed with additional DMF (1 mL) and 2-fluoro-3
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridine (0.10 mL, 0.76 mmol) was then added and the mixture heated to 70 'C.
25 After heating at 70 'C for 3 h, the mixture was cooled to room temperature, quenched with saturated
   NH4Cl solution, diluted with EtOAc and H20. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc (3X).
   The combined organics were washed with H20, 5% aqueous LiCl, brine, dried with Na2SO4,
                                                - 128   -

   filtered, and concentrated. Purification via silica gel chromatography (0-35% EtOAc in hexanes)
   gave the title compound (87 mg, 0.24 mmol, 510%) as a white solid. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for
   C17H21F3N203,    358.2; m/z found 303.1 [M+2H-tBu]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz, Chloroform-d) 6 8.35
   8.25 (m, 1H), 7.90 - 7.82 (m, 1H), 6.96 (dd, J= 7.5, 5.0 Hz, 1H), 5.32 (dt, J= 10.1, 3.1 Hz, 1H),
 5 4.64 - 4.58 (m, 1H), 3.42 (dt, J= 9.5, 3.1 Hz, 1H), 3.15 (d, J= 9.5 Hz, 1H), 2.61 - 2.56 (m, 1H),
   2.27 - 2.15 (m, 1H), 1.76 - 1.66 (m, 2H), 1.48 (dt, J= 13.5, 3.5 Hz, 1H), 1.08 (s, 9H).
            Step B: (1S,4R,6R)-6-((3-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane
   xHCl. To the title compound of step A (86 mg, 0.24 mmol) in EtOAc (0.9 mL) was added 4M HCl
   in dioxane (3 mL). After 2h, the reaction was concentrated to give the title compound of step B (77
 0 mg) and used without further purification. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C12H13F3N20, 258.1; m/z
   found 259.1 [M+H]*.
            Step C: (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((3-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone. To the title compound of step B (28 mg) and
   intermediate A-2 (23 mg, 0.11 mmol) in DMF (1 mL) was added DIPEA (98 pL, 0.57 mmol) and
 5 HATU (40 mg, 0.11 mmol), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The
   reaction was quenched by the addition of H20 and the aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc
   (3X). The combined organics were washed with H20, 5% aqueous LiCl, brine, dried with Na2SO4,
   filtered, and concentrated. Purification of the concentrate was performed using Agilent Prep
   Method Xto give the title compound (5.4 mg). MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C23Hi8F4N402, 458.1; m/z
 0 found, 459.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz, Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of
   rotamers, (0.86:0.14), major rotamer reported) 6 8.90 (d, J = 5.0 Hz, 2H), 8.05 - 8.01 (m, 2H), 7.49
   (t, J = 5.0 Hz, 1H), 7.17 - 7.11 (m, 1H), 7.08 - 7.04 (m, 1H), 6.96 - 6.90 (m, 1H), 6.77 (dd, J = 7.6,
   1.1 Hz, 1H), 5.20 (dt, J = 10.2, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.32 - 4.28 (m, 1H), 3.29 - 3.26 (m, 1H), 3.25 - 3.20 (m,
   1H), 2.60 - 2.54 (m, 1H), 2.29 - 2.21 (m, 1H), 1.53 (d, J= 10.4 Hz, 1H), 1.40 (dt, J= 13.6, 3.6 Hz,
25 1H), 0.95 - 0.89 (m, 1H).
   Example 97: (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
   2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                                                -129-

                       'N
            N    O
    F3C           F      N-N
                             N
            Step A: (1 S,4R,6R)-tert-butyl 6-((3-fluoro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane-2-carboxylate. To intermediate B-5 (70 mg, 0.33 mmol) and 2,3-difluoro
   5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridine (90 mg, 0.49 mmol) dissolved in DMF (3 mL) was added NaH (18 mg,
 5 0.46 mmol, 60% dispersion in mineral oil) and the reaction mixture was stirred overnight at room
   temperature after which analysis of the reaction mixture showed mainly starting material.
   Additional 2,3-difluoro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridine (0.05 mL) was then added and the reaction
   mixture heated to 70 'C and stirred overnight after which analysis of the reaction mixture still
   showed starting material remaining. Additional 2,3-difluoro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridine (0.05 mL)
 0 was again added and the reaction mixture was heated at 70 'C for an additional 4.5 hours before
   additional 2,3-difluoro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridine (0.05 mL) was added and the reaction stirred
   overnight. After this time analysis still showed incomplete conversion however the reaction was
   cooled to room temperature and quenched with H20. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc
   (3X) and the combined organics were washed with 5% aqueous LiCl, brine, dried with Na2SO4,
 5 filtered, and concentrated. Purification via silica gel chromatography ( 0 -2 5 % EtOAc in hexanes)
   gave the title compound. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C17H2oF4N203, 376.1; mlz found 321.1 [M+2H
   tBu]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz, Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.67:0.33),
   major rotamer reported) 6 8.21 - 8.18 (m, 1H), 7.51 (dd, J= 9.5, 2.1 Hz, 1H), 5.37 (dt, J= 10.1, 3.2
   Hz, 1H), 4.57 - 4.50 (m, 1H), 3.41 (dt, J= 9.5, 3.1 Hz, 1H), 3.22 (dd, J= 9.5, 1.4 Hz, 1H), 2.62
20 2.57 (m, 1H), 2.30 - 2.19 (m, 1H), 1.77 - 1.73 (m, 1H), 1.67 - 1.63 (m, 1H), 1.48 (dt, J= 13.7, 3.6
   Hz, 1H), 1.12 (s, 9H).
            Step B: (1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane -xHCl. To the title compound of step A (130 mg, 0.345 mmol) in EtOAc
   (1 mL) was added 4M HCl in dioxane (3 mL) and the reaction mixture was stirred at room
25 temperature overnight. The reaction was concentrated to give the title compound of step B (114 mg)
   as a yellow oil and used without further purification. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C12H12F4N20, 276.1;
   m/z found 277.1 [M+H]*.
                                                -130-

            Step C: (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone. To the title
   compound of step B (28.5 mg) and intermediate A-I (19 mg, 0.1 mmol) in DMF (0.9 mL) was
   added DIPEA (0.13 mL, 0.73 mmol) and HATU (38 mg, 0.1 mmol), and the reaction mixture was
 5 stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The reaction was quenched by the addition of H20 and the
   aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc (3X). The combined organics were concentrated.
   Purification of the concentrate was performed using Agilent Prep Method Xto give the title
   compound (18 mg). MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C21H17F4N502, 447.1; m/z found, 448.2 [M+H]*. 1H
   NMR (500 MHz, Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.81:0.19), major
 0 rotamer reported) 6 7.87 (s, 1H), 7.81 (s, 2H), 7.57 - 7.50 (m, 2H), 7.37 - 7.30 (m, 2H), 6.96 (t, J=
   7.5 Hz, 1H), 5.05 (dt, J= 10.1, 3.4 Hz, 1H), 4.03 (s, 1H), 3.64 (dt, J= 11.0, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.42 (dd, J
   =  10.9, 1.4 Hz, 1H), 2.72 - 2.62 (m, 1H), 2.36 - 2.20 (m, 1H), 1.51 - 1.36 (m, 3H).
   Example 98: (1S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
 5 azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone.
            N    O
    F3 C          F     N
            Prepared analogous to Example 97 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-40.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C21Hi8F4N602, 462.1; m/z found, 463.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.79:0.21), major rotamer reported) 6
20 8.00 (d, J= 8.4 Hz, 1H), 7.81 (s, 2H), 7.72 - 7.69 (m, 1H), 7.39 (dd, J= 9.4, 2.1 Hz, 1H), 7.07 (d, J
   =  8.4 Hz, 1H), 4.96 (dt, J = 10.3, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.47 - 4.40 (m, 1H), 3.72 (dt, J = 11.0, 3.2 Hz, 1H),
   3.48 (dd, J= 11.0, 1.4 Hz, 1H), 2.72 - 2.64 (m, 1H), 2.29 - 2.21 (m, 4H), 1.66 - 1.61 (m, 1H), 1.57
   1.50 (m, 2H).
25 Example 99: ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)(2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                                                - 131  -

                       N
    F3C           F
                       \    N
            Prepared analogous to Example 97 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-37.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C23Hi8F4N402, 458.1; m/z found, 459.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.81:0.19), major rotamer reported) 6
 5 8.79 (d, J = 4.8 Hz, 2H), 8.21 - 8.18 (m, 1H), 7.89 - 7.84 (m, 1H), 7.57 - 7.52 (m, 1H), 7.36 - 7.29
   (m, 1H), 7.29 - 7.26 (m, 1H), 7.20 (t, J= 4.8 Hz, 1H), 7.01 (td, J= 7.5, 1.3 Hz, 1H), 5.06 (dt, J=
   10.0, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.17 - 4.11 (m, 1H), 3.69 (dt, J= 10.8, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.43 (dd, J= 10.8, 1.5 Hz,
   1H), 2.72 - 2.65 (m, 1H), 2.37 - 2.23 (m, 1H), 1.51 - 1.43 (m, 2H), 1.42 - 1.30 (m, 1H).
 0 Example 100: (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
                          N
    F3 0          FqF
            Prepared analogous to Example 97 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-2. MS
   (ESI): mass calcd. for C23H17F5N402, 476.1; m/z found, 477.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
15 Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.81:0.19), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.85 (d, J= 4.8 Hz, 2H), 8.00 - 7.94 (m, 1H), 7.55 (dd, J= 9.5, 2.1 Hz, 1H), 7.30 - 7.27 (m, 1H),
   7.19 (dd, J= 7.1, 1.7 Hz, 1H), 7.13 - 7.03 (m, 2H), 5.10 (dt, J= 10.0, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.31 - 4.24 (m,
   1H), 3.45 - 3.29 (m, 2H), 2.65 - 2.53 (m, 1H), 2.35 - 2.23 (m, 1H), 1.48 (d, J= 9.9 Hz, 1H), 1.40 (dt,
   J= 13.6, 3.7 Hz, 1H), 1.18 - 0.99 (m, 1H).
20
                                               - 132 -

   Example 101: (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-methylpyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                     N
                        N      F
                       \,N
            Step A: (1 S,4R,6R)-tert-butyl 6-((5-methylpyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptane-2
 5 carboxylate. To intermediate B-5 (101 mg, 0.47 mmol) dissolved in DMF (3 mL) was added NaH
   (38 mg, 0.95 mmol, 60% dispersion in mineral oil). After 5 minutes the sides of the flask were
   rinsed with additional DMF (1 mL) and 2-chloro-5-methylpyridine (0.08 mL, 0.76 mmol) was then
   added and the mixture heated to 70 'C. After heating at 70 'C for 3 h, the mixture was cooled to
   room temperature, quenched with saturated NH4Cl solution, diluted with EtOAc and H20. The
 0 aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc (3X). The combined organics were washed with H20, 5%
   aqueous LiCl, brine, dried with Na2SO4, filtered, and concentrated. Purification via silica gel
   chromatography (0-35% EtOAc in hexanes) gave the title compound (16 mg, 0.053 mmol, 11 %) as
   a white solid. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C17H24N203, 304.2; m/z found 305.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR
   (400 MHz, Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, major rotamer reported) 6
 5 7.97 - 7.89 (m, 1H), 7.37 (dd, J = 8.4, 2.5 Hz, 1H), 6.61 (d, J = 8.5 Hz, 1H), 5.25 (dt, J = 10.1, 3.2
   Hz, 1H), 4.56 - 4.48 (m, 1H), 3.38 (dt, J = 9.5, 3.1 Hz, 1H), 3.19 (d, J = 9.5 Hz, 1H), 2.59 - 2.52 (m,
   1H), 2.23 (s, 3H), 2.20 - 2.14 (m, 1H), 1.76 - 1.68 (m, 1H), 1.65 - 1.60 (m, 1H), 1.35 (dt, J= 13.4,
   3.6 Hz, 1H), 1.14 (s, 9H).
            Step B: (1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-methylpyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane - xHCl. To
20 the title compound of step A (16 mg, 0.053 mmol) in EtOAc (0.1 mL) was added 4M HCl in
   dioxane (0.1 mL). After 3h, the reaction was concentrated to give the title compound of step B (15
   mg) and used without further purification. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C12H16N20, 204.1; m/z found
   205.2 [M+H]*.
            Step C: (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-methylpyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
25 azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone. To the title compound of step B (16 mg) and intermediate
   A-2 (16 mg, 0.07 mmol) in DMF (1 mL) was added DIPEA (69 pL, 0.40 mmol) and HATU (28
   mg, 0.073 mmol), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The reaction
                                                - 133  -

   was quenched by the addition of H20 and the aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc (3X). The
   combined organics were washed with H20, 5% aqueous LiCl, brine, dried with Na2SO4, filtered,
   and concentrated. Purification of the concentrate was performed using Agilent Prep Method Xto
   give the title compound (6 mg). MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C23H21FN402, 404.2; m/z found, 405.1
 5 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz, Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers,
   (0.85:0.15), major rotamer reported) 6 8.89 (d, J = 4.9 Hz, 2H), 7.69 - 7.65 (m, 1H), 7.52 (dd, J=
   8.4, 2.5 Hz, 1H), 7.48 (t, J = 4.9 Hz, 1H), 7.21 - 7.14 (m, 1H), 7.07 - 7.00 (m, 1H), 6.92 (dd, J = 7.6,
   1.1 Hz, 1H), 6.74 (d, J = 8.4 Hz, 1H), 5.02 (dt, J = 10.1, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.25 - 4.19 (m, 1H), 3.26
   3.18 (m, 2H), 2.57 - 2.53 (m, 1H), 2.25 (s, 3H), 2.24 - 2.19 (m, 1H), 1.56 - 1.51 (m, 1H), 1.34 - 1.28
 0 (m, 1H), 1.08 - 1.02 (m, 1H).
   Example 102: (2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-(pyridin-2-yloxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
      N     O     O
                   N-N
                       N
 5          Step A: (1 S,4R,6R)-tert-butyl 6-(pyridin-2-yloxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptane-2
   carboxylate. To intermediate B-5 (150 mg, 0.70 mmol) dissolved in DMF (5 mL) was added NaH
   (37 mg, 0.91 mmol, 60% dispersion in mineral oil). After 5 minutes the sides of the flask were
   rinsed with additional DMF (1 mL) and 2-fluoropyridine (0.10 mL, 1.13 mmol) was then added and
   the mixture heated to 70 'C. After heating at 70 'C for 7 h, the mixture was cooled to room
20 temperature, quenched with saturated NH4Cl solution, diluted with EtOAc and H20. The aqueous
   layer was extracted with EtOAc (3X). The combined organics were washed with H20, 5% aqueous
   LiCl, brine, dried with Na2SO4, filtered, and concentrated. Purification via silica gel
   chromatography ( 0 - 3 0 % EtOAc in hexanes) gave the title compound (73 mg, 0.25 mmol, 36%) as a
   colorless solid. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C16H22N203, 290.2; m/z found 291.2 [M+H]. 1H NMR
25 (400 MHz, Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, major rotamer reported) 6
   8.11 (ddd, J = 5.1, 2.0, 0.8 Hz, 1H), 7.59 - 7.50 (m, 1H), 6.89 - 6.80 (m, 1H), 6.70 (dt, J = 8.4, 0.9
   Hz, 1H), 5.29 (dt, J= 10.1, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 4.61 - 4.49 (m, 1H), 3.39 (dt, J= 9.5, 3.1 Hz, 1H), 3.20 (dd,
                                                -134-

   J= 9.5, 1.3 Hz, 1H), 2.59 -2.50 (m, 1H), 2.26 -2.15 (m, 1H), 1.76     -  1.69 (m, 1H), 1.67 - 1.63 (m,
   1H), 1.38 (dt, J= 13.3, 3.6 Hz, 1H), 1.12 (s, 9H).
           Step B: (1S,4R,6R)-6-(pyridin-2-yloxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane       - xHCl. To the title
   compound of step A (73 mg, 0.25 mmol) in EtOAc (1 mL) was added 4M HCl in dioxane (4 mL)
 5 and the reaction mixture was stirred overnight. Then, the reaction was concentrated to give the title
   compound of step B (68 mg) and used without further purification. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for
   CiiH14N20, 190.1; m/z found 191.1 [M+H]*.
           Step C: (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-(pyridin-2-yloxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone. To the title compound of step B (23 mg) and intermediate
 0 A-1 (18 mg, 0.094 mmol) in DMF (1 mL) was added DIPEA (0.17 mL, 0.99 mmol) and HATU (36
   mg, 0.094 mmol), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The reaction
   was quenched by the addition of H20 and the aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc (3X). The
   combined organics were washed with H20, 5% aqueous LiCl, brine, dried with Na2SO4, filtered,
   and concentrated. Purification of the concentrate was performed using Agilent Prep Method Xto
 5 give the title compound (22 mg). MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C2oH19N502, 361.2; m/z found, 362.2
   [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz, Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers,
   (0.90:0.10), major rotamer reported) 6 7.84 (dd, J   = 8.3, 1.2 Hz, 1H), 7.82 - 7.77 (m, 3H), 7.60
   7.54 (m, 1H), 7.36 - 7.28 (m, 1H), 7.16 (dd, J= 7.8, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 6.88 (td, J= 7.6, 1.2 Hz, 1H), 6.82
   - 6.77 (m, 1H), 6.74 (d, J= 8.3 Hz, 1H), 5.03 (dt, J= 10.3, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 4.06 - 3.97 (m, 1H), 3.60
 0 (dt, J= 10.9, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 3.39 (dd, J= 10.8, 1.4 Hz, 1H), 2.68 - 2.56 (m, 1H), 2.27 - 2.13 (m, 1H),
   1.48 - 1.31 (m, 3H).
   Example 103: (6-methyl-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-(pyridin-2-yloxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                4N
      N   O
                     0   N/
                   N-N
25
           Prepared analogous to Example 102 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-3.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C2oH2oN602, 376.2; m/z found, 377.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
                                               - 135  -

   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, (0.92:0.08), major rotamer reported) 6
   7.86 (s, 2H), 7.82 - 7.78 (m, 1H), 7.60 - 7.54 (m, 1H), 7.40 (d, J = 7.7 Hz, 1H), 6.85 - 6.79 (m, 1H),
   6.74 - 6.64 (m, 2H), 4.98 (dt, J= 10.1, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 4.05 - 3.97 (m, 1H), 3.61 (dt, J= 10.9, 3.2 Hz,
   1H), 3.40 (dd, J= 10.8, 1.4 Hz, 1H), 2.65 - 2.59 (m, 1H), 2.56 (s, 3H), 2.25 - 2.15 (m, 1H), 1.48
 5 1.33 (m, 3H).
   Example 104: (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-(pyridin-2-yloxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
               4N
                      N
 0          Prepared analogous to Example 102 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-2.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C22H19FN402, 390.1; m/z found, 391.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, (0.89:0.11), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.84 (d, J = 4.9 Hz, 2H), 7.92 - 7.85 (m, 1H), 7.63 - 7.56 (m, 1H), 7.28 - 7.24 (m, 2H), 7.09 - 6.96
   (m, 2H), 6.85 - 6.80 (m, 1H), 6.76 (dt, J = 8.3, 0.9 Hz, 1H), 5.10 (dt, J = 10.0, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.26
 5 4.15 (m, 1H), 3.34 - 3.30 (m, 2H), 2.59 - 2.48 (m, 1H), 2.27 - 2.15 (m, 1H), 1.45 (d, J= 11.0 Hz,
   1H), 1.32 (dt, J= 13.4, 3.6 Hz, 1H), 1.13 - 1.01 (m, 1H).
   Example 105: ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(6
   methyl-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)methanone.
              NN
           N    O
                     00
    Br                 N-N
20                         N
            Prepared analogous to Example 47 substituting intermediate A-6 with intermediate A-3. MS
   (ESI): mass calcd. for C2oH19BrN6O2, 454.1; m/z found, 455.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
                                                -136-

    Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, (0.93:0.07), major rotamer reported) 6
    7.87 (s, 2H), 7.76 (d, J= 2.6 Hz, 1H), 7.64 (dd, J= 8.7, 2.6 Hz, 1H), 7.29 (d, J= 7.8 Hz, 1H), 6.69
    (d, J= 7.7 Hz, 1H), 6.62 (d, J= 8.7 Hz, 1H), 4.83 (dt, J= 10.3, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.05 - 3.94 (m, 1H),
    3.59 (dt, J= 11.0, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.38 (d, J= 11.0 Hz, 1H), 2.66 - 2.56 (m, 4H), 2.23 - 2.10 (m, 1H),
 5  1.44 - 1.33 (m, 2H), 1.32 - 1.23 (m, 1H).
    Example 106: ((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(3-fluoro
    2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                        N
                    0
                    %
     BrN-N                        F
                           'N
 0           Prepared analogous to Example 47 substituting intermediate A-6 with intermediate A-16.
    MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C2oH17BrFN5O2, 457.1; m/z found, 458.1[M+H]*. 'H NMR (400 MHz,
    Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, (0.90:0.10), major rotamer reported) 6
    7.87 (s, 2H), 7.85 (dd, J= 2.6, 0.7 Hz, 1H), 7.66 (dd, J= 8.7, 2.5 Hz, 1H), 7.24 - 7.17 (m, 1H), 7.07
    - 6.98 (m, 1H), 6.91 (dt, J= 7.7, 1.2 Hz, 1H), 6.66 (dd, J= 8.8, 0.7 Hz, 1H), 4.95 (dt, J= 10.1, 3.3
 5  Hz, 1H), 4.19 - 4.10 (m, 1H), 3.35 - 3.30 (m, 2H), 2.60 - 2.49 (m, 1H), 2.24 - 2.12 (m, 1H), 1.48
    1.41 (m, 1H), 1.31 (dt, J= 13.5, 3.6 Hz, 1H), 1.21 - 1.09 (m, 1H).
    Example 107: ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(4-fluoro
    2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                     4N
            N       O O
     Br                 N-N
20N                       'N
             Prepared analogous to Example 47 substituting intermediate A-6 with intermediate A-12.
    MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C2oH17BrFN5O2, 457.1; m/z found, 458.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
                                                -137-

   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, (0.89:0.11), major rotamer reported) 6
   7.85 (d, J = 2.6 Hz, 1H), 7.82 (s, 2H), 7.71 - 7.61 (m, 2H), 7.05 (dd, J = 8.5, 5.9 Hz, 1H), 6.68 - 6.58
   (m, 2H), 4.91 (dt, J= 10.1, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.00 (s, 1H), 3.61 (dt, J= 10.9, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 3.38 (dd, J
   10.9, 1.4 Hz, 1H), 2.69 - 2.59 (m, 1H), 2.26 - 2.14 (m, 1H), 1.47 - 1.25 (m, 3H).
 5
   Example 108: ((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(5-fluoro
   2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                      N           F
          N    O
    Br                 N-N
                         'N
           Prepared analogous to Example 47 substituting intermediate A-6 with intermediate A-10.
 0 MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C2oH17BrFN5O2, 457.1; m/z found, 458.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, (0.91:0.09), major rotamer reported) 6
   7.84 - 7.81 (m, 2H), 7.80 (s, 2H), 7.68 (dd, J = 8.8, 2.6 Hz, 1H), 7.07 (ddd, J = 9.0, 7.6, 2.9 Hz, 1H),
   6.81 (dd, J= 8.1, 2.9 Hz, 1H), 6.66 (d, J= 8.8 Hz, 1H), 4.90 (dt, J= 10.2, 3.4 Hz, 1H), 4.04 - 4.00
   (m, 1H), 3.56 (dt, J = 11.0, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.37 (dd, J = 11.0, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 2.65 - 2.57 (m, 1H), 2.25
 5 2.13 (m, 1H), 1.50 - 1.32 (m, 2H), 1.32 - 1.23 (m, 1H).
   Example 109: ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(2-fluoro
   6-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                      N
           NO0
    Br                 N-N
                            N
20          Prepared analogous to Example 47 substituting intermediate A-6 with intermediate A-11.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C2oH17BrFN5O2, 457.1; m/z found, 458.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, (0.88:0.12), major rotamer reported) 6
                                                - 138 -

   7.83 (s, 2H), 7.79 - 7.76 (m, 1H), 7.75 (dt, J= 8.2, 1.0 Hz, 1H), 7.63 (dd, J= 8.8, 2.5 Hz, 1H), 7.39
   7.31 (m, 1H), 6.76 - 6.66 (m, 2H), 4.85 (dt, J= 10.1, 3.4 Hz, 1H), 4.01 - 3.92 (m, 1H), 3.62 (dt, J=
   10.9, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.42 (dd, J= 10.9, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 2.64 - 2.58 (m, 1H), 2.24 - 2.14 (m, 1H), 1.42
   1.31 (m, 2H), 1.30 - 1.17 (m, 1H).
 5
   Example 110: ((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(4-fluoro
   2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                       N
                  OZ O               F
         Br
             ,           N
    Br.,
             Prepared analogous to Example 47 substituting intermediate A-6 with intermediate A-23.
 0 MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C22Hi8BrFN402, 468.1; m/z found, 469.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, (0.88:0.12), major
   rotamer reported) 6 8.79 (d, J = 4.9 Hz, 2H), 7.93 (dd, J = 10.0, 2.7 Hz, 1H), 7.86 (dd, J = 2.6, 0.6
   Hz, 1H), 7.67 (dd, J  = 8.8, 2.6 Hz, 1H), 7.22 (t, J = 4.9 Hz, 1H), 7.04 (dd, J = 8.4, 5.6 Hz, 1H), 6.70
   - 6.64 (m, 2H), 4.93 (dt, J= 10.1, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.09 - 4.04 (m, 1H), 3.63 (dt, J= 10.9, 3.1 Hz, 1H),
 5 3.43 - 3.34 (m, 1H), 2.66 - 2.59 (m, 1H), 2.26 - 2.15 (m, 1H), 1.46 - 1.33 (m, 2H), 1.31 - 1.23 (m,
   1H).
   Example 111: ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)(5-fluoro
   2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                                   F
            N   O
    Br       /N..
                           N
20
             Prepared analogous to Example 47 substituting intermediate A-6 with intermediate A-7. MS
   (ESI): mass calcd. for C22Hi8BrFN402, 468.1; m/z found, 469.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
                                                -139-

   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, (0.90:0.10), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.76 (d, J = 4.9 Hz, 2H), 8.23 (dd, J = 8.8, 5.6 Hz, 1H), 7.83 (dd, J = 2.6, 0.7 Hz, 1H), 7.68 (dd, J=
   8.8, 2.6 Hz, 1H), 7.18 (t, J= 4.9 Hz, 1H), 7.08 - 7.02 (m, 1H), 6.81 (dd, J= 8.6, 2.7 Hz, 1H), 6.68
   (d, J= 8.8 Hz, 1H), 4.93 (dt, J= 10.0, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.14 - 4.06 (m, 1H), 3.64 (dt, J= 10.9, 3.2 Hz,
 5 1H), 3.40 (dd, J= 10.7, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 2.69 - 2.61 (m, 1H), 2.30 - 2.15 (m, 1H), 1.47 - 1.35 (m, 2H),
   1.34 - 1.24 (m, 1H).
   Example 112: (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                     4N
            N   O
    CI                  N-N
 0                         N
             Step A: (1S,4R,6R)-tert-butyl 6-((5-chloropyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane-2
   carboxylate. To intermediate B-5 (150 mg, 0.70 mmol) dissolved in DMF (5 mL) was added NaH
   (37 mg, 0.91 mmol, 60% dispersion in mineral oil). After 5 minutes the sides of the flask were
   rinsed with additional DMF (1 mL) and 5-chloro-2-fluoropyridine (0.11 mL, 1.13 mmol) was then
 5 added and the mixture heated to 70 'C. After heating at 70 'C for 7 h, the mixture was cooled to
   room temperature, quenched with saturated NH4Cl solution, diluted with EtOAc and H20. The
   aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc (3X). The combined organics were washed with H20, 5%
   aqueous LiCl, brine, dried with Na2SO4, filtered, and concentrated. Purification via silica gel
   chromatography (0-25% EtOAc in hexanes) gave the title compound (149 mg, 0.46 mmol, 65%) as
20 a colorless solid. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C16H21ClN203, 324.1; m/z found 325.1 [M+H]. 1H
   NMR (400 MHz, Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, only major rotamer
   reported) 6 8.06 (d, J= 2.6 Hz, 1H), 7.51 (dd, J= 8.8, 2.7 Hz, 1H), 6.66 (d, J= 8.7 Hz, 1H), 5.22
   (dt, J= 10.1, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 4.52 - 4.49 (m, 1H), 3.38 (dt, J= 9.6, 3.1 Hz, 1H), 3.18 (dd, J= 9.5, 1.3
   Hz, 1H), 2.58 - 2.54 (m, 1H), 2.23 - 2.12 (m, 1H), 1.75 - 1.68 (m, 1H), 1.64 - 1.59 (m, 1H), 1.36 (dt,
25 J= 13.4, 3.6 Hz, 1H), 1.15 (s, 9H).
             Step B: (1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane     - xHCl. To
   the title compound of step A (149 mg, 0.46 mmol) in EtOAc (1 mL) was added 4M HCl in dioxane
                                                -140-

    (4 mL) and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3h. Then, the reaction was
    concentrated to give the title compound of step B (129 mg) as a colorless solid and used without
    further purification. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C11H13ClN20, 224.1; m/z found 225.1 [M+H]*.
            Step C: (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
 5  azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone. To the title compound of step B (32 mg) and intermediate
    A-1 (25 mg, 0.14 mmol) in DMF (1 mL) was added DIPEA (0.25 mL, 1.5 mmol) and HATU (51
    mg, 0.135 mmol), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The reaction
    was quenched by the addition of H20 and the aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc (3X). The
    combined organics were concentrated. Purification of the concentrate was performed using Agilent
 0  Prep Method Xto give the title compound (34 mg). MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C2oHi8ClN502, 395.1;
    m/z found, 396.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz, Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of
    rotamers, (0.89:0.11), major rotamer reported) 6 7.85 (dd, J= 8.2, 1.1 Hz, 1H), 7.81 (s, 2H), 7.67 (d,
    J = 2.6 Hz, 1H), 7.53 (dd, J = 8.8, 2.7 Hz, 1H), 7.40 - 7.34 (m, 1H), 7.07 (dd, J = 7.6, 1.5 Hz, 1H),
    6.91 (td, J= 7.5, 1.2 Hz, 1H), 6.69 (d, J= 8.8 Hz, 1H), 4.90 (dt, J= 10.1, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.07 - 3.97
 5  (m, 1H), 3.59 (dt, J= 10.9, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.38 (dd, J= 10.8, 1.4 Hz, 1H), 2.65 - 2.56 (m, 1H), 2.26
    2.12 (m, 1H), 1.42 - 1.34 (m, 2H), 1.31 - 1.23 (m, 1H).
    Example 113: ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(5-fluoro
    2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                        N          F
           N    O
     CI"                N-N
20N
            Prepared analogous to Example 112 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-10.
    MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C2oH17ClFN5O2, 413.1; m/z found, 414.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
    Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, (0.92:0.08), major rotamer reported) 6
    7.85 - 7.79 (m, 3H), 7.72 (d, J= 2.7 Hz, 1H), 7.56 (dd, J= 8.8, 2.7 Hz, 1H), 7.11 - 7.01 (m, 1H),
25  6.81 (dd, J= 8.2, 2.9 Hz, 1H), 6.70 (d, J= 8.7 Hz, 1H), 4.91 (dt, J= 10.1, 3.4 Hz, 1H), 4.11 - 3.98
    (m, 1H), 3.56 (dt, J= 10.9, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.37 (dd, J= 10.9, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 2.68 - 2.56 (m, 1H), 2.26
    2.13 (m, 1H), 1.47 - 1.32 (m, 2H), 1.32 - 1.22 (m, 1H).
                                                - 141  -

   Example 114: ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(6
   methyl-3-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone.
                      N     N
          N     O
                     0
    C1     -N-N
 5          Prepared analogous to Example 112 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-40.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C2oH19ClN602, 410.1; m/z found, 411.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, (0.88:0.12), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.04 (d, J= 8.4 Hz, 1H), 7.83 (s, 2H), 7.61 (d, J= 2.7 Hz, 1H), 7.44 (dd, J= 8.8, 2.7 Hz, 1H), 7.14
   (d, J= 8.4 Hz, 1H), 6.70 (d, J= 8.8 Hz, 1H), 4.83 (dt, J= 10.2, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.22 - 4.14 (m, 1H),
 0 3.65 (dt, J= 10.9, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.43 (dd, J= 11.0, 1.4 Hz, 1H), 2.63 - 2.58 (m, 1H), 2.29 (s, 3H),
   2.23 - 2.13 (m, 1H), 1.48 - 1.32 (m, 3H).
   Example 115: ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(3-fluoro
   2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                      N
          NO0
                     0
                      \N
            Prepared analogous to Example 112 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-2.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C22Hi8ClFN402, 424.1; m/z found, 425.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, (0.84:0.16), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.90 (d, J = 4.9 Hz, 2H), 7.80 (d, J = 2.8 Hz, 1H), 7.69 (dd, J = 8.8, 2.7 Hz, 1H), 7.49 (t, J = 5.0 Hz,
20 1H), 7.26 - 7.18 (m, 1H), 7.14 - 7.05 (m, 1H), 6.95 - 6.81 (m, 2H), 5.02 (dt, J= 10.1, 3.3 Hz, 1H),
   4.29 - 4.20 (m, 1H), 3.28 - 3.17 (m, 2H), 2.59 - 2.50 (m, 1H), 2.29 - 2.17 (m, 1H), 1.52 (d, J= 10.6
   Hz, 1H), 1.33 (dt, J= 13.5, 3.6 Hz, 1H), 1.04 - 0.89 (m, 1H).
                                               - 142  -

   Example 116: ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(2-(5
   fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                       N
              N0
    cI0
                         \N
                     F
 5         Prepared analogous to Example 112 substituting intermediate A-1 with intermediate A-34.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C22Hi8ClFN402, 424.1; m/z found, 425.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, (0.88:0.12), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.81 (d, J= 0.6 Hz, 2H), 8.21 - 8.15 (m, 1H), 7.73 - 7.67 (m, 2H), 7.44 - 7.39 (m, 1H), 7.02 - 6.99
   (m, 2H), 6.85 (d, J= 8.7 Hz, 1H), 5.00 (dt, J= 10.2, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.13 - 4.06 (m, 1H), 3.60 (dt, J=
 0 11.0, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.34 - 3.32 (m, 1H), 2.71 - 2.64 (m, 1H), 2.31 - 2.22 (m, 1H), 1.58 - 1.50 (m, 1H),
   1.41 (dt, J= 13.3, 3.6 Hz, 1H), 1.38 - 1.33 (m, 1H).
   Example 117: ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(3-fluoro
   2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                       N
          N~ 00                /
    ci                           F
15                   F
           Prepared analogous to Example 112 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-35.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C22H17ClF2N402, 442.1; m/z found, 443.1 [M+H]*. 1HNMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, (0.82:0.18), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.87 (d, J = 0.7 Hz, 2H), 7.82 (dd, J = 2.7, 0.7 Hz, 1H), 7.70 (dd, J = 8.8, 2.7 Hz, 1H), 7.24 - 7.18
20 (m, 1H), 7.13 - 7.06 (m, 1H), 6.93 (dd, J= 7.6, 1.4 Hz, 1H), 6.87 (dd, J= 8.8, 0.7 Hz, 1H), 5.06 (dt,
   J= 10.1, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.26 - 4.20 (m, 1H), 3.26 - 3.20 (m, 1H), 2.61 - 2.57 (m, 1H), 2.31 - 2.22 (m,
                                                - 143 -

   1H), 1.61   - 1.55 (m, 1H), 1.35 (dt, J= 13.5, 3.6 Hz, 1H), 1.17- 1.09 (m, 1H). 1H buried under
   solvent peak.
   Example 118: (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-fluoropyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
 5 azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                      N
           NO
        fl           0
        F -~           N-N
             Step A: (1 S,4R,6R)-tert-butyl 6-((5-fluoropyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptane-2
   carboxylate. To intermediate B-5 (200 mg, 0.94 mmol) dissolved in DMF (3 mL) was added NaH
   (41 mg, 1.03 mmol, 60% dispersion in mineral oil). After 5 minutes the sides of the flask were
 0 rinsed with additional DMF (1 mL) and 2,5-difluoropyridine (0.11 mL, 1.22 mmol) was then added
   and the mixture heated to 60 'C. After heating at 60 'C for 3 h, the mixture was cooled to room
   temperature, quenched with saturated NH4Cl solution, diluted with EtOAc and H20. The aqueous
   layer was extracted with EtOAc (3X). The combined organics were washed with H20, 5 % aqueous
   LiCl, brine, dried with Na2SO4, filtered, and concentrated. Purification via silica gel
 5 chromatography (0-30% EtOAc in hexanes) gave the title compound (193 mg, 0.63 mmol, 67%) as
   a colorless solid. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C16H21FN203, 308.2; m/z found 309.2 [M+H]*. 1H
   NMR (400 MHz, Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, only major rotamer
   reported) 6 7.95 (d, J= 3.1 Hz, 1H), 7.37 - 7.30 (m, 1H), 6.67 (dd, J= 9.0, 3.6 Hz, 1H), 5.21 (dt, J
   10.2, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 4.53 - 4.50 (m, 1H), 3.39 (dt, J= 9.6, 3.1 Hz, 1H), 3.19 (dd, J= 9.5, 1.4 Hz, 1H),
20 2.58 - 2.53 (m, 1H), 2.24 - 2.12 (m, 1H), 1.77 - 1.69 (m, 1H), 1.64 - 1.59 (m, 1H), 1.36 (dt, J= 13.4,
   3.6 Hz, 1H), 1.15 (s, 9H).
             Step B: (1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-fluoropyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptane - xHCl. To
   the title compound of step A (193 mg, 0.63 mmol) in EtOAc (1 mL) was added 4M HCl in dioxane
   (4 mL) and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2h. The reaction was
25 concentrated to give the title compound of step B (182 mg) as an off-white solid and used without
   further purification. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C11H13FN20, 208.1; m/z found 209.1 [M+H]*.
                                                 - 144 -

            Step C: (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-fluoropyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone. To the title compound of step B (32 mg) and intermediate
   A-1 (27 mg, 0.13 mmol) in DMF (1 mL) was added DIPEA (0.1 mL, 0.58 mmol) and HATU (48
   mg, 0.13 mmol), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The reaction was
 5 quenched by the addition of H20 and the aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc (3X). The
   combined organics were concentrated. Purification of the concentrate was performed using Agilent
   Prep Method Xto give the title compound (31 mg). MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C2oHi8FN5O2, 379.1;
   m/z found, 380.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz, Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of
   rotamers, (0.88:0.12), major rotamer reported) 6 7.85 (dd, J= 8.2, 1.1 Hz, 1H), 7.81 (s, 2H), 7.60 (d,
 0 J = 3.1 Hz, 1H), 7.39 - 7.31 (m, 2H), 7.12 (dd, J = 7.7, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 6.92 (td, J = 7.6, 1.2 Hz, 1H),
   6.70 (dd, J= 9.0, 3.6 Hz, 1H), 4.91 (dt, J= 10.1, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.04 - 3.95 (m, 1H), 3.59 (dt, J= 10.9,
   3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.38 (dd, J= 11.0, 1.4 Hz, 1H), 2.65 - 2.58 (m, 1H), 2.24 - 2.13 (m, 1H), 1.44 - 1.20
   (m, 3H).
 5 Example 119: ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-fluoropyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(6-methyl
   3-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone.
                      NN
          N     O
    F     -~N-N
            Prepared analogous to Example 118 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-40.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C2oH19FN6O2, 394.2; m/z found, 395.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
20 Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, (0.88:0.12), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.03 (d, J= 8.4 Hz, 1H), 7.82 (s, 2H), 7.53 (d, J= 3.1 Hz, 1H), 7.29 - 7.22 (m, 1H), 7.13 (d, J= 8.4
   Hz, 1H), 6.71 (dd, J= 9.0, 3.7 Hz, 1H), 4.84 (dt, J= 10.3, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 4.19 - 4.15 (m, 1H), 3.65 (dt,
   J= 11.0, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.44 (dd, J= 10.8, 1.4 Hz, 1H), 2.63 - 2.58 (m, 1H), 2.30 (s, 3H), 2.23 - 2.13
   (m, 1H), 1.47 - 1.33 (m, 3H).
25
   Example 120: (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-fluoropyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                                                - 145 -

             N 0_
           F   O    O
                          N
            Prepared analogous to Example 118 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-2.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C22Hi8F2N402, 408.1; m/z found, 409.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, (0.89:0.11), major rotamer reported) 6
 5 8.85 (d, J= 4.9 Hz, 2H), 7.70 (d, J= 3.1 Hz, 1H), 7.40 - 7.32 (m, 1H), 7.28 - 7.27 (m, 1H), 7.15
   7.05 (m, 1H), 7.06 - 6.94 (m, 2H), 6.72 (dd, J= 9.0, 3.6 Hz, 1H), 4.98 (dt, J= 10.0, 3.3 Hz, 1H),
   4.26 - 4.15 (m, 1H), 3.35 - 3.26 (m, 2H), 2.60 - 2.48 (m, 1H), 2.25 - 2.14 (m, 1H), 1.42 (d, J= 10.3
   Hz, 1H), 1.30 (dt, J= 13.4, 3.5 Hz, 1H), 1.00 - 0.92 (m, 1H).
 0 Example 121: (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(difluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                     ( N
              NOO
       F                     N
            Step A: (1 S,4R,6R)-tert-butyl 6-((5-(difluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane-2-carboxylate. To intermediate B-5 (200 mg, 0.94 mmol) dissolved in
15 DMF (3 mL) was added NaH (41 mg, 1.03 mmol, 60% dispersion in mineral oil). After 5 minutes
   the sides of the flask were rinsed with additional DMF (1 mL) and 2-chloro-5
   (difluoromethyl)pyridine (0.15 mL, 1.22 mmol) was then added and the mixture heated to 60 'C.
   After heating at 60 'C for 3 h, the mixture was cooled to room temperature, quenched with saturated
   NH4Cl solution, diluted with EtOAc and H20. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc (3X).
20 The combined organics were washed with H20, 5% aqueous LiCl, brine, dried with Na2SO4,
   filtered, and concentrated. Purification via silica gel chromatography (0-20% EtOAc in hexanes)
   gave the title compound (76 mg, 0.22 mmol, 24%) as a colorless solid. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for
   C17H22F2N203,    340.2; m/z found 341.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz, Chloroform-d, Compound
                                                -146-

   present as a mixture of rotamers, only major rotamer reported) 6 8.27 - 8.23 (m, 1H), 7.72 (dd, J  =
   8.7, 2.5 Hz, 1H), 6.83 - 6.46 (m, 2H), 5.32 (dt, J= 10.1, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 4.57 -4.52 (m, 1H), 3.40 (dt, J
   =  9.6, 3.1 Hz, 1H), 3.20 (dd, J= 9.5, 1.3 Hz, 1H), 2.61 - 2.55 (m, 1H), 2.26 - 2.15 (m, 1H), 1.77
   1.71 (m, 1H), 1.67   -  1.60 (m, 1H), 1.40 (dt, J= 13.5, 3.8 Hz, 1H), 1.12 (s, 9H).
 5          Step B: (1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(difluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane
   xHCl. To the title compound of step A (76 mg, 0.22 mmol) in EtOAc (4 mL) was added 4M HCl in
   dioxane (1 mL) and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2h. The reaction was
   concentrated to give the title compound of step B (74 mg) as an off-white solid and used without
   further purification. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C12H14F2N20, 240.1; m/z found 241.1 [M+H]*.
 0          Step C: (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(difluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone. To the title compound of step B (24 mg) and
   intermediate A-1 (20 mg, 0.095 mmol) in DMF (1 mL) was added DIPEA (0.1 mL, 0.58 mmol) and
   HATU (36 mg, 0.095 mmol), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The
   reaction was quenched by the addition of H20 and the aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc
 5 (3X). The combined organics were washed with H20, 5% aqueous LiCl, brine, dried with Na2SO4,
   filtered, and concentrated. Purification of the concentrate was performed using Agilent Prep
   Method Xto give the title compound (29 mg). MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C21H19F2N502, 411.2; m/z
   found, 412.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz, Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of
   rotamers, (0.89:0.11), major rotamer reported) 6 7.88 - 7.85 (m, 1H), 7.83 (dd, J= 8.3, 1.1 Hz, 1H),
 0 7.81 (s, 2H), 7.77 - 7.70 (m, 1H), 7.34 - 7.28 (m, 1H), 7.05 (dd, J= 7.6, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 6.85 - 6.79 (m,
   2H), 6.60 (t, J= 56.0 Hz, 1H), 5.00 (dt, J= 10.2, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.09 - 3.99 (m, 1H), 3.60 (dt, J=
   11.0, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.40 (dd, J= 10.9, 1.4 Hz, 1H), 2.66 - 2.56 (m, 1H), 2.28 - 2.13 (m, 1H), 1.44
   1.35 (m, 2H), 1.33 - 1.25 (m, 1H).
25 Example 122: ((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-(difluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2
   yl)(6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone.
                     ( N        N-.
             N
                 O
          F   -~          N-N
       F                      N
                                                  - 147 -

            Prepared analogous to Example 121 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-40.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C21H2aF2N602, 426.2; m/z found, 427.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, (0.86:0.14), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.01 (d, J = 8.4 Hz, 1H), 7.87 - 7.81 (m, 3H), 7.64 (dd, J = 8.7, 2.4 Hz, 1H), 7.06 (d, J = 8.4 Hz,
 5 1H), 6.81 (d, J= 8.6 Hz, 1H), 6.57 (t, J= 56.0 Hz, 1H), 4.95 (dt, J= 10.4, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.25 - 4.17
   (m, 1H), 3.67 (dt, J = 11.0, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.46 (dd, J = 11.0, 1.4 Hz, 1H), 2.68 - 2.61 (m, 1H), 2.27
   2.16 (m, 4H), 1.50 - 1.40 (m, 3H).
   Example 123: ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(difluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2
 0 yl)(3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                        N
    F                             F
            Prepared analogous to Example 121 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-2.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C23H19F3N402, 440.1; m/z found, 441.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, (0.88:0.12), major rotamer reported) 6
 5 8.85 (d, J = 4.9 Hz, 2H), 7.98 - 7.92 (m, 1H), 7.75 (dd, J = 8.6, 2.4 Hz, 1H), 7.29 - 7.26 (m, 1H),
   7.09 - 7.02 (m, IH), 6.96 - 6.88 (m, 2H), 6.83 (d, J= 8.6 Hz, IH), 6.61 (t, J= 55.9 Hz, IH), 5.07 (dt,
   J= 10.1, 3.3 Hz, IH), 4.27 - 4.20 (m, IH), 3.35 - 3.28 (m, 2H), 2.59 - 2.51 (m, IH), 2.25 - 2.12 (m,
   IH), 1.43 (d, J= 10.3 Hz, IH), 1.35 (dt, J= 13.5, 3.5 Hz, IH), 1.01 - 0.89 (m, IH).
20 Example 124: (5-fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N           F
         ;N;O         O
    F3 C    N           N-N
                            N
                                                - 148 -

            Step A: (1 S,4R,6R)-tert-butyl 6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane-2-carboxylate. To intermediate B-5 (125 mg, 0.59 mmol) dissolved in
   DMF (5 mL) was added NaH (47 mg, 1.17 mmol, 60% dispersion in mineral oil). After 5 minutes
   the sides of the flask were rinsed with additional DMF (1 mL) and 2-chloro-5
 5 (trifluoromethyl)pyrazine (0.12 mL, 0.94 mmol) was then added and the reaction mixture stirred
   overnight at room temperature. Then, the mixture was quenched with saturated NH4Cl solution,
   diluted with EtOAc and H20. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc (3X). The combined
   organics were washed with H20, 5% aqueous LiCl, brine, dried with Na2SO4, filtered, and
   concentrated. Purification via silica gel chromatography ( 0 - 4 0 % EtOAc in hexanes) gave the title
 0 compound (89 mg, 0.25 mmol, 42%) as a colorless solid. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C16H2oF3N303,
   359.2; m/z found 304.0 [M+2H-tBu]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz, Methanol-d4) 6 8.60 (s, 1H), 8.35 - 8.26
   (m, 1H), 5.49 - 5.39 (m, 1H), 4.59 - 4.53 (m, 1H), 3.39 (dt, J = 9.6, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.15 (d, J = 9.5 Hz,
   1H), 2.67 - 2.62 (m, 1H), 2.37 - 2.22 (m, 1H), 1.80 - 1.73 (m, 3H), 1.08 (s, 9H).
            Step B: (1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane
 5 xHCl. To the title compound of step A (89 mg, 0.25 mmol) in EtOAc (3 mL) was added 4M HCl in
   dioxane (0.3 mL) and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction
   was concentrated to give the title compound of step B (80 mg) as a yellow oil and used without
   further purification. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for Ci 1H12F3N30, 259.1; m/z found 260.1 [M+H]*.
            Step C: (5-fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
 0 (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone. To the title
   compound of step B (24 mg) and intermediate A-10 (20 mg, 0.097 mmol) in DMF (1 mL) was
   added DIPEA (84 pL, 0.49 mmol) and HATU (34 mg, 0.089 mmol), and the reaction mixture was
   stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction was quenched by the addition of H20 and the
   aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc (3X). The combined organics were washed with H20, 5%
25 aqueous LiCl, brine, dried with Na2SO4, filtered, and concentrated. Purification of the concentrate
   was performed using Gilson Prep Method Xto give the title compound (17 mg). MS (ESI): mass
   calcd. for C2oH16F4N602, 448.1; m/z found, 449.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz, Methanol-d4,
   Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, (0.83:0.17), major rotamer reported) 6 8.40 (s, 1H),
   8.23 (s, 1H), 7.96 (s, 2H), 7.90 (dd, J = 9.0, 4.7 Hz, 1H), 7.22 - 7.14 (m, 1H), 6.87 (d, J = 8.1 Hz,
30 1H), 5.10 (dt, J = 10.2, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.02 (s, 1H), 3.52 (dt, J = 10.9, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 3.35 (dd, J = 11.1,
   1.6 Hz, 1H), 2.71 - 2.63 (m, 1H), 2.35 - 2.24 (m, 1H), 1.59 - 1.51 (m, 1H), 1.49 (dt, J= 13.5, 3.7 Hz,
   1H), 1.46 - 1.21 (m, 1H).
                                                 -149-

   Example 125: (6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                  NO      N
    F3 C    N          N-N
 5          Prepared analogous to Example 124 substituting intermediate A-10 with intermediate A-40.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C2oHi8F3N702, 445.1; m/z found, 446.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, (0.90:0.10), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.28 (d, J = 1.3 Hz, 1H), 8.19 - 8.14 (m, 2H), 8.00 (s, 2H), 7.29 (d, J = 8.5 Hz, 1H), 5.08 (dt, J =
   10.4, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 4.25 - 4.20 (m, 1H), 3.61 (dt, J = 11.0, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.41 (dd, J = 11.0, 1.6 Hz,
 0 1H), 2.75 - 2.67 (m, 1H), 2.36 - 2.27 (m, 1H), 2.22 (s, 3H), 1.66 - 1.59 (m, 1H), 1.60 - 1.49 (m, 2H).
   Example 126: (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
    F3C     N                    F
                       \    N
15          Prepared analogous to Example 124 substituting intermediate A-10 with intermediate A-2.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C22H17F4N502, 459.1; m/z found, 460.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, (0.76:0.24), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.91 (d, J = 5.0 Hz, 2H), 8.42 (d, J = 1.3 Hz, 1H), 8.26 - 8.23 (m, 1H), 7.50 (t, J = 5.0 Hz, 1H), 7.21
   - 7.15 (m, 1H), 7.07 - 7.00 (m, 1H), 6.95 (dd, J = 7.6, 1.2 Hz, 1H), 5.14 (dt, J = 10.2, 3.3 Hz, 1H),
20 4.33 - 4.24 (m, 1H), 3.29 - 3.27 (m, 2H), 2.63 - 2.56 (m, 1H), 2.34 - 2.25 (m, 1H), 1.56 (d, J = 11.1
   Hz, 1H), 1.44 (dt, J= 13.7, 3.6 Hz, 1H), 1.05 - 0.91 (m, 1H).
                                                -150-

   Example 127: (4-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5 -(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                        N
           N      0Q           \0     F
   F3 0     N            N
            Prepared analogous to Example 124 substituting intermediate A- 10 with intermediate A-23.
 5 MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C22H17F4N502, 459.1; m/z found, 460.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, (0.80:0.20), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.88 (d, J = 4.9 Hz, 2H), 8.40 (s, 1H), 8.20 (s, 1H), 7.92 (dd, J = 10.1, 2.7 Hz, 1H), 7.46 - 7.41 (m,
   1H), 7.08 (dd, J = 8.4, 5.5 Hz, 1H), 6.66 (td, J = 8.2, 2.7 Hz, 1H), 5.09 (dt, J = 10.2, 3.3 Hz, 1H),
   4.11 (s, 1H), 3.60 (dt, J= 11.0, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.36 (dd, J= 11.0, 1.6 Hz, 1H), 2.74 - 2.65 (m, 1H),
 0 2.35 - 2.27 (m, 1H), 1.56 - 1.47 (m, 2H), 1.35 - 1.27 (m, 1H).
   Example 128: (5-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                                   F
               N 11;   ON
   F3 C     N
                       \     N
15          Prepared analogous to Example 124 substituting intermediate A-10 with intermediate A-7.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C22H17F4N502, 459.1; m/z found, 460.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, (0.85:0.15), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.85 (d, J = 4.9 Hz, 2H), 8.40 (s, 1H), 8.26 (dd, J = 8.8, 5.5 Hz, 1H), 8.22 (s, 1H), 7.39 (t, J = 4.9 Hz,
   1H), 7.15 - 7.09 (m, 1H), 6.78 (dd, J= 8.6, 2.7 Hz, 1H), 5.11 (dt, J= 10.2, 3.4 Hz, 1H), 4.14 (s, 1H),
20 3.61 (dt, J= 11.0, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.36 (dd, J= 10.9, 1.6 Hz, 1H), 2.74 - 2.66 (m, 1H), 2.36 - 2.26 (m,
   1H), 1.58 - 1.54 (m, 1H), 1.52 (dt, J = 13.6, 3.6 Hz, 1H), 1.40 - 1.33 (m, 1H).
                                                - 151  -

   Example 129: (2-fluoro-6-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5 -(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                              F
                         N
          ;NrO          0
    F3C     N
                             N
            Prepared analogous to Example 124 substituting intermediate A-10 with intermediate A-6.
 5 MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C22H17F4N502, 459.1; m/z found, 460.0 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, (0.74:0.26), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.88 (d, J = 4.9 Hz, 2H), 8.35 - 8.33 (m, 1H), 8.17 - 8.12 (m, 2H), 7.43 (t, J = 4.9 Hz, 1H), 7.41
   7.35 (m, 1H), 6.70 - 6.64 (m, 1H), 5.07 (dt, J = 10.2, 3.4 Hz, 1H), 4.13 - 4.10 (m, 1H), 3.64 (dt, J=
   11.0, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.39 (dd, J = 11.0, 1.6 Hz, 1H), 2.72 - 2.68 (m, 1H), 2.36 - 2.27 (m, 1H), 1.87
 0 1.83 (m, 1H), 1.55 - 1.53 (m, 1H), 1.32 - 1.25 (m, 1H).
   Example 130: (2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                         N
    F3 C    N             N
15          Prepared analogous to Example 124 substituting intermediate A-10 with intermediate A-37.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C22Hi8F3N502, 441.1; m/z found, 442.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, (0.85:0.15), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.86 (d, J = 4.9 Hz, 2H), 8.38 (s, 1H), 8.16 (dd, J = 8.0, 1.2 Hz, 1H), 8.11 (s, 1H), 7.44 - 7.33 (m,
   2H), 7.01 (dd, J = 7.7, 1.4 Hz, 1H), 6.91 (t, J = 7.5, 1.3 Hz, 1H), 5.08 (dt, J = 10.2, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.12
20 (s, 1H), 3.58 (dt, J = 10.9, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.37 (dd, J = 10.9, 1.6 Hz, 1H), 2.73 - 2.66 (m, 1H), 2.35
   2.22 (m, 1H), 1.56 - 1.48 (m, 2H), 1.28 - 1.21 (m, 1H).
                                                 - 152 -

   Example 131: (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-methylpyrimidin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                     N      __
               NOO
           Step A: (1 S,4R,6R)-tert-butyl 6-((5-methylpyrimidin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptane
 5 2-carboxylate. To intermediate B-5 (106 mg, 0.497 mmol) and 2-chloro-5-methylpyrimidine (93
   mg, 0.72 mmol) dissolved in DMF (2 mL) was added NaH (40 mg, 0.99 mmol, 60% dispersion in
   mineral oil), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. Then, the mixture
   was quenched with H20, diluted with EtOAc and the aqueous layer extracted with EtOAc (3X). The
   combined organics were washed with H20, 5% aqueous LiCl, brine, dried with Na2SO4, filtered,
 0 and concentrated. Purification of the concentrate via silica gel chromatography (0-60% EtOAc in
   hexanes) gave the title compound (129 mg, 0.422 mmol, 85%) as a colorless solid. MS (ESI) mass
   calcd. for C16H23N303, 305.2; m/z found 306.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz, Chloroform-d,
   Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.68:0.32), major rotamer reported) 6 8.29 (s, 2H),
   5.22 - 5.14 (m, 1H), 4.59 - 4.51 (m, 1H), 3.37 (dt, J= 9.5, 3.1 Hz, 1H), 3.20 (dd, J= 9.4, 1.4 Hz,
 5 1H), 2.55 - 2.51 (m, 1H), 2.21 (s, 3H), 2.17 - 2.11 (m, 1H), 1.69 - 1.67 (m, 1H), 1.63 - 1.59 (m, 1H),
   1.54 - 1.47 (m, 1H), 1.07 (s, 9H).
           Step B: (1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-methylpyrimidin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane       - xHCl.
   To the title compound of step A (129 mg, 0.422 mmol) in EtOAc (2 mL) was added 4M HCl in
   dioxane (4 mL) and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The reaction was
20 concentrated to give the title compound of step B (147 mg) as a colorless solid and used without
   further purification. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C11Hi5N30, 205.1; m/z found 206.1 [M+H]*.
           Step C: (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-methylpyrimidin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone. To the title compound of step B (34 mg) and intermediate
   A-1 (29 mg, 0.16 mmol) in DMF (0.8 mL) was added DIPEA (0.1 mL, 0.58 mmol) and HATU (59
25 mg, 0.16 mmol), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 6 h. The reaction was
   quenched by the addition of H20 and the aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc (3X). The
   combined organics were washed with H20, 5% aqueous LiCl, brine, dried with Na2SO4, filtered,
   and concentrated. Purification of the concentrate was performed using Agilent Prep Method Xto
                                               - 153  -

   give the title compound (20 mg). MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C2oH2oN602, 376.2; m/z found, 377.2
   [M+H]*. 'H NMR (500 MHz, Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers
   (0.78:0.22), major rotamer reported) 6 8.11 (s, 2H), 7.83 (dd, J  = 8.2, 1.1 Hz, 1H), 7.80 (s, 2H), 7.30
   - 7.26 (m, 1H), 7.20 (dd, J= 7.7, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 6.82 (t, J= 7.6 Hz, 1H), 4.92 (dt, J= 10.2, 3.3 Hz,
 5 1H), 4.15 - 3.99 (m, 1H), 3.62 (dt, J= 10.9, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.41 (d, J= 10.8 Hz, 1H), 2.65 - 2.60 (m,
   1H), 2.24 - 2.20 (m, 4H), 1.53 (dt, J= 13.5, 3.4 Hz, 1H), 1.41 (d, J= 3.2 Hz, 2H).
   Example 132: (6-methyl-3-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-methylpyrimidin
   2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                     N     N
         N    O
                     N-N
 0                       N
            Prepared analogous to Example 131 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A
   40.MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C2oH21N702, 391.2; m/z found, 392.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.74:0.26), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.04 (d, J = 8.4 Hz, 1H), 8.03 (d, J = 0.9 Hz, 2H), 7.80 (s, 2H), 7.07 (d, J = 8.4 Hz, 1H), 4.81 (dt, J
 5 =  10.3, 3.4 Hz, 1H), 4.38 - 4.29 (m, 1H), 3.72 (dt, J= 10.9, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.46 (dd, J= 10.9, 1.5 Hz,
   1H), 2.67 - 2.65 (m, 1H), 2.25 (s, 3H), 2.24 - 2.19 (m, 1H), 2.16 (s, 3H), 1.66 - 1.61 (m, 1H), 1.57
   1.52 (m, 1H), 1.51 - 1.47 (m, 1H).
   Example 133: (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-methylpyrimidin-2-yl)oxy)-2
20 azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                     N
                               F
                       \ N
            Prepared analogous to Example 131 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-2.
                                                - 154 -

   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C22H2aFN5O2, 405.2; m/z found, 406.1 [M+H]*. 'H NMR (500 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.75:0.25), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.83 (d, J= 4.9 Hz, 2H), 8.18 (d, J= 0.9 Hz, 2H), 7.26 - 7.24 (m, 1H), 7.08 (dd, J= 7.5, 1.2 Hz,
   1H), 7.05 - 7.00 (m, 1H), 6.95 - 6.91 (m, 1H), 5.00 (dt, J= 10.2, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.31 - 4.22 (m, 1H),
 5 3.36 - 3.32 (m, 2H), 2.61 - 2.50 (m, 1H), 2.22 (s, 3H), 1.52 - 1.41 (m, 2H), 1.12 - 1.07 (m, 1H). 1H
   buried under water peak.
   Example 134: (5-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-methylpyrimidin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                    N
        NO0
                   0
 0                       N
   Prepared analogous to Example 131 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-47.MS
   (ESI): mass calcd. for C22H22N602, 402.2; m/z found, 403.2 [M+H]*. 'H NMR (500 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.60:0.40), major rotamer reported) 6
 5 8.76 (d, J= 4.8 Hz, 2H), 8.28 (dd, J= 2.2, 0.8 Hz, IH), 8.03 (d, J= 0.9 Hz, 2H), 7.81 (dd, J= 2.2,
   0.8 Hz, IH), 7.19 (t, J= 4.8 Hz, IH), 4.88 (dt, J= 10.3, 3.4 Hz, IH), 4.45 - 4.38 (m, IH), 3.76 (dt, J
   = 10.8, 3.2 Hz, IH), 3.45 (dd, J= 10.7, 1.4 Hz, IH), 2.72 - 2.64 (m, IH), 2.31 (s, 3H), 2.20 (s, 3H),
   1.74 - 1.53 (m, 3H). IH buried under solvent.
20 Example 135: (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-ethylpyrimidin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                       N
             N         N
                   NN
                                               - 155  -

            Step A: (1 S,4R,6R)-tert-butyl 6-((5-ethylpyrimidin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane-2
   carboxylate. To intermediate B-5 (120 mg, 0.563 mmol) and 2-chloro-5-ethylpyrimidine (128 mg,
   0.9 mmol), dissolved in DMF (4 mL), was added NaH (29 mg, 0.73 mmol, 60% dispersion in
   mineral oil) and the mixture stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The reaction mixture was
 5 quenched with H20, diluted with EtOAc and the aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc (3X). The
   combined organics were washed with H20, 5% aqueous LiCl, brine, dried with Na2SO4, filtered,
   and concentrated. Purification of the concentrate via silica gel chromatography (0-50% EtOAc in
   hexanes) gave the title compound (160 mg, 0.501 mmol, 89%) as a colorless solid. MS (ESI) mass
   calcd. for C17H25N303, 319.2; m/z found 320.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz, Chloroform-d,
 0 Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, only major rotamer reported) 6 8.34 (s, 2H), 5.21 (dt, J
   = 10.3, 3.4 Hz, 1H), 4.60 - 4.55 (m, 1H), 3.40 (dt, J= 9.5, 3.1 Hz, 1H), 3.23 (dd, J= 9.5, 1.4 Hz,
   1H), 2.61 - 2.55 (m, 3H), 2.22 - 2.15 (m, 1H), 1.75 - 1.69 (m, 1H), 1.65 - 1.62 (m, 1H), 1.55 (dt, J=
   13.5, 3.8 Hz, 1H), 1.25 - 1.22 (m, 3H), 1.09 (s, 9H).
            Step B: (1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-ethylpyrimidin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane - xHCl. To
 5 the title compound of step A (160 mg, 0.501 mmol) in EtOAc (1.5 mL) was added 4M HCl in
   dioxane (4 mL) and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1h. Then, the reaction
   was concentrated to give the title compound of step B (148 mg) as a colorless solid and used
   without further purification. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C12H17N30, 219.1; m/z found 220.1 [M+H]*.
            Step C: (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-ethylpyrimidin-2-yl)oxy)-2
 0 azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone. To the title compound of step B (37 mg) and intermediate
   A-1 (30 mg, 0.16 mmol) in DMF (1 mL) was added DIPEA (0.1 mL, 0.6 mmol) and HATU (61
   mg, 0.16 mmol), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The reaction was
   quenched by the addition of H20 and the aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc (3X). The
   combined organics were concentrated. Purification of the concentrate was performed using Agilent
25 Prep Method Xto give the title compound (33 mg). MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C21H22N602, 390.2;
   m/z found, 391.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz, Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of
   rotamers (0.81:0.19), only major rotamer reported) 6 8.14 - 7.16 (m, 7H), 6.79 (t, J= 7.6 Hz, 1H),
   4.92 (dt, J = 10.3, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.05 (s, 1H), 3.62 (dt, J = 10.9, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.41 (d, J = 10.8 Hz,
   1H), 2.65 - 2.59 (m, 1H), 2.54 (q, J= 7.6 Hz, 2H), 2.28 - 2.12 (m, 1H), 1.85 - 1.76 (m, 1H), 1.70
30 1.63 (m, 1H), 1.53 (dt, J= 13.3, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 1.26 (t, J= 7.6 Hz, 3H).
                                                -156-

   Example 136: ((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-ethylpyrimidin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(6
   methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone.
                       N     N
              N>0
                         N
           Prepared analogous to Example 135 substituting intermediate A-lwith intermediate A
 5 40.MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C21H23N702, 405.2; m/z found, 406.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.69:0.31), only major rotamer
   reported) 6 8.08 - 8.01 (m, 3H), 7.80 (s, 2H), 7.05 (d, J= 8.5 Hz, 1H), 4.82 (dt, J= 10.3, 3.4 Hz,
   1H), 4.47 - 4.30 (m, 1H), 3.73 (dt, J= 10.8, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.47 (dd, J= 10.9, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 2.70 - 2.65
   (m, 1H), 2.55 - 2.45 (m, 2H), 2.27 - 2.16 (m, 4H), 1.65 (dt, J= 13.3, 3.7 Hz, 1H), 1.64 - 1.47 (m,
 0 2H), 1.27 - 1.18 (m, 3H).
   Example 137: ((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-ethylpyrimidin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(3
   fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                       N
                                 F
                          \,N
15
           Prepared analogous to Example 135 substituting intermediate A-lwith intermediate A-2.MS
   (ESI): mass calcd. for C23H22FN502, 419.2; m/z found, 420.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.78:0.22), only major rotamer
   reported) 6 8.84 (d, J= 4.9 Hz, 2H), 8.20 (s, 2H), 7.07 (dd, J= 7.5, 1.2 Hz, IH), 7.01 - 6.97 (m, IH),
20 6.94 - 6.89 (m, IH), 5.00 (dt, J= 10.1, 3.3 Hz, IH), 4.31 - 4.22 (m, IH), 3.37 - 3.29 (m, 2H), 2.57
   (q, J= 7.6 Hz, 3H), 2.25 - 2.16 (m, IH), 1.53 - 1.44 (m, 2H), 1.27 (t, J= 7.6 Hz, 3H), 1.15 - 1.06
   (m, IH). IH buried under solvent.
                                               - 157  -

   Example 138: ((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-ethylpyrimidin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(6
   methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone.
                       ON-.
                              N
            Prepared analogous to Example 135 substituting intermediate A-lwith intermediate A
 5 41.MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C23H24N602, 416.2; m/z found, 417.2 [M+H]*. 'H NMR (400 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, , Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.63:0.37), only major rotamer
   reported) 6 8.74 (d, J = 4.8 Hz, 2H), 8.38 (d, J = 8.1 Hz, IH), 8.00 (s, 2H), 7.17 (t, J = 4.8 Hz, IH),
   7.04 (d, J = 8.2 Hz, 1H), 4.81 (dt, J = 10.4, 3.4 Hz, 1H), 4.51 - 4.46 (m, 1H), 3.80 (dt, J = 10.8, 3.2
   Hz, IH), 3.47 (dd, J= 10.6, 1.4 Hz, IH), 2.72 - 2.66 (m, IH), 2.48 (q, J= 7.6 Hz, 2H), 2.28 - 2.17
 0 (m, 4H), 1.67 (dt, J= 13.3, 3.7 Hz, 1H), 1.61 - 1.54 (m, 2H), 1.21 (t, J= 7.7 Hz, 3H).
   Example 139: (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((iS,4R,6R)-6-((6-(trifluoromethyl)pyridazin-3
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                        N,
            N   O
    F3 C                 N-N
                            'N
15          Step A: (1 S,4R,6R)-tert-butyl 6-((6-(trifluoromethyl)pyridazin-3-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.I]heptane-2-carboxylate. To intermediate B-5 (106 mg, 0.457 mmol) and 3-chloro
   6-(trifluoromethyl)pyridazine (120 mg, 0.66 mmol) dissolved in DMF (2 mL) was added NaH (40
   mg, 0.99 mmol, 60% dispersion in mineral oil), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room
   temperature for 2 h. Then, the mixture was quenched with saturated NH4Cl solution, diluted with
20 EtOAc and H20. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc (3X). The combined organics were
   washed with H20, 5% aqueous LiCl, brine, dried with Na2SO4, filtered, and concentrated.
   Purification of the concentrate via silica gel chromatography (0-50% EtOAc in hexanes) gave the
   title compound (189 mg) as an off-white solid. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C16H2oF3N303, 359.2; m/z
                                                 - 158  -

   found 304.1 [M+2H-tBu]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz, Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of
   rotamers, (0.74:0.26), major rotamer reported) 6 7.70 (d, J = 9.2 Hz, 1H), 7.07 (d, J = 9.2 Hz, 1H),
   5.59 (dt, J= 10.1, 3.1 Hz, 1H), 4.76 - 4.67 (m, 1H), 3.43 (dt, J= 9.6, 3.1 Hz, 1H), 3.23 - 3.17 (m,
   1H), 2.64 - 2.60 (m, 1H), 2.34 - 2.26 (m, 1H), 1.81 - 1.76 (m, 1H), 1.68 - 1.65 (m, 1H), 1.50 - 1.45
 5 (m, 1H), 1.10 (s, 9H).
            Step B: (1S,4R,6R)-6-((6-(trifluoromethyl)pyridazin-3-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane
   xHCl. To the title compound of step A (189 mg, 0.53 mmol) in EtOAc (2 mL) was added 4M HCl
   in dioxane (4 mL) and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 6 h. The reaction
   was concentrated to give the title compound of step B (146 mg) as an off-white solid and used
 0 without further purification. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C11H12F3N30, 259.1; m/z found 260.1
   [M+H]*.
            Step C: (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((6-(trifluoromethyl)pyridazin-3
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone. To the title compound of step B (34 mg) and
   intermediate A-1 (24 mg, 0.126 mmol) in DMF (0.5 mL) was added DIPEA (0.1 mL, 0.58 mmol)
 5 and HATU (48 mg, 0.126 mmol), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h.
   Analysis of the reaction mixture showed unreacted starting material and additional intermediate A
   1 (10 mg) was added. The reaction mixture was stirred for an additional 15 minutes at room
   temperature. The reaction was then quenched by the addition of H20 and the aqueous layer was
   extracted with EtOAc (3X). The combined organics were concentrated and subjected directly to
 0 purification using Agilent Prep Method Xto give the title compound (33 mg). MS (ESI): mass calcd.
   for C2oH17F3N602, 430.1; m/z found, 431.2 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was obtained on a Agilent
   1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase of 10-100% ACN in
   20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow rate of 1 mL/min
   (Temperature   =  30 'C). Rt = 6.08 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
25
   Example 140: (6-methyl-3-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((6
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridazin-3-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                                                -159-

                    ( N      N
          N'ON
    F3 C               N-N
                         'N
            Prepared analogous to Example 139 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A
   40.MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C2oHi8F3N702, 445.1; m/z found, 446.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.82:0.18), major rotamer reported) 6
 5 8.04 (d, J= 8.4 Hz, 1H), 7.81 (s, 2H), 7.62 (d, J= 9.1 Hz, 1H), 7.15 (dd, J= 9.2, 0.7 Hz, 1H), 7.11
   (d, J= 8.5 Hz, 1H), 5.31 (dt, J= 10.1, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.46 - 4.41 (m, 1H), 3.70 (dt, J= 11.0, 3.2 Hz,
   1H), 3.47 (dd, J= 11.0, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 2.73 - 2.68 (m, 1H), 2.37 - 2.28 (m, 1H), 2.23 (s, 3H), 1.63
   1.58 (m, 1H), 1.57 - 1.49 (m, 2H).
 0 Example 141: (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((6-(trifluoromethyl)pyridazin-3
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
    F3C'         OF
                            N
            Prepared analogous to Example 139 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A
   2.MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C22H17F4N502, 459.1; m/z found, 460.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
15 Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.78:0.22), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.85 (d, J= 4.9 Hz, 2H), 7.73 (d, J= 9.2 Hz, 1H), 7.28 (t, J= 4.9 Hz, 1H), 7.15 (dd, J= 9.2, 0.7 Hz,
   1H), 7.12 - 7.09 (m, 1H), 7.09 - 7.04 (m, 1H), 6.98 (dd, J= 7.5, 1.3 Hz, 1H), 5.39 (dt, J= 9.9, 3.3
   Hz, 1H), 4.40 - 4.31 (m, 1H), 3.41 - 3.33 (m, 1H), 3.32 (dd, J= 11.0, 1.3 Hz, 1H), 2.66 - 2.57 (m,
   1H), 2.41 - 2.33 (m, 1H), 1.53 - 1.48 (m, 1H), 1.38 (dt, J= 13.7, 3.6 Hz, 1H), 1.20 - 1.10 (m, 1H).
20
   Example 142: (6-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((6
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridazin-3-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                                               -160-

                        N
    F3C
                            N
            Prepared analogous to Example 139 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A
   41.MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C22H19F3N602, 456.2; m/z found, 457.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.78:0.22), major rotamer reported) 6
 5 8.77 (d, J= 4.8 Hz, 2H), 8.39 (d, J= 8.1 Hz, 1H), 7.64 (d, J= 9.2 Hz, 1H), 7.23 - 7.19 (m, 2H), 7.09
   (d, J= 8.1 Hz, 1H), 5.34 (dt, J= 10.1, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.47 - 4.42 (m, 1H), 3.75 (dt, J= 10.9, 3.2 Hz,
   1H), 3.49 (dd, J= 10.8, 1.3 Hz, 1H), 2.75 - 2.70 (m, 1H), 2.38 - 2.28 (m, 1H), 2.20 (s, 3H), 1.58
   1.51 (m, 3H).
 0 Example 143: (6-methyl-2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                    (N
            N    NH
             ,-r      0         /
    F3C                 N-N
            Prepared analogous to Example 53 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-3.MS
15 (ESI): mass calcd. for C21H2oF3N70, 443.2; m/z found, 444.2 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was
   obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase
   of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow
   rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature = 30 C). Rt = 5.80 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
20 Example 144: (3-fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
   2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                                               - 161 -

                        N
            N    NH
    F3 C     -     ~     N-N      F
            Prepared analogous to Example 53 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A
   16.MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C21Hi8F4N60, 446.1; m/z found, 447.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, major rotamer reported) 6 8.00 (s, 2H),
 5 7.91 (s, 1H), 7.58 (dd, J = 8.9, 2.6 Hz, 1H), 7.23 - 7.16 (m, 1H), 6.92 - 6.84 (m, 1H), 6.80 (d, J = 7.6
   Hz, 1H), 6.64 - 6.53 (m, 1H), 4.15 - 3.93 (m, 2H), 3.27 - 3.18 (m, 2H), 2.56 - 2.50 (m, 1H), 2.28
   2.14 (m, 1H), 1.55 (d, J = 10.2 Hz, 1H), 1.29 - 1.09 (m, 2H).
   Example 145: (4-fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
 0 2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                     4N
            N    NH    0      \        F
    F 3C                     %N-N
                          'N
            Prepared analogous to Example 53 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A
   12.MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C21Hi8F4N60, 446.1; m/z found, 447.1 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC
   using a XBridge C18 column (5um, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM
15 NH40H over 2 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 2 min, at a flow rate of 2.5 m/min
   (Temperature   =  45 C). Rt  = 2.05 min at 254 nm.
   Example 146: (2-fluoro-6-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
   2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                                                -162-

                              F
                        N
            N    NH
    F3C                  N-N
                           /N
            Prepared analogous to Example 53 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A
   1 1.MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C21Hi8F4N60, 446.1; m/z found, 447.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, major rotamer reported) 6 7.98 (s, 2H),
 5 7.78 (s, 1H), 7.75 (dt, J = 8.3, 0.9 Hz, 1H), 7.56 (dd, J = 8.8, 2.4 Hz, 1H), 7.35 - 7.27 (m, 1H), 6.66
   6.56 (m, 1H), 6.49 (t, J = 8.6 Hz, 1H), 3.98 - 3.89 (m, 1H), 3.88 - 3.82 (m, 1H), 3.49 (dt, J = 11.0,
   3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.34 - 3.32 (m, 1H), 2.63 - 2.55 (m, 1H), 2.27 - 2.15 (m, 1H), 1.44 (d, J= 10.1 Hz, 1H),
   1.32 - 1.19 (m, 2H).
 0 Example 147: (2-fluoro-6-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                              F
            N    NH
                     NH
                       O..
    F3C
                             N
            Prepared analogous to Example 53 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-6.MS
   (ESI): mass calcd. for C23H19F4N50, 457.2; m/z found, 458.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
15 Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, major rotamer reported) 6 8.86 (d, J = 4.9
   Hz, 2H), 8.06 (dd, J = 7.9, 1.0 Hz, 1H), 7.83 - 7.73 (m, 1H), 7.56 (dd, J = 8.9, 2.4 Hz, 1H), 7.41 (t, J
   = 4.9 Hz, 1H), 7.31 - 7.24 (m, 1H), 6.66 - 6.59 (m, 1H), 6.58 - 6.53 (m, 1H), 3.99 - 3.90 (m, 2H),
   3.55 (dt, J = 10.9, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.35 - 3.32 (m, 1H), 2.64 - 2.58 (m, 1H), 2.26 - 2.16 (m, 1H), 1.44
   (d, J= 10.4 Hz, 1H), 1.33 - 1.26 (m, 1H), 1.19 - 1.13 (m, 1H).
20
                                                 - 163 -

   Example 148: (2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
    F3 0                  N
                         \,N
            Prepared analogous to Example 53 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A
 5 37.MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C23H2oF3N50, 439.2; m/z found, 440.1 [M+H]*. 'H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.91:0.09), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.84 (d, J= 4.9 Hz, 2H), 8.13 (dd, J = 7.9, 1.2 Hz, 1H), 7.87 - 7.78 (m, 1H), 7.65 - 7.54 (m, 1H),
   7.38 (t, J= 4.9 Hz, 1H), 7.29 (td, J = 7.7, 1.4 Hz, 1H), 6.98 - 6.87 (m, 1H), 6.87 - 6.76 (m, 1H), 6.66
   - 6.49 (m, 1H), 4.08 - 3.92 (m, 1H), 3.52 (dt, J = 10.9, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 2.66 - 2.59 (m, 1H), 2.30 - 2.19
 0 (m, 1H), 1.54 - 1.45 (m, 1H), 1.35 - 1.19 (m, 3H). 1H buried under solvent peak.
   Example 149: (5-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
   2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
                 NH
    F3 C U
15          Prepared analogous to Example 53 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A
   47.MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C23H21F3N60, 454.2; m/z found, 455.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.89:0.11), only major rotamer
   reported) 6 8.82 (d, J= 4.9 Hz, 2H), 8.41 - 8.37 (m, 1H), 8.33 (dd, J= 2.1, 0.9 Hz, 1H), 8.26 - 8.22
   (m, 1H), 7.70 - 7.58 (m, 1H), 7.45 (dd, J= 8.9, 2.5 Hz, 1H), 7.28 (t, J= 4.9 Hz, 1H), 6.38 (d, J= 8.8
20 Hz, 1H), 4.32 - 4.28 (m, 1H), 4.22 - 4.11 (m, 1H), 3.72 (dt, J= 10.9, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.32 (dd, J= 10.9,
   1.5 Hz, 1H), 2.83 - 2.72 (m, 1H), 2.46 - 2.36 (m, 4H), 1.94 - 1.87 (m, 1H), 1.71 (d, J= 10.0 Hz,
   1H), 1.20 (dt, J= 13.0, 3.5 Hz, 1H).
                                                 -164-

   Example 150: (6-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
   2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                  NH   NZ
    F3 C     /N..
                      \    N
           Prepared analogous to Example 53 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A
 5 41.MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C23H21F3N60, 454.2; m/z found, 455.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.91:0.09), only major rotamer
   reported) 6 8.79 (d, J= 4.9 Hz, 2H), 8.45 (d, J= 8.1 Hz, 1H), 8.31 - 8.23 (m, 1H), 7.70 - 7.59 (m,
   1H), 7.47 (dd, J= 8.8, 2.5 Hz, 1H), 7.29 (d, J= 8.1 Hz, 1H), 7.24 (t, J= 4.9 Hz, 1H), 6.44 (d, J=
   8.8 Hz, 1H), 4.26 - 4.21 (m, 1H), 4.13 (s, 1H), 3.73 (dt, J= 10.8, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.31 (dd, J= 10.8, 1.5
 0 Hz, 1H), 2.82 - 2.73 (m, 1H), 2.62 (s, 3H), 2.51 - 2.37 (m, 1H), 1.98 - 1.85 (m, 1H), 1.70 (d, J=
   10.2 Hz, 1H), 1.20 (dt, J= 13.5, 3.5 Hz, 1H).
   Example 151: (5-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
   2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
            N     NH
                               N
    F3 0
15
           Prepared analogous to Example 53 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A
   46.MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C23H21F3N60, 454.2; m/z found, 455.2 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was
   obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase
   of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow
20 rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature    = 30 'C). Rt = 5.33 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
                                               - 165  -

   Example 152: (4-fluoro-2-(3-methyl-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                         N
            N    NH                   F
                           N
            Prepared analogous to Example 53 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A
 5 51.MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C22H19F4N502, 46i.i; m/z found, 462.1 [M+H]*. 1HNMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, major rotamer reported) 6 7.84 (s, iH),
   7.70 (dd, J = 9.1, 2.6 Hz, IH), 7.59 - 7.53 (m, IH), 7.02 (dd, J = 8.5, 5.3 Hz, IH), 6.72 (td, J = 8.2,
   2.6 Hz, IH), 6.62 - 6.47 (m, IH), 4.06 - 3.97 (m, 2H), 3.61 (dt, J = 11.1, 3.2 Hz, IH), 3.41 - 3.35
   (m, iH), 2.76 - 2.67 (m, iH), 2.44 (s, 3H), 2.34 - 2.23 (m, iH), 1.74 - 1.60 (m, 2H), 1.35 - 1.26 (m,
 0 iH).
   Example 153: (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((iS,4S,6R)-6-(methyl(5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. I ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                  Nr     N
    F3 C                 N-N
                             N
15          To the title compound of example 53 (10 mg, 0.023 mmol) dissolved in DMF (0.5 mL) was
   added NaOtBu (2.5 mg, 0.026 mmol) .After 5 minutes, Mel (1.5 pL, 0.025 mmol) was added and
   the reaction mixture as stirred at room temperature overnight. Then, the mixture was diluted with
   EtOAc and H20. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc (2X). The combined organics were
   washed with H20, dried with Na2SO4, filtered, and concentrated. Purification of the concentrate
20 was performed using Agilent Prep Method Xto give the title compound (3 mg) as a brown solid.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C22H21F3N60, 442.2; m/z found, 443.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.91:0.09), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.06 (s, iH), 7.95 (s, 2H), 7.80 (d, J = 8.3 Hz, iH), 7.68 - 7.60 (m, iH), 7.35 - 7.25 (m, iH), 7.00
                                                 -166-

   6.90 (m, 1H), 6.82 - 6.75 (m, 1H), 6.65 (d, J = 8.9 Hz, 1H), 4.58 - 4.46 (m, 1H), 3.88 (s, 1H), 3.49
   3.42 (m, 2H), 3.11 (s, 3H), 2.69 (s, 1H), 2.09 - 1.98 (m, 1H), 1.99 - 1.88 (m, 1H), 1.49 (d, J= 9.9
   Hz, 1H), 1.27 - 1.17 (m, 1H).
 5 Example 154: (3-fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-(methyl(5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
            N~ N N
    F3 C     -    ~    N-N       F
            Prepared analogous to Example 53 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A- 16
   followed by the alkylation step of Example 153. MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C22H2oF4N60, 460.2;
 0 m/z found, 461.1 [M+H]*. 'H NMR (500 MHz, Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of
   rotamers (0.86:0.14), major rotamer reported) 6 7.98 (s, 3H), 7.76 - 7.70 (m, 1H), 7.65 (dd, J = 9.1,
   2.5 Hz, 1H), 7.33 - 7.26 (m, 1H), 6.70 (d, J = 9.1 Hz, 1H), 6.59 - 6.50 (m, 1H), 4.49 - 4.40 (m, 1H),
   3.99 - 3.93 (m, 1H), 3.51 (dt, J = 11.4, 3.0 Hz, 1H), 3.43 (dd, J= 11.4, 1.6 Hz, 1H), 3.09 (d, J= 1.3
   Hz, 3H), 2.69 (s, 1H), 2.08 - 1.93 (m, 2H), 1.46 (d, J = 9.7 Hz, 1H), 1.19 - 1.12 (m, 1H).
 5
   Example 155: (5-fluoro-2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-(methyl(5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N           F
            N    N
    F 3C               N-N
                            N
            Prepared analogous to Example 53 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A- 10
20 followed by the alkylation step of Example 153. MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C22H2oF4N60, 460.2;
   m/z found, 461.1 [M+H]*. 'H NMR (500 MHz, Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of
   rotamers (0.93:0.07), major rotamer reported) 6 8.08 (s, 1H), 7.95 (s, 2H), 7.79 (dd, J = 9.0, 4.7 Hz,
                                                -167-

   1H), 7.63 (dd, J = 9.1, 2.6 Hz, 1H), 7.07 - 6.99 (m, 1H), 6.69 (dd, J = 8.1, 2.9 Hz, 1H), 6.66 (d, J =
   9.1 Hz, 1H), 4.52 - 4.44 (m, 1H), 3.92 - 3.87 (m, 1H), 3.44 - 3.40 (m, 2H), 3.10 (s, 3H), 2.70 - 2.65
   (m, 1H), 2.08 - 1.99 (m, 1H), 1.97 - 1.90 (m, 1H), 1.52 - 1.45 (m, 1H), 1.19 - 1.11 (m, 1H).
 5 Example 156: ((1S,4S,6R)-6-(methyl(5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone.
                        NI
            N    N
    F3 C                N-N
                           'N
            Prepared analogous to Example 53 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-40
   followed by the alkylation step of Example 153. MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C22H22F3N70, 457.2;
 0 m/z found, 458.1 [M+H]*. 'H NMR (500 MHz, Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of
   rotamers (0.93:0.07), major rotamer reported) 6 8.09 (d, J = 8.4 Hz, 1H), 8.07 (s, 1H), 7.97 (s, 2H),
   7.66 (dd, J = 9.1, 2.6 Hz, 1H), 7.17 (d, J = 8.4 Hz, 1H), 6.68 (d, J = 9.1 Hz, 1H), 4.72 - 4.63 (m, 1H),
   3.95 - 3.87 (m, 1H), 3.54 (dt, J = 11.4, 3.1 Hz, 1H), 3.51 - 3.42 (m, 1H), 3.12 (s, 3H), 2.77 - 2.69 (m,
   1H), 2.15 (s, 3H), 2.11 - 1.99 (m, 1H), 1.92 - 1.80 (m, 1H), 1.57 (d, J= 10.4 Hz, 1H), 1.47 - 1.38 (m,
 5 1H).
   Example 157: (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-(methyl(5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                        N
               N~ N
    F3 0                          F
                           \ N
20          Prepared analogous to Example 53 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-2
   followed by the alkylation step of Example 153. MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C24H21F4N50, 471.2;
   m/z found, 472.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz, Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of
                                                - 168 -

   rotamers (0.90:0.10), major rotamer reported) 6 8.89 (d, J= 5.0 Hz, 2H), 8.20 - 8.12 (m, 1H), 7.66
   (dd, J = 9.1, 2.6 Hz, 1H), 7.49 (t, J = 4.9 Hz, 1H), 7.09 - 7.00 (m, 1H), 6.87 - 6.80 (m, 1H), 6.72
   6.66 (m, 2H), 4.62 - 4.53 (m, 1H), 4.15 - 4.08 (m, 1H), 3.36 (dd, J = 11.5, 1.6 Hz, 1H), 3.20 (dt, J=
   11.5, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.10 (s, 3H), 2.66 - 2.57 (m, 1H), 2.08 - 1.98 (m, 1H), 1.90 (dt, J = 13.8, 3.7 Hz,
 5 1H), 1.54 (d, J = 10.1 Hz, 1H), 0.95 - 0.87 (m, 1H).
   Example 158: (5-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-(methyl(5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                        N          F
            N~ N
    F3 C                 N.
                       \    ,,N
 0          Prepared analogous to Example 53 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-7
   followed by the alkylation step of Example 153. MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C24H21F4N50, 471.2;
   m/z found, 472.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz, Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of
   rotamers (0.91:0.09), major rotamer reported) 6 8.83 (d, J = 4.9 Hz, 2H), 8.15 (dd, J = 8.8, 5.5 Hz,
   1H), 8.08 (s, 1H), 7.63 (dd, J = 9.1, 2.6 Hz, 1H), 7.38 (t, J = 4.9 Hz, 1H), 6.98 (ddd, J = 8.8, 8.1, 2.7
 5 Hz, 1H), 6.66 (d, J = 9.1 Hz, 1H), 6.58 (dd, J = 8.4, 2.7 Hz, 1H), 4.55 - 4.45 (m, 1H), 4.02 - 3.95 (m,
   1H), 3.51 (dt, J = 11.3, 3.1 Hz, 1H), 3.48 - 3.41 (m, 1H), 3.14 (s, 3H), 2.75 - 2.67 (m, 1H), 2.10
   2.00 (m, 1H), 1.99 - 1.92 (m, 1H), 1.49 (d, J= 10.1 Hz, 1H), 1.19 - 1.09 (m, 1H).
   Example 159: (2-fluoro-6-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-(methyl(5
20 (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                               F
            N     NNZ
    F3C                  N
                       \      N
                                                 -169-

            Prepared analogous to Example 53 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-6
   followed by the alkylation step of Example 153. MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C24H21F4N50, 471.2;
   m/z found, 472.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz, Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of
   rotamers (0.85:0.15), major rotamer reported) 6 8.86 (d, J = 4.9 Hz, 2H), 8.02 (dd, J = 7.8, 1.0 Hz,
 5 1H), 7.98 (s, 1H), 7.63 (dd, J = 9.2, 2.6 Hz, 1H), 7.42 (t, J = 4.9 Hz, 1H), 7.28 - 7.22 (m, 1H), 6.68
   (d, J = 9.2 Hz, 1H), 6.63 - 6.58 (m, 1H), 4.48 - 4.40 (m, 1H), 4.08 - 4.00 (m, 1H), 3.55 (dt, J = 11.3,
   3.0 Hz, 1H), 3.46 - 3.41 (m, 1H), 3.11 - 3.09 (m, 3H), 2.72 - 2.68 (m, 1H), 2.07 - 1.94 (m, 2H), 1.48
   - 1.42 (m, 1H), 1.07 - 1.02 (m, 1H).
 0 Example 160: (2-fluoro-6-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
   2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                         N
            N     N
                           N
    F3 C                          F
            To the title compound of Example 66 (38 mg, 0.066 mmol) dissolved in DMF (1.3 mL) was
   added NaOtBu (7 mg, 0.072 mmol). After 5 minutes, EtI (5.5 pL, 0.069 mmol) was added and the
 5 reaction mixture as stirred at room temperature overnight. Analysis of the reaction mixture showed
   that starting material (Example 66) still remained. NaH (5 mg, 0.13 mmol, 60% dispersion in
   mineral oil) and additional EtI (5.5 pL, 0.069 mmol) were added to the reaction flask, and the
   reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2h. Then, the mixture was diluted with EtOAc
   and H20. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc (2X). The combined organics were washed
20 with H20, dried with Na2SO4, filtered, and concentrated. Purification of the concentrate was
   performed using Agilent Prep Method Xto give the title compound (16 mg) as a white solid. MS
   (ESI): mass calcd. for C25H23F4N50, 485.2; m/z found, 486.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.93:0.07), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.89 (d, J = 5.0 Hz, 2H), 8.12 (s, 1H), 7.63 (dd, J = 9.0, 2.6 Hz, 1H), 7.49 (t, J = 5.0 Hz, 1H), 7.03
25 6.96 (m, 1H), 6.83 - 6.76 (m, 1H), 6.71 - 6.64 (m, 2H), 4.48 - 4.39 (m, 1H), 4.13 (s, 1H), 3.88 - 3.75
   (m, 1H), 3.36 - 3.32 (m, 2H), 3.16 (dt, J = 11.4, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 2.61 (s, 1H), 2.14 - 2.05 (m, 1H), 1.83
   - 1.75 (m, 1H), 1.53 (d, J = 10.1 Hz, 1H), 1.17 (t, J = 7.0 Hz, 3H), 0.86 - 0.79 (m, 1H).
                                                -170-

   Example 161: ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((cyclopropylmethyl)(5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)(3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                        N
            N3 N        O         /
                          \N
 5          To the title compound of Example 66 (30 mg, 0.053 mmol) dissolved in DMF (1 mL) was
   added NaH (6 mg, 0.16 mmol, 60% dispersion in mineral oil).After 10 minutes,
   (bromomethyl)cyclopropane (10 pL, 0.11 mmol) was added and the reaction mixture as stirred at
   room temperature overnight. Then, the mixture was diluted with EtOAc and H20. The aqueous
   layer was extracted with EtOAc (2X). The combined organics were washed with H20, dried with
 0 Na2SO4, filtered, and concentrated. Purification of the concentrate was performed using Gilson
   Prep Method Xto give the title compound (19 mg) as a white solid. MS (ESI): mass calcd. for
   C27H25F4N50, 511.2; m/z found, 512.3 [M+H]*. 'H NMR (500 MHz, Methanol-d4, Compound
   present as a mixture of rotamers (0.93:0.07), major rotamer reported) 6 8.89 (d, J = 4.9 Hz, 2H),
   8.13 (s, 1H), 7.61 (dd, J = 9.1, 2.6 Hz, 1H), 7.48 (t, J = 5.0 Hz, 1H), 7.02 - 6.95 (m, 1H), 6.85 - 6.78
 5 (m, 1H), 6.75 (d, J = 9.1 Hz, 1H), 6.68 (dd, J = 7.6, 1.1 Hz, 1H), 4.51 - 4.41 (m, 1H), 4.20 - 4.10 (m,
   1H), 3.85 - 3.73 (m, 1H), 3.28 - 3.23 (m, 1H), 3.20 - 3.11 (m, 1H), 2.63 - 2.58 (m, 1H), 2.19 - 2.08
   (m, 1H), 1.90 - 1.82 (m, 1H), 1.57 - 1.51 (m, 1H), 1.29 (s, 1H), 0.99 - 0.90 (m, 1H), 0.86 - 0.77 (m,
   1H), 0.62 - 0.49 (m, 2H), 0.49 - 0.42 (m, 1H), 0.37 - 0.28 (m, 1H).
20 Example 162: N-((1S,4R,6R)-2-(3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)benzoyl)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-6
   yl)-N-(5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)acetamide.
                        N
            N    NAc
    F3 0                  N-        F
                                                - 171 -

            To the title compound of Example 66 (30 mg, 0.053 mmol) was added Ac20 (0.1 mL, 1.05
   mmol), and the reaction mixture as stirred at 100 'C overnight. Then, the mixture was concentrated
   and the concentrate was purified directly using Gilson Prep Method Xto give the title compound.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C25H21F4N502, 499.2; m/z found, 500.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
 5 Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.79:0.2 1), major rotamer reported) 6
   9.02 - 8.98 (m, 1H), 8.89 (d, J = 4.9 Hz, 2H), 8.31 (dd, J = 8.1, 2.5 Hz, 1H), 7.64 - 7.46 (m, 4H),
   7.38 - 7.32 (m, 1H), 4.55 - 4.48 (m, 1H), 4.38 - 4.33 (m, 1H), 3.08 (dt, J = 11.1, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 2.68
   (d, J= 11.2 Hz, 1H), 2.39 (s, 1H), 1.91 - 1.81 (m, 1H), 1.75 (s, 3H), 1.52 (d, J= 10.4 Hz, 1H), 0.96
   0.90 (m, 1H), 0.69 - 0.61 (m, 1H).
 0
   Example 163: (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((2-methoxyethyl)(5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                        N
               N N      ON0
    F3 C       MeO         N~      F
            To the title compound of Example 66 (43 mg, 0.094 mmol) dissolved in DMF (2 mL) was
 5 added NaH (19 mg, 0.47 mmol, 60% dispersion in mineral oil).After 10 minutes, 2-chloroethyl
   methyl ether (26 pL, 0.28 mmol) was added and the reaction mixture as stirred at room temperature
   overnight. Analysis of the reaction mixture showed that starting material (Example 66) still
   remained. NaH (19 mg, 0.47 mmol, 60% dispersion in mineral oil) and additional 2-chloroethyl
   methyl ether (26 pL, 0.28 mmol) were added to the reaction flask, and the reaction mixture was
20 stirred at 50 'C for 3h. Then, the mixture was diluted with EtOAc and H20. The aqueous layer was
   extracted with EtOAc (2X). The combined organics were washed with H20, dried with Na2SO4,
   filtered, and concentrated. Purification of the concentrate was performed using Gilson Prep Method
   Xto give the title compound (10 mg) as an off-white solid. MS (ESI): mass calcd. for
   C26H25F4N502,    515.2; m/z found, 516.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz, Methanol-d4, Compound
25 present as a mixture of rotamers (0.92:0.08), major rotamer reported) 6 8.89 (d, J = 5.0 Hz, 2H),
   8.16 (s, 1H), 7.61 (dd, J = 9.1, 2.6 Hz, 1H), 7.49 (t, J = 5.0 Hz, 1H), 7.03 - 6.96 (m, 1H), 6.84 - 6.77
   (m, 1H), 6.74 (d, J = 8.9 Hz, 1H), 6.71 (dd, J = 7.6, 1.1 Hz, 1H), 4.46 - 4.36 (m, 1H), 4.16 (s, 1H),
                                                - 172 -

   4.04 - 3.90 (m, 1H), 3.61 - 3.43 (m, 3H), 3.38 - 3.32 (m, 3H), 3.16 (dt, J = 12.1, 3.1 Hz, 1H), 2.65
   2.56 (m, 1H), 2.14 - 2.02 (m, 1H), 1.91 - 1.82 (m, 1H), 1.54 (d, J= 10.3 Hz, 1H), 0.83 (d, J= 10.3
   Hz, 1H). 1H buried under solvent peak.
 5 Example 164: (2-methyl-4-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                         N
            N      0          -N
    F3C
                       \    N
   Example 165: (6-methyl-4-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
 0 (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                         N
                 NO           -N
         F 3 0-0
   Example 166: (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((iS,4S,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
           N      NH-O
    Br                  N-N
15
            Step A: (1S,4S,6R)-tert-butyl 6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane
   2-carboxylate. To a microwave vial containing 5-bromo-2-iodopyridine (669 mg, 2.36 mmol) and
                                               - 173 -

   degassed THF (12 mL) was added NaOtBu (453 mg, 4.71 mmol), Xantphos (98 mg, 0.17 mmol)
   and Pd2(dba)3 (86 mg, 0.094 mmol). The reaction mixture was purged with N2 for 10 minutes and
   then intermediate B-10 (500 mg, 2.36 mmol) was added and the reaction mixture heated to 90 'C
   overnight. Upon completion of the reaction, the mixture was cooled to room temperature, filtered
 5 through Celite and washed with EtOAc. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo and the crude
   residue subjected directly to silica gel chromatography (0-60% EtOAc in hexanes) to give the title
   compound of step A (91 mg). Further flushing of the column with 0-10% MeOH (with 10% 2 M
   NH3) in DCM gave (1 S,4R,6R)-N-(5-bromopyridin-2-yl)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-6-amine (483
   mg). (1S,4S,6R)-tert-butyl 6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptane-2
 0 carboxylate: MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C16H22BrN302, 367.1; m/z found 370.0 [M+H]*. 1H NMR
   (500 MHz, Methanol-d4) 6 7.98 (d, J = 2.5 Hz, 1H), 7.49 (dd, J = 9.0, 2.5 Hz, 1H), 6.51 (d, J = 8.9
   Hz, 1H), 4.46 - 4.41 (m, 1H), 4.12 - 4.05 (m, 1H), 3.29 - 3.27 (m, 1H), 3.07 (d, J = 9.6 Hz, 1H), 2.57
   - 2.51 (m, 1H), 2.27 - 2.18 (m, 1H), 1.70 - 1.67 (m, 2H), 1.18 - 1.09 (m, 1OH). (1S,4R,6R)-N-(5
   bromopyridin-2-yl)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-6-amine:       1H NMR     (500 MHz, Methanol-d4) 6 8.11
 5 (dd, J = 2.5, 0.7 Hz, 1H), 7.58 (dd, J = 8.9, 2.5 Hz, 1H), 6.65 (dd, J = 8.9, 0.7 Hz, 1H), 4.44 (dd, J=
   3.1, 2.0 Hz, 1H), 4.14 - 4.10 (m, 1H), 3.21 (dt, J = 10.9, 3.4 Hz, 1H), 3.11 (dd, J = 10.9, 1.8 Hz, 1H),
   2.74 - 2.70 (m, 1H), 2.39 - 2.29 (m, 1H), 2.05 - 2.02 (m, 1H), 1.90 - 1.83 (m, 1H), 1.38 (dt, J = 13.4,
   3.5 Hz, 1H).
            Step B: (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
 0 azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone. To (iS,4R,6R)-N-(5-bromopyridin-2-yl)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-6-amine from Step A (70 mg, 0.26 mmol) and intermediate A-1 (63 mg,
   0.33 mmol) in DMF (2 mL) was added DIPEA (0.27 mL, 1.57 mmol) and HATU (109 mg, 0.29
   mmol), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The reaction was quenched
   by the addition of H20 and the aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc (2X). The combined
25 organics were concentrated and subjected to purification via Gilson Prep Method X to give the title
   compound (42 mg) as an off-white powder.MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C2oH19BrN6O, 438.1; m/z
   found, 439.0 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz, Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of
   rotamers, major rotamer reported) 6 7.94 (s, 2H), 7.83 (d, J = 7.8 Hz, IH), 7.60 - 7.55 (m, IH), 7.50
   - 7.43 (m, IH), 7.40 (td, J = 7.9, 1.5 Hz, IH), 6.96 (s, IH), 6.82 (s, IH), 6.46 (s, IH), 3.85 (s, 2H),
30 3.50 - 3.41 (m, IH), 3.28 (dd, J = 11.1, 1.6 Hz, IH), 2.58 (s, IH), 2.26 - 2.15 (m, IH), 1.53 - 1.38
   (m, IH), 1.35 - 1.24 (m, IH), 1.23 - 1.14 (m, IH).
                                                 - 174 -

   Example 167: ((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(3
   fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                       N
    Br                    N      F
                         \  N
 5          Prepared analogous to Example 166 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-2.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C22H19BrFN5O, 467.1; m/z found, 470.0 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.81:0.19), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.86 (d, J = 4.9 Hz, 2H), 8.07 (dd, J = 8.0, 1.0 Hz, 1H), 7.52 (d, J = 2.4 Hz, 1H), 7.46 - 7.32 (m, 3H),
   6.70 - 6.62 (m, 1H), 6.47 (d, J = 9.4 Hz, 1H), 3.96 - 3.89 (m, 1H), 3.87 - 3.78 (m, 1H), 3.53 (dt, J =
 0 10.9, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 2.62 - 2.55 (m, 1H), 2.24 - 2.14 (m, 1H), 1.44 - 1.39 (m, 1H), 1.29 - 1.18 (m, 1H),
   1.16 - 1.11 (m, 1H). 1H buried under solvent peak
   Example 168: ((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(2
   fluoro-6-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                            F
           N     NH
                    NHN
15   rN
            Prepared analogous to Example 166 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-6.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C22H19BrFN5O, 467.1; m/z found, 468.0 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.92:0.08), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.89 (d, J = 4.9 Hz, 2H), 7.69 (d, J = 2.5 Hz, 1H), 7.48 (t, J = 5.0 Hz, 1H), 7.45 (dd, J = 8.9, 2.5 Hz,
20 1H), 7.17 - 7.10 (m, 1H), 6.99 - 6.92 (m, 1H), 6.81 (d, J = 7.5 Hz, 1H), 6.43 (d, J = 8.9 Hz, 1H),
   4.15 (s, 1H), 4.01 - 3.91 (m, 1H), 3.25 - 3.18 (m, 2H), 2.52 (s, 1H), 2.27 - 2.15 (m, 1H), 1.52 (d, J=
   11.7 Hz, 1H), 1.22 - 1.13 (m, 1H), 1.06 (d, J= 10.2 Hz, 1H).
                                                - 175 -

   Example 169:(2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((iS,4S,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                 NH
    CIU               N-N
 5         Step A: (1 S,4S,6R)-tert-butyl 6-((5-chloropyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptane
   2-carboxylate. To a microwave vial containing degassed toluene (3 mL) was added Pd(OAc)2 (6
   mg, 0.028 mmol) and racemic BINAP (17 mg, 0.028 mmol) at room temperature and the reaction
   mixture was purged with N2 for 5 min. Then, 2-bromo-5-chloropyridine (90 mg, 0.47 mmol),
   intermediate B-10 (109 mg), and sodium tert-butoxide (63 mg, 0.66 mmol) were added and the
 0 reaction mixture heated to 90 'C overnight. Upon completion of the reaction, the mixture was
   cooled to room temperature, filtered through Celite and washed with EtOAc. The filtrate was
   concentrated in vacuo and the crude residue subjected directly to silica gel chromatography (0-10%
   MeOH (with 10% 2N NH3) in DCM) to give the title compound of step A. MS (ESI) mass calcd.
   for C16H22ClN302, 323.1; m/z found 324.1 [M+H]*.1 H NMR (500 MHz, Methanol-d4) 6 7.90 (d, J=
 5 2.6 Hz, 1H), 7.39 (dd, J= 8.9, 2.7 Hz, 1H), 6.54 (d, J= 9.0 Hz, 1H), 4.43 (s, 1H), 4.12 - 4.06 (m,
   1H), 3.30 - 3.27 (m, 1H), 3.09 - 3.05 (m, 1H), 2.57 - 2.50 (m, 1H), 2.28 - 2.17 (m, 1H), 1.70 - 1.67
   (m, 2H), 1.48 - 1.38 (m, 2H), 1.12 (s, 9H).
           Step B: (1S,4R,6R)-N-(5-chloropyridin-2-yl)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-6-amine - xHCl.
   To the title compound of step A (252 mg, 0.701 mmol) in EtOAc (9 mL) was added 4M HCl in
20 dioxane (0.9 mL). After lh, the reaction was concentrated to give the title compound of step B (231
   mg, 90% purity), which was used without further purification. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for
   CiiH14ClN3, 223.1; m/z found 224.1 [M+H]*.
           Step C: (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone. To the title compound of step B (40 mg) and intermediate
25 A-1 (28 mg, 0.15 mmol) in DMF (1 mL) was added DIPEA (0.2 mL, 1.2 mmol) and HATU (56
   mg, 0.15 mmol), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The reaction was
   quenched by the addition of H20 and the aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc (4X). The
                                               -176-

   combined organics were concentrated and the concentrate subjected directly to purification via
   Agilent Prep Method X to give the title compound (30 mg). MS (ESI): mass calcd. for
   C2oH19ClN6O, 394.1; m/z found, 395.2 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was obtained on a Agilent 1100
   Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase of 10-100% ACN in 20
 5 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow rate of 1 mL/min
   (Temperature   = 30 C). Rt = 6.25 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
   Example 170: ((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(3
   fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                       N
           N1   NH
    CI                          F
 0                         N
            Prepared analogous to Example 169 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-2.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C22H19ClFN5O, 423.1; m/z found, 424.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.84:0.16), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.89 (d, J= 4.9 Hz, 2H), 7.83 (d, J= 2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.33 (t, J= 4.9 Hz, 1H), 7.21 - 7.13 (m, 2H), 7.12
 5 - 7.06 (m, 1H), 6.99 (d, J= 7.2 Hz, 1H), 6.14 (d, J= 8.9 Hz, 1H), 4.42 (s, 1H), 4.24 - 4.13 (m, 1H),
   3.46 (dt, J= 11.1, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.22 (dd, J= 11.2, 1.6 Hz, 1H), 2.68 - 2.61 (m, 1H), 2.42 - 2.27 (m,
   1H), 1.71 - 1.66 (m, 1H), 1.58 - 1.52 (m, 1H), 1.09 - 0.99 (m, 1H).
   Example 171: ((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(4
20 fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                      N      __
          N: NH      O     \       F
                     \    N
                                               - 177 -

           Prepared analogous to Example 169 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-23.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C22H19ClFN5O, 423.1; m/z found, 424.0 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, major rotamer reported) 6 8.86 (d, J = 4.9
   Hz, 2H), 7.88 (dd, J = 10.1, 2.7 Hz, 1H), 7.58 (d, J = 2.6 Hz, 1H), 7.44 - 7.35 (m, 2H), 6.98 - 6.92
 5 (m, 1H), 6.64 - 6.56 (m, 1H), 6.51 - 6.43 (m, 1H), 3.93 (s, 1H), 3.91 - 3.86 (m, 1H), 3.52 (dt, J =
   10.9, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 3.30 - 3.28 (m, 1H), 2.63 - 2.58 (m, 1H), 2.27 - 2.17 (m, 1H), 1.47 (d, J = 10.0
   Hz, 1H), 1.33 - 1.26 (m, 1H), 1.24 - 1.17 (m, 1H).
   Example 172: ((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(5
 0 fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                      ( 7         F
                NH
        CION
                           N
           Prepared analogous to Example 169 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-7.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C22H19ClFN5O, 423.1; m/z found, 424.0 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.91:0.09), major rotamer reported) 6
 5 8.83 (d, J = 4.8 Hz, 2H), 8.19 (dd, J = 8.8, 5.5 Hz, IH), 7.55 (d, J = 2.6 Hz, IH), 7.39 - 7.32 (m, 2H),
   7.08 (td, J = 8.5, 2.7 Hz, IH), 6.72 - 6.64 (m, IH), 6.50 - 6.42 (m, IH), 3.95 (s, IH), 3.92 - 3.86 (m,
   IH), 3.50 (dt, J = 11.0, 3.2 Hz, IH), 3.30 - 3.28 (m, IH), 2.62 - 2.58 (m, IH), 2.26 - 2.18 (m, IH),
   1.46 (d, J = 10.1 Hz, IH), 1.28 - 1.17 (m, 2H).
20 Example 173: (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((iS,4S,6R)-6-((5-(difluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                      (kN
            N     NHO
    F        -      ~    N-N
      F                      N
                                                - 178 -

            Step A: (1 S,4S,6R)-tert-butyl 6-((5 -(difluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane-2-carboxylate. To a microwave vial containing degassed toluene (6 mL)
   was added Pd(OAc)2 (25 mg, 0.038 mmol) and racemic BINAP (27 mg, 0.043 mmol) at room
   temperature and the reaction mixture was purged with N2 for 5 min. Then, 2-chloro-5
 5 (difluoromethyl)pyridine (70 pL, 0.59 mmol), intermediate B-10 (137 mg), and sodium tert
   butoxide (81 mg, 0.82 mmol) were added and the reaction mixture heated to 90 'C overnight. Upon
   completion of the reaction, the mixture was cooled to room temperature, filtered through Celite and
   washed with EtOAc. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo and the crude residue subjected directly
   to silica gel chromatography (0-60% EtOAc in hexanes) to give the title compound of step A (71
 0 mg, 0.21 mmol, 36%). MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C17H23F2N302, 339.2; m/z found 340.2 [M+H]*.
   1H  NMR (500 MHz, Methanol-d4) 6 8.12 - 8.07 (m, 1H), 7.56 (dd, J = 8.6, 2.3 Hz, 1H), 6.80 - 6.49
   (m, 2H), 4.49 - 4.44 (m, 1H), 4.23 - 4.14 (m, 1H), 3.09 (d, J = 9.5 Hz, 1H), 2.59 - 2.54 (m, 1H), 2.31
   - 2.18 (m, 1H), 1.74 - 1.68 (m, 2H), 1.22 - 1.16 (m, 1H), 1.09 (s, 9H). 1 H buried under solvent
   peak.
 5          Step B: (1S,4R,6R)-N-(5-(difluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-6-amine
   xHCl. To the title compound of step A (71 mg, 0.21 mmol) in EtOAc (3 mL) was added 4M HCl in
   dioxane (0.3 mL). After Ih, the reaction was concentrated to give the title compound of step B (65
   mg), which was used without further purification. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C12Hi5F2N3, 239.1; m/z
   found 240.1 [M+H]*.
 0          Step C: (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(difluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone. To the title compound of step B (33 mg) and
   intermediate A-1 (24 mg, 0.13 mmol) in DMF (1.5 mL) was added DIPEA (0.11 mL, 0.63 mmol)
   and HATU (44 mg, 0.12 mmol), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h.
   The reaction was quenched by the addition of H20 and the aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc
25 (2X). The combined organics were concentrated and the concentrate subjected directly to
   purification via Agilent Prep Method X to give the title compound (27 mg). MS (ESI): mass calcd.
   for C21H2F2N60, 410.2; m/z found, 411.1 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC using a XBridge C18 column
   (5um, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 2min and then hold at
   100% ACN for 2 min, at a flow rate of 2.5 mL/min (Temperature        = 45 C). Rt = 1.83 and 2.03 min
30 (major rotamers) at 254 nm.
                                                 -179-

   Example 174: ((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(difluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2
   yl)(3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                        N
        "P~NH0
    F                NF
      F                      N
            Prepared analogous to Example 173 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-2.
 5 MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C23H2oF3N50, 439.2; m/z found, 440.1 [M+H]*. 'H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.92:0.08), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.89 (d, J = 5.0 Hz, 2H), 7.81 (s, IH), 7.53 (dd, J = 8.8, 2.4 Hz, IH), 7.48 (t, J = 4.9 Hz, IH), 7.10
   7.02 (m, IH), 6.91 - 6.82 (m, 1H), 6.82 - 6.51 (m, 3H), 4.20 - 4.13 (m, IH), 4.11 - 4.01 (m, IH),
   3.27 - 3.22 (m, 2H), 2.58 - 2.51 (m, IH), 2.29 - 2.18 (m, IH), 1.55 (d, J = 9.6 Hz, IH), 1.25 - 1.17
 0 (m, IH), 1.11 (d, J= 9.5 Hz, IH).
   Example 175: (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((iS,4S,6R)-6-((5-methoxypyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                     (N7
             N     NH
    MeO                  N-N
                           'N
15          Step A: (1 S,4S,6R)-tert-butyl 6-((5-methoxypyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.I]heptane-2-carboxylate. To a microwave vial containing degassed toluene (4 mL)
   was added Pd(OAc)2 (9 mg, 0.038 mmol) and racemic BINAP (24 mg, 0.038 mmol) at room
   temperature and the reaction mixture was purged with N2 for 5 min. Then, 2-chloro-5
   methoxypyridine (75 pL, 0.63 mmol), intermediate B-10 (148 mg, 0.695 mmol), and sodium tert
20 butoxide (85 mg, 0.89 mmol) were added and the reaction mixture heated to 90 'C overnight. Upon
   completion of the reaction, the mixture was cooled to room temperature, filtered through Celite and
   washed with EtOAc. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo and the crude residue subjected directly
   to silica gel chromatography (0-10% MeOH (with 10% 2 N NH3) in DCM) to give the title
                                                -180-

   compound of step A (158 mg, 0.49 mmol, 90% purity, 70%) MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C17H25N303,
   319.2; m/z found 320.3 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz, Methanol-d4) 6 7.65 (d, J= 3.0 Hz, 1H), 7.18
   (dd, J= 9.1, 3.0 Hz, 1H), 6.55 (d, J= 9.1 Hz, 1H), 4.44 - 4.40 (m, 1H), 4.09 - 4.01 (m, 1H), 3.75 (s,
   3H), 3.30 - 3.26 (m, 1H), 3.07 (d, J = 9.4 Hz, 1H), 2.57 - 2.49 (m, 1H), 2.30 - 2.19 (m, 1H), 1.71
 5 1.67 (m, 2H), 1.48 - 1.45 (m, 1H), 1.11 (s, 9H).
           Step B:(1S,4R,6R)-N-(5-methoxypyridin-2-yl)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-6-amine         - xHCl.
   To the title compound of step A (176 mg, 0.49 mmol, 90 % purity) in EtOAc (6 mL) was added 4M
   HCl in dioxane (0.6 mL). After 3h, the reaction was concentrated to give the title compound of step
   B (150 mg), which was used without further purification. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C12H17N30,
 0 219.1; m/z found 220.2 [M+H]*.
           Step C: (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-methoxypyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone. To the title compound of step B (30 mg) and intermediate
   A-1 (21 mg, 0.11 mmol) in DMF (1 mL) was added DIPEA (0.10 mL, 0.55 mmol) and HATU (39
   mg, 0.10 mmol), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The reaction was
 5 quenched by the addition of H20 and the aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc (2X). The
   combined organics were concentrated and the concentrate subjected directly to purification via
   Gilson Prep Method X to give the title compound (17 mg). MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C21H22N602,
   390.2; m/z found, 391.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz, Methanol-d4, Compound present as a
   mixture of rotamers (0.87:0.13), major rotamer reported) 6 7.93 (s, 2H), 7.82 (d, J = 8.1 Hz, 1H),
 0 7.39 - 7.33 (m, 1H), 7.29 (d, J = 2.4 Hz, 1H), 7.17 - 7.10 (m, 1H), 7.02 - 6.92 (m, 1H), 6.85 - 6.69
   (m, 1H), 6.57 - 6.38 (m, 1H), 3.93 - 3.80 (m, 2H), 3.76 (s, 3H), 3.49 - 3.41 (m, 1H), 3.30 - 3.26 (m,
   1H), 2.57 (s, 1H), 2.27 - 2.16 (m, 1H), 1.53 - 1.43 (m, 1H), 1.41 - 1.26 (m, 1H), 1.20 - 1.12 (m, 1H).
   Example 176: (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-methoxypyridin-2-yl)amino)
25 2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
            N-1 NH
    MeO      -~F
                          \N
                                               - 181 -

            Prepared analogous to Example 175 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-2.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C23H22FN502, 419.2; m/z found, 420.1 [M+H]*. 'H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.88:0.12), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.89 (d, J = 5.0 Hz, 2H), 7.47 (t, J = 4.9 Hz, 1H), 7.41 (d, J = 3.0 Hz, 1H), 7.15 - 7.10 (m, 1H), 7.11
 5 - 7.07 (m, 1H), 6.94 - 6.88 (m, 1H), 6.82 (d, J = 7.6 Hz, 1H), 6.44 (d, J = 9.1 Hz, 1H), 4.18 - 4.11
   (m, 1H), 3.98 - 3.92 (m, 1H), 3.76 (s, 3H), 3.23 (t, J = 3.0 Hz, 1H), 3.22 - 3.20 (m, 1H), 2.55 - 2.50
   (m, 1H), 2.29 - 2.19 (m, 1H), 1.57 (d, J= 11.2 Hz, 1H), 1.22 - 1.16 (m, 1H), 1.16 - 1.11 (m, 1H).
   Example 177: (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5
 0 (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
             F          N
                  NH
    F3C                  N-N
                           -N
            Step A: (1 S,4S,6R)-tert-butyl 6-((3-fluoro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane-2-carboxylate. To a microwave vial containing intermediate B-10 (170
   mg, 0.801 mmol) in DMF (2.5 mL) was added 2,3-difluoro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridine (176 mg,
 5 0.961 mmol) and Et3N (0.17 mL, 1.20 mmol), and the reaction mixture was sealed and heated to 90
   'C bench top overnight. Upon completion of the reaction, the mixture was cooled to room
   temperature and directly subjected to silica gel chromatography (0-30% EtOAc in hexanes) to give
   the title compound of step A (322 mg). MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C17H21F4N302; 375.16, m/z found
   376.0 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz, Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers,
20 major rotamer reported) 6 8.15 (s, 1H), 7.33 - 7.28 (m, 1H), 5.37 - 5.23 (m, 1H), 4.42 - 4.34 (m,
   2H), 3.44 - 3.39 (m, 1H), 3.11 (d, J = 9.3 Hz, 1H), 2.64 - 2.60 (m, 1H), 2.42 - 2.31 (m, 1H), 1.69
   1.63 (m, 1H), 1.26 (s, 9H), 1.10 - 1.04 (m, 1H).
            Step B:(1S,4R,6R)-N-(3-fluoro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan
   6-amine - xHCl. To the title compound of step A (322 mg) in EtOAc (1 mL) was added 4M HCl in
25 dioxane (3 mL), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The reaction was
   concentrated to give the title compound of step B (327 mg), which was used without further
   purification. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C12H13F4N3, 275.1; m/z found 276.0 [M+H]*.
                                                -182-

            Step C: (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone. To the title
   compound of step B (40 mg) and intermediate A-1 (24 mg, 0.126 mmol) in DMF (0.5 mL) was
   added DIPEA (0.1 mL, 0.58 mmol) and HATU (48 mg, 0.13 mmol), and the reaction mixture was
 5 stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The reaction was quenched by the addition of H20 and the
   aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc (2X). The combined organics were concentrated and the
   concentrate subjected directly to purification via Agilent Prep Method X to give the title compound
   (26 mg). MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C21Hi8F4N60, 446.1; m/z found, 447.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500
   MHz, Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.87:0.13), major rotamer
 0 reported) 6 7.95 (s, 2H), 7.81 (d, J= 8.2 Hz, 1H), 7.66 (s, 1H), 7.58 - 7.44 (m, 1H), 7.30 (t, J= 7.8
   Hz, 1H), 7.04-6.95 (m, 1H), 6.83-6.72 (m, 1H), 4.11 - 4.03 (m, 1H), 3.88-3.79 (m, 1H), 3.50 - 3.33
   (m, 2H), 2.63-2.57 (m, 1H), 2.22-2.12 (m, 1H), 1.51-1.41 (m, 2H), 1.29-1.18 (m, 1H). Analytical
   HPLC was obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm),
   mobile phase of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3
 5 min, at a flow rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature = 30 'C). Rt = 6.81 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
   Example 178: ((1S,4S,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone.
               F          N
                 NH
                      0
    F3 C       N        N-N
                            N
20          Prepared analogous to Example 177 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A
   40.MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C21H19F4N70, 461.2; m/z found, 462.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.88:0.12), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.14 (d, J= 8.4 Hz, 1H), 7.98 (s, 2H), 7.84 - 7.78 (m, 1H), 7.43 (dd, J= 11.1, 2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.31 (d, J
   =  8.6 Hz, 1H), 4.25 - 4.19 (m, 1H), 4.12 - 4.04 (m, 1H), 3.56 (dt, J= 11.0, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.35 (dd, J=
25 10.9, 1.4 Hz, 1H), 2.72 - 2.67 (m, 1H), 2.37 (s, 3H), 2.35 - 2.27 (m, 1H), 1.65 - 1.61 (m, 2H), 1.44
   1.38 (m, 1H).
                                                - 183 -

   Example 179: (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
            F          N
                 NH
    F3 0                          F
            Prepared analogous to Example 177 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A
 5 2.MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C23Hi8F5N50, 475.1; m/z found, 476.1 [M+H]*. 1HNMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.88:0.12), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.90 (d, J = 4.9 Hz, 2H), 7.80 - 7.73 (m, 1H), 7.52 - 7.46 (m, 2H), 7.08 - 7.01 (m, 1H), 6.95 - 6.87
   (m, 1H), 6.80 (d, J= 7.7 Hz, 1H), 4.20 (s, 1H), 4.17 - 4.10 (m, 1H), 3.33 - 3.32 (m, 1H), 3.19 (dt, J
   =  11.1, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 2.57 - 2.49 (m, 1H), 2.23 - 2.13 (m, 1H), 1.52 (d, J= 9.8 Hz, 1H), 1.45 - 1.36
 0 (m, 1H), 0.93 (d, J= 10.1 Hz, 1H).
   Example 180: ((1S,4S,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
            F          N
                 NH
                     F
15          Prepared analogous to Example 177 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A
   34.MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C23Hi8F5N50, 475.1; m/z found, 476.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.88:0.12), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.81 (d, J= 0.6 Hz, 2H), 8.11 (d, J= 7.3 Hz, 1H), 7.70 - 7.63 (m, 1H), 7.62 - 7.42 (m, 1H), 7.32
   7.22 (m, 1H), 7.01 - 6.90 (m, 1H), 6.90 - 6.79 (m, 1H), 4.16 - 4.08 (m, 1H), 4.07 - 3.95 (m, 1H),
20 3.53 (dt, J= 10.8, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.40 (dd, J= 10.8, 1.6 Hz, 1H), 2.68 - 2.63 (m, 1H), 2.26 - 2.16 (m,
   1H), 1.58 - 1.51 (m, 1H), 1.51 - 1.45 (m, 1H), 1.38 - 1.28 (m, 1H).
                                                -184-

   Example 181: ((1S,4S,6R)-6-(benzo[d]oxazol-2-ylamino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(6
   methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
                NH
                      0
         d:10          N-N
            Step A: (1 S,4S)-tert-butyl 6-(benzo[d]oxazol-2-ylamino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptane-2
 5 carboxylate. To a microwave vial containing intermediate B-10 (183 mg, 0.862 mmol) in MeCN (2
   mL) was added 2-chlorobenzoxazole (0.12 mL, 1.03 mmol) and Et3N (0.18 mL, 1.29 mmol), and
   the reaction mixture was sealed and heated to 100 'C bench top overnight. Upon completion of the
   reaction, the mixture was cooled to room temperature and diluted with H20. The reaction mixture
   was extracted with EtOAc (3X). The combined organics were concentrated and the concentrate
 0 subjected directly to silica gel chromatography (0-50% EtOAc in hexanes) to give the title
   compound of step A (199 mg, 0.604 mmol, 70%) MS (ESI) mass calcd. for Ci8H23N303; 329.2 m/z
   found 330.2 [M+H]*.'H NMR (400 MHz, Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of
   rotamers) 6 7.40-7.34 (m, 1H), 7.26-7.20 (m, 1H), 7.20-7.12 (m, 1H), 7.07-6.99 (m, 1H), 5.88-5.78
   and 5.29-5.19 (two m, 1H), 4.51-4.43 (m, 1H), 4.33-4.19 (m, 1H), 3.45-3.33 (m, 1H), 3.15-3.04 (m,
 5 1H), 2.64-2.57 (m, 1H), 2.46-2.31 (m, 1H), 1.80 - 0.99 (series of m, 12H).
            Step B:N-((1S,4R)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-6-yl)benzo[d]oxazol-2-amine - xHCl. To the
   title compound of step A (199 mg, 0.604 mmol) in EtOAc (1.5 mL) was added 4M HCl in dioxane
   (4 mL). After 1h, the reaction was concentrated to give the title compound of step B (194 mg),
   which was used without further purification. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C13Hi5N30, 229.1; m/z
20 found 230.1 [M+H]*.
            Step C: ((1S,4S,6R)-6-(benzo[d]oxazol-2-ylamino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(6
   methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone. To the title compound of step B (40 mg)
   and intermediate A-40 (30 mg, 0.15 mmol) in DMF (1 mL) was added DIPEA (0.13 mL, 0.75
   mmol) and HATU (55 mg, 0.15 mmol), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature
25 for 1 h. The reaction was quenched by the addition of H20 and the aqueous layer was extracted with
   EtOAc (2X). The combined organics were concentrated and the concentrate subjected directly to
   purification via Agilent Prep Method X to give the title compound (24 mg). MS (ESI): mass calcd.
   for C22H21N702, 415.2; m/z found, 416.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz, Methanol-d4, Compound
                                                - 185 -

   present as a mixture of rotamers (0.81:0.19), major rotamer reported) 6 8.12 - 8.05 (m, 1H), 7.99 (s,
   2H), 7.26 - 7.21 (m, 1H), 7.16 - 7.08 (m, 3H), 7.08 - 7.01 (m, 1H), 4.26 - 4.21 (m, 1H), 3.98 - 3.88
   (m, 1H), 3.59 (dt, J = 11.0, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.35 (d, J = 11.0 Hz, 1H), 2.76 - 2.68 (m, 1H), 2.40 - 2.28
   (m, 1H), 2.09 (s, 3H), 1.68 - 1.60 (m, 2H), 1.40 - 1.33 (m, 1H).
 5
   Example 182: ((iS,4S,6R)-6-(benzo[d]oxazol-2-ylamino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(3-fluoro
   2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                      N
             NNH
                     0
            Prepared analogous to Example 181 substituting intermediate A-40 with intermediate A
 0 16.MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C22H19FN602, 418.2; m/z found, 419.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.93:0.07), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.00 (s, 2H), 7.37 - 7.31 (m, 1H), 7.20 - 7.16 (m, 1H), 7.12 (d, J= 7.1 Hz, 2H), 6.91 (d, J= 8.2 Hz,
   2H), 6.49 - 6.37 (m, 1H), 4.12 (s, 1H), 4.01 - 3.88 (m, 1H), 3.63 (s, 1H), 3.27 - 3.22 (m, 1H), 2.60
   2.54 (m, 1H), 2.31 - 2.21 (m, 1H), 1.59 (d, J= 10.3 Hz, 1H), 1.32 - 1.19 (m, 2H).
 5
   Example 183: ((iS,4S,6R)-6-(benzo[d]oxazol-2-ylamino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(3-fluoro
   2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                      N
                NH
                     0
            Prepared analogous to Example 181 substituting intermediate A-40 with intermediate A
20 2.MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C24H2aFN5O2, 429.2; m/z found, 430.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.93:0.07), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.91 (d, J = 5.0 Hz, 2H), 7.49 (t, J = 5.0 Hz, 1H), 7.30 (d, J = 7.9 Hz, 1H), 7.21 - 7.06 (m, 3H), 6.93
                                                -186-

   (d, J= 7.5 Hz, 1H), 6.86 - 6.79 (m, 1H), 6.62 - 6.49 (m, 1H), 4.27 (s, 1H), 4.05 - 3.97 (m, 1H), 3.29
   - 3.28 (m, 1H), 3.27 (s, 1H), 2.67 - 2.56 (m, 1H), 2.37 - 2.25 (m, 1H), 1.63 (d, J= 10.2 Hz, 1H),
   1.35 - 1.23 (m, 2H).
 5 Example 184: (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-(p-tolylamino)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                      N
              NH
                               F
                        N
                        \,N
           Step A: (1 S,4S)-tert-butyl 6-(p-tolylamino)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptane-2-carboxylate. To a
   microwave vial containing degassed dioxane (2 mL), intermediate B- 10 (60 mg, 0.28 mmol) and 4
 0 bromotoluene (73 mg, 0.42 mmol) was added BrettPhos Palladacycle (11 mg, 0.0 14 mmol),
   BrettPhos (8 mg, 0.014 mmol) and sodium tert-butoxide (33 mg, 0.34 mmol). The reaction mixture
   was heated to 90 'C bench top for 3 h. Upon completion of the reaction, the mixture was cooled to
   room temperature and diluted with H20 and EtOAc. The reaction mixture was extracted with
   EtOAc (3X) and the combined organics washed with brine, dried (Na2SO4), and filtered. The filtrate
 5 was concentrated in vacuo and the crude residue subjected directly to silica gel chromatography (0
   40% EtOAc in hexanes) to give the title compound of step A (68 mg, 0.22 mmol, 80%) MS (ESI)
   mass calcd. for   Ci8H26N202,  302.2; m/z found 303.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz, Methanol-d4,
   Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, major rotamer reported) 6 6.91 (d, J = 8.1 Hz, 2H),
   6.55 (d, J = 8.3 Hz, 2H), 4.39 (s, 1H), 3.86 - 3.73 (m, 1H), 3.27 (dt, J = 9.4, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.05 (d, J=
20 9.3 Hz, 1H), 2.52 - 2.48 (m, 1H), 2.28 - 2.21 (m, 1H), 2.18 (s, 3H), 1.74 - 1.40 (m, 3H), 1.08 (s, 9H).
           Step B:(1S,4R)-N-(p-tolyl)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-6-amine - xHCl. To the title
   compound of step A (68 mg, 0.22 mmol) in EtOAc (3 mL) was added 4M HCl in dioxane (0.3 mL),
   and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction was concentrated
   to give the title compound of step B (70 mg), which was used without further purification. MS (ESI)
25 mass calcd. for   C13Hi8N2, 202.2; m/z found 203.3 [M+H]*.
           Step C: (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-(p-tolylamino)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone. To the title compound of step B (61 mg) and intermediate
                                                -187-

   A-2 (71 mg, 0.27 mmol, 82% purity) in DMF (2 mL) was added DIPEA (0.23 mL, 1.33 mmol) and
   HATU (93 mg, 0.24 mmol), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The
   reaction was quenched by the addition of H20 and the aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc
   (2X). The combined organics were concentrated and the concentrate subjected directly to
 5 purification via Gilson Prep Method X to give the title compound (31 mg). MS (ESI): mass calcd.
   for C24H23FN40, 402.2; m/z found, 403.2 [M+H]*. 'H NMR (500 MHz, Methanol-d4, Compound
   present as a mixture of rotamers (0.88:0.12), major rotamer reported) 6 8.88 (d, J = 5.0 Hz, 2H),
   7.48 (t, J = 5.0 Hz, 1H), 7.09 - 7.02 (m, 1H), 6.85 - 6.77 (m, 4H), 6.34 - 6.27 (m, 2H), 4.10 (s, 1H),
   3.73 - 3.64 (m, 1H), 3.29 - 3.11 (m, 2H), 2.57 - 2.48 (m, 1H), 2.32 - 2.23 (m, 1H), 2.21 (s, 3H), 1.60
 0 (d, J= 10.1 Hz, 1H), 1.26 - 1.19 (m, 1H), 1.15 - 1.09 (m, 1H).
   Example 185: (1H-indol-7-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                        N
            N     NH
    F3C                   HN
 5          Prepared analogous to Example 53 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-29.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C21H19F3N40, 400.2; m/z found, 401.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, major rotamer reported) 6 7.53 (s, 1H),
   7.32 - 7.25 (m, 1H), 7.23 (d, J = 3.1 Hz, 1H), 7.17 (dt, J = 8.0, 1.0 Hz, 1H), 6.70 - 6.60 (m, 2H), 6.37
   (dd, J = 3.1, 0.9 Hz, 1H), 6.33 (s, 1H), 4.59 (s, 1H), 3.98 - 3.89 (m, 1H), 3.63 (dt, J = 11.1, 3.3 Hz,
20 1H), 3.51 (dd, J = 11.2, 1.6 Hz, 1H), 2.76 - 2.66 (m, 1H), 2.33 - 2.20 (m, 1H), 2.05 - 1.95 (m, 1H),
   1.81 - 1.74 (m, 1H), 1.36 - 1.25 (m, 1H).
                                                - 188  -

   Example 186: (1H-indazol-7-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                        N
            N     NH
    F3 C                  HN
                              N
            Prepared analogous to Example 53 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-44.
 5 MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C2aHisF3N50, 401.1; m/z found, 402.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4) 6 7.88 (s, 1H), 7.55 (d, J = 8.1 Hz, 1H), 7.52 (s, 1H), 7.22 (d, J = 7.1 Hz, 1H), 7.09
   (dd, J = 8.9, 2.5 Hz, 1H), 6.89 - 6.80 (m, 1H), 6.11 (d, J = 8.9 Hz, 1H), 4.76 (s, 1H), 4.00 - 3.92 (m,
   1H), 3.67 - 3.56 (m, 2H), 2.76 - 2.68 (m, 1H), 2.36 - 2.25 (m, 1H), 2.17 - 2.08 (m, 1H), 1.83 (d, J=
   10.4 Hz, 1H), 1.33 - 1.22 (m, 1H).
 0
   Example 187: (5-methyl-3-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                        N
            N     NH
    F3 C    N           N-N
            Prepared analogous to Example 59 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A- 19.
15 MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C2oH19F3N80, 444.2; m/z found, 445.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.85:0.15), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.32 - 8.26 (m, 1H), 8.18 (s, 1H), 8.11 - 8.06 (m, 1H), 7.88 (s, 3H), 7.56 (s, 1H), 4.31 (s, 1H), 4.26
   4.12 (m, 1H), 3.72 (dt, J= 11.0, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.35 (dd, J= 11.0, 1.7 Hz, 1H), 2.85 - 2.72 (m, 1H),
   2.47 - 2.36 (m, 4H), 1.98 - 1.89 (m, 1H), 1.72 (d, J= 10.5 Hz, 1H), 1.21 (dt, J= 13.4, 4.0 Hz, 1H).
20
   Example 188: (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                                                -189-

                        N
            N     NH   O
   F3C      N            N-N
                             N
           Prepared analogous to Example 59 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-39.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C19H17F3N80, 430.1; m/z found, 431.1 [M+H]*. 1HNMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.91:0.09), major rotamer reported) 6
 5 8.36 (dd, J= 4.8, 1.8 Hz, 1H), 8.07 (s, 2H), 7.98 - 7.83 (m, 2H), 7.61 - 7.48 (m, 1H), 6.89 - 6.75 (m,
   1H), 4.01 - 3.89 (m, 1H), 3.85 - 3.70 (m, 1H), 3.51 (dt, J= 11.2, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.35 (dd, J= 11.1, 1.7
   Hz, 1H), 2.64 (s, 1H), 2.30 - 2.19 (m, 1H), 1.57 - 1.47 (m, 1H), 1.43 - 1.32 (m, 1H), 1.32 - 1.21 (m,
   1H).
 0 Example 189: (3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                        N
   F3C      N        N
                        \    N
           Prepared analogous to Example 59 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-42.
15 MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C21Hi8F3N70, 441.2; m/z found, 442.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.85:0.15), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.89 (d, J= 4.9 Hz, 2H), 8.53 (dd, J= 8.0, 1.6 Hz, 1H), 8.02 (d, J= 4.8 Hz, 1H), 7.94 - 7.86 (m,
   2H), 7.44 (t, J = 4.9 Hz, 1H), 7.37 (dd, J = 8.0, 4.8 Hz, 1H), 4.20 - 4.14 (m, 1H), 4.11 - 4.01 (m,
   1H), 3.63 (dt, J= 10.9, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.35 (d, J= 10.9 Hz, 1H), 2.77 - 2.68 (m, 1H), 2.36 - 2.30 (m,
20 1H), 1.70 - 1.54 (m, 2H), 1.40 - 1.30 (m, 1H).
                                                -190-

   Example 190: (5-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
    F3C     N       N
                       \    N
 5          Prepared analogous to Example 59 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-47.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C22H2oF3N70, 455.2; m/z found, 456.2 [M+H]*. 'H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.88:0.12), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.88 (d, J= 4.9 Hz, 2H), 8.33 (dd, J= 2.1, 0.9 Hz, 1H), 7.90 (s, 1H), 7.89 - 7.88 (m, 1H), 7.82 (s,
   1H), 7.43 (t, J= 4.9 Hz, 1H), 4.20 - 4.15 (m, 1H), 4.10 - 3.99 (m, 1H), 3.60 (dt, J= 10.9, 3.2 Hz,
 0 1H), 3.35 (dd, J = 11.0, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 2.73 - 2.67 (m, 1H), 2.33 (s, 3H), 2.32 - 2.26 (m, 1H), 1.66
   1.51 (m, 2H), 1.38 - 1.31 (m, 1H).
   Example 191: (6-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
               N NH
                      ON
          ;N;NH 0
    F3 C    N
                         \,N
15                    U/
            Prepared analogous to Example 59 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-4 1.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C22H2oF3N70, 455.2; m/z found, 456.2 [M+H]*. 'H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.86:0.14), major rotamer reported) 6
   7.37 (d, J= 4.9 Hz, 2H), 6.88 (d, J= 8.1 Hz, 1H), 6.45 (s, 1H), 6.33 (d, J= 1.4 Hz, 1H), 5.91 (t, J=
20 4.9 Hz, 1H), 5.74 (d, J = 8.1 Hz, 1H), 2.76 - 2.67 (m, 1H), 2.59 - 2.48 (m, 1H), 2.11 (dt, J = 11.0,
   3.2 Hz, 1H), 1.83 (dd, J= 10.9, 1.6 Hz, 1H), 1.20 - 1.18 (m, 1H), 0.87 - 0.75 (m, 4H), 0.17 - -0.00
   (m, 2H), -0.13 - -0.27 (m, 1H).
                                               - 191  -

   Example 192: (3-fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                       N
            N    NHO
                           0
    F3C     N          N-N       F
                           N
 5          Prepared analogous to Example 59 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A- 16.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C2oH17F4N70, 447.1; m/z found, 448.2 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was
   obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase
   of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow
   rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature = 30 C). Rt = 6.35 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
 0
   Example 193: (4-fluoro-2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                       N
           NNH        0             F
    F3C     N          N-N
                            N
            Prepared analogous to Example 59 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A- 12.
15 MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C2oH17F4N70, 447.1; m/z found, 448.2 [M+H]*. ]*. Analytical HPLC was
   obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase
   of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow
   rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature = 30 C). Rt = 6.56 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
20 Example 194: ((5-fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                                              -192-

                       N          F
            N    NH
    F3C     N          N-N
                          /N
            Prepared analogous to Example 59 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A- 10.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C2oH17F4N70, 447.1; m/z found, 448.2 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was
   obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase
 5 of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow
   rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature = 30 C). Rt = 6.36 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
   Example 195: (2-fluoro-6-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                             F
            N    NH
    F3C     N          N-N
 0    0                     N
            Prepared analogous to Example 59 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-11.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C2oH17F4N70, 447.1; m/z found, 448.2 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was
   obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase
   of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow
15 rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature   = 30 C). Rt  = 6.41 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
   Example 196: (3-methyl-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                                              - 193  -

                       N
    F 3 CIN>6
            Prepared analogous to Example 59 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-22.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C21H2oF3N70, 443.2; m/z found, 444.2 [M+H]*. ]*. Analytical HPLC was
   obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase
 5 of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow
   rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature = 30 C). Rt = 6.61 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
   Example 197:(4-methoxy-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                    4N
               NN
                                    OMe
    F3C     N          N-N
 0                         N
            Prepared analogous to Example 59 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-5. MS
   (ESI): mass calcd. for C21H2oF3N702, 459.2; m/z found, 460.1 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was
   obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase
   of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow
15 rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature   = 30 C). Rt = 6.30 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
   Example 198: (4-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                                             -194-

                         N
        ;N>NH                 \/      F
    F3 C    N            N
           Prepared analogous to Example 59 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-23.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C22Hi8F4N60, 458.1; m/z found, 459.2 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was
   obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase
 5 of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow
   rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature = 30 'C). Rt = 6.24 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
   Example 199: (5-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       ( 7         F
            N    NH
    F3C     N
                        U" ,N
 0
           Prepared analogous to Example 59 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-7. MS
   (ESI): mass calcd. for C22Hi8F4N60, 458.1; m/z found, 459.9 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (600 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.93:0.07), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.84 (d, J= 4.8 Hz, 2H), 8.19 (dd, J= 8.8, 5.5 Hz, 1H), 7.95 - 7.87 (m, 2H), 7.38 (t, J= 4.9 Hz, 1H),
15 7.04 (td, J = 8.4, 2.7 Hz, 1H), 6.74 - 6.64 (m, 1H), 4.04 - 3.93 (m, 2H), 3.54 (dt, J = 11.0, 3.2 Hz,
   1H), 3.36 - 3.33 (m, 1H), 2.66 - 2.62 (m, 1H), 2.30 - 2.22 (m, 1H), 1.50 (d, J= 10.0 Hz, 1H), 1.34
   1.24 (m, 2H).
   Example 200: (2-fluoro-6-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
20 yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                                                - 195 -

                            F
                       ON
         ;N;NH 0
    F3C     N
                            N
           Prepared analogous to Example 59 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-6. MS
   (ESI): mass calcd. for C22Hi8F4N60, 458.1; m/z found, 459.2 [M+H]*. ]*. Analytical HPLC was
   obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase
 5 of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow
   rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature = 30 'C). Rt = 6.16 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
   Example 201: (2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
    F3C     N        N
 0                     \,N
           Prepared analogous to Example 59 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-37.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C22H19F3N60, 440.2; m/z found, 441.9 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol- d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.93:0.07), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.86 (d, J = 4.9 Hz, 2H), 8.12 (d, J = 7.6 Hz, 1H), 7.94 - 7.87 (m, 1H), 7.86 - 7.78 (m, 1H), 7.40 (t, J
15 = 4.9 Hz, 1H), 7.30 (td, J= 7.7, 1.4 Hz, 1H), 7.02 - 6.92 (m, 1H), 6.87 - 6.75 (m, 1H), 4.06 - 3.90
   (m, 2H), 3.52 (dt, J= 11.0, 3.1 Hz, 1H), 3.36 - 3.33 (m, 1H), 2.67 - 2.60 (m, 1H), 2.31 - 2.20 (m,
   1H), 1.47 (d, J= 10.0 Hz, 1H), 1.32 - 1.26 (m, 1H), 1.25 - 1.15 (m, 1H).
   Example 202: (5-fluoro-2-(oxazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
20 yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                                               -196-

                                     F
            N    NH
                      00
    F3 C    N
            Prepared analogous to Example 59 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-49.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C21H17F4N502, 447.1; m/z found, 448.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, major rotamer reported) 6 8.30 (s, 1H),
 5 8.11 (dd, J= 8.8, 5.3 Hz, 1H), 7.99 - 7.89 (m, 1H), 7.85 (d, J= 1.4 Hz, 1H), 7.80 (d, J= 0.9 Hz,
   1H), 7.29 - 7.26 (m, 1H), 7.21 (ddd, J = 8.9, 7.9, 2.7 Hz, 1H), 7.05 (dd, J = 8.3, 2.6 Hz, 1H), 4.88 (s,
   1H), 4.85 - 4.70 (m, 1H), 3.22 (dt, J= 8.9, 2.9 Hz, 1H), 2.95 (dd, J= 8.9, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 2.63 - 2.55
   (m, 1H), 2.49 - 2.31 (m, 1H), 1.90 - 1.75 (m, 2H), 1.18 - 1.11 (m, 1H).
 0 Example 203: (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
    F3C     N       N
                       \    ,' N
                     F
            Prepared analogous to Example 59 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-34.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C22Hi8F4N60, 458.1; m/z found, 459.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
15 Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.93:0.07), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.81 (s, 2H), 8.12 (d, J  =  7.9 Hz, 1H), 7.97 - 7.87 (m, 1H), 7.86 - 7.76 (m, 1H), 7.29 (td, J = 7.7, 1.4
   Hz, 1H), 6.95 (d, J= 7.5 Hz, 1H), 6.85 - 6.70 (m, 1H), 4.08 - 3.90 (m, 2H), 3.55 (dt, J= 10.9, 3.2
   Hz, 1H), 3.38 - 3.32 (m, 1H), 2.66 (s, 1H), 2.31 - 2.18 (m, 1H), 1.51 (d, J= 10.0 Hz, 1H), 1.41
   1.24 (m, 2H).
20
   Example 204: (3-fluoro-2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                                                  -197-

                       N
   F3 C   ~N            N~       F
                         \,N
                     F
           Prepared analogous to Example 59 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-35.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C22H17F5N60, 476.1; m/z found, 477.9 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.91:0.09), major rotamer reported) 6
 5 8.88 (d, J= 0.7 Hz, 2H), 7.96 - 7.89 (m, 2H), 7.11 - 7.03 (m, 1H), 6.93 - 6.81 (m, 2H), 4.20 (s, 1H),
   4.10 - 4.02 (m, 1H), 3.28 - 3.25 (m, 2H), 2.58 (s, 1H), 2.32 - 2.19 (m, 1H), 1.57 (d, J= 10.1 Hz,
   1H), 1.32 - 1.21 (m, 1H), 1.15 - 1.02 (m, 1H).
   Example 205: (3-phenylpyrazin-2-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2
 0 azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       Y
                       N
                      0         N
   F3C      N
           Prepared analogous to Example 59 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-43.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C22H19F3N60, 440.2; m/z found, 441.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, major rotamer reported) 6 8.48 (d, J        = 2.4
15 Hz, 1H), 7.93 (s, 1H), 7.84 (s, 1H), 7.78 (d, J= 2.4 Hz, 1H), 7.73 - 7.66 (m, 2H), 7.56 - 7.50 (m,
   3H), 3.90 - 3.82 (m, 1H), 3.81 - 3.73 (m, 1H), 3.34 (dd, J =  11.3, 1.6 Hz, 1H), 3.27 (dt, J = 11.3, 3.2
   Hz, 1H), 2.53 - 2.48 (m, 1H), 2.20 - 2.08 (m, 1H), 1.38 - 1.28 (m, 1H), 1.29 - 1.19 (m, 1H), 0.66
   0.55 (m, 1H).
20 Example 206: [1,1'-biphenyl]-2-yl((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                                                - 198 -

                    4N
               NNH
    F3 C    N
   Prepared analogous to Example 59 substituting intermediate A-I with [1, 1'-biphenyl]-2-carboxylic
   acid. MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C24H21F3N40, 438.2; m/z found, 439.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500
   MHz, Methanol-d4) 6 7.91 (br. s, IH), 7.76 (br. s, IH), 7.49 - 7.33 (m, 6H), 7.25 (td, J= 7.6, 1.4 Hz,
 5 IH), 6.87 (dd, J= 7.6, 1.3 Hz, iH), 6.68 (td, J= 7.5, 1.3 Hz, iH), 3.93 -3.72 (m, 2H), 3.25 (dd, J=
   11.2, 1.6 Hz, iH), 3.09 (dt, J= 11.2, 3.2 Hz, iH), 2.43-2.33 (m, iH), 2.16-2.05 (m, iH), 1.26
   1.11 (m, 3H).
   Example 207: (3-phenylfuran-2-yl)((iS,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2
 0 azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
            N    NH
    F3C     N
            Prepared analogous to Example 59 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-45.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C22H19F3N402, 428.1; m/z found, 429.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.93:0.07), major rotamer reported) 6
15 8.09 - 8.05 (m, IH), 7.74 (d, J= 1.4 Hz, IH), 7.43 - 7.36 (m, 4H), 7.36 - 7.31 (m, IH), 7.06 (d, J=
   1.8 Hz, IH), 6.41 (d, J= 1.8 Hz, IH), 4.50 - 4.46 (m, IH), 4.04 - 3.96 (m, IH), 3.49 - 3.45 (m, 2H),
   2.64 - 2.58 (m, IH), 2.28 - 2.20 (m, IH), 1.61 - 1.49 (m, 2H), 1.32 - 1.24 (m, IH).
   Example 208: (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-(methyl(5
20 (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                                               -199-

                         N
    F3C     N                    F
                               N
            Prepared analogous to Example 59 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-2,
   followed by alkylation step of Example 153. MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C23H2oF4N60, 472.2; m/z
   found, 473.2 [M+H]*. 'H NMR (500 MHz, Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of
 5 rotamers (0.88:0.12), major rotamer reported) 6 8.90 (d, J = 5.0 Hz, 2H), 8.18 - 8.16 (m, 1H), 8.14
   8.12 (m, 1H), 7.50 (t, J= 5.0 Hz, 1H), 7.10 - 7.01 (m, 1H), 6.91 - 6.83 (m, 1H), 6.78 (dd, J= 7.6,
   1.2 Hz, 1H), 4.56 - 4.47 (m, 1H), 4.15 - 4.09 (m, 1H), 3.37 (dd, J= 11.5, 1.6 Hz, 1H), 3.22 - 3.16
   (m, 4H), 2.63 - 2.59 (m, 1H), 2.08 - 1.98 (m, 1H), 1.97 - 1.88 (m, 1H), 1.55 - 1.48 (m, 1H), 0.84
   0.77 (m, 1H).
 0
   Example 209: (5-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-(methyl(5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                      4 NI       F
            N       Ne
    F3 C    N              4 P
                       \      N
15          Prepared analogous to Example 208 substituting intermediate A-2 with intermediate A-7.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C23H2oF4N60, 472.2; m/z found, 473.2 [M+H]*. 'H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.89:0.11), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.84 (d, J= 4.9 Hz, 2H), 8.18 (dd, J= 8.8, 5.5 Hz, 1H), 8.15 (s, 1H), 8.09 - 8.04 (m, 1H), 7.39 (t, J=
   4.9 Hz, 1H), 7.05 - 6.96 (m, 1H), 6.64 (dd, J= 8.5, 2.7 Hz, 1H), 4.51 - 4.41 (m, 1H), 4.03 - 3.95 (m,
20 1H), 3.54 (dt, J= 11.3, 3.1 Hz, 1H), 3.45 (dd, J= 11.3, 1.6 Hz, 1H), 3.24 (s, 3H), 2.78 - 2.69 (m,
   1H), 2.13 - 1.97 (m, 2H), 1.57 - 1.46 (m, 1H), 1.23 - 1.11 (m, 1H).
                                               - 200 -

   Example 210: ((1S,4S,6R)-6-(methyl(5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)(2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                       N
    F3C     N
                            N
                       \
           Prepared analogous to Example 208 substituting intermediate A-2 with intermediate A-37.
 5 MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C23H21F3N60, 454.2; m/z found, 455.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.88:0.12), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.85 (d, J= 4.9 Hz, 2H), 8.10 (dd, J= 7.9, 1.2 Hz, 1H), 8.08 (s, 2H), 7.39 (t, J= 4.9 Hz, 1H), 7.26
   (td, J= 7.7, 1.4 Hz, 1H), 6.92 (dd, J= 7.6, 1.3 Hz, 1H), 6.82 (td, J= 7.5, 1.3 Hz, 1H), 4.50 - 4.43
   (m, 1H), 3.99 - 3.92 (m, 1H), 3.52 (dt, J= 11.3, 3.1 Hz, 1H), 3.44 (dd, J= 11.3, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 3.23 (s,
 0 3H), 2.76 - 2.67 (m, 1H), 2.12 - 1.91 (m, 2H), 1.52 - 1.42 (m, 1H), 1.19 - 1.07 (m, 1H).
   Example 211: ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((cyclopropylmethyl)(5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                       N
    F3 0    N      Z N      ~    F
15         Prepared analogous to Example 59 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-2,
   followed by alklyation step of Example 161. MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C26H24F4N60, 512.2; mlz
   found, 513.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz, Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of
   rotamers (0.93:0.07), major rotamer reported) 6 8.89 (d, J = 4.9 Hz, 2H), 8.18 (br. s, 1H), 8.15 (br. s,
   1H), 7.49 (t, J= 5.0 Hz, 1H), 7.04 - 6.98 (m, 1H), 6.89 - 6.81 (m, 1H), 6.78 (dd, J= 7.6, 1.2 Hz,
20 1H), 4.48 - 4.40 (m, 1H), 4.18 - 4.14 (m, 1H), 3.84 (dd, J= 16.1, 5.9 Hz, 1H), 3.39 - 3.33 (m, 2H),
   3.14 (dt, J= 11.4, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 2.63 - 2.58 (m, 1H), 2.19 - 2.08 (m, 1H), 1.91 - 1.84 (m, 1H), 1.53
   (d, J= 10.3 Hz, 1H), 1.01 - 0.92 (m, 1H), 0.77 - 0.70 (m, 1H), 0.65 - 0.52 (m, 2H), 0.51 - 0.43 (m,
   1H), 0.38 - 0.30 (m, 1H).
                                               -201-

   Example 212: ((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-chloropyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(3
   fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                         N
             N     NHO
    C     II N           N-N      F
 5            Step A: (1S,4S,6R)-tert-butyl 6-((5-chloropyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane
   2-carboxylate. To a microwave vial containing intermediate B-10 (300 mg, 1.41 mmol) in MeCN (3
   mL) was added 2,5-dichloropyrazine (0.17 mL, 1.70 mmol) and Et3N (0.30 mL, 2.12 mmol), and
   the reaction mixture was sealed and heated to 90 'C bench top overnight. Upon completion of the
   reaction, the mixture was cooled to room temperature and diluted with H20. The reaction mixture
 0 was extracted with EtOAc (3X). The combined organics were concentrated and the concentrate
   subjected directly to silica gel chromatography (0-60% EtOAc in hexanes) to give the title
   compound of step A (153 mg, 0.471 mmol, 33%) MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C15H21ClN402; 324.1,
   m/z found 269.1 [M+2H-tBu]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz, Methanol-d4) 6 7.99 (d, J = 1.4 Hz, 1H), 7.71
   (d, J = 1.4 Hz, 1H), 4.45 - 4.39 (m, 1H), 4.16 - 4.12 (m, 1H), 3.08 (d, J = 10.1 Hz, 1H), 2.62 - 2.50
 5 (m, 1H), 2.29 - 2.19 (m, 1H), 1.74 - 1.64 (m, 2H), 1.22 - 1.16 (m, 1H), 1.11 (s, 9H). 1 H buried
   under solvent.
              Step B:(1S,4R,6R)-N-(5-chloropyrazin-2-yl)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-6-amine -xHCl. To
   the title compound of step A (150 mg, 0.46 mmol) in EtOAc (5 mL) was added 4M HCl in dioxane
   (0.6 mL), and the reaction mixture was stirred overnight. The reaction was concentrated to give the
20 title compound of step B (137 mg), which was used without further purification. MS (ESI) mass
   calcd. for CioH13ClN4, 224.1; m/z found 225.1 [M+H]*.
              Step C: ((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-chloropyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(3
   fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)methanone. To the title compound of step B (34 mg) and
   intermediate A-16 (28 mg, 0.14 mmol) in DMF (1 mL) was added DIPEA (0.12 mL, 0.69 mmol)
25 and HATU (48 mg, 0.13 mmol), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h.
   The reaction was quenched by the addition of H20 and the aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc
   (2X). The combined organics were concentrated and the concentrate subjected directly to
                                                 - 202 -

    purification via Gilson Prep Method X to give the title compound (35 mg). MS (ESI): mass calcd.
    for C19H17ClFN70, 413.1; m/z found, 414.0 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz, Methanol-d4, Compound
    present as a mixture of rotamers (0.92:0.08), major rotamer reported) 6 8.01 (s, 2H), 7.70 - 7.66 (m,
    1H), 7.62 (d, J = 1.4 Hz, 1H), 7.33 - 7.27 (m, 1H), 7.02 - 6.93 (m, 1H), 6.87 (d, J = 7.7 Hz, 1H),
 5  4.02 (s, 1H), 3.95 - 3.86 (m, 1H), 3.24 - 3.20 (m, 2H), 2.53 (s, 1H), 2.27 - 2.15 (m, 1H), 1.52 (d, J=
    10.3 Hz, 1H), 1.22 - 1.05 (m, 2H).
    Example 213: 1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-chloropyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(5
    fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                        N          F
            N    NH
     C1     N           N-N
 0                          N
             Prepared analogous to Example 212 substituting intermediate A-16 with intermediate A-10.
    MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C19H17ClFN70, 413.1; m/z found, 414.0 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
    Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, major rotamer reported) 6 7.95 (s, 2H),
    7.84 (dd, J = 9.0, 4.7 Hz, 1H), 7.69 - 7.62 (m, 1H), 7.60 (d, J = 1.4 Hz, 1H), 7.22 - 7.15 (m, 1H),
 5  6.81 - 6.70 (m, 1H), 3.92 - 3.74 (m, 1H), 3.48 - 3.39 (m, 1H), 3.29 - 3.27 (m, 1H), 2.59 (s, 1H), 2.27
    - 2.16 (m, 1H), 1.51 - 1.41 (m, 1H), 1.29 - 1.16 (m, 2H). 1H buried under solvent peak.
    Example 214: ((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-chloropyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(3
    fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                        N
     CI     N>NH                 F
20N
             Prepared analogous to Example 212 substituting intermediate A-16 with intermediate A-2.
    MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C21Hi8ClFN6O, 424.1; m/z found, 425.1 [M+H]*. 1HNMR (500 MHz,
                                                 - 203 -

   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.91:0.09), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.91 (d, J = 5.0 Hz, 2H), 7.63 (dd, J = 9.3, 1.5 Hz, 2H), 7.50 (t, J = 5.0 Hz, 1H), 7.19 - 7.12 (m, 1H),
   7.01 - 6.93 (m, 1H), 6.85 (d, J = 6.9 Hz, 1H), 4.15 (s, 1H), 3.97 - 3.91 (m, 1H), 3.24 - 3.20 (m, 2H),
   2.56 - 2.48 (m, 1H), 2.27 - 2.17 (m, 1H), 1.50 (d, J = 10.3 Hz, 1H), 1.22 - 1.15 (m, 1H), 0.94 (d, J=
 5 10.2 Hz, 1H).
   Example 215: ((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-chloropyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(2
   (pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                       N
    cl     N>NH
 0          Prepared analogous to Example 212 substituting intermediate A-16 with intermediate A-37.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C21H19ClN6O, 406.1; m/z found, 407.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.92:0.08), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.85 (d, J = 4.9 Hz, 2H), 8.12 (d, J = 8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.68 - 7.61 (m, 1H), 7.54 - 7.50 (m, 1H), 7.43
   7.34 (m, 2H), 6.97 (d, J = 7.6 Hz, 1H), 6.95 - 6.85 (m, 1H), 3.94 (s, 1H), 3.91 - 3.84 (m, 1H), 3.50
 5 (dt, J = 11.0, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.30 - 3.29 (m, 1H), 2.66 - 2.58 (m, 1H), 2.28 - 2.17 (m, 1H), 1.51 - 1.42
   (m, J = 10.1 Hz, 1H), 1.27 - 1.14 (m, 2H).
   Example 216: ((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-chloropyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(3
   fluoro-2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                       N
    C1     N    NHF
                           N
20                   F
            Prepared analogous to Example 212 substituting intermediate A-16 with intermediate A-35.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C23Hi8F5N50, 475.1; m/z found, 476.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
                                                - 204 -

   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.92:0.08), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.87 (s, 2H), 7.93 (s, 1H), 7.58 (dd, J = 8.9, 2.5 Hz, 1H), 7.13 - 7.00 (m, 1H), 6.90 - 6.82 (m, 1H),
   6.82 - 6.75 (m, 1H), 6.65 - 6.54 (m, 1H), 4.17 (s, 1H), 4.13 - 4.04 (m, 1H), 3.28 - 3.21 (m, 2H), 2.61
   - 2.50 (m, 1H), 2.31 - 2.16 (m, 1H), 1.59 (d, J= 10.2 Hz, 1H), 1.27 - 1.08 (m, 2H).
 5
   Example 217: (3-fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-methylpyrazin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                H    NN
                     O
            NN-N               F
            Step A: (1S,4S,6R)-tert-butyl 6-((5-methylpyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane
 0 2-carboxylate. To a microwave vial containing degassed toluene (9 mL) was added Pd(OAc)2 (24
   mg, 0.035 mmol) and racemic BINAP (22 mg, 0.035 mmol) at room temperature and the reaction
   mixture was purged with N2 for 5 min. Then, 2-chloro-5-methylpyrazine (112 mg, 0.87 mmol),
   intermediate B- 10 (204 mg), and sodium tert-butoxide (121 mg, 1.22 mmol) were added and the
   reaction mixture heated to 70 'C overnight. Upon completion of the reaction, the mixture was
 5 cooled to room temperature, filtered through Celite and washed with EtOAc. The filtrate was
   concentrated in vacuo and the crude residue subjected directly to silica gel chromatography (10
   80% EtOAc in hexanes) to give the title compound of step A (139 mg, 0.457 mmol, 52%). MS
   (ESI) mass calcd. for C16H24N402, 304.2; m/z found 305.2 [M+H]*.fH NMR (500 MHz, Methanol
   d4) 6 7.93 - 7.79 (m, 2H), 4.45 - 4.40 (m, 1H), 4.16 - 4.12 (m, 1H), 3.09 (dd, J= 9.5, 1.2 Hz, 1H),
20 2.60 - 2.53 (m, 1H), 2.33 (s, 3H), 2.29 - 2.20 (m, 1H), 1.74 - 1.64 (m, 2H), 1.20 - 1.15 (m, 1H), 1.08
   (s, 9H). 1 H buried under solvent.
            Step B:(1S,4R,6R)-N-(5-methylpyrazin-2-yl)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-6-amine -xHCl.
   To the title compound of step A (139 mg, 0.46 mmol) in EtOAc (5 mL) was added 4M HCl in
   dioxane (0.6 mL), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction
25 was concentrated to give the title compound of step B (140 mg), which was used without further
   purification. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C11H16N4, 204.1; m/z found 205.2 [M+H]*.
                                                 - 205 -

            Step C: (3-fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-methylpyrazin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone. To the title compound of step B (31 mg) and
   intermediate A-16 (28 mg, 0.13 mmol) in DMF (1 mL) was added DIPEA (0.12 mL, 0.67 mmol)
   and HATU (47 mg, 0.12 mmol), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature
 5 overnight. The reaction was quenched by the addition of H20 and the aqueous layer was extracted
   with EtOAc (2X). The combined organics were concentrated and the concentrate subjected directly
   to purification via Gilson Prep Method X to give the title compound (18 mg). MS (ESI): mass calcd.
   for C2oH2oFN70, 393.2; m/z found, 394.2 [M+H]*. 'H NMR (500 MHz, Methanol-d4, Compound
   present as a mixture of rotamers, major rotamer reported) 6 8.00 (s, 2H), 7.80 - 7.75 (m, 1H), 7.55
 0 7.49 (m, 1H), 7.29 - 7.22 (m, 1H), 6.93 - 6.78 (m, 2H), 4.10 - 3.97 (m, 1H), 3.97 - 3.89 (m, 1H),
   3.25 - 3.20 (m, 2H), 2.53 (s, 1H), 2.33 (s, 3H), 2.27 - 2.17 (m, 1H), 1.54 (d, J = 10.1 Hz, 1H), 1.23
   1.11 (m, 2H).
   Example 218: (5-fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-methylpyrazin-2
 5 yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                     N          F
        N      N4HO
        N            N-N
            Prepared analogous to Example 217 substituting intermediate A- 16 with intermediate A- 10.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C2oH2oFN70, 393.2; m/z found, 394.5 [M+H]*. 'H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, major rotamer reported) 6 7.95 (s, 2H),
20 7.82 (dd, J= 9.0,4.7 Hz, 1H), 7.78 (s, 1H), 7.50 - 7.45 (m, 1H), 7.19 - 7.11 (m, 1H), 6.69 (s, 1H),
   3.91 - 3.77 (m, 2H), 3.48 - 3.38 (m, 1H), 2.58 (s, 1H), 2.32 (s, 3H), 2.27 - 2.18 (m, 1H), 1.50 - 1.38
   (m, 1H), 1.29 - 1.14 (m, 2H). 1H buried under solvent.
   Example 219: (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-methylpyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2
25 azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                                                - 206 -

         N     NH
         NY                    F
            Prepared analogous to Example 217 substituting intermediate A- 16 with intermediate A-2.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C22H21FN60, 404.2; m/z found, 405.5 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.91:0.09), major rotamer reported) 6
 5 8.90 (d, J = 5.0 Hz, 2H), 7.75 (d, J = 1.5 Hz, 1H), 7.55 - 7.52 (m, 1H), 7.49 (t, J = 5.0 Hz, 1H), 7.15
   - 7.09 (m, 1H), 6.92 - 6.86 (m, 1H), 6.85 - 6.82 (m, 1H), 4.18 - 4.13 (m, 1H), 4.01 - 3.93 (m, 1H),
   3.27 - 3.20 (m, 2H), 2.53 (s, 1H), 2.33 (s, 3H), 2.27 - 2.19 (m, 1H), 1.53 (d, J = 10.3 Hz, 1H), 1.21
   1.14 (m, 1H), 1.06 - 1.00 (m, 1H).
 0 Example 220: ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5-methylpyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)(2
   (pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone
         N     NH
                    \    N
            Prepared analogous to Example 217 substituting intermediate A- 16 with intermediate A-37.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C22H22N60, 386.2; m/z found, 387.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
15 Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.88:0.12), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.85 (d, J= 4.9 Hz, 2H), 8.11 (d, J= 7.9 Hz, 1H), 7.75 (s, 1H), 7.43 (s, 1H), 7.39 (t, J = 4.9 Hz, 1H),
   7.33 (t, J= 7.7 Hz, 1H), 6.96 (d, J= 7.5 Hz, 1H), 6.87 - 6.76 (m, 1H), 4.03 - 3.84 (m, 2H), 3.51 (dt, J
   =  11.1, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 2.67 - 2.57 (m, 1H), 2.33 (s, 3H), 2.28 - 2.14 (m, 1H), 1.48 (d, J = 9.8 Hz, 1H),
   1.34 - 1.18 (m, 2H). 1H buried under solvent peak.
20
   Example 221: methyl 5-(((1S,4S,6R)-2-(2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)benzoyl)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-6-yl)amino)pyrazine-2-carboxylate
                                                - 207  -

                           N
               N':rNH
    MeO 2C     N           N-N
            Step A: (1 S,4S,6R)-tert-butyl 6-((5 -(methoxycarbonyl)pyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane-2-carboxylate. To a microwave vial containing intermediate B-10 (100
   mg, 0.471 mmol) in DMF (2 mL) was added methyl 5-chloropyrazine-2-carboxylate (98 mg, 0.57
 5 mmol) and Et3N (0.1 mL, 0.72 mmol), and the reaction mixture was sealed and heated to 70 'C
   bench top overnight. After 14 hours, LCMS analysis of the reaction mixture showed incomplete
   conversion of the starting material. The temperature was raised to 100 'C and the reaction mixture
   heated overnight. Upon completion of the reaction, the mixture was cooled to room temperature and
   directly subjected to silica gel chromatography (0-50% EtOAc in hexanes) to give the title
 0 compound of step A (112 mg). MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C17H24N404; 348.2, m/z found 349.2
   [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz, Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers) 6 8.78
   8.68 (m, 1H), 7.93-7.74 (m, 1H), 6.30-6.18 and 5.90 - 5.77 (two m, 1H), 4.46 - 4.36 (m, 1H), 4.33
   4.12 (m, 1H), 3.91 (s, 3H), 3.41-3.30 (m, 1H), 3.11-2.99 (m, 1H), 2.63 - 2.51 (m, 1H), 2.39-2.25
   (m,1H), 1.78 - 1.59 (m, 2H), 1.51 - 1.01 (m, 1OH).
 5          Step B:methyl 5-((iS,4R,6R)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-6-ylamino)pyrazine-2-carboxylate
   xHCl. To the title compound of step A (112 mg, 0.321 mmol) in EtOAc (1 mL) was added 4M HCl
   in dioxane (3 mL), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The reaction
   was concentrated to give the title compound of step B (99 mg), which was used without further
   purification. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C12H16N402, 248.1; m/z found 249.1 [M+H]*.
20          Step C: methyl 5-(((1S,4S,6R)-2-(2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)benzoyl)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-6-yl)amino)pyrazine-2-carboxylate. To the title compound of step B (99
   mg) and intermediate A-1 (70 mg, 0.37 mmol) in DMF (2 mL) was added DIPEA (0.3 mL, 1.7
   mmol) and HATU (129 mg, 0.339 mmol), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature
   for 1 h. The reaction was quenched by the addition of H20 and the aqueous layer was extracted with
25 EtOAc (2X). The combined organics were concentrated and the concentrate subjected directly to
   purification via Gilson Prep Method X to give the title compound. MS (ESI): mass calcd. for
   C21H21N703,   419.2; m/z found, 420.2 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was obtained on a Agilent 1100
   Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase of 10-100% ACN in 20
                                                 -208-

    mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow rate of 1 mL/min
    (Temperature   = 30 'C). Rt = 4.75 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
    Example 222: (2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrimidin
 5  2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                        N
             N>.N                N
     F3 C       N        N-N
             Prepared analogous to Example 60 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-39.
    MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C19H17F3N80, 430.1; m/z found, 430.9 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was
    obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase
 0  of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow
    rate of 1 m/min (Temperature = 30 'C). Rt = 5.15 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
    Example 223: (3-fluoro-2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
    (trifluoromethyl)pyrimidin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                        N
     F3C                          F
15N
             Prepared analogous to Example 60 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A- 16.
    MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C2oH17F4N70, 447.1; m/z found, 448.9 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
    Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.88:0.12), major rotamer reported) 6
    8.56 (d, J= 3.2 Hz, 1H), 8.20 (d, J= 3.1 Hz, 1H), 8.01 (s, 2H), 7.28 - 7.19 (m, 1H), 7.06 - 6.95 (m,
20  1H), 6.93 - 6.85 (m, 1H), 4.10 - 3.99 (m, 2H), 3.29 - 3.26 (m, 1H), 3.20 (dt, J= 11.2, 3.2 Hz, 1H),
    2.57 - 2.51 (m, 1H), 2.25 - 2.12 (m, 1H), 1.54 (d, J= 10.3 Hz, 1H), 1.39 - 1.28 (m, 1H), 1.23 - 1.08
    (m, 1H).
                                                - 209 -

   Example 224: (4-fluoro-2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyrimidin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
            N>NH      O         /    F
    F3C                N-N
                            N
 5          Prepared analogous to Example 60 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A- 12.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C2oH17F4N70, 447.1; m/z found, 448.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, major rotamer reported) 6 8.56 (s, 1H),
   8.22 - 8.13 (m, 1H), 7.98 (s, 2H), 7.64 (dd, J = 9.6, 2.6 Hz, 1H), 7.12 - 6.99 (m, 1H), 6.68 - 6.50 (m,
   1H), 4.07 - 3.95 (m, 1H), 3.80 (s, 1H), 3.54 - 3.43 (m, 1H), 3.36 (dd, J= 10.9, 1.6 Hz, 1H), 2.62 (s,
 0 1H), 2.26 - 2.14 (m, 1H), 1.52 - 1.42 (m, 1H), 1.38 - 1.29 (m, 2H).
   Example 225: (5-fluoro-2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyrimidin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N          F
            N    NH
    F3C A      N       N-N
                           N
15          Prepared analogous to Example 60 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A- 10.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C2oH17F4N70, 447.1; m/z found, 447.9 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, major rotamer reported)) 6 8.52 (s, 1H),
   8.17 (d, J= 3.1 Hz, 1H), 7.95 (s, 2H), 7.85 (dd, J= 9.0, 4.8 Hz, 1H), 7.16 - 7.06 (m, 1H), 6.86 - 6.74
   (m, 1H), 4.07 - 3.97 (m, 1H), 3.80 (s, 1H), 3.47 - 3.33 (m, 2H), 2.65 - 2.54 (m, 1H), 2.25 - 2.15 (m,
20 1H), 1.47 (d, J= 10.2 Hz, 1H), 1.38 - 1.31 (m, 1H), 1.31 - 1.21 (m, 1H).
                                                -210-

   Example 226: (2-fluoro-6-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyrimidin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                            F
                       N
           rN    NHO
    F3C        N       N-N
            Prepared analogous to Example 60 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-11.
 5 MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C2oH17F4N70, 447.1; m/z found, 447.9 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was
   obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase
   of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow
   rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature = 30 'C). Rt = 6.18 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
 0 Example 227: (4-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrimidin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
           rNWYNH           \/F
    F3 C  X-N          N
            Prepared analogous to Example 60 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-23.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C22Hi8F4N60, 458.1; m/z found, 459.9 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
15 Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.88:0.12), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.88 (d, J= 4.9 Hz, 2H), 8.64 - 8.47 (m, IH), 8.16 (d, J= 3.1 Hz, IH), 7.89 (dd, J= 10.0, 2.7 Hz,
   IH), 7.42 (t, J= 4.9 Hz, IH), 7.12 - 6.93 (m, IH), 6.68 (s, IH), 4.09 - 3.85 (m, 2H), 3.53 (dt, J=
   10.9, 3.2 Hz, IH), 3.36 (dd, J= 10.9, 1.6 Hz, IH), 2.69 - 2.61 (m, IH), 2.30 - 2.16 (m, IH), 1.54
   1.43 (m, IH), 1.41 - 1.34 (m, IH), 1.33 - 1.23 (m, IH).
20
   Example 228: (5-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrimidin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                                               -211-

                                    F
             N    NH
                             N
            Prepared analogous Example 60 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-7. MS
   (ESI): mass calcd. for C22Hi8F4N60, 458.1; m/z found, 459.9 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.91:0.09), major rotamer reported) 6
 5 8.84 (d, J= 4.8 Hz, 2H), 8.51 (s, 1H), 8.21 (dd, J= 8.8, 5.5 Hz, 1H), 8.16 (d, J= 3.1 Hz, 1H), 7.38
   (t, J = 4.9 Hz, 1H), 7.05 (td, J = 8.3, 2.7 Hz, 1H), 6.80 - 6.71 (m, 1H), 4.10 - 4.00 (m, 1H), 3.94 (s,
   1H), 3.52 (dt, J= 10.7, 3.1 Hz, 1H), 3.36 (dd, J= 10.9, 1.6 Hz, 1H), 2.68 - 2.60 (m, 1H), 2.27 - 2.15
   (m, 1H), 1.49 (d, J= 10.1 Hz, 1H), 1.41 - 1.33 (m, 1H), 1.33 - 1.23 (m, 1H).
 0 Example 229: (2-fluoro-6-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrimidin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                             F
             N    NH
    F3C                 N
                             N
            Prepared analogous to Example 60 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-6. MS
   (ESI): mass calcd. for C22Hi8F4N60, 458.1; m/z found, 459.9 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
15 Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers , major rotamer reported) 6 8.87 (d, J=
   4.9 Hz, 2H), 8.56 - 8.51 (m, 1H), 8.12 - 8.04 (m, 2H), 7.42 (t, J= 4.9 Hz, 1H), 7.36 - 7.30 (m, 1H),
   6.73 - 6.67 (m, 1H), 4.03 - 3.97 (m, 1H), 3.97 - 3.90 (m, 1H), 3.56 (dt, J= 10.9, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.36
   (dd, J= 10.9, 1.7 Hz, 1H), 2.65 - 2.60 (m, 1H), 2.25 - 2.14 (m, 1H), 1.49 - 1.39 (m, 2H), 1.20 - 1.14
   (m, 1H).
20
   Example 230: (2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrimidin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                                                 -212-

                        N
           rN   NH
    F3 C A,-N
            Prepared analogous to Example 60 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-37.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C22H19F3N60, 440.2; m/z found, 441.9 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.88:0.12), major rotamer reported) 6
 5 8.86 (d, J= 4.9 Hz, 2H), 8.56 - 8.48 (m, 1H), 8.15 (d, J= 8.0 Hz, 1H), 8.10 (s, 1H), 7.39 (t, J= 4.9
   Hz, 1H), 7.36 - 7.28 (m, 1H), 7.01 (s, 1H), 6.95 (s, 1H), 4.11 - 3.91 (m, 2H), 3.52 (dt, J= 11.0, 3.3
   Hz, 1H), 3.35 (dd, J= 10.9, 1.6 Hz, 1H), 2.64 (s, 1H), 2.28 - 2.16 (m, 1H), 1.56 - 1.44 (m, 1H), 1.41
   - 1.16 (m, 2H).
 0 Example 231: (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrimidin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                        N
            N<NH
           CN
    F3 0
                     F
            Prepared analogous to Example 60 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-34.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C22Hi8F4N60, 458.1; m/z found, 459.9 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
15 Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.88:0.12), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.82 (s, 2H), 8.58 - 8.47 (m, 1H), 8.15 (d, J= 7.8 Hz, 1H), 8.13 - 8.04 (m, 1H), 7.32 (t, J= 7.6 Hz,
   1H), 7.10 - 6.83 (m, 2H), 4.12 - 4.03 (m, 1H), 4.04 - 3.89 (m, 1H), 3.56 (dt, J= 10.9, 3.3 Hz, 1H),
   3.36 (dd, J= 10.9, 1.6 Hz, 1H), 2.70 - 2.62 (m, 1H), 2.29 - 2.17 (m, 1H), 1.61 - 1.14 (m, 3H).
20 Example 232: (2-fluoro-6-(oxazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrimidin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                                                -213-

                            F
            N    NH
    F3C               OO
                           N
           Prepared analogous to Example 60 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-50.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C21H17F4N502, 447.1; m/z found, 447.9 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was
   obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase
 5 of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow
   rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature = 30 'C). Rt = 6.15 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
   Example 233: (3-ethoxy-6-methylpyridin-2-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrimidin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                      NN
           N>.NH
 0  F3 C        NH        O
           Prepared analogous to Example 60 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-8. MS
   (ESI): mass calcd. for C2oH22F3N502, 421.2; m/z found, 422.0 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.85:0.15), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.47 (d, J= 3.2 Hz, 1H), 8.11 (d, J= 3.1 Hz, 1H), 7.23 (d, J= 8.6 Hz, 1H), 7.06 (d, J= 8.9 Hz, 1H),
15 4.47 - 4.42 (m, 1H), 4.08 - 3.95 (m, 3H), 3.60 (dt, J = 11.1, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.38 (dd, J = 11.1, 1.6 Hz,
   1H), 2.77 - 2.69 (m, 1H), 2.36 - 2.28 (m, 1H), 2.26 (s, 3H), 1.92 - 1.87 (m, 1H), 1.83 - 1.78 (m, 1H),
   1.42 - 1.35 (m, 4H).
   Example 234: ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5-chloropyrimidin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(3
20 fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                                               -214-

                      N
           CIWNH
                            N
         C, rIN        N-N       F
           Step A: (1 S,4S,6R)-tert-butyl 6-((5 -chloropyrimidin-2-yl)amino)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane-2-carboxylate. To a microwave vial containing intermediate B-10 (305
   mg, 1.44 mmol) in DMF (6 mL) was added 2,5-dichloropyrimidine (257 mg, 1.72 mmol) and
 5 DIPEA (0.99 mL, 5.75 mmol), and the reaction mixture was sealed and heated to 80 'C bench top
   overnight. Upon completion of the reaction, the mixture was cooled to room temperature and
   diluted with H20. The reaction mixture was extracted with EtOAc (3X). The combined organics
   were washed with 5% aqueous LiCl, dried (Na2SO4), filtered, and concentrated. The concentrate
   was subjected directly to silica gel chromatography (10-90% EtOAc in hexanes) to give the title
 0 compound of step A (433 mg, 1.33 mmol, 93%). MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C15H21ClN402; 324.1,
   m/z found 269.1 [M+2H-tBu]*.
           Step B:(1S,4R,6R)-N-(5-chloropyrimidin-2-yl)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-6-amine         - xHCl.
   To the title compound of step A (433 mg, 1.33 mmol) in EtOAc (7 mL) was added 4M HCl in
   dioxane (2 mL), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction
 5 was concentrated to give the title compound of step B (370 mg), which was used without further
   purification. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for CioH13ClN4, 224.1; m/z found 225.1 [M+H]*.
           Step C: ((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-chloropyrimidin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)(3
   fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)methanone. To the title compound of step B (30 mg) and
   intermediate A-16 (25 mg, 0.12 mmol) in DMF (1 mL) was added DIPEA (0.10 mL, 0.61 mmol)
20 and HATU (42 mg, 0.11 mmol), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h.
   The reaction was quenched by the addition of H20 and the aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc
   (2X). The combined organics were concentrated and the concentrate subjected directly to
   purification via Gilson Prep Method X to give the title compound (32 mg). MS (ESI): mass calcd.
   for C19H17ClFN70, 413.1; m/z found, 414.0 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz, Methanol-d4, Compound
25 present as a mixture of rotamers (0.89:0.11), major rotamer reported) 6 8.35 - 8.20 (m, 1H), 8.00 (s,
   2H), 7.94 - 7.82 (m, 1H), 7.33 - 7.24 (m, 1H), 7.08 - 7.00 (m, 1H), 6.88 (d, J = 7.7 Hz, 1H), 4.01 (s,
   1H), 3.98 - 3.92 (m, 1H), 3.27 (dd, J = 11.1, 1.6 Hz, 1H), 3.18 (dt, J = 10.8, 3.0 Hz, 1H), 2.55 - 2.48
   (m, 1H), 2.22 - 2.12 (m, 1H), 1.52 (d, J = 10.3 Hz, 1H), 1.30 - 1.22 (m, 1H), 1.18 - 1.10 (m, 1H).
                                                -215-

   Example 235: ((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-chloropyrimidin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(5
   fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                       N          F
          N     NHO
             N          N-N
 5         Prepared analogous to Example 234 substituting intermediate A- 16 with intermediate A- 10.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C19H17ClFN70, 413.1; m/z found, 414.0 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4) 6 8.25 (s, 1H), 8.14 - 8.01 (m, 1H), 7.95 (s, 2H), 7.85 (dd, J = 9.0, 4.8 Hz, 1H), 7.17
   (ddd, J = 9.0, 7.8, 2.9 Hz, 1H), 6.84 - 6.75 (m, 1H), 3.98 - 3.86 (m, 1H), 3.85 - 3.75 (m, 1H), 3.44
   3.38 (m, 1H), 3.36 - 3.32 (m, 1H), 2.63 - 2.54 (m, 1H), 2.23 - 2.12 (m, 1H), 1.49 - 1.41 (m, 1H),
 0 1.34 - 1.20 (m, 2H).
   Example 236: ((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-chloropyrimidin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(3
   fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                       N
         rNYNH
                          \,N
15         Prepared analogous to Example 234 substituting intermediate A- 16 with intermediate A-2.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C21H i8ClFN6O, 424.1; m/z found, 425.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.89:0.11), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.91 (d, J = 5.0 Hz, 2H), 8.35 - 8.15 (m, 1H), 8.02 - 7.85 (m, 1H), 7.49 (t, J = 5.0 Hz, 1H), 7.20
   7.12 (m, 1H), 7.10 - 7.01 (m, 1H), 6.88 (d, J = 7.9 Hz, 1H), 4.14 (s, 1H), 4.05 - 3.95 (m, 1H), 3.26
20 3.21 (m, 1H), 2.56 - 2.48 (m, 1H), 2.24 - 2.12 (m, 1H), 1.52 (d, J = 9.5 Hz, 1H), 1.31 - 1.18 (m, 1H),
   1.03 (d, J= 10.1 Hz, 1H). 1H buried under solvent.
                                                 -216-

   Example 237: ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5-chloropyrimidin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(4
   fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                      N
         CN YNH
            Prepared analogous to Example 234 substituting intermediate A- 16 with intermediate A-23.
 5 MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C21Hi8ClFN6O, 424.1; m/z found, 425.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, major rotamer reported) 6 8.87 (d, J = 4.9
   Hz, 2H), 8.34 - 8.19 (m, 1H), 8.03 - 7.76 (m, 2H), 7.41 (t, J = 4.9 Hz, 1H), 7.10 - 6.98 (m, 1H), 6.80
   - 6.67 (m, 1H), 4.01 - 3.85 (m, 2H), 3.51 (dt, J= 11.0, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.37 - 3.31 (m, 1H), 2.62 (s,
   1H), 2.25 - 2.14 (m, 1H), 1.47 (d, J = 9.9 Hz, 1H), 1.37 - 1.20 (m, 2H).
 0
   Example 238: ((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-chloropyrimidin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(5
   fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                                 F
           N    NH
                     U", N
            Prepared analogous to Example 234 substituting intermediate A- 16 with intermediate A-7.
15 MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C21Hi8ClFN6O, 424.1; m/z found, 425.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.87:0.13), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.84 (d, J = 4.8 Hz, 2H), 8.29-8.19 (m, 2H), 7.86 (br. s, 1H), 7.38 (t, J = 4.9 Hz, 1H), 7.11 (td, J =
   8.5, 2.7 Hz, 1H), 6.79-6.70 (m, 1H), 3.98-3.88 (m, 2H), 3.50 (dt, J= 10.9, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.34 (dd, J=
   11.0, 1.7 Hz, 1H), 2.64-2.59 (m, 1H), 2.24-2.15 (m, 1H), 1.47 (d, J= 10.0 Hz, 1H), 1.35 - 1.19 (m,
20 2H).
                                               -217-

   Example 239: ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5-chloropyrimidin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(2
   fluoro-6-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                            F
           N     NH
                           N
            Prepared analogous to Example 234 substituting intermediate A- 16 with intermediate A-6.
 5 MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C 2 1Hi 8 ClFN6O, 424.1; m/z found, 425.1 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC using
   a XBridge C18 column (5p m, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H
   over 2min and then hold at 100% ACN for 2 min, at a flow rate of 2.5 mL/min (Temperature         =  45
   'C). Rt = 1.85 and 2.12 min (major rotamers) at 254 nm.
   Example 240: ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5-chloropyrimidin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(2
 0 (pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                      N
         rN>NH
            Prepared analogous to Example 234 substituting intermediate A- 16 with intermediate A-37.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C21H19ClN6O, 406.1; m/z found, 407.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol- d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.88:0.12), major rotamer reported) 6
15 8.85 (d, J = 4.9 Hz, 2H), 8.29 - 8.18 (m, 1H), 8.14 (dt, J = 8.0, 0.9 Hz, 1H), 7.92 - 7.70 (m, 1H), 7.42
   - 7.35 (m, 2H), 7.07 - 6.92 (m, 2H), 4.10 - 3.86 (m, 2H), 3.50 (dt, J = 10.8, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 3.35 - 3.32
   (m, 1H), 2.65 - 2.59 (m, 1H), 2.27 - 2.13 (m, 1H), 1.54 - 1.43 (m, 1H), 1.36 - 1.19 (m, 2H).
   Example 241: ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5-chloropyrimidin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)(2
20 (5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                                               -218-

                       N
         CN rNH
                    F
            Prepared analogous to Example 234 substituting intermediate A- 16 with intermediate A-34.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C21Hi8ClFN6O, 424.1; m/z found, 425.1 [M+H]*. 1HNMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.87:0.13), major rotamer reported) 6
 5 8.81 (s, 2H), 8.38 - 8.17 (m, 1H), 8.17 - 8.13 (m, 1H), 7.93 - 7.75 (m, 1H), 7.44 - 7.32 (m, 1H), 7.11
   - 6.91 (m, 2H), 4.06 - 3.86 (m, 2H), 3.54 (dt, J = 10.8, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 3.34 (dd, J = 11.0, 1.7 Hz, 1H),
   2.71 - 2.61 (m, 1H), 2.29 - 2.15 (m, 1H), 1.59 - 1.46 (m, 1H), 1.45 - 1.27 (m, 2H).
   Example 242: (2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((6-(trifluoromethyl)pyridazin-3
 0 yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
            N    NH
    F3C                  N-N
            Step A: (1 S,4S,6R)-tert-butyl 6-((6-(trifluoromethyl)pyridazin-3-yl)amino)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane-2-carboxylate. To a vial containing intermediate B-10 (100 mg, 0.471
   mmol) in MeCN (2 mL) was added 3-chloro-6-(trifluoromethyl)pyridazine          (103 mg, 0.565 mmol)
15 and Et3N (0.15 mL, 1.1 mmol), and the reaction mixture was sealed and heated to 90 'C bench top
   overnight. Upon completion of the reaction, the mixture was cooled to room temperature and
   subjected directly to silica gel chromatography (0-50% EtOAc in hexanes) to give the title
   compound of step A (143 mg), which contained a small amount of impurity. The title compound
   was carried forward as is to the next step. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C16H21F3N402; 358.2, m/z
20 found 359.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz, Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of
   rotamers) 67.45 - 7.33 (m, 1H), 6.71-6.56 (m, 1H), 6.12 and 5.60 (2 br. s, 1H), 4.53 - 4.21 (m, 2H),
   3.44 - 3.29 (m, 1H), 3.13-3.01 (m, 1H), 2.63-2.56 (m, 1H), 2.50-2.28 (m, 1H), 1.77 - 1.06 (m, 12H).
                                                -219-

             Step B:(1S,4R,6R)-N-(6-(trifluoromethyl)pyridazin-3-yl)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-6
    amine - xHCl. To the title compound of step A (143 mg, 0.399 mmol) in EtOAc (1 mL) was added
    4M HCl in dioxane (4 mL), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1.5 h. The
    reaction was concentrated to give the title compound of step B (130 mg), which was used without
 5  further purification. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C11H13F3N4, 258.1; m/z found 259.2 [M+H]*.
             Step C: (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((6-(trifluoromethyl)pyridazin-3
    yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone. To the title compound of step B (33 mg) and
    intermediate A-1 (21 mg, 0.11 mmol) in DMF (0.5 mL) was added DIPEA (0.1 mL, 0.58 mmol)
    and HATU (42 mg, 0.11 mmol), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h.
 0  The reaction was quenched by the addition of H20 and the aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc
    (2X). The combined organics were concentrated and the concentrate subjected directly to
    purification via Agilent Prep Method X to give the title compound (26 mg). MS (ESI): mass calcd.
    for C2oHi8F3N70, 429.2; m/z found, 430.2 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was obtained on a Agilent
    1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase of 10-100% ACN in
 5  20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow rate of 1 mL/min
    (Temperature   =  30 C). Rt = 5.48 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
    Example 243: (6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((6
    (trifluoromethyl)pyridazin-3-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                        N     N
             N    NH
     F3 C                N-N
20N
             Prepared analogous to Example 242 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-40.
    MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C2oH19F3N80, 444.2; m/z found, 445.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
    Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.86:0.14), major rotamer reported) 6
    8.18 (d, J= 8.4 Hz, 1H), 7.86 (s, 2H), 7.36 (d, J= 9.3 Hz, 1H), 7.33 (d, J= 8.3 Hz, 1H), 6.73 (d, J=
25  9.3 Hz, 1H), 4.34 - 4.29 (m, 1H), 3.72 (dt, J = 11.0, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.32 (dd, J = 11.0, 1.6 Hz, 1H),
    2.84 - 2.76 (m, 1H), 2.62 - 2.44 (m, 5H), 2.01 - 1.92 (m, 1H), 1.78 - 1.69 (m, 1H), 1.26 (dt, J= 13.4,
    3.4 Hz, 1H).
                                                 - 220 -

   Example 244: (6-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((6
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridazin-3-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N       ...
            N    NH
    F3
                           N
 5          Prepared analogous to Example 242 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A
   41.MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C22H2oF3N70, 455.2; m/z found, 456.2 [M+H]*. 'H NMR (400 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.93:0.07), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.79 (d, J= 4.8 Hz, 2H), 8.48 (d, J= 8.1 Hz, 1H), 8.16 - 7.96 (m, 1H), 7.37 (d, J= 9.3 Hz, 1H), 7.32
   (d, J= 8.1 Hz, 1H), 7.26 - 7.23 (m, 1H), 6.77 (d, J= 9.2 Hz, 1H), 4.27 (s, 1H), 3.74 (dt, J= 10.9, 3.2
 0 Hz, 1H), 3.33 (dd, J= 10.8, 1.6 Hz, 1H), 2.86 - 2.77 (m, 1H), 2.64 - 2.49 (m, 5H), 2.03 - 1.90 (m,
   1H), 1.73 (d, J= 10.1 Hz, 1H), 1.27 (dt, J= 13.2, 3.5 Hz, 1H).
   Example 245: (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((6-(trifluoromethyl)pyridazin-3
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
            N    NH
    F3CN                           F
15                         N
            Prepared analogous to Example 242 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A
   2.MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C22Hi8F4N60, 458.1; m/z found, 459.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.85:0.15), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.90 (d, J = 4.9 Hz, 2H), 7.39 (t, J = 5.0 Hz, 1H), 7.32 - 7.22 (m, 2H), 7.22 - 7.16 (m, 1H), 7.11
20 7.06 (m, 1H), 6.47 (d, J= 9.3 Hz, 1H), 4.67 (s, 1H), 3.55 (dt, J= 11.1, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.26 (dd, J=
   11.0, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 2.79 - 2.69 (m, 1H), 2.54 - 2.42 (m, 1H), 1.95 - 1.72 (m, 2H), 1.69 - 1.61 (m, 1H),
   1.20 - 1.07 (m, 1H).
                                                -221-

   Example 246: (2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((6-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-3
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                        N
                  NH   O
                       0
    F3C     N            N-N
                             N
 5          Step A: (1 S,4S,6R)-tert-butyl 6-((6-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-3-yl)amino)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane-2-carboxylate. To a microwave vial containing degassed toluene (2 mL)
   was added 5-bromo-2-(trifluoromethyl)pyridine (116 mg, 0.514 mmol), intermediate B-10 (120 mg)
   and racemic BINAP (13 mg, 0.021 mmol) at room temperature and the reaction mixture was purged
   with N2 for 5 min. Then, Pd(OAc)2 (14 mg, 0.021 mmol) and sodium tert-butoxide (71 mg, 0.72
 0 mmol) were added and the reaction mixture heated to 70 'C overnight. Upon completion of the
   reaction, the mixture was cooled to room temperature and the crude material subjected directly to
   silica gel chromatography (0-50 % EtOAc in hexanes) to give the title compound of step A (184
   mg). MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C17H22F3N302, 357.2; m/z found 358.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers) 68.02 and 7.90 ( two s, 1H), 7.46-7.35
 5 (m, 1H), 6.88-6.81 and 6.77 - 6.68 (two m, 1H), 5.39-5.29 and 4.72-4.62 (two m, 1H), 4.47-4.33
   (m, 1H), 3.87 - 3.72 (m, 1H), 3.41-3.31 (m, 1H), 3.11-2.99 (m, 1H), 2.64 - 2.56 (m, 1H), 2.37 - 2.17
   (m, 1H), 1.81-1.67 (m, 1H), 1.66-1.60 (m, 1H), 1.53 - 1.01 (m, 11H).
            Step B:(1S,4R,6R)-N-(6-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-3-yl)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-6-amine
   xHCl. To the title compound of step A (77 mg, 0.22 mmol) in EtOAc (0.6 mL) was added 4M HCl
20 in dioxane (3 mL), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2.5 h. The reaction
   was concentrated to give the title compound of step B (72 mg), which was used without further
   purification. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C12H14F3N3, 257.1; m/z found 258.1 [M+H]*.
            Step C: (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((6-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-3
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone. To the title compound of step B (36 mg) and
25 intermediate A-1 (25 mg, 0.13 mmol) in DMF (1 mL) was added DIPEA (0.2 mL, 1.2 mmol) and
   HATU (46 mg, 0.12 mmol), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1.5 h. The
   reaction was quenched by the addition of H20 and the aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc
                                                - 222   -

   (2X). The combined organics were concentrated and the concentrate subjected directly to
   purification via Gilson Prep Method X to give the title compound (29 mg). MS (ESI): mass calcd.
   for C21H19F3N60, 428.2; m/z found, 429.2 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was obtained on a Agilent
   1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase of 10-100% ACN in
 5 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow rate of 1 mL/min
   (Temperature    = 30 'C). Rt = 6.07 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
   Example 247: (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((6-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-3
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                        N
                 NH0
              I  -
    F3C     N                     F
 0                      \    N
           Prepared analogous to Example 246 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A
   2.MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C23H19F4N50, 457.2; m/z found, 458.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.89:0.11), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.91 (d, J = 5.0 Hz, 2H), 7.87 (d, J = 2.7 Hz, 1H), 7.50 (t, J = 5.0 Hz, 1H), 7.31 (d, J = 8.7 Hz, 1H),
 5 7.06 - 6.99 (m, 1H), 6.87 - 6.80 (m, 2H), 6.73 (dd, J= 8.7, 2.8 Hz, 1H), 4.11 (s, 1H), 3.80 - 3.71 (m,
   1H), 3.28 - 3.22 (m, 2H), 2.60 - 2.52 (m, 1H), 2.34 - 2.25 (m, 1H), 1.59 (d, J= 10.8 Hz, 1H), 1.24
   1.18 (m, 1H), 1.11 (d, J= 10.3 Hz, 1H).
   Example 248: (R/S)-(3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)(6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
20 2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                        N
            N O
                  N    0
    F3 C                          F
                          \  N
                                               - 223 -

            Step A: (R/S)-tert-butyl 6-((5 -(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octane
   2-carboxylate. To intermediate C-5A (50 mg, 0.22 mmol) dissolved in DMF (2 mL) was added
   NaH (18 mg, 0.44 mmol, 60% dispersion in mineral oil). After 5 minutes 2-chloro-5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridine (64 mg, 0.35 mmol) was then added and the mixture stirred at room
 5 temperature for 3 h. The reaction mixture was quenched with saturated NH4Cl solution, and diluted
   with EtOAc and H20. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc (3X). The combined organics
   were washed with H20, brine, dried with MgSO4, filtered and concentrated. Purification via silica
   gel chromatography (0-40% EtOAc in hexanes) gave the title compound (67 mg, 0.18 mmol, 82%).
   MS (ESI) mass calcd. for Ci8H23F3N203, 372.2; m/z found 373.2 [M+H]*.1 H NMR (500 MHz,
 0 Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, (0.68:0.32), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.49 - 8.45 (m, 1H), 7.94 (dd, J = 8.8, 2.6 Hz, 1H), 6.90 (d, J = 8.7, 0.8 Hz, 1H), 5.22 (dt, J = 9.7,
   2.9 Hz, 1H), 4.48 - 4.41 (m, 1H), 3.42 (dt, J = 10.9, 2.5 Hz, 1H), 3.25 (dt, J = 11.0, 2.6 Hz, 1H), 2.27
   - 2.18 (m, 1H), 2.09 - 2.04 (m, 1H), 1.97 - 1.87 (m, 1H), 1.77 - 1.71 (m, 1H), 1.68 - 1.59 (m, 3H),
   1.13 (s, 9H).
 5          Step B: (R/S)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octane - xHCl.
   To the title compound of step A (67 mg, 0.18 mmol) in EtOAc (2 mL) was added 4 M HCl in
   dioxane (0.23 mL). After 3 h, the reaction was concentrated to give the title compound of step B
   which was used without further purification. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C13Hi5F3N20, 272.1; m/z
   found 273.1 [M+H]*.
 0          Step C: (R/S)-(3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)(6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
   2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone. To the title compound of step B (46 mg) and intermediate
   A-2 (54 mg, 0.20 mmol, 82% purity) in DMF (1.7 mL) was added DIPEA (0.18 mL, 1.01 mmol)
   and HATU (71 mg, 0.19 mmol), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature
   overnight. The reaction mixture was diluted with H20 and EtOAc. The aqueous layer was extracted
25 with EtOAc (3X) and the combined organics were concentrated and subjected directly to
   purification using Gilson Prep Method X to give the title compound (20 mg). MS (ESI): mass
   calcd. for C24H2oF4N402, 472.2; m/z found, 473.1 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC using a XBridge C 18
   column (5um, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 2 min and
   then hold at 100% ACN for 2 min, at a flow rate of 2.5 mL/min (Temperature        = 45 C). Rt   = 2.18
30 and 2.29 min (major rotamers) at 254 nm. Enantiomers of Example 248 can be separated by Chiral
   SFC purification using a Chiralpak AZ-H column (5pm 250 x 21 mm), mobile phase of 35%
   EtOH+(0.2%TEA): 65% C02, and a flow rate of 40 mL/min (Temperature             = 40 C).
                                                   - 224 -

   Example 249: (R/S)- (3-fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)(6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                        N
                NON
    F3 C                N-N       F
 5          Prepared analogous to Example 248 substituting intermediate A-2 with intermediate A- 16.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C22H19F4N502, 461.2; m/z found, 461.9 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, major rotamer reported) 6 8.25 (s, 1H),
   8.11 - 7.95 (m, 3H), 7.27 (t, J= 9.3 Hz, 1H), 7.14 - 7.00 (m, 2H), 6.91 (d, J= 7.8 Hz, 1H), 5.14
   5.06 (m, 1H), 3.82 (s, 1H), 3.60 (d, J= 12.8 Hz, 1H), 3.24 (d, J= 12.7 Hz, 1H), 2.34 - 2.24 (m, 1H),
 0 2.11 (s, 1H), 1.81 - 1.41 (series of m, 5H).
   Example 250: (R/S)- (4-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)(6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
   2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone
                        N      O
    F3 C'     "            N
15          Prepared analogous to Example 248 substituting intermediate A-2 with intermediate A-23.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C24H2oF4N402, 472.2; m/z found, 472.9 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound is present as a mixture of rotamers) 6 8.96 - 8.78 (m, 2H), 8.22 - 8.14 (m,
   1H), 8.04 - 7.97 (m, 1H), 7.92 (dd, J= 10.1, 2.6 Hz, 1H), 7.49 - 7.42 (m, 1H), 7.10 - 6.88 (m, 2H),
   6.76 - 6.58 (m, 1H), 5.05 - 4.98 (m, 1H), 3.85 - 3.73 (m, 1H), 3.69 (d, J = 12.3 Hz, 1H), 3.55 - 3.48
20 (m, 1H), 2.33 - 2.24 (m, 1H), 2.21 - 2.07 (m, 1H), 1.86 - 1.77 (m, 1H), 1.74 - 1.37 (m, 3H), 1.27
   1.14 (m, 1H).
                                                - 225 -

   Example 251: (R/S)- (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)(6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
   2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
            NO0
                      0
    F3 0 U
                     F
             Prepared analogous to Example 248 substituting intermediate A-2 with intermediate A-34.
 5 MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C24H2oF4N402, 472.2; m/z found, 472.9 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Methanol-d4, Compound is present as a mixture of rotamers) 6 8.87 - 8.74 (m, 2H), 8.20 - 8.12 (m,
   2H), 8.05 - 7.93 (m, 1H), 7.65 - 7.55 (m, 1H), 7.38 - 7.30 (m, 1H), 7.09 - 6.86 (m, 2H), 5.13 - 5.02
   (m, 1H), 3.84 - 3.76 (m, 1H), 3.71 - 3.64 (m, 1H), 3.60 - 3.51 (m, 1H), 2.35 - 2.26 (m, 1H), 2.22
   2.13 (m, 1H), 1.87 - 1.76 (m, 1H), 1.73 - 1.29 (m, 4H).
 0
   Example 252: (R/S)-(6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)(6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone
                       NN
        ;N       NH
    F3C     N           N-N
                            N
            Step A: (R/S)-tert-butyl 6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2
15 azabicyclo[2.2.2]octane-2-carboxylate. To a microwave vial containing C-7A (308 mg, 1.36 mmol)
   in MeCN (5 mL) was added 2-chloro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazine (0.20 mL, 1.63 mmol) and Et3N
   (0.28 mL, 2.04 mmol), and the reaction mixture was sealed and heated to 70 'C bench top
   overnight. Analysis of the reaction mixture still showed unreacted starting material. Additional
   equivalents of 2-chloro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazine (0.20 mL, 1.63 mmol) and Et3N (0.28 mL, 2.04
20 mmol) were added, and the reaction mixture was heated again to 70 'C bench top overnight. Upon
   completion of the reaction, the mixture was cooled to room temperature and diluted with H20. The
   reaction mixture was extracted with EtOAc (3X). The combined organics were concentrated and the
                                                  - 226 -

   concentrate subjected directly to silica gel chromatography (0-30% EtOAc in hexanes) to give the
   title compound of step A (245 mg, 0.658 mmol, 48%) MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C17H23F3N402;
   372.2, m/z found 371.1 [M+2H-tBu]*.
            Step B:(R/S)-N-(5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-6-amine   - xHCl.
 5 To the title compound of step A (245 mg, 0.658 mmol) in EtOAc (1 mL) was added 4M HCl in
   dioxane (4 mL), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 h. The reaction was
   concentrated to give the title compound of step B (249 mg), which was used without further
   purification. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C12Hi5F3N4, 272.1; m/z found 273.0 [M+H]*.
            Step C: (R/S)-(6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)(6-((5
 0 (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone. To the title
   compound of step B (50 mg) and intermediate A-40 (36 mg, 0.18 mmol) in DMF (0.5 mL) was
   added DIPEA (0.15 mL, 0.87 mmol) and HATU (68 mg, 0.18 mmol), and the reaction mixture was
   stirred at room temperature for 3 h. The reaction was diluted with MeOH and the crude reaction
   mixture subjected directly to purification via Agilent Prep Method X to give the title compound (25
 5 mg). MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C21H21F3N80, 458.2; m/z found, 458.9 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC
   was obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile
   phase of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a
   flow rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature     = 30 C). Rt   = 6.45 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
 0 Example 253: (R/S)-(6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)(6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
            N;N           N
    F 3C    N            0
                           N-N
            Prepared analogous to Example 252, isolated from Step C during HPLC purification. MS
   (ESI): mass calcd. for C21H21F3N80, 458.2; m/z found, 459.2 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was
25 obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase
   of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow
   rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature = 30 C). Rt = 6.26 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
                                                - 227 -

   Example 254: (R/S)-(2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)(6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)amino)
   2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                      N
            ' N    N      N    /
    F 3C    N          NIN
 5         Prepared analogous to Example 252 substituting intermediate A-40 with intermediate A-1.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C21H2oF3N70, 443.2; m/z found, 443.9 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was
   obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase
   of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow
   rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature = 30 C). Rt = 6.65 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
 0
   Example 255: (R/S)- (3-fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)(6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                      N
    F3 C   N           N-        F
           Prepared analogous to Example 252 substituting intermediate A-40 with intermediate A-16.
15 MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C21H19F4N70, 461.2; m/z found, 461.9 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was
   obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase
   of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow
   rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature = 30 C). Rt = 6.65 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
20 Example 256: (R/S)- (3-methyl-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)(6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                                             -228-

                      N
    F3 C   N          N-N      /
           Prepared analogous to Example 252 substituting intermediate A-40 with intermediate A-22.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C22H22F3N70, 457.2; m/z found, 458.0 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was
   obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase
 5 of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow
   rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature = 30 C). Rt = 6.96 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
   Example 257: (R/S)- (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)(6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                      N
    F3C     N                    F
                      \    N
 0
           Prepared analogous to Example 252 substituting intermediate A-40 with intermediate A-2.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C23H2oF4N60, 472.2; m/z found, 472.9 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was
   obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase
   of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow
15 rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature   = 30 C). Rt = 6.49 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
   Example 258: (R/S)- (4-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)(6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                                             - 229  -

                        N
                       0             F
          ;N>NH
    F3 C    N            N
            Prepared analogous to Example 252 substituting intermediate A-40 with intermediate A-23.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C23H2oF4N60, 472.2; m/z found, 472.9 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was
   obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase
 5 of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow
   rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature = 30 C). Rt = 6.57 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
   Example 259: (4-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5 -(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                        N
                                     F
         F 3N   l Ol 0 O
    F3 0                 N
 0                      \ ,,'N
            Prepared analogous to Example 76 substituting intermediate A-40 with intermediate A-23.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C24H2oF4N402, 472.2; m/z found, 473.2 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was
   obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase
   of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow
15 rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature   =  30 C). Rt = 7.28 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
   Example 260: (5-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5 -(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                                              -230-

                                 F
            N      O
                          N
           Prepared analogous to Example 76 substituting intermediate A-40 with intermediate A-7.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C24H2oF4N402, 472.2; m/z found, 473.2 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was
   obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase
 5 of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow
   rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature = 30 C). Rt = 7.59 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
   Example 261:(2-fluoro-6-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone
                           F
            N       O
    F3C      /N-..
                           N
 0
           Prepared analogous to Example 76 substituting intermediate A-40 with intermediate A-6.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C24H2oF4N402, 472.2; m/z found, 473.2 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was
   obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase
   of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow
15 rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature   = 30 C). Rt = 7.41 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
   Example 262: (2-(5 -fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5 -(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                                             - 231  -

                       N
    F3 C                  N
                         \,N
                     F
            Prepared analogous to Example 76 substituting intermediate A-40 with intermediate A-34.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C24H2oF4N402, 472.2; m/z found, 473.2 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was
   obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase
 5 of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow
   rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature = 30 C). Rt = 7.83 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
   Example 263: (3-fluoro-2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
            NO0
    F3 0                         F
 0                   F
            Prepared analogous to Example 76 substituting intermediate A-40 with intermediate A-35.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C24H19F5N402, 490.1; m/z found, 491.2 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was
   obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase
   of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow
15 rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature   = 30 C). Rt  = 7.78 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
   Example 264: (5-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                                              -232-

                       N
            NO 0
    F 3CO
                           N
            Prepared analogous to Example 76 substituting intermediate A-40 with intermediate A-47.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C24H22F3N502, 469.2; m/z found, 470.2 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was
   obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase
 5 of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow
   rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature   = 30 C). Rt  = 6.999 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
   Example 265: (6-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
            N   O
 0                     \   N
            Prepared analogous to Example 76 substituting intermediate A-40 with intermediate A-4 1.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C24H22F3N502, 469.2; m/z found, 470.2 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was
   obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase
   of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow
15 rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature   = 30 C). Rt  = 6.73 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
   Example 266: (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                                              -233-

                        N
                           N
    F3 0          FqNF
            Step A:(1 S,4R,6R)-tert-butyl 6-((3-fluoro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octane-2-carboxylate. To intermediate C-5B (52 mg, 0.23 mmol) dissolved in
   DMF (2 mL) was added NaH (18 mg, 0.46 mmol, 60% dispersion in mineral oil). After 5 minutes
 5 2,3-difluoro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridine (63 mg, 0.34 mmol) was then added and the mixture stirred
   at room temperature for 1 h. The reaction mixture was quenched with saturated NH4Cl solution,
   and diluted with EtOAc and H20. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc (3X). The
   combined organics were washed with H20, brine, dried with MgSO4, filtered, and concentrated.
   Purification via silica gel chromatography (0-100% EtOAc in hexanes) gave the title compound (67
 0 mg, 0.17 mmol, 75%). MS (ESI) mass calcd. for Ci8H22F4N203, 390.2; m/z found 336.1 [M+2H
   tBu]*.
            Step B: (1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octane - xHCl. To the title compound of step A (67 mg, 0.17 mmol) in EtOAc (2
   mL) was added 4 M HCl in dioxane (0.22 mL), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room
 5 temperature overnight. Analysis of the reaction mixture showed mostly starting material. Additional
   4 M HCl in dioxane (0.5 mL) was added and the reaction mixture stirred at room temperature for 5
   h. The reaction mixture was then concentrated to give the title compound of step B (30 mg) which
   was used without further purification. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C13H14F4N20, 290.1; m/z found
   291.1 [M+H]*.
20          Step C: (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone. To the title compound
   of step B (30 mg) and intermediate A-2 (27 mg, 0.12 mmol) in DMF (1 mL) was added DIPEA
   (0.11 mL, 0.62 mmol) and HATU (43 mg, 0.11 mmol). Upon completion of the reaction,
   purification was performed using Agilent Prep Method X to give the title compound (11 mg). MS
25 (ESI): mass calcd. for C24H19F5N402, 490.2; m/z found, 491.1 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was
   obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase
   of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow
   rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature = 30 C). Rt = 7.35 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
                                                -234-

   Example 267: (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5 -methylpyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone
                     N
               -~
                        N      F
                        \,N
 5          Step A: (1 S,4R,6R)-tert-butyl 6-((5-methylpyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octane-2
   carboxylate. To intermediate C-5B (37 mg, 0.16 mmol) dissolved in DMF (1.4 mL) was added NaH
   (13 mg, 0.33 mmol, 60% dispersion in mineral oil). After 5 minutes 2-chloro-5-methylpyridine
   (0.03 mL, 0.26 mmol) was then added and the mixture stirred at room temperature for 2 h. Analysis
   of the reaction mixture showed only starting material was present. The reaction mixture was heated
 0 to 70 'C overnight. Analysis of the reaction mixture showed small amount of product formation.
   Additional NaH was added and the reaction mixture heated to 70 'C over the weekend. The reaction
   mixture was quenched with saturated NH4Cl solution, and diluted with EtOAc and H20. The
   aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc (3X). The combined organics were washed with H20,
   brine, dried with MgSO4, filtered and concentrated. Purification via silica gel chromatography (0
 5 50% EtOAc in hexanes) gave the title compound (8 mg, 0.03 mmol, 15%). MS (ESI) mass calcd.
   for Ci8H26N203, 318.2; m/z found 319.2 [M+H]*.
            Step B: (1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-methylpyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.2]octane - xHCl. To
   the title compound of step A (8 mg, 0.03 mmol) in EtOAc (0.3 mL) was added 4 M HCl in dioxane
   (0.03 mL) and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. Analysis of the
20 reaction mixture showed that starting material still remained. Additional 4 M HCl in dioxane (0.25
   mL) was added and the reaction mixture stirred at room temperature for 5 h. The reaction was
   concentrated to give the title compound of step B which was used without further purification. MS
   (ESI) mass calcd. for C13H I8N20, 218.1; m/z found 219.2 [M+H]*.
            Step C: (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-methylpyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
25 azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone. To the title compound of step B (5 mg) and intermediate A
   2 (6 mg, 0.03 mmol) in DMF (0.3 mL) was added DIPEA (0.02 mL, 0.14 mmol) and HATU (10
   mg, 0.03 mmol), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction
                                                -235-

   mixture was diluted with MeOH and the crude reaction mixture directly subjected to purification
   using Agilent Prep Method X to give the title compound (1 mg). MS (ESI): mass calcd. for
   C24H23FN402, 418.2; m/z found, 419.2 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was obtained on a Agilent 1100
   Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase of 10-100% ACN in 20
 5 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow rate of 1 mL/min
   (Temperature   = 30 C). Rt = 6.35 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
   Example 268: (2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                   (N
           N    0
    Br                NN
 0
           Step A: (1S,4R,6R)-tert-butyl 6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octane-2
   carboxylate. To intermediate C-5B (37 mg, 0.16 mmol) dissolved in DMF (1.4 mL) was added NaH
   (13 mg, 0.33 mmol, 60% dispersion in mineral oil). After 5 minutes 5-bromo-2-fluoropyridine (0.03
   mL, 0.26 mmol) was then added and the mixture stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The reaction
 5 mixture was quenched with saturated NH4Cl solution, and diluted with EtOAc and H20. The
   aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc (3X). The combined organics were washed with H20,
   brine, dried with MgSO4, filtered and concentrated. Purification via silica gel chromatography (0
   100% EtOAc in hexanes) gave the title compound (63 mg, 0.16 mmol, 100%). MS (ESI) mass
   calcd. for C17H23BrN203, 382.1; m/z found 383.1 [M+H]*.
20         Step B: (1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octane     - xHCl. To the
   title compound of step A (63 mg, 0.16 mmol) in EtOAc (2 mL) was added 4 M HCl in dioxane
   (0.21 mL) and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. Analysis of the
   reaction mixture showed that starting material still remained. Additional 4 M HCl in dioxane (0.21
   mL) was added and the reaction mixture stirred at room temperature for 5 h. The reaction was
25 concentrated to give the title compound of step B which was used without further purification. MS
   (ESI) mass calcd. for C12H15BrN20, 282.0; m/z found 283.0 [M+H]*.
                                              -236-

            Step C: (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone. To the title compound of step B (23 mg) and intermediate
   A-1 (47 mg, 0.25 mmol) in DMF (0.8 mL) was added DIPEA (0.08 mL, 0.49 mmol) and HATU
   (34 mg, 0.09 mmol), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The
 5 reaction mixture was diluted with MeOH and the crude reaction mixture directly subjected to
   purification using Agilent Prep Method X to give the title compound (7.7 mg). MS (ESI): mass
   calcd. for C21H2aBrN5O2, 453.1; m/z found, 454.1 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was obtained on a
   Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase of 10-100%
   ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow rate of 1
 0 mL/min (Temperature = 30 C). Rt = 7.51 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
   Example 269: ((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(3-fluoro
   2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                       N
           N~ 00            \
           Br                   F
                         \,N
 5          Prepared analogous to Example 268 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A
   2.MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C23H2oBrFN402, 482.1; m/z found, 483.1 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC
   was obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile
   phase of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a
   flow rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature    =  30 C). Rt = 7.10 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
20
   Example 270: (2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone
                    4N
           N     O
    CI     -~N-N
                                                -237-

           Step A: (1 S,4R,6R)-tert-butyl 6-((5-chloropyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octane-2
   carboxylate. To intermediate C-5B (37 mg, 0.16 mmol) dissolved in DMF (1.4 mL) was added NaH
   (13 mg, 0.33 mmol, 60% dispersion in mineral oil). After 5 minutes 5-chloro-2-fluoropyridine (0.03
   mL, 0.26 mmol) was then added and the mixture stirred at room temperature for 1.5 h. The reaction
 5 mixture was quenched with saturated NH4Cl solution, and diluted with EtOAc and H20. The
   aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc (3X). The combined organics were washed with H20,
   brine, dried with MgSO4, filtered and concentrated. Purification via silica gel chromatography (0
   50% EtOAc in hexanes) gave the title compound (52 mg, 0.15 mmol, 94%). MS (ESI) mass calcd.
   for C17H23ClN203, 338.1; m/z found 339.2 [M+H]*.
 0         Step B: (1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octane     - xHCl. To the
   title compound of step A (52 mg, 0.15 mmol) in EtOAc (2 mL) was added 4 M HCl in dioxane
   (0.19 mL) and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction was
   concentrated to give the title compound of step B which was used without further purification. MS
   (ESI) mass calcd. for C12HI5ClN20, 238.1; m/z found 239.1[M+H]*.
 5         Step C: (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone. To the title compound of step B (18 mg) and intermediate
   A-1 (44 mg, 0.23 mmol) in DMF (0.8 mL) was added DIPEA (0.08 mL, 0.45 mmol) and HATU
   (44 mg, 0.23 mmol), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The
   reaction mixture was diluted with MeOH and the crude reaction mixture directly subjected to
 0 purification using Agilent Prep Method X to give the title compound (16 mg). MS (ESI): mass
   calcd. for C21H2aClN502, 409.1; m/z found, 410.1 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was obtained on a
   Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase of 10-100%
   ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow rate of 1
   mL/min (Temperature = 30 C). Rt = 7.35 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
25
   Example 271: ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(3-fluoro
   2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone
                                               -238-

                      N
           NO 0
                      \N
   Prepared analogous to Example 270 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-2.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C23H2aClFN402, 438.1; m/z found, 439.1 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was
   obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase
 5 of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow
   rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature = 30 C). Rt = 6.94 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
   Example 272: (2-(5 -fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5 -(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
           ;N;O       0
    F3 0    N           N
 0                   F
   Prepared analogous to Example 77 substituting intermediate A-40 with intermediate A-34. MS
   (ESI): mass calcd. for C23H19F4N502, 473.1; m/z found, 474.2 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was
   obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase
   of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow
15 rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature   = 30 C). Rt  = 7.16 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
   Example 273: (3-fluoro-2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                                              -239-

                       N
    F3C     N                    F
                           N
                     F
            Prepared analogous to Example 77 substituting intermediate A-40 with intermediate A-35.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C23H1i8F5N502, 491.1; m/z found, 492.2 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was
   obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase
 5 of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow
   rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature = 30 C). Rt = 7.29 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
   Example 274: (3-fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
            N    NH    O
    F3C     N          N-N       F
 0
   Prepared analogous to Example 83 substituting intermediate A-40 with intermediate A- 16. MS
   (ESI): mass calcd. for C21H19F4N70, 461.2; m/z found, 462.2 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was
   obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase
   of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow
15 rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature   = 30 C). Rt = 6.71 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
                                             - 240  -

   Example 275:(2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone
                       N
    F3 C   'N          N
   Prepared analogous to Example 83 substituting intermediate A-40 with intermediate A-1. MS (ESI):
 5 mass calcd. for C21H2oF3N70, 443.2; m/z found, 444.2 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was obtained on a
   Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase of 10-100%
   ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow rate of 1
   mL/min (Temperature = 30 C). Rt = 6.67 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
 0 Example 276: (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1R,4S,6S)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
              N
                  HNAN3
         N
           Prepared analogous to Example 83 substituting intermediate A-40 with intermediate A-2
   (step C),and substituting intermediate C-7B with its enantiomer (step A), (1R,4S,6S)-tert-butyl 6
15 amino-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octane-2-carboxylate.   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C23H2oF4N60, 472.2;
   m/z found, 472.9 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a
   XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over
   8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature     = 30 C). Rt
   = 6.39 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
20
   Example 277: (4-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5 -(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                                             -241-

                      N
    F3 C    N          N
           Prepared analogous to Example 83 substituting intermediate A-40 with intermediate A-23.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C23H2oF4N60, 472.2; m/z found, 473.2 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was
   obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase
 5 of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow
   rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature = 30 C). Rt = 6.62 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
   Example 278: (5-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5 -(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                      N          F
            N   NH
    F3C     N
 0                    \/ ,N
   Prepared analogous to Example 83 substituting intermediate A-40 with intermediate A-7. MS (ESI):
   mass calcd. for C23H2oF4N60, 472.2; m/z found, 473.2 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was obtained on a
   Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase of 10-100%
   ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow rate of 1
15 mL/min (Temperature    = 30 C). Rt = 6.44 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
   Example 279: (2-fluoro-6-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5 -(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone
                                             - 242 -

                           F
            N   NH    ON
    F3C     N
                           N
           Prepared analogous to Example 83 substituting intermediate A-40 with intermediate A-6.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C23H2oF4N60, 472.2; m/z found, 473.2 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was
   obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase
 5 of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow
   rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature   = 30 C). Rt  = 6.27 min (major rotamer) and 6.95 at 254 nm.
   Example 280: (2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)amino)
   2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
                NH    O
    F3F3CN
      0                  N
           Prepared analogous to Example 83 substituting intermediate A-40 with intermediate A-37.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C23H21F3N60, 454.2; m/z found, 455.4 [M+H]*.Analytical HPLC using a
   XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over
   2min and then hold at 100% ACN for 2 min, at a flow rate of 2.5 mL/min (Temperature     = 45 C). Rt
15 = 2.01 and 1.98 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
   Example 281: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                                              - 243  -

                        N
    F3 C     -~CAI      NN        F
            Step A:(1S,4R,6R)-tert-butyl 6-((3-chloro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octane-2-carboxylate. To intermediate C-5B (100 mg, 0.44 mmol) dissolved in
   DMF (4 mL) was added NaH (35 mg, 0.88 mmol, 60% dispersion in mineral oil). After 5 minutes
 5 3-chloro-2-fluoro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridine (86 pL, 0.66 mmol) was then added and the mixture
   stirred at room temperature over the weekend. Analysis of the reaction mixture showed mostly
   starting material. Additional NaH was added. Analysis still showed incomplete conversion,
   however the reaction mixture was quenched with saturated NH4Cl solution, and diluted with EtOAc
   and H20. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc (3X). The combined organics were washed
 0 with H20, brine, dried with MgSO4, filtered, and concentrated. Purification via silica gel
   chromatography (0-100% EtOAc in hexanes) gave the title compound (38 mg, 0.093 mmol, 210%).
   MS (ESI) mass calcd. for Ci8H22ClF3N203, 406.1; m/z found 351.1 [M+2H-tBu]*.
            Step B: (1S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octane- xHCl. To the title compound of step A (38 mg, 0.093 mmol) in EtOAc
 5 (1.2 mL) was added 4 M HCl in dioxane (0.12 mL), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room
   temperature overnight. Analysis of the reaction mixture showed that starting material was still
   present. Additional 4 M HCl in dioxane (0.12 mL) was added and the reaction mixture stirred at
   room temperature overnight. The reaction mixture was then concentrated to give the title compound
   of step B (29 mg) which was used without further purification. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for
20 C13H14ClF3N20, 306.1; m/z found 307.1 [M+H]*.
            Step C: ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone. To the title compound
   of step B (27 mg) and intermediate A-2 (23 mg, 0.11 mmol) in DMF (0.9 mL) was added DIPEA
   (0.09 mL, 0.53 mmol) and HATU (37 mg, 0.097 mmol), and the reaction mixture was stirred
25 overnight at room temperature. The crude reaction mixture was diluted with MeOH, syringe
   filtered, and subjected directly to purification using Agilent Prep Method X to give the title
   compound (11 mg). MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C24H19ClF4N402, 506.1; m/z found, 507.1 [M+H]*.
   Analytical HPLC was obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C 18 column (5pm, 100 x
                                                  - 244 -

   4.6mm), mobile phase of 10-l100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100%
   ACN for 3 min, at a flow rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature    = 30 'C). Rt = 7.87 min (major rotamer) at
   254 nm.
 5 Example 282: (5-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
    F3 C    N
                       \    N
            Prepared analogous to Example 77 substituting intermediate A-40 with intermediate A-47.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C23H21F3N602, 470.2; m/z found, 471.2 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was
 0 obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase
   of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow
   rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature = 30 C). Rt = 6.77 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
   Example 283: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
 5 azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(5-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone.
                       N     N
    F3 C         Fq       N
            Prepared analogous to Example 266 substituting intermediate A-2 with intermediate A-47.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C24H21F4N502, 487.2; m/z found, 488.2 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was
   obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase
20 of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow
   rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature = 30 C). Rt = 7.38 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
                                              - 245 -

   Example 284: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyrimidin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)(3
   fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                       N
                           N
            Step A: (1 S,4R,6R)-tert-butyl 6-((5-chloropyrimidin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptane
 5 2-carboxylate. To intermediate B-5 (150 mg, 0.70 mmol) and 2,5-dichloropyrimidine (225mg, 1.51
   mmol) dissolved in DMF (2 mL) was added NaH (37 mg, 0.91 mmol, 60% dispersion in mineral
   oil). After 3h LCMS analysis showed that the reaction was incomplete and additional NaH (40 mg,
   1.0 mmol, 60% dispersion in mineral oil) was added and the reaction mixture allowed to stir for an
   additional 45 min and then quenched with H20. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc (3X).
 0 The combined organics were washed with H20, 5% aqueous LiCl, dried with MgSO4, filtered, and
   concentrated. Purification via silica gel chromatography ( 0 - 4 0 % EtOAc in hexanes) gave the title
   compound (211 mg, 0.65 mmol, 92%) as a colorless solid. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for
   C15H2aClN303, 325.1; m/z found 370.1 [M+2H-tBu]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz, Chloroform-d,
   Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, both rotamers reported) 6 8.44 and 8.39 ( two s, 2H),
 5 5.25 - 5.16 (m, 1H), 4.68-4.65 and 4.56-4.52 ( two m, 1H), 3.42-3.37 and 3.35-3.31 ( two m, 1H),
   3.24-3.16 (m, 1H), 2.61 - 2.51 (m, 1H), 2.24 - 2.13 (m, 1H), 1.77 - 1.40 (m, 3H), 1.35 and 1.12 (2s,
   9H).
            Step B: (1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyrimidin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane - xHCl. To
   the title compound of step A (211 mg, 0.65 mmol) in EtOAc (2 mL) was added 4M HCl in dioxane
20 (4 mL) and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1.5h. Then, the reaction was
   concentrated to give the title compound of step B (155 mg) as an off-white solid and used without
   further purification. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for CioH12ClN30, 225.1; m/z found 226.1 [M+H]*.
            Step C: ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyrimidin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(3
   fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone. To the title compound of step B (30 mg) and
25 intermediate A-2 (27 mg, 0.13 mmol) in DMF (0.4 mL) was added DIPEA (0.1 mL, 0.58 mmol)
   and HATU (48 mg, 0.13 mmol), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h.
   The reaction was diluted with MeOH, filtered, and purified using Agilent Prep Method Xto give the
                                                - 246 -

   title compound (27 mg).MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C21H17ClFN5O2, 425.1; m/z found, 426.1
   [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz, Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers
   (0.72:0.28), major rotamer reported) 6 8.85 (d, J   = 4.9 Hz, 2H), 8.29 (s, 2H), 7.29 - 7.26 (m, 1H),
   7.12 - 6.97 (m, 3H), 4.95 (dt, J= 10.1, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.32 - 4.20 (m, 1H), 3.39 - 3.31 (m, 2H), 2.63
 5 2.47 (m, 1H), 2.26 - 2.15 (m, 1H), 1.50 - 1.39 (m, 2H), 1.07 - 0.97 (m, 1H).
   Example 285: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyrimidin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)(6
   methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone.
           N     O
                     0
               NON
 0
            Prepared analogous to Example 284 substituting intermediate A-2 with intermediate A
   41.MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C21H19ClN602, 422.1; m/z found, 423.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.63:0.37), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.76 (d, J= 4.8 Hz, 2H), 8.43 - 8.41 (m, 1H), 8.11 (s, 2H), 7.19 (t, J= 4.9 Hz, 1H), 7.12 (d, J= 7.9
 5 Hz, 1H), 4.79 (dt, J= 10.3, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 4.48 - 4.39 (m, 1H), 3.78 (dt, J= 10.8, 3.0 Hz, 1H), 3.46
   (dd, J = 10.9, 1.4 Hz, 1H), 2.72 - 2.64 (m, 1H), 2.30 (s, 3H), 2.26 - 2.18 (m, 1H), 1.67 (dt, J = 13.5,
   3.6 Hz, 1H), 1.56 - 1.45 (m, 2H).
   Example 286: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((1,8-naphthyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(6
20 methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone.
                       NI
       N INO
                       N-N                       --
                                               -   247 -

            Prepared analogous to Example 287 substituting intermediate A-i with intermediate A
   40.MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C23H21N702, 427.2; m/z found, 428.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   Chloroform-d) 68.86 (dd, J= 4.4,2.0Hz, 1H), 8.06 (dd, J= 7.9,2.0Hz, 1H), 7.92 (d, J= 8.7 Hz,
   1H), 7.86 (d, J= 8.4 Hz, 1H), 7.81 (s, 2H), 7.33 (dd, J= 7.9, 4.4 Hz, 1H), 7.03 (d, J= 8.8 Hz, 1H),
 5 6.67 (d, J= 8.4 Hz, 1H), 5.39 (dt, J= 9.9, 3.1 Hz, 1H), 4.54 - 4.43 (m, 1H), 3.71 (dt, J= 11.0, 3.2
   Hz, 1H), 3.49 (d, J= 11.0 Hz, 1H), 2.69 - 2.66 (m, 1H), 2.39 - 2.23 (m, 1H), 2.03 (s, 3H), 1.58
   1.50 (m, 3H).
   Example 287: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((1,8-naphthyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(2-(2H
 0 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                     4N
            NO
          ~- -    ~      N-N
            Step A: (1 S,4R,6R)-tert-butyl 6-((1,8-naphthyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptane-2
   carboxylate. To intermediate B-5 (150 mg, 0.70 mmol) and 2-chloro-1,8-naphthyridine (225mg,
   1.37 mmol) dissolved in DMF (2 mL) was added NaH (37 mg, 0.91 mmol, 60% dispersion in
 5 mineral oil). After 50 min the mixture was quenched with H20 and the aqueous layer was extracted
   with EtOAc (3X). The combined organics were washed with 5 % aqueous LiCl, brine, dried with
   MgSO4, filtered, and concentrated. Purification via silica gel chromatography ( 0 - 1 0 0 % EtOAc in
   hexanes) gave the title compound (200 mg) as a colorless solid. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for
   C19H23N303, 341.2; m/z found 342.2 [M+H]*.
20          Step B: 2-((1S,4R,6R)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-6-yloxy)-1,8-naphthyridine - xHCl. To
   the title compound of step A (200 mg, 0.59 mmol) in EtOAc (2 mL) was added 4M HCl in dioxane
   (4 mL) and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2h. Then, the reaction was
   concentrated to give the title compound of step B (192 mg) as a colorless solid and used without
   further purification. MS (ESI) mass calcd. for C14H15N303, 241.1; m/z found 242.1 [M+H]*.
25          Step C: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((1,8-naphthyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)(2-(2H
   1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)methanone. To the title compound of step B (30 mg) and intermediate A-1
   (20 mg, 0.11 mmol) in DMF (0.5 mL) was added DIPEA (0.1 mL, 0.58 mmol) and HATU (40 mg,
                                                -248-

   0.11 mmol), and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The reaction mixture
   was diluted with MeOH, filtered, and purified using Agilent Prep Method X to give the title
   compound (22 mg).MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C23H2oN602, 412.2; m/z found, 413.2 [M+H]*. 'H
   NMR (400 MHz, Chloroform-d) 6 8.87 (dd, J= 4.4, 2.0 Hz, 1H), 8.11 (dd, J= 7.9, 2.0 Hz, 1H),
 5 8.05 (d, J= 8.8 Hz, 1H), 7.82 - 7.74 (m, 3H), 7.35 (dd, J= 7.9, 4.4 Hz, 1H), 7.10 (dd, J= 7.7, 1.5
   Hz, 1H), 7.03 (d, J= 8.7 Hz, 1H), 7.00 - 6.92 (m, 1H), 6.54 (t, J= 7.6 Hz, 1H), 5.44 (dt, J= 10.2,
   3.2 Hz, 1H), 4.28 - 4.19 (m, 1H), 3.65 (dt, J= 10.9, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.43 (d, J= 9.5 Hz, 1H), 2.72
   2.62 (m, 1H), 2.45 - 2.31 (m, 1H), 1.52 - 1.42 (m, 3H).
 0 Example 288: ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(difluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
   yl)(5-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
         FNOO
       F
                            N
            Prepared analogous to Example 121 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-47.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C23H21F2N502, 437.2; m/z found, 438.2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
 5 Chloroform-d) 6 8.77 (d, J= 4.9 Hz, 2H), 8.28 - 8.19 (m, 1H), 7.83 - 7.77 (m, 1H), 7.69 (dd, J= 8.7,
   2.4 Hz, 1H), 7.66 - 7.64 (m, 1H), 7.21 (t, J = 4.9 Hz, 1H), 6.91 (d, J = 8.6 Hz, 1H), 6.59 (t, J = 56.1
   Hz, 1H), 5.02 (dt, J= 10.3, 3.4 Hz, 1H), 4.33 - 4.21 (m, 1H), 3.70 (dt, J= 10.8, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.46
   (dd, J= 10.7, 1.4 Hz, 1H), 2.72 - 2.63 (m, 1H), 2.26 (s, 3H), 2.23 - 2.16 (m, 1H), 1.61 - 1.35 (m,
   3H).
20
   Example 289: (2-methoxy-6-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                             OMe
                       N
            N   O
    F 3C               N-N
                                                - 249 -

           Prepared analogous to Example 25 substituting intermediate A-20 with intermediate A- 13.
  MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C22H2oF3N503, 459.2; m/z found, 460.2 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was
  obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase
  of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow
5 rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature    = 45 C). Rt  = 6.84 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
  Example 290: (5-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
  (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                      N
           NO0
               N       N       N
                               N
   F3 0
0          Prepared analogous to Example 25 substituting intermediate A-20 with intermediate A-46.
  MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C23H2oF3N502, 455.2; m/z found, 456.4 [M+H]*. 'H NMR (500 MHz,
  Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.87:0.13), major rotamer reported) 6
  8.87 (d, J= 4.8 Hz, 2H), 8.47 (dd, J= 2.1, 0.8 Hz, 1H), 8.18 - 8.10 (m, 1H), 7.80 (dd, J= 8.7, 2.5
  Hz, 1H), 7.31 - 7.28 (m, 2H), 6.83 - 6.78 (m, 1H), 5.02 (dt, J= 10.1, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.18 - 4.09 (m,
5 1H), 3.65 (dt, J= 10.9, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.43 (dd, J= 10.9, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 2.70 - 2.60 (m, 1H), 2.28 - 2.18
  (m, 1H), 2.04 (s, 3H), 1.47 - 1.38 (m, 2H), 1.32 - 1.24 (m, 1H).
  Example 291: (4-fluoro-2-(3-methyl-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
  (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                      N   N
   F3 0               0
                         SN
           Prepared analogous to Example 25 substituting intermediate A-20 with intermediate A-5 1.
  MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C22Hi8F4N403, 462.1; m/z found, 463.4 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
                                              -250-

   Chloroform-d) 6 8.10 - 8.01 (m, 1H), 7.80 (dd, J= 8.8, 2.5 Hz, 1H), 7.72 (dd, J= 8.9, 2.6 Hz, 1H),
   7.02 (dd, J= 8.5, 5.4 Hz, 1H), 6.82 (d, J= 8.7 Hz, 1H), 6.76 - 6.68 (m, 1H), 5.06 (dt, J= 10.1, 3.3
   Hz, 1H), 4.14 - 4.08 (m, 1H), 3.77 (dt, J= 11.0, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.44 (dd, J= 10.9, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 2.76
   2.71 (m, 1H), 2.45 (s, 3H), 2.35 - 2.22 (m, 1H), 1.73 - 1.66 (m, 1H), 1.59 - 1.55 (m, 1H), 1.46 (dt, J
 5 =  13.6, 3.6 Hz, 1H).
   Example 292: (2-fluoro-6-(oxazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                            F
            N    O
                       0
    F3C
                            N
 0          Prepared analogous to Example 25 substituting intermediate A-20 with intermediate A-50.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C22H17F4N303, 447.1; m/z found, 448.5 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was
   obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase
   of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow
   rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature = 45 C). Rt = 7.18 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
 5
   Example 293: (5-fluoro-2-(oxazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                                   F
            N    O
    F3 C                0
                          N
            Prepared analogous to Example 25 substituting intermediate A-20 with intermediate A-49.
20 MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C22H17F4N303, 447.1; m/z found, 448.5 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Chloroform-d) 6 8.05 - 8.02 (m, 1H), 7.92 (dd, J= 8.7, 5.3 Hz, 1H), 7.80 (dd, J= 8.6, 2.5 Hz, 1H),
   7.69 (d, J = 0.8 Hz, 1H), 7.21 (d, J = 0.8 Hz, 1H), 6.99 - 6.92 (m, 1H), 6.81 (d, J = 8.7 Hz, 1H), 6.69
   (dd, J= 8.4, 2.7 Hz, 1H), 5.03 (dt, J= 10.2, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.16 - 4.08 (m, 1H), 3.74 (dt, J= 11.0, 3.2
                                               - 251 -

   Hz, IH), 3.44 (dd, J= 10.9, 1.5 Hz, IH), 2.74 - 2.63 (m, IH), 2.30 - 2.21 (m, IH), 1.63 - 1.56 (m,
   IH), 1.55 - 1.49 (m, IH), 1.45 (dt, J= 13.5, 3.6 Hz, IH).
   Example 294: (5-methyl-3-(1H-1,2,3-triazol-1-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
 5 (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                            N
             N      0
    F3 0
            Prepared analogous to Example 25 substituting intermediate A-20 with the N-I isomer, 5
   methyl-3-(iH-1,2,3-triazol-1-yl)picolinonitrile, from intermediate A-19. MS (ESI): mass calcd. for
   C21H19F3N602,    444.2; m/z found, 445.6 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz, Chloroform-d) 6 8.12 (d, J=
 0 1.1 Hz, IH), 8.02 - 7.98 (m, IH), 7.97 - 7.94 (m, IH), 7.81 (d, J= 1.1 Hz, IH), 7.78 - 7.76 (m, IH),
   7.72 (dd, J = 8.8, 2.5 Hz, IH), 6.74 - 6.69 (m, IH), 4.99 (dt, J = 10.2, 3.3 Hz, IH), 4.43 - 4.34 (m,
   IH), 3.48 (dt, J= 11.2, 3.1 Hz, IH), 3.41 (dd, J= 11.2, 1.5 Hz, IH), 2.66 - 2.60 (m, IH), 2.34 (s,
   3H), 2.25 - 2.17 (m, IH), 1.60 - 1.53 (m, IH), 1.40 (dt, J= 13.6, 3.6 Hz, IH), 1.34 - 1.27 (m, IH).
 5 Example 295: (4-methoxy-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5 -(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                      N    O
           NO
                          N
    F3C               N
            Prepared analogous to Example 25 substituting intermediate A-20 with intermediate A-15.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C24H21F3N403, 470.2; m/z found, 471.4 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
20 Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.88:0.12), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.78 (d, J = 4.8 Hz, 2H), 8.14 - 8.06 (m, IH), 7.79 (dd, J = 8.7, 2.5 Hz, IH), 7.70 (d, J = 2.6 Hz,
   IH), 7.19 (t, J= 4.8 Hz, IH), 6.96 (d, J= 8.4 Hz, IH), 6.85 - 6.83 (m, IH), 6.45 (dd, J= 8.4, 2.6 Hz,
   IH), 5.04 (dt, J= 10.1, 3.4 Hz, IH), 4.19 - 4.09 (m, IH), 3.81 (s, 3H), 3.62 (dt, J= 10.9, 3.2 Hz,
                                                -252-

   1H), 3.40 (dd, J= 10.8, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 2.65 - 2.59 (m, 1H), 2.27 - 2.15 (m, 1H), 1.44 - 1.35 (m, 2H),
   1.29 - 1.17 (m, 1H).
   Example 296: (3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5 -(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
 5 yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
            NO0
    F3 C                N
           Prepared analogous to Example 25 substituting intermediate A-20 with intermediate A-42.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C22Hi8F3N502, 441.1; m/z found, 442.4 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.81:0.19), major rotamer reported) 6
 0 8.78 (d, J= 4.8 Hz, 2H), 8.47 (dd, J= 8.0, 1.7 Hz, 1H), 7.97 - 7.90 (m, 1H), 7.83 (dd, J= 4.7, 1.7
   Hz, 1H), 7.73 (dd, J= 8.8, 2.6 Hz, 1H), 7.22 (t, J= 4.9 Hz, 1H), 7.15 (dd, J= 8.0, 4.7 Hz, 1H), 6.91
   (d, J= 8.7 Hz, 1H), 5.04 (dt, J= 10.2, 3.4 Hz, 1H), 4.35 - 4.20 (m, 1H), 3.73 (dt, J= 10.8, 3.2 Hz,
   1H), 3.47 (d, J= 10.9 Hz, 1H), 2.72 - 2.65 (m, 1H), 2.30 - 2.13 (m, 1H), 1.60 - 1.44 (m, 3H).
 5 Example 297: (2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
            NO0
         F 3          0
           Prepared analogous to Example 25 substituting intermediate A-20 with intermediate A
   37.MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C23H19F3N402, 440.1; m/z found, 441.4 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (500 MHz,
20 Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.88:0.12), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.78 (d, J= 4.8 Hz, 2H), 8.17 (dd, J= 8.0, 1.2 Hz, 1H), 8.06 - 8.00 (m, 1H), 7.78 (dd, J= 8.7, 2.5
   Hz, 1H), 7.30 (td, J = 7.7, 1.4 Hz, 1H), 7.19 (t, J = 4.8 Hz, 1H), 7.00 (dd, J = 7.6, 1.3 Hz, 1H), 6.88
                                                -253-

   (td, J= 7.5, 1.3 Hz, 1H), 6.83 (d, J= 8.7 Hz, 1H), 5.01 (dt, J= 10.2, 3.4 Hz, 1H), 4.24 -4.10 (m,
   1H), 3.64 (dt, J= 10.9, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.41 (dd, J= 10.8, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 2.66 -2.61 (m, 1H), 2.27 -2.12
   (m, 1H), 1.47 - 1.37 (m, 2H), 1.34 - 1.19 (m, 1H).
 5 Example 298: (5-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
            NO0
         F 3          0
            Prepared analogous to Example 25 substituting intermediate A-20 with intermediate A-47.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C23H2oF3N502, 455.2; m/z found, 456.4 [M+H]*. 'H NMR (500 MHz,
 0 Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers (0.87:0.13), major rotamer reported) 6
   8.78 (d, J = 4.8 Hz, 2H), 8.27 - 8.21 (m, 1H), 7.95 - 7.92 (m, 1H), 7.74 (dd, J = 8.4, 2.7 Hz, 1H),
   7.65 - 7.62 (m, 1H), 7.22 (t, J= 4.8 Hz, 1H), 6.95 - 6.90 (m, 1H), 5.03 (dt, J= 10.3, 3.3 Hz, 1H),
   4.32 - 4.27 (m, 1H), 3.71 (dt, J= 10.9, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.46 (dd, J= 10.8, 1.4 Hz, 1H), 2.72 - 2.64 (m,
   1H), 2.26 (s, 3H), 2.25 - 2.18 (m, 1H), 1.59 - 1.45 (m, 3H).
 5
   Example 299: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyrimidin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)(6
   methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone.
                    ( N     N
            NO
            Prepared analogous to Example 284 substituting intermediate A-2 with intermediate A-40.
20 MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C19H18ClN702, 411.1; m/z found, 412.3 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was
   obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase
   of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow
   rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature = 45 C). Rt = 5.23 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
                                               -254-

   Example 300: (2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyrimidin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                    ( N
           NO0
         C,   N       0N-N
    C1
 5          Prepared analogous to Example 284 substituting intermediate A-2 with intermediate A
   1.MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C19H17ClN602, 396.1; m/z found, 397.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   Chloroform-d, Compound present as a mixture of rotamers, major reported) 6 8.22 (s, 2H), 7.88
   7.85 (m, 1H), 7.81 (s, 2H), 7.40 - 7.31 (m, 1H), 7.17 (dd, J= 7.7, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 6.90 (t, J= 7.5 Hz,
   1H), 4.87 (dt, J= 10.2, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.10 - 3.98 (m, 1H), 3.63 (dt, J= 10.9, 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.42 (dd, J
 0 =  10.9, 1.4 Hz, 1H), 2.66 - 2.60 (m, 1H), 2.29 - 2.12 (m, 1H), 1.54 (dt, J= 13.6, 3.5 Hz, 1H), 1.42
   1.33 (m, 2H).
   Example 301: ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((1,8-naphthyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(3
   fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                       N
                 NO
           N                      F
15                          N\/
            Prepared analogous to Example 287 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-2.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C25H2aFN5O2, 441.2; m/z found, 442.2 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was
   obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase
   of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow
20 rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature     = 45 'C). Rt = 4.68 min at 254 nm.
                                                -255-

   Example 302: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((1,8-naphthyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(6
   methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone.
                      ON
      N     NO0
           X, J          N
            Prepared analogous to Example 287 substituting intermediate A-I with intermediate A-4 1.
 5 MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C25H22N602, 438.2; m/z found, 439.2 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was
   obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase
   of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow
   rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature = 45 C). Rt = 4.33 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
 0 Example 303: (2-(pyridazin-3-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
               NO
               NO
    F3C                  ~
                           N
   Example 304: (2-(pyridazin-4-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
15 azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
            NOO
    F3C
                         \/
                       N-N
                                             -256-

  Example 305: (2-(pyridin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
  azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                N4N
            NO/
  F3C
                           PN
5 Example 306: (2-(pyridin-3-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
  azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone
                      N
          N   O
  F3C
                         N
  Example 307: (2-(pyridin-4-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
0 azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                NkN
             NO/
  F3C
                      N
  Example 308: (2-(pyrazin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
  azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                                            - 257-

                      N
           NO0
   F3C               O
   Example 309: (2-(3-methylpyridin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
           N    O
            NOO
   F3C
 5
   Example 310: (2-(5-methylisoxazol-3-yl)phenyl)((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                 N -N
              NO
   F3C                 /   \
                         O'IN
10
   Example 311: (2-(3,5-dimethylisoxazol-4-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
           N   O
   F3C
                                              - 258-

   Example 312: ((iS,4R,6R)-6-((4,6-dimethylpyrimidin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(5
   methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone.
                    N
          NO
                   0
                      \N
 5
   Example 313: ((iS,4R,6R)-6-((4,6-dimethylpyrimidin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(6
   methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)methanone.
                    N
          NO0
                   0        N
 0 Example 314: (6-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                      N
            NO
                           N
    F3 C "
   Example 315: ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(difluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
15 yl)(6-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)methanone.
                                              -259-

                       N
   Example 316: (2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(hydroxymethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                N\
      N   O
                 N-N
 5      OH
   Example 317: (2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(fluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
   2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
              4N
      N   OO
                 N-N
        F
10
   Example 318: ((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-(hydroxymethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2
   yl)(5-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone.
                 N
      N OO
                     N
        OH
                                              - 260  -

   Example 319: ((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-(fluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2
   yl)(5-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone.
       N    O
                 0
                   N-.
                     \N
          F             N
 5
   Example 320: (3-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-5-methylpyridin-2-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                         NN
                NO
    F 3C          O'
                            N
                       F
 0 Example 321: (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-6-methylpyridin-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                         N
              N      0z
    F3 C                O
                       F
   Example 322: (3-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-6-methylpyridin-2-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
15 (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                                              -261-

                       N        N
            N     O
    F3C        /         N
                       \    ,,N
                     F
   Example 323: (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-5-methylpyridin-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
            N    O
                                  N
    F 3C     -             P
                       \    ,.N
 5                   F
   Example 324: (3-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-4-methylpyridin-2-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
            NO0
    F3 C                 N
   100
                     F
[0
   Example 325: (3-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
   2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                                              - 262 -

                       N
           NO0
   F3C
                       \  ,,N
                     F
   Example 326: (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
   2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
           NO0
                               N
   F3 C'
 5                   F
   Example 327: (5'-methyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
           N   O
             N        ON
   F3C
10
   Example 328: (6-methyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
   2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                   4N
           NO0
                               N
   F3 C
                                              - 263  -

   Example 329: (6'-methyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N     N
           N   O
   F3C
                       oN
 5
   Example 330: (5-methyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
   2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                    r- N
           N   O
                        ON
   F3C
 0 Example 331: (4'-methyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                        N
           N O
   F 3C
   Example 332: [2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
15 azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                                              - 264  -

                          N   ..
           N   O
   F3C
   Example 333: [2,2'-bipyridin]-3-yl((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                    ( N
           N   O
                                N
                       N-
   F3 0
 5
   Example 334: (3,5'-dimethyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl)((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                O     ON
              NO
   F3 C
10
   Example 335: (3',6-dimethyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
           N   O
           N       00            Z
                               N
                       N-
   F3 C
                                              - 265 -

   Example 336: (3,6'-dimethyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl)((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                         N,
           N   O
   F3 C
 5
   Example 337: (3',5-dimethyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
           N   O
                     ON0
   F3C
 0 Example 338: (3,4'-dimethyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl)((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                         N,
           N   O
   F3C
   Example 339: (3-methyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
15 yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                                              - 266 -

                       N
           N O
   F3C
   Example 340: (3'-methyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
           N   O
                           ON
   F3C
 5
   Example 341: (3-fluoro-5'-methyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
   2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                      N      ...
           N   O
                     ON
   F3 C
                              F
10
   Example 342: (3'-fluoro-6-methyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
   2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                   ( N
           N   O
                     0
                           ON
   F3C
                         /     F
                                              - 267 -

   Example 343: (3-fluoro-6'-methyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
   2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
           N   O
                       ON
   F3 C
                               F
 5
   Example 344: (3'-fluoro-5-methyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
   2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
           N   O
                      ON
   F3C
                       \/      F
 0 Example 345: (3-fluoro-4'-methyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
   2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N    N...
           N   O
   F3C
                          /    F
   Example 346: (3-fluoro-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
15 2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                                              - 268-

              N O N.
                   0N.......
              NON
   F3C
                          \/   F
   Example 347: (3'-fluoro-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
   2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
           N   O
                      ON
   F3C
                       \/      F
 5
   Example 348: (5-methyl-3-(oxazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                        N
   F3C                O      0
10
   Example 349: (6-methyl-2-(oxazol-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                    CN
           NO0
                               N
   F 3C         O
                             O
                                              - 269  -

   Example 350: (6-methyl-3-(oxazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                          N,
           N   O
   F 3C                ON
                       J
                           O
 5 Example 351: (5-methyl-2-(oxazol-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                    CN
           N   O
                      0
                       F-    CN
   F3 C u
                        NO
   Example 352: (4-methyl-3-(oxazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
   F 3C         O
10                         0
   Example 353: (3-(oxazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                    C N      N-.
                       NN
   F 3C               O
                           O
                                              - 270 -

   Example 354: (2-(oxazol-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                    CN
   F 3C         O     O
                           0
 5
   Example 355: (5-methyl-3-(thiazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
           N*,  00 o/
   F 3C                J
                       "NS
 0 Example 356: (6-methyl-2-(thiazol-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                    CN
           NO0
                               N
   F 3C                J
                       "NS
   Example 357: (6-methyl-3-(thiazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
15 yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                                             -271-

                       N     N
           N   O
   F 3C               ON
                         NS
   Example 358: (5-methyl-2-(thiazol-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
   F3 C
 5
   Example 359: (4-methyl-3-(thiazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
   F 3C         O      J
                          "S
10 Example 360: (3-(thiazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
   F 3C         O
                                              - 272 -

  Example 361: (2-(thiazol-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
  azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                   CN
            "u-       NN
  F 3C               O
                        "S
5 Example 362: (2-(pyridazin-3-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
  azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                    SN
          N    NH
  F3C
                          'IN
                         N
  Example 363: (2-(pyridazin-4-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
0 azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                   ( N
          N    NH
  F3C
                      NN
  Example 364: (2-(pyridin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
  azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                                             - 273 -

                    ( N
           N    NH
   F3C
                            PN
   Example 365: (2-(pyridin-3-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
           N    NH
                 NZ            /
   F3C
 5                        N
   Example 366: (2-(pyridin-4-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                    ( N
           N    NH
                      0
   F3C
                       N/
10
   Example 367: (2-(pyrazin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
           N    NH
   F3 C
                                             - 274 -

   Example 368: (2-(3-methylpyridin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                    ( N
            N    NH
                       ON
    F3C
 5
   Example 369: (2-(5-methylisoxazol-3-yl)phenyl)((iS,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                    (JN
            N    NH
    F3 C
                          IN
 0 Example 370: (2-(3,5-dimethylisoxazol-4-yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                    ( -N
            N    NH
    F3C
   Example 371: (3-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-5-methylpyridin-2-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5
15 (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                                              - 275 -

                         N
    F3C
                            N
                     F
   Example 372: (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-6-methylpyridin-3-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                        N
                 NH
                                N
    F3 C                 N
 5                   F
   Example 373: (3-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-6-methylpyridin-2-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                        N    N.
            N    NH
                       0
    F3C
                            N
                     F
10
   Example 374: (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-5-methylpyridin-3-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                                              - 276 -

                       N
            N    NH
                      N         N
    F3 0 Iu                   N
                     F
   Example 375: (3-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-4-methylpyridin-2-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
                 NH
    F3 C                N
 5                   F
   Example 376: (3-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
   2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N     N-.
            N    NH
                  N   0   N
    F3C
                            N
                     F
10
   Example 377: (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
   2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                                              - 277 -

                      N
                NN
                N
   F3 0 u
                    F
   Example 378: (5'-methyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                            N
          N     NH
                      ON
   F3C
 5
   Example 379: (6-methyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                   (N
          N     NH
                         ON
   F3 C
10
   Example 380: (6'-methyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                            N
          N     NH
                      ON
   F3C
                                               -278-

   Example 381: (5-methyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                    ( N
           N    NH
   F 3C
                        ON
 5
   Example 382: (4'-methyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
           N    NH
   F3C
                        N
 0 Example 383: [2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
           N    NH
   F3C
                       oN
   Example 384: [2,2'-bipyridin]-3-yl((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
15 azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                                               - 279 -

                   (kN
          N     NH
                          ON
   F3C
   Example 385: (3,5'-dimethyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                      (N
                NH
                N
                      ON
   F3C
 5
   Example 386: (3',6-dimethyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                   ( N
          N     NH
                         ON
   F3 C
10
   Example 387: (3,6'-dimethyl- [2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                            N
          N     NH
                      ON
   F3C
                                               -280-

   Example 388: (3',5-dimethyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                   ( N
          N     NH
                          ON
   F3C
   Example 389: (3,4'-dimethyl- [2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
 5 yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                         N......
          N     NH
   F3C
   Example 390: (3-methyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                      N       ...
                NH
                      ON
   F3C
10
   Example 391: (3'-methyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
          N     NH
                          ON
   F3C
                                               -281-

   Example 392: (3-fluoro-5'-methyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
   2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                         N,
          N     NH
   F3C
                      \ /     F
 5
   Example 393: (3'-fluoro-6-methyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
   2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
             NNH
                    ON
   F3 C
                     \ /     F
 0 Example 394: (3-fluoro-6'-methyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
   2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                            N
          N     NH
   F3C
                         /    F
   Example 395: (3'-fluoro-5-methyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
15 2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                                              - 282 -

                      N
          N     NH
                               N
                       N-
   F3C
                              F
   Example 396: (3-fluoro-4'-methyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
   2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                        xN
          N     NH
   F3C
                          /   F
 5 Example 397: (3-fluoro-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                        xN
          N     NH
   F3C
                      \/      F
   Example 398: (3'-fluoro-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
10 yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
          N     NH
                               N
   F3C
                          /   F
   Example 399: (5-methyl-3-(oxazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                                              -283-

                     SN
             N NH
   F3 C         N   O
                      NO
   Example 400: (6-methyl-2-(oxazol-2-yl)pyridin-3 -yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                     N
   F3 C         NH
 5                        O
   Example 401: (6-methyl-3-(oxazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                      N     N
          N     NH
   F 3C              ON
                          O
10
   Example 402: (5-methyl-2-(oxazol-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                      N
          N     NH
                          N- N
   F3C               ON        N
                           O
                                             - 284 -

   Example 403: (4-methyl-3-(oxazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                          N
             NNH
   F 3C         N     O
                        NO
   Example 404: (3-(oxazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)
 5 2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                          N
   F3C          N
                            O
   Example 405: (2-(oxazol-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)
   2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
           N    NH
            10           0     N
   F3 C                J  P
10                     4NO
   Example 406: (5-methyl-3-(thiazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
   F3 C         N    O
                                             -285-

   Example 407: (6-methyl-2-(thiazol-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                   SN
                   NHN
        F3      NHO
                              N
   F 30    -1
                          S
 5
   Example 408: (6-methyl-3-(thiazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                      N     N
           N    NH
   F 3C                N
                       ""S
 0 Example 409: (5-methyl-2-(thiazol-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                      N
           N    NH
                            CN
   F3 C     -         IF-
   Example 410: (4-methyl-3-(thiazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
15 yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                                             -286-

                       N     N
                    N
   F 3C         N     O
                        NS
   Example 411: (3-(thiazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)
   2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
   F 3C         N     O
                           S
 5
   Example 412: (2-(thiazol-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)
   2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
             N NH
                           N- N
   F 3C           H   O
                         "S
10 Example 413: ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((4,6-dimethylpyrimidin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan-2
   yl)(5-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone.
                    N
        N    NH
                                                27N
                                              -287-

  Example 414: ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((4,6-dimethylpyrimidin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan-2
  yl)(6-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)methanone.
                    N
           N>NH          N /
5 Example 415: (6-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
  2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                      N
                  NH
               I\             N"
   F3 0      ,
  Example 416: ((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(difluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2
0 yl)(6-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)methanone.
                      N
            N     NH NHN
      F               \  1,
  Example 417: (5-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
  (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                                             -288-

                       N
            NO0
                                N
    F30      -U,
   Example 418: (6-methyl-3 -(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2 .2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N     N
            NO1
    F3C-~              N-N
 5                     4
   Example 419: (5-methyl-2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2 .2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
                                N
          r N~
    F3 C N        ~    N-N
10
   Example 420: (2-fluoro-6-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5 -(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                    4N'     F
            ,N   0
    F3C"N              N
                         \ N
                                              -289-

            Prepared analogous to Example 77 substituting intermediate A-40 with intermediate A-6.
   MS (ESI): mass calcd. for C23H19F4N502, 473.2; m/z found, 474.2 [M+H]*. Analytical HPLC was
   obtained on a Agilent 1100 Series using a XBridge C18 column (5pm, 100 x 4.6mm), mobile phase
   of 10-100% ACN in 20 mM NH40H over 8 min and then hold at 100% ACN for 3 min, at a flow
 5 rate of 1 mL/min (Temperature   = 45 C). Rt  = 6.79 min (major rotamer) at 254 nm.
   Example 421: (6-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
    F3C         O
                           N
 0
   Example 422: (5-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5 -(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N     1F
    F3C     NO
                       \   N
   Example 423: (4-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5 -(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
15 yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
            N    O    O             F
    F3 C
                       \,N
                                              - 290  -

  Example 424: (6-methyl-3 -(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
  (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                      N     NN
                     ON
   F3C     NIT>
                     \    N
5 Example 425: (5-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
  (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                      N
   F3C     N'
                     \    N
  Example 426: (6-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
0 (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                      N
         ;N O     0N
   F3 C    N          N
                     \    N
  Example 427: (2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
  yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                                             -291-

                      N
    F3C     N          N-N
                         IQN
   Example 428: (3-fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                      N
    F3C         O                FN
 5
   Example 429: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(2-fluoro-6-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                            F
                      N
            NO0
    F3 C         F     N
                           N
10
   Example 430: (5-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                      N           F
              NO
    F3 C         F
                      \    N
                                              - 292 -

  Example 431: (4-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5
  (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                      N
             NO
   F3 C         F
                      \    N
5 Example 432: (3-fluoro-2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5
  (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
                         N
   F3 0         Fq              F
                    F
  Example 433: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
0 azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(6-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)methanone.
                       N
           NO0
                           N- N
   F3 0         Fq
  Example 434: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
  azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                                             - 293 -

                      N
                         N
   F3 C          Fq
                    F
   Example 435: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(6-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone.
                      N     N
          NO0
               -  ~    N0
   F3 C          F
                     UN
 5
   Example 436: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(5-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)methanone.
                      N
10
   Example 437: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(5-methyl-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)methanone.
                      N
          N     O
                     0
                               N
   F3            F     N-N                     -
                                             -   294 -

   Example 438: ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone.
                       NN
            N  O
    F3C          F     N-N
                         'N
 5
   Example 439: (2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                    4 N
            N  O      O
    F3C          F     N-N
                         'N
 0 Example 440: (3-fluoro-2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
            NO0
    F3 0         F     N-N       F
   Example 441: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
15 azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(2-fluoro-6-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                                              - 295  -

                            F
          N    O
   F3C          CI     N
                           N
   Example 442: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(5-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                        N         F
             NO7
           N       0
   F3 C         cI
                          ,N
 5
   Example 443: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(4-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                       N
   F3 C     ~cqIP
10
   Example 444: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(3-fluoro-2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                       N
          N    O
   F3C          CI     Ni       F
                           N
                     F
                                               -296-

   Example 445: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(6-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)methanone.
                        N
          NO
                             N N
                             N-
   F3 C    -cqI
 5
   Example 446: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                        N
                           N
   F3 C     ~cqIP
                     F
 0 Example 447: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(6-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone.
                        N     N
          N     O
                N
                      O
                      o
   F3C            Cl    N.
                             N
   Example 448: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
15 azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(5-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)methanone.
                                              - 297 -

                      N
          NON
                               N
   F3 C    -C   ci
   Example 449: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(5-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone.
                            N
   F3C            1l ON
 5           NN
   Example 450: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(5-methyl-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)methanone.
                      N
          N O
   F3 0         ci     N-N
10
   Example 451: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone.
                    ( N     N
          N    O
                 N0
   F3 C         ci     N-N
                                             -298-

   Example 452: (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((iS,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
            NN OO0
    F 3C         ci    N-N
                          'N
 5 Example 453: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(3-fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                       N
            NO0
    F3 C         ci    N-N       F
   Example 454: (2-fluoro-6-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5 -methylpyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                         F
             NON     N
10                      N
   Example 455: (5-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-methylpyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                     N         F
          NO0
               NZ 0
                    -N
                                              - 299 -

  Example 456: (4-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5 -methylpyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
  azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                  O             F
           NON      N
5 Example 457: (3-fluoro-2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-methylpyridin-2
  yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                   N
       NO
                            F
                     \N
                F
  Example 458: (6-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-methylpyridin-2
0 yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                   N
       NO0
                  0
                       N- N
  Example 459: (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-methylpyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
  azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                                            - 300-

                   N
        NO0
                 F
   Example 460: (6-methyl-3 -(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-methylpyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                    5   N
        NO0
                    \N
   Example 461: (5-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-methylpyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                    N
        NO0
         Nz        0
                            N
10
   Example 462: (5-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-methylpyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                     N
                  NN
                                             -301-

  Example 463: (5-methyl-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-methylpyridin-2
  yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                  N
       N   O
                       0   N"
                   N-N
5
  Example 464: (6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-methylpyridin-2
  yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
               fN        N
       NO
                   N-N
0 Example 465: (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-methylpyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
  azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                  N
       N   O
                   N-N
                                            -302-

  Example 466: (3-fluoro-2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-methylpyridin-2
  yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                  N
         NO
          -~      N-N       F
5 Example 467: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(2-fluoro
  6-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                         F
                    N
                      N
                      \,N
  Example 468: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(5-fluoro
0 2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                               F
                      N
                      \N
  Example 469: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(4-fluoro
  2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                                             -303-

                     N
          NO0              \F
                     \N
   Example 470: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(3 -fluoro
   2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                     N
          NO0
                     \N
 5                 F
   Example 471: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(2-(5
   fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                     N
          NO0
                   F
10
   Example 472: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2 .2.2]octan-2-yl)(6-methyl
   3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone.
                                             - 304-

                  N
          NON
Example 473: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2 .2.2]octan-2-yl)(5-methyl
2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)methanone.
                  N
       NO0
                       N
Example 474: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2 .2.2]octan-2-yl)(5-methyl
3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone.
                  N     N
       NO0
                  \N
[00
Example 475: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2 .2.2]octan-2-yl)(6-methyl
2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)methanone.
                  N
       NO0
                 0
                 0~
                           N
 ci",
                    \  N
                                          -305-

   Example 476: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(5-methyl
   2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)methanone.
                      N
          N   O
                     0C    N
                           N
 5
   Example 477: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(6-methyl
   3-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone.
          N    O
                     0
              NON
    W,                 N-N
 0 Example 478: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(3-fluoro
   2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                      N
          N        0
                       'N
   Example 479: ((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(2-fluoro
15 6-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                                               -306-

                          F
                     N
          N   O
   Br                 N
                          N
   Example 480: ((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(5-fluoro
   2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                     4N         F
             NO7
   Br          O
                         /N
 5
   Example 481: ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(4-fluoro
   2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
               O1   O             F
       Br
                          N
10
   Example 482: ((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(3-fluoro
   2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                     N
          NO0
   Br,                        F
                   F
                                            -307-

   Example 483: ((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(2-(5
   fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                     N
          NO0
    Bru
                   F
 5
   Example 484: ((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(6-methyl
   3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone.
          N/N. O0
    Br~u                N
 0 Example 485: ((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(5-methyl
   2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)methanone.
                     N
          NO0
                    0
                              N
    Br
   Example 486: ((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(5-methyl
15 3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone.
                                             - 308-

   Br
                           N
   Example 487: ((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(6-methyl
   2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)methanone.
                       N
           N       0
                               N
   Bru,
                           N
 5
   Example 488: ((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(5-methyl
   2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)methanone.
                       N
          N   O
                      0        N
   Br                  N-N
10
   Example 489: ((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(6-methyl
   3-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone.
                    ( N      N
          NN O0
   Br                  N-N
                                               -309-

  Example 490: ((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(3-fluoro
  2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                       N
             N0:
                      0
               NON
   Br",    '            N-N    F
5 Example 491: (5-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
  (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                        N
           N       NH
                               N
   F3 C                  N
                        \    N
  Example 492: (6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
0 (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                        NN
           N       NH
   F3C       -           N-N
  Example 493: (5-methyl-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
  (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                                             -310-

                      N
           N    NH
              1 6             N
   F3 C               N-N
   Example 494: (2-fluoro-6-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5 -(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                           F
           N    NHO N
            /         N...
   F3C
                5NN
   Example 495: (5-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                      N      NF
                   NH
   F3 C         NH
                           N
10
   Example 496: (4-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5 -(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
        F3      NH   OF
                           N
                                             -311-

  Example 497: (6-methyl-3 -(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
  (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                      NN
                NH
   F3 C
                            N
5
  Example 498: (6-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
  (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                      N
                NH
                              N
   F3 C                                        32
O Example 499: (2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((liS,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
        F3C     NHN
  yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo [2 .2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                      N
           N    N H 0/ /
                 N
   F3 C     -     ~   N-N
                         'N
                                             -312-

  Example 500: (3-fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
  (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
           N    NH
                 N    0
   F3 C     -     ~     N-N     F
5 Example 501: (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
  yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
                   NHN
  Example 502: (5-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-methylpyridin-2
0 yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                    N
         N    NH
                            N
                    \   1N
  Example 503: (6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-methylpyridin-2
  yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                                             -313-

                   N
           NNH         IjN-
        -U           N-N
   Example 504: (5-methyl-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-methylpyridin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                    N
        N     NH
                 6           NI
                     N-N
 5
   Example 505: (2-fluoro-6-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-methylpyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                           F
        N     NH
                   ON
                           N
10
   Example 506: (5-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-methylpyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                    N           F
        N     NH
            N           -P
                           N
                    \
                                             -314-

  Example 507: (4-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5 -methylpyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
  azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
        NI   SNH
             NH         \/-F
                       N
5 Example 508: (6-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-methylpyridin-2
  yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                   N     N.
       N     NH
             N    0
                   \N  N
  Example 509: (6-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-methylpyridin-2
0 yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                   N
       N    NH
           NH     O
                          N
                     \ N
  Example 510: (2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-methylpyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
  azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                                             -315-

                   N
             NH
                  O
                   N-N
   Example 511: (3-fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-methylpyridin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                   N
        N    N
              H
           - ~     N-N       F
 5
   Example 512: (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5 -methylpyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                   N
        N    NH
         1        0
                             F
                     \,N
10
   Example 513: ((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(5
   methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)methanone.
                     N
           N NH
                              N
                                               3N
                                             -316-

  Example 514: ((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(6
  methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone.
                     NN
         N    NH
   CI                N-N
5 Example 515: ((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(5
  methyl-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)methanone.
                     N
              NH
                   CN       N
       ci -        0N-N
  Example 516: ((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(2
0 fluoro-6-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                         F
                 NH
         N    NH
              N.   0
                        N
                                             -317-

  Example 517: ((iS ,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2 .2]octan-2-yl)(5
  fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                     N         F
                NH
       ci            N
                       \,N
5 Example 518: ((iS ,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2 .2]octan-2-yl)(4
  fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                     N
          Nl       N
                       \,N
  Example 519: ((iS ,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2 .2]octan-2-yl)(6
0 methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone.
                     N     N
          N     NH
   ci, I  -0::N
  Example 520: ((iS ,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2 .2]octan-2-yl)(6
  methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)methanone.
                                            -318-

                      N
               NH
                           0  N
   ci"uN
   Example 521: (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                   (N
          N    NH
    CI  -U             N-N
 5                        N
   Example 522: ((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(3
   fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                      N
          N    NH
                N    0
                       N-N
10
   Example 523: ((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(3
   fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                      N
          N    NH
                        \  N
                                              -319-

  Example 524: ((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(5
  methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)methanone.
                    N
         N    NH
                            N
   Br.,u
5 Example 525: ((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(6
  methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone.
                    N     N
         N    NH
   Br               N-N
  Example 526: ((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(5
0 methyl-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)methanone.
                    N
         N    NH
   Br               N-N
  Example 527: ((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(2
  fluoro-6-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                                             - 320 -

                               F
             N   NH
      Br      /          .....
                               N
     Example 528: ((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(5
     fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                                  F
                       N
             Br  NH
      Bru
   5-r                    N
     Example 529: ((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(4
     fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
          Br     NH   OF
                              N
10
     Example 530: ((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(6
     methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone.
                       N        N
             N   NH
      Br."    '        N
                              N
                                               -321-

  Example 531: ((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(6
  methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)methanone.
         Br    1-1N
              NH    O
                             N
   Br~u
5 Example 532: (2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
  azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                     N
          INH
                  N      N
   Br      Y
  Example 533: ((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(3
0 fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                     N
              NH
   Bru               N-N       F
  Example 534: ((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(3
  fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                     N
         N    NH
   Br~u                        F
                                             - 322  -

   Example 535: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(5-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)methanone.
                      N
          N     NH
   F3C          F      N....
                             N
 5
   Example 536: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone.
                      NN
          N     NH
   F 3C         F      N-N
                             N
 0 Example 537: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(5-methyl-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)methanone.
                      N
          N     NH
   F3 0         F      N-N     N
   Example 538: ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
15 azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(2-fluoro-6-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                                              - 323 -

                            F
            N     NH
    F3 C          F     N
                            N
   Example 539: (5-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                         N         F
            N     NH
                      0
    F3 C          F
                           ,N
 5
   Example 540: (4-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                  NH  O      \   /   F
         F3
                        N
    F3 C          Fq
10
   Example 541: ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(6-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone.
                       N     N
            N     NH
               N.
    F3C           F
                       \    N
                                              - 324 -

   Example 542: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(6-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)methanone.
                      N
            F    NH
                               N
    F3 C         Fq
 5
   Example 543: (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((iS,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                      N
            N    NHO
    F3 C         F     N-N
 0 Example 544: (3-fluoro-2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                      N
            N    NH
    F3 C         F     N-N       F
   Example 545: (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5
15 (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                                              - 325 -

                      N
          N     NH
                           N
   Example 546: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(5-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)methanone.
                      N
                NH
                               N
   F3C          cqI9
   Example 547: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone.
                      NN
          N     NH
                     0
   F3C          ci     N-N
10
   Example 548: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(5-methyl-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)methanone.
                      N
          N     NH
                     O         N
   F3 C         cI     N-N
                                             - 326  -

  Example 549: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
  azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(2-fluoro-6-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                          F
                      N
         N     NH
                    0
  F3 C         CI      N
                          N
5 Example 550: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
  azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(5-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                      N          F
                       NH
  F3 C    -c   ci
  Example 551: ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
0 azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(4-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                     N
         N     NH          \\/F
  F3 C         CqI
                     \    N
  Example 552: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
  azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(6-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone.
                                             - 327 -

                  NH
                N               /H
    F3C           CI
                              N
   Example 553: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(6-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)methanone.
                       N
            N     NH
                        N-      N
    F3 C     -cqI
   Example 554: (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)((iS,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
            N     NH
    F 3C          cI    N-N
                           'N
10
   Example 555: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(3-fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                       N
            N     NH
                   N  0
    F3 0          ci    N-N       F
                                              -328-

  Example 556: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
  azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                     N
         N     NH
  F3 C         CI              F
                     \    N
5 Example 557: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
  azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(5-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone.
                      N
  F3 C         cI
                     \    N
  Example 558: ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
0 azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(5-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone.
                           N
         N     NH
  F3 C         F
                        /N
  Example 559: (5-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-methylpyridin-2
  yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                                             - 329 -

                   N
                NHN
   Example 560: ((iS ,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2 .2]octan-2-yl)(5
   methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone.
                    N     N
            N NH
   ci",
   Example 561: ((iS ,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2 .2]octan-2-yl)(6
   methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)methanone.
         N     NH
               -~  0
                           N
10
   Example 562: ((iS ,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo [2 .2.2]octan-2-yl)(5
   methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone.
                    N     N
         N     NH
                   0
   Bru               N
                       \ N
                                             -330-

   Example 563: (5-methyl-3 -(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2 .2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N      N
               N NH
    F3 C  U            N
                         \,N
 5
   Example 564: (5-methyl-3 -(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                      N
    F3 C      N      N-     \
 O Example 565: (6-methyl-3 -(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N      N
    F  3 C   N       N
   Example 566: (6-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
[5 (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                                              -331-

                       N
    F3C     N          N
   Example 567: (5-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
                               N
          r NYNH
    F3 C    N          N
   Example 568: (5-methyl-2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
            N NHN
    F3 C N I           N-N
10
   Example 569: (2-methoxy-6-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5 -(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                    (   I7   OMe
              N        N
                 N.   0
    F3C               \ N
                                              -332-

   Example 570: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(2
   methoxy-6-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                            OMe
                      N
         NON
                     0
                         ZN
 5
   Example 571: (2-methoxy-6-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-methylpyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                           OMe
                   N
                  G/   NN
 0 Example 572: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(2-methoxy-6-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                              OMe
                         N7
           N NO 0
   F3C          F
                       \    N
   Example 573: ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
15 azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(2-methoxy-6-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                                             -333-

                       N     OMe
                      N
           N   O
                     o
   F3C          c     N
                        AN
   Example 574: (2-methoxy-6-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N     OMe
                      N
   F3C     N
                        /N
 5
   Example 575: (2-methoxy-6-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N     OMe
                      N
         ;N;NH0             \
   F3C     N
                          N
10
   Example 576: (2-methoxy-6-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N     OMe
                   'N
           N    NH
            I        0
                      N_
   F3C
                          N
                                             - 334 -

   Example 577: (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-methylpyrazin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                    N
             NN        NF
 5
   Example 578: ((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-methylpyrazin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(2
   (pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone.
                    N
              Nl
 0 Example 579: (3-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-5-methylpyridin-2-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
                             N
                         N
    F3C               \/
                   F
   Example 580: (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-6-methylpyridin-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
15 (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                                              -335-

                       N
            NO0
                              N
    F3C      SN~
                     \   /N
                   F
   Example 581: (3-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-6-methylpyridin-2-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                     NON
 5                 F
   Example 582: (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-5-methylpyridin-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
            NO0
                     0
                       N       N
    F3 0 U
                   F
10
   Example 583: (3-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-4-methylpyridin-2-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                                              -336-

                       N
   F3C          O
                     \     N
                   F
   Example 584: (3-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
   2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
   F3C
                           N
 5                 F
   Example 585: (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
   2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
           NO0
   F3C
                        SN
                   F
10
                                             -337-

  Example 586: (5'-methyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
  yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
             N       N     N
                     NN
  F3 C
5 Example 587: (6-methyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
  2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                  4N7
          N NO 0            \x
                        0     N
  F3 C
  Example 588: (6'-methyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
0 yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                        N
          N
            NO0
  F3C
  Example 589: (5-methyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
  2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                                             - 338-

                    (N
           N   O
   F3C
   Example 590: (4'-methyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                      6N
              NO
                      N  _~
   F3C
 5
   Example 591: [2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                      N
              NO
   F3C
10
   Example 592: [2,2'-bipyridin]-3-yl((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                    (N
           N   O
            I        0
   F3C
                                              -339-

   Example 593: (3,5'-dimethyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl)((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                   4N  N    N
           NO
   F3 C
 5
   Example 594: (3',6-dimethyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                   4N
           NO
                     0
   F3 C                       N
 0 Example 595: (3,6'-dimethyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl)((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
             NO
   F3C
   Example 596: (3',5-dimethyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
15 yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                                              - 340 -

                      N
                 NO
   F3C
   Example 597: (3,4'-dimethyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl)((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                      N
                 NO
                      N _~
   F3C
 5
   Example 598: (3-methyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                      N
               NO
                      N _~
   F3C
10
   Example 599: (3'-methyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                    4N
           N    O
            I        0        N,
             I                N_
   F3C
                                              -341-

   Example 600: (3-fluoro-5'-methyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
   2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                   4N N     N
           NO
   F3 C
                             F
 5
   Example 601: (3'-fluoro-6-methyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
   2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                   4N7
           NO
   F3 C                       N
                        /    F
 0 Example 602: (3-fluoro-6'-methyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
   2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                          N
           NO
            I        0
   F3C
                             F
   Example 603: (3'-fluoro-5-methyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
15 2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                                             - 342  -

                       N
           N   O 0          \
                      0N       N"
   F3C
                              F
   Example 604: (3-fluoro-4'-methyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
   2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
           NO0
            I         0
   F3C
 5                       /    F
   Example 605: (3-fluoro-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
   2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
   F3C
                              F
10
   Example 606: (3'-fluoro-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
   2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                    (N
           N   O
            I0
                               N/NN
   F3C      I
                              F
                                              - 343  -

  Example 607: (5-methyl-3-(oxazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
  yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                  ( N      N
  F3 C         O
5
  Example 608: (6-methyl-2-(oxazol-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
  yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                    N
          NO0
  F3 C              N
0 Example 609: (6-methyl-3-(oxazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
  yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                     N      N
              NOO
  F3 C               N
  Example 610: (5-methyl-2-(oxazol-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
  yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                                            - 344 -

                      N
           NO0
                      0.       N '
   F3 C               N
   Example 611: (4-methyl-3-(oxazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                          N
           NO0
                     0
   F 3C               N
 5
   Example 612: 3-(oxazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
           NO0
                 -~0
   F3 C               N
10 Example 613: (2-(oxazol-2-yl)pyridin-3 -yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5 -(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
           NO0
                               N
   F3 C               N
                                                35
                                              - 345 -

  Example 614: 5-methyl-3-(thiazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
  yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                  ( N      N
          N      0 o
  F3 C
5 Example 615: (6-methyl-2-(thiazol-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
  yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                     N
          NO0
                   0         N"
  F3 C         O
  Example 616: (6-methyl-3-(thiazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
0 yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                     N      N
          NO0
               Iz 0
  F 3C               N
  Example 617: (5-methyl-2-(thiazol-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
  yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                                            - 346 -

                      N
           NO0
                          0    N
   F3C          O
   Example 618: (4-methyl-3-(thiazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                          N
                N 00
   F 3C               N
 5
   Example 619: (3-(thiazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                      NN
   F3C         O
                          S
10
   Example 620: (2-(thiazol-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
           NO0
   F3C          O
                                              - 347 -

   Example 621: (2-(1-methyl-i H-imidazol-2-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                    CN
            NO0
    F 3C         O    O
 5 Example 622: (2-(1-methyl-i H-imidazol-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                 F OO
                      01::     N
    F 3C         O    O
                       10"N
   Example 623: (3-(1-methyl-iH-imidazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
    F3 C               N
10
   Example 624: (5-methyl-3 -(1-methyl-i H-imidazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                      C N    N
    F3C                N
                                              -348-

  Example 625: (6-methyl-2-(1-methyl-i H-imidazol-2-yl)pyridin-3 -yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
  (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                   C'N
               NON
                              N
   F3 C        O
5 Example 626: (6-methyl-4-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
  (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                     N       -N
           NON
   F3 C u
  Example 627: (2-methyl-4-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
0 (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                     N       -N
           N  O
   F3C                N
                     \    N
  Example 628: (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-6-methylpyridin-3-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5
  (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                                             - 349 -

                       N
    F3 C    N            N
                     F
   Example 629: (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-5-methylpyridin-3-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
          ,N     NH0
                         N
    F3C     N
                       \   /'N
 5                   F
   Example 630: (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
   2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
           1N N       0        N/
    F3C     N       N
                       \     N
                     F
10
   Example 631: (5'-methyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                                              -350-

                       N
         ,N     NH
                         \   /
   F3CIININ
   Example 632: (6-methyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
           N    NH
   F3C     N               ON
 5
   Example 633: (5-methyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
           N    NH
   F3C     NN-F
   [00
10
   Example 634: [2,2'-bipyridin]-3-yl((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2
   azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
              NN
             TNNH     0'         /
           N               ON
   F3C
                                              -351-

   Example 635: (3,5'-dimethyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
              N NH       N,
   F3C    N            N
   Example 636: (3',6-dimethyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
 5 yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
          N     NH
                     ON
   F3C    N
   Example 637: (3',5-dimethyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                      N
   F3 C   N            N
10 Example 638: (3'-methyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
          N     NH
                     ON        N
   F3C    N
                      \  /
   Example 639: (3-fluoro-5'-methyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
   2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                                              -352-

                      N
        ;N     NH           \/
   F3C     N
                         /     F
   Example 640: (3'-fluoro-6-methyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
   2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
           N    NH
   F3 C    N
                      \/       F
 5
   Example 641: (3'-fluoro-5-methyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
   2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                   4N
        ;N      NH   0          N
                           ON
   F3C     N
                            /F
10
   Example 642: (3'-fluoro-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3-yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)methanone.
                NH
                                N
   F3C     N
                               F
                                              -353-

   Example 643: (3-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-5-methylpyridin-2-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                 NH N
                NX
                   F
   Example 644: (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-6-methylpyridin-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
 5 (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                        N
              N NH
    F3 CN
                         \N
                   F
   Example 645: (3-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-6-methylpyridin-2-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
            N    NH          N
    F3 C            N
                      \    N
                   F
10 Example 646: (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-5-methylpyridin-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                        N
            N    NH
    F3 C         q
                   F
                                              -354-

  Example 647: (3-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-4-methylpyridin-2-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
  (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
           N    NH
   F3C             N
                     \     N
                  F
5
  Example 648: (5'-methyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
  yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
           N    NH
                       N_
   F3 C
0 Example 649: (6-methyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
  yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
           N    NH
                       N_0    N
   F3C
                                             - 355 -

  Example 650: (6'-methyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
  yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                         N
         N     NH
               NZ 0
                     N_
  F3C
5 Example 651: (3-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
  2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                     N
  F3C          NH
                         N
                 F
  Example 652: (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
0 2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                     N
         N     NH
           NZ
                     N       N
  F30                  /
                 F
  Example 653: (3,5'-dimethyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl)((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
  yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                                             -356-

                          N
          N     NH
                     O
   F3 C
   Example 654: (3',6-dimethyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                   4N
          N     NH
            IN_               N
   F3C
 5
   Example 655: (3,6'-dimethyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl)((iS,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                       N
          N     NH
   F3 C
10
   Example 656: (3-fluoro-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                       (N
          N     NH
                     o
   F3C
                            F
                                              -357-

  Exampe 657: (3'-fluoro-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
  yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
         N     NH
  F3C
                         /F
5
  Example 658: (3-fluoro-5'-methyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
  2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                     N
         N     NH
                    0
  F3 C                      F
0 Example 659: (3'-fluoro-6-methyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
  2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                  4 N
         N     NH
                    0        N,
                             N_
  F3C
                            F
                                             - 358 -

   Example 660: (3-fluoro-6'-methyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
   2-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)methanone.
                         'N
             N     NH
    F3C                          F
                              /F
 5 Assays:
             The in vitro affinity of the compounds of the invention for the rat/human orexin 1 and
   human orexin 2 receptors was determined by competitive radioligand binding using [3H] (1-(5-(2
   fluoro-phenyl)-2-methyl-thiazol-4-yl)-1-((S)-2-(5-phenyl-(1,3,4)oxadiazol-2-ylmethyl)-pyrrolidin
   1-yl)-methanone)(Langmead et al., 2004) and [3H]EMPA (n-ethyl-2[96-methoxy-pyridin-3-yl)
 0 (toluene-2-sulfonyl)-amino]-N-pyridin-3-ylmethyl acetamide), respectively (Langmead et al., 2004,
   British Journal of Pharmacology 141:340-346; Malherbe et al., 2004, British Journal of
   Pharmacology 156:1326-41).
             The in vitro functional antagonism of the compounds on the human orexin 1 and orexin 2
   receptors was determined using fluorometric imaging plate reader (FLIPR) based calcium assays.
 5           Data are analyzed using pc-Sandy macro and graphed on Graphpad Prism 5. For analysis,
   each concentration point is averaged from triplicate values and the averaged values are plotted on
   Graphpad Prism. The IC50 was determined by applying the following equation (GraphPad Prism
   5.0, SanDiego) for one site competition where X=log (concentration) and Y=specific binding. Top
   denotes the total [ 3 H]- (1-(5-(2-fluoro-phenyl)-2-methyl-thiazol-4-yl)-1-((S)-2-(5-phenyl
20 (1,3,4)oxadiazol-2-ylmethyl)-pyrrolidin-1-yl)-methanone) binding, bottom denotes the nonspecific
   [ 3 H]- (1-(5-(2-fluoro-phenyl)-2-methyl-thiazol-4-yl)-1-((S)-2-(5-phenyl-(1,3,4)oxadiazol-2
   ylmethyl)-pyrrolidin-1-yl)-methanone) binding. Graphpad Prism calculates Ki value from IC50 and
   the pre-determined Kd values for [3 H]- (1-(5-(2-fluoro-phenyl)-2-methyl-thiazol-4-yl)-1-((S)-2-(5
   phenyl-(1,3,4)oxadiazol-2-ylmethyl)-pyrrolidin- 1-yl)-methanone) and [3H]-EMPA. The Ki for each
25 compound is then uploaded into 3DX. Each run comprises individual compounds in triplicate. The
   data in Table 1 and Table 2 represent averages from between 2-20 runs
                                                 -359-

   Rat and human orexin 1 receptor radioligand binding studies
            Human Embryonic Kidney 293 cells (HEK293) stably expressing rat orexin 1 receptor
   (Genebank accession number NM_001525) or Chinese ovary cells (CHO) stably expressing human
 5 orexin 1 receptor (Genebank accession number NM_001526) were grown to confluency in DMEM
   (Hyclone, cat # SH30022), 10% FBS, 1X Pen/Strep, IX sodium pyruvate, 10 mM HEPES, 600
    tg/mL G418 and DMEM/F12 (Gibco, Cat #11039), 10 %FBS, IX Pen/Strep, 600 pg/mL G418
   media, respectively on 150 cm 2 tissue culture plates, washed with 5 mM EDTA in PBS (HyClone
   Dulbecco's Phoshpate Buffered Saline IX with Calcium and Magnesium, Cat # SH30264.01,
 0 hereafter referred to simply as PBS) and scraped into 50 ml tubes. After centrifugation (2K xG, 5
   min at 4'C), the supernatant was aspirated and the pellets frozen and stored at -80 0 C. Cells were
   resuspended in PBS in the presence of 1 tablet of protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche, Cat.
   #11836145001) per 50 mL. Each cell pellet from a 15 cm plate was resuspended in 10 mL, stored
   on ice, and homogenized for 45 sec prior to addition to the reactions. Competition binding
 5 experiments in 96 well polypropylene plates were performed using [3H]- (1-(5-(2-fluoro-phenyl)-2
   methyl-thiazol-4-yl)-1-((S)-2-(5-phenyl-(1,3,4)oxadiazol-2-ylmethyl)-pyrrolidin-1-yl)-methanone)
   (Moraveck Corporation, specific activity     =  35.3 Ci/mmol), diluted to a 10 nM concentration in PBS
   (4 nM final). Compounds were solubilized in 100% DMSO (Acros Organics, Cat. #61042-1000)
   and tested over a range of 7 concentrations (from 0.1 nM to 10 pM). The final concentration of
 0 DMSO in the reactions is equal to or less than 0.1%. Total and nonspecific binding was determined
   in the absence and presence of 10 pM almorexant. The total volume of each reaction is 200 pL (20
   pL of diluted compounds, 80 pL of [3H]- (1-(5-(2-fluoro-phenyl)-2-methyl-thiazol-4-yl)-1-((S)-2
   (5-phenyl-(1,3,4)oxadiazol-2-ylmethyl)-pyrrolidin- 1-yl)-methanone) diluted in PBS and 100 pL of
   the cell suspension). Reactions were run for 60 min at room temperature and terminated by
25 filtration through GF/C filter plates (PerkinElmer, Cat. #6005174) presoaked in 0.3%
   polyethylenimine using the cell harvester (PerkinElmer Filtermate). The plates were washed 3
   times by aspirating 30 ml PBS through the plates. Plates were dried in 55 'C oven for 60 min,
   scintillation fluid was added, and the radioactivity was counted on a Topcount (Packard).
            IC5o values (i.e. concentration of unlabelled compound required to compete for 50% of
30 specific binding to the radioligand) was calculated using the GraphPad Prism software (GraphPad
   Prism Software Inc., San Diego, CA) with a fit to a sigmoidal dose-response curve. Apparent Ki
                                                  -360-

   values were calculated as Ki   = IC5o/(1+C/Ka1), where C is concentration of radioligand and Kad = 4
   nM for rat orexin 1 receptor and 6 nM for human orexin 1 receptor.
   Human orexin 2 receptor radioligand binding studies
 5          HEK293 stably expressing human orexin 2 receptor (Genebank accession number
   NM_001526) were grown to confluency in DMEM (Hyclone, cat # SH30022), 10 %FBS, IX
   Pen/Strep, IX NaPyruvate, 10 mM HEPES, 600 ug/ml G418 media on 150 cm 2 tissue culture
   plates, washed with 5 mM EDTA in PBS (HyClone Dulbecco's Phoshpate Buffered Saline IX with
   Calcium and Magnesium, Cat # SH30264.01, hereafter referred to simply as PBS) and scraped into
 0 50 ml tubes. After centrifugation (2K xG, 5 min at 4 0C), the supernatant was aspirated and the
   pellets frozen and stored at -80 0 C. Cells were resuspended in PBS in the presence of 1 tablet of
   protease inhibitor cocktail (Roche, Cat. #11836145001) per 50 mL. Each cell pellet from a 15 cm
   plate was resuspended in 10 mL, stored on ice, and homogenized for 45 sec just prior to addition to
   the reactions. Competition binding experiments in 96 well polypropylene plates were performed
 5 using [3 H]-EMPA (Moraveck Corporation, specific activity     = 29.6 Ci/mmol), diluted to a 5 nM
   concentration in PBS (2 nM final concentration). Compounds were solubilized in 100% DMSO
   (Acros Organics, Cat. #61042-1000) and tested over a range of 7 concentration (from 0.1 nM to 10
   pM). The final concentration of DMSO in the reactions is equal to or less than 0.10%. Total and
   nonspecific binding was determined in the absence and presence of 10 pM almorexant. The total
 0 volume of each reaction is 200 pL (20 pL of diluted compounds, 80 pL of [3H]-EMPA diluted in
   PBS and 100 pL of the cell suspension). Reactions were run for 60 min at room temperature and
   terminated by filtration through GF/C filter plates (PerkinElmer, Cat. #6005174) presoaked in 0.3%
   polyethylenimine using the cell harvester (PerkinElmer Filtermate). The plates were washed 3
   times by aspirating 30 ml PBS through the plates. Plates were dried in 55 0 C oven for 60 min,
25 scintillation fluid was added, and the radioactivity was counted on a Topcount (Packard).
            IC5o values (i.e. concentration of unlabelled compound required to compete for 50% of
   specific binding to the radioligand) was calculated using the GraphPad Prism software (GraphPad
   Prism Software Inc., San Diego, CA) with a fit to a sigmoidal dose-response curve. Apparent Ki
   values were calculated as Ki   = IC5o/(1+C/Ka1), where C is concentration of radioligand and Ka  = 2
30 nM.
                                                 -361-

   Human orexin 1 receptor Ca2 + mobilization assay
            CHO cells stably transfected with the human orexin 1 receptor (Genebank accession number
   NM_001526) were grown to confluency in DMEM/F12, 10% FBS, IX pen-strep, 400 pg/ml G418.
   Cells were seeded on to 384-well Packard viewplates at a density of 10,000 cells/well and incubated
 5 overnight at 37 0C, 5% C02. The cells were dye-loaded with BD Calcium Assay kit (BD, cat #
   640178) in HBSS (Gibco, cat# 14025-092) with 2.5 mM probenecid and incubated at 37'C, 5%
   C02 for 45 min. Cells were pre-incubated with compounds (diluted in DMEM/F-12) for 15-30
   minutes before agonist (orexin A, 10 nM) stimulation. Ligand-induced Ca 2+ release was measured
   using a Fluorometric Imaging Plate Reader (FLIPR, Molecular Devices, Sunnyvale, CA).
 0 Functional responses were measured as peak fluorescence intensity minus basal. The concentration
   of agonist that produced a half-maximal response is represented by the EC5 value.     Antagonistic
   potency values were converted to apparent pKB values using a modified Cheng-Prusoff correction.
   Apparent pKB = - log IC5a/1+[conc agonist/EC5].
   Human orexin 2 receptor Ca 2+ mobilization assay
 5          PFSK- 1 cells endogenously expressing the human orexin 2 receptor were grown to
   confluency in RPMI1640 (Hyclone, cat# 30027.02), 10% FBS, IX pen-strep. Cells were seeded on
   to 384-well Packard viewplates at a density of 5,000 cells/well and incubated overnight at 37 0C, 5%
   C02. The cells were dye-loaded with BD Calcium Assay kit (BD, cat # 640178) in HBSS (Gibco,
   cat# 14025-092) with 2.5 mM probenecid and incubated at 37'C, 5% C02 for 45 min. Cells were
 0 pre-incubated with compounds (diluted in DMEM/F-12) for 15-30 minutes before agonist (orexin
   B, 100 nM) stimulation. Ligand-induced Ca 2 + release was measured using a Fluorometric Imaging
   Plate Reader (FLIPR, Molecular Devices, Sunnyvale, CA). Functional responses were measured as
   peak fluorescence intensity minus basal. The concentration of agonist that produced a half-maximal
   response is represented by the EC5 value. Antagonistic potency values were converted to apparent
25 pKB values using a modified Cheng-Prusoff correction. Apparent pKB        =- lIC5a/1+[conc
   agonist/EC5].
            Preferred compounds of the invention are set forth in the table below. Orexin receptor
   activity of certain compounds of the invention is also set forth in Table 1 below.
                                               -362-

                                      Table 1
Ex.         Compound                    rOXi  hOXi   hOX2       Compound Name
No.                                        K     Ki   Ki
                                         (nM)  (nM)  (nM)
1                                      74     120   4700   (R/S)-(2-(2H-1,2,3
                   N                                       triazol-2-yl)phenyl)(6
        N    O    O                                        ((5
                                                           (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
                        N       0-2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                           azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                           -2-yl)methanone
2                                      200    342   10000  (R/S)-(6-methyl-3-(2H
                                                            1,2,3-triazol-2
        N    Oyl)pyridin-2-yl)(6-((5
                    N-N                                    (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
    F3C N
     3  N                                                  -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                           azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                           -2-yl)methanone
3                                      63     123   8900   (R/S)-(3
                         0                                 ethoxyisoquinolin-4
             0N
             N     N        -N                             yl)((5
                  0                                        (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
    F3C N-2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                           azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                           -2-yl)methanone
4                                      837          >10000 (R/S)-5-methyl-3-(2H
                   N                                        1,2,3-triazol-2
        N                                                  yl)pyridin-2-yl)(6-((5
                    N-N                                    (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
    F3C N
                         N      C-2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                           azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                           -2-yl)methanone
                                   -363-

Ex.         Compound                   rOXi hOXi  hOX2       Compound Name
No.                                      K      i    K
                                       (nM)  (nM)  (nM)
7                                     21    12    800   (R/S)-(2-(2H-1,2,3
                  N                                     triazol-2-yl)phenyl)(6
         N~     0        \                              ((5
               FO N-N(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                      -
                                  N                     -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                        azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                        -2-yl)methanone
8                                     16    15    1450  (R/S)-(3
                        0                               ethoxyisoquinolin-4
         N        N        -- N                         y)6(
                               0                        (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
    F3 C                                                -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                        azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                        -2-yl)methanone
9                                     56    101   2554  (R/S)-(5-methyl-3-(2H
                          6N-1 N                          ,2,3-triazol-2
             0                                          yl)pyndmi-2-yl)(6-((5
    F3C   -   ~   N-N                                   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                  N                     -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                        azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                        -2-yl)methanone
10                                    18    27    526   (R/S)-(7
                                   0/                   ethoxyquinolin-8-yl)(6
                  N
                               0 -8                     (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
    F3 C    ~        N\                                 -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                        azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                        -2-yl)methanone
                                 -364-

Ex.       Compound                   rOXi      hOXi hOX2        Compound Name
No.                                     K         i   K
                                      (nM)     (nM)  (nM)
I1I                                  11       8     1475   (R/S)-(3-fluoro-2
                 N                                         (pyrimidin-2
        N  0                                               yl)phenyl)(6-((5
                            0                              (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
    F3C           N-        F
                                                           azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                           -2-yl)methanone
12                                  44        59    >10000 (R/S)-(4-methoxy-2
                            N                              (pyrimidin-2
              0      \          /                          yl)phenyl)(6-((5
                  C
             F 3 N-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                           azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                           -2-yl)methanone
13                                  52        109   >10000 (R/S)-4-methoxy-2
               N                                           (2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2
        N 0                   /yl)phenyl)(6-((5
    F3C        N                                           (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                           -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                           azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                           -2-yl)methanone
14                                   16       21    855    (R/S)-(5-fluoro-2-(2H
                 N            F                            1,2,3-triazol-2
           o                                               yl)phenyl)(6-((5
             F 3  C
                 N-N(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                           -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                           azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                           -2-yl)methanone
                                -365-

Ex.       Compound                    rOXi    hOXi  hOX2       Compound Name
No.                                      K        i   K
                                       (nM)    (nM)  (nM)
15                        /17                 40    229   (R/S)-2-methoxy-6
                     N 0(2H-                                    1,2,3-triazol-2
       N   0yl)phenyl)(6-((5
            N      0
    FC               N%                                   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                          -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                          azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                          -2-yl)methanone
16                                    8       7     1000  (R/S)-(3-fluoro-2-(2H
                     N                                    1,2,3-triazol-2
           o                                              yl)phenyl)(6-((5
                       "       F                          (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                        N                                 -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                          azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                          -2-yl)methanone
17                                    8       3     234   (R/S)-(3-methyl-2-(2H
                     N                                    1,2,3-triazol-2
         N0                                               yl)phenyl)(6-((5
               F3 C                                       (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                  N\                      -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                          azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                          -2-yl)methanone
18                                    25      23    1800  (R/S)-(2-fluoro-6-(2H
                4        F                                1,2,3-triazol-2
       N   0                                              yl)phenyl)(6-((5
            N.     0
               F  3  0
                     N-N(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                          -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                          azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                          -2-yl)methanone
                                  -366-

Ex.     Compound                  rOXi    hOXi  hOX2        Compound Name
No.                                  K        i   K
                                   (nM)    (nM)  (nM)
19                                18      9     945    (RJS)-(5-fluoro-2
                N           F                          (pyrimidin-2
    N    0                                             yl)phenyl)(6-((5
                 I                                     (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                \3 ,N                                  -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                       azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                       -2-yl)methanone
20                                15      15    2700   (R/S)-(4-fluoro-2
                N                                      (pyrimidin-2
       N0                      F                       yl)phenyl)(-6-((5
                                                       (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                \3 ,N                                  -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                       azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                       -2-yl)methanone
21                                >10000        >10000 (R/S)-(2-(4H- 1,2,4
                N                                      triazol-4-yl)phenyl)(6
    N~       0        \                                ((5
                                                       (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
               NFC                                     -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                       azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                       -2-yl)methanone
22                                25      23    1000   (R/S)-(6-methyl-3-(2H
                            N                          1,2,3-triazol-2
    N    0yl)pyridin-2-yl)(6-((5
           F  3  0
                 N-N(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                       -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                       azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                       -2-yl)methanone
                              -367-

Ex.        Compound               rOXi   hOXi  hOX2        Compound Name
No.                                  K       i   K
                                   (nM)   (nM)  (nM)
23                                >10000       >10000 (6-methyl-3-(2H- 1,2,3
        N
                          0 N                         yl)((l R,4S,6S)-6-((5
    N N               -     F                         (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                           FF                         -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                      azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                      -2-yl)methanone
24                                20     16    692    (6-methyl-3-(2H- 1,2,3
                 N                                    triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
          N0                                          yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
              FON-N(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                      -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                      azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                      -2-yl)methanone
25                                17     15    466    (6-methyl-3-(2H- 1,2,3
                            N N-                      triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
            0                                         yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
              FCN-N(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                      -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                      azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                      -2-yl)methanone
26                                12     15    2100   (4-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
                 N                                    2
          N0            \    F                        yl)phenyl)((l S,4R,6R)
                 \3 1 N                               (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                      -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                      azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                      -2-yl)methanone
                              -368-

Ex.          Compound                    rOXi    hOXi     hOX2        Compound Name
No.                                        K        i       K
                                         (nM)    (nM)      (nM)
27                                      4       4         767    (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
                     N                                           2
            N0                                                   yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
               C      N
    F 3C                 N     F                                 (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                                 -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                                 azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                                 -2-yl)methanone
28                                      32      21        1600   (5-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3
                     N                                           triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
                          0                                      yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                 F 3  C
                     N-N(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                /   ~..-N-2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                                 azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                                 -2-yl)methanone
29                                      55      47        >10000 (6-methyl-2-(2H- 1,2,3
                     N                                           triazol-2-yl)pyridin-3
              0                                                  yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
         F3CN-N              N                                   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                /    .-     N-2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                                 azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                                 -2-yl)methanone
30                                      19      22        1700   (3-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2
                     N    N-                                     yl)pyridin-2
                          0                                      yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                 F 3  0
                     N-N(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                / ,N                             -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                                 azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                                 -2-yl)methanone
                                  -369-

Ex.        Compound                rOXi    hOXi   hOX2       Compound Name
No.                                  K        Ki   Ki
                                   (nM)     (nM)  (nM)
31                                707            >10000 (3-fluoro-2
                N                                       methoxyphenyl)((l S,4R
         N O 0 0                                         6R)-6-((5
    F3 C            0      F                            (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                        -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                        azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                        -2-yl)methanone
32                                3        4     143    (3-methyl-2-(oxazol-2
                N                                       yl)phenyl)((l S,4R,6R)
         N 0                                            6-((5
    F3           0(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
     3C               N                                 -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                        azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                        -2-yl)methanone
33                                74       86    3500   (3-fluoro-2-(lH-1,2,3
                N                                       triazol- 1
         N    0                                         yl)phenyl)((l S,4R,6R)
                           0                            6-((5
    F3C             N      F
                      N                                 (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                        -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                        azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                        -2-yl)methanone
34                                117      462   1100   (6-methyl-2-(l H- 1,2,3
                N                                       triazol- 1-yl)pyridin-3
         N                                              yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                          N                             (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                    F3N                                 -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                        azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                        -2-yl)methanone
                              -370-

Ex.        Compound            rOXi  hOXi   hOX2      Compound Name
No.                               K     Ki   Ki
                                (nM)  (nM)  (nM)
35                             8     3     542   (3-fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3
                  N                              triazol-2
         N      0                                yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
    F3 C          N-N   F
                     N                           (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                 -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                 azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                 -2-yl)methanone
36                            5      11    322   (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2
                  N                              yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
    F3                                           (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                 -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                 azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                 -2-yl)methanone
37                             170   265   1800  (3-ethoxy-6
                      O                          methylpyridin-2
                  N
         N  Oy)(1                                       S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                O     N                          (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
    F3 C                                         -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                 azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                 -2-yl)methanone
38                             8     8     690   (2-fluoro-6-(pyrimidin
                      F                          2
                  N,
         N    0                                  yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
                  N                              6-((5
    F3 C        (
                     N                           (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                 -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                 azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                          -371-

Ex.        Compound             rOXi  hOXi   hOX2       Compound Name
No.                               K      Ki   Ki
                                (nM)   (nM)  (nM)
                                                   -2-yl)methanone
39                             132   17     108    (2-methoxy-6-(lH
                 N,                                pyrazol-5
         N    0                                    yl)phenyl)((l S,4R,6R)
                 06-((5
                  F3C NH                           (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                   N
                                                   -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                   azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                   -2-yl)methanone
40                             16    9      340    (2-methoxy-6
                 N                                 (pyrimidin-2
         N    0                                    yl)phenyl)((l S,4R,6R)
    F3 C
                \      N                           (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                   -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                   azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                   -2-yl)methanone
41                             4399         >10000 (2-(1,4-dimethyl-1H
                 N                                 pyrazol-5
         N    0                                    yl)phenyl)((l S,4R,6R)
                         0                         6-((5
    F3C
                    ' ,N                           (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                   N
                                                   -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                   azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                   -2-yl)methanone
                           -372-

Ex.           Compound                rOXi    hOXi     hOX2      Compound Name
No.                                     K        Ki     Ki
                                      (nM)     (nM)    (nM)
42                                    184     175     5800  (1H-indol-7
                    N                                       yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
           N   0                                            (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                            -2-yl)oxy)-2
         F3C          HNR
    F3 0               HN~azabicyclo[2.2.                                   1]heptan
                                                            -2-yl)methanone
43                                    16      8       557   (5-fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3
                    N        F                              triazol-2
           N   0                                            yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
    FO     -        N-N
                                                            (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                            -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                            azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                            -2-yl)methanone
44                                   22       42      2198  (4-fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3
                    N                                       triazol-2
               O   O             F                          yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)
           F
    FO     -        N-N
                                                            (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                            -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                            azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                            -2-yl)methanone
45                                   60       55      1500  (2-bromo-3
                    N                                       fluorophenyl)((1 S,4R,6
             N0 0
             N                                              R)-6-((5
           F3OBr            F(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                            -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                            azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                            -2-yl)methanone
                                -373-

Ex.         Compound                 rOXi    hOXi  hOX2       Compound Name
No.                                     K        i   K
                                      (nM)    (nM)  (nM)
46                                   10      12    650   (2-fluoro-6-(H- 1,2,3
                        F                                triazol-2
                    N   ,
          N   0                                          yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
                    C
                F 3 N-N(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                         -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                         azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                         -2-yl)methanone
47                                   7       11    503   ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                     N                                   bromopyridin-2
            0 0                                          yl)oxy)-2
                              N                          azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
    Brlu
                    \N                                   -2-yl)(2-fluoro-6
                                                         (pyrimidin-2
                                                         yl)phenyl)methanone
48                                   3       6     972   ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                             N                           bromopyridin-2
            0 0                                          yl)oxy)-2
                              N                          azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
    Br             N-       F
                    \N                                   -2-yl)(3 -fluoro-2
                                                         (pyrimidin-2
                                                         yl)phenyl)methanone
49                                   6       6     507   (2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2
                  N                                      yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
         N  0                                            6-((5 -bromopyridin-2
                Br N-Nyl)oxy)-2
                                                         azabicyclo[2.2. I1]heptan
                                                         -2-yl)methanone
                                 -374-

Ex.             Compound                    rOXi  hOXi   hOX2      Compound Name
No.                                           K      Ki   Ki
                                            (nM)   (nM)  (nM)
50                                        7      9      670   ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                       N                                      bromopyridin-2
           N    0     O                                       yl)oxy)-2
         B             Nazabicyclo[2.2.                                        1]heptan
    BrU                N-N
                           ,N                                 -2-yl)(6-methyl-3-(2H
                                                              1,2,3-triazol-2
                                                              yl)pyridin-2
                                                              yl)methanone
51                                        294           676   (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2
                  N                                           yl)phenyl)((l S,4R,6R)
                 0 N-N                                        (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
            CF3
                       -N                                     -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                              azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                              -2-yl)methanone
52                                        550           4000  (6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3
                                                              triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
                  N      N
       N    O                                                 yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((3
                                                              (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
            CF3    N-
                       N                                      -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                              azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                              -2-yl)methanone
53                                        3      3      165   (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2
                        N                                     yl)phenyl)((l S,4S,6R)
            N     NH                                          6-(5
    F3 C          NHO                                         (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                            N                                 -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                              azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                              -2-yl)methanone
                                      -375-

Ex.           Compound                rOXi hOXi    hOX2      Compound Name
No.                                     K       i    K
                                      (nM)   (nM)  (nM)
54                                   5     6      132   (6-methyl-3-(2H- 1,2,3
                    N       N-                          triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
            N   H                                       yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                     N-N                                (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                  N                     -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                        azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                        -2-yl)methanone
55                                    3    3      46    (3-methyl-2-(2H- 1,2,3
                    N                                   triazol-2
            N   H                                       yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
    F3 C  -     ~    N-N
                               " N                      (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                        -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                        azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                        -2-yl)methanone
56                                    8    10     192   (7-ethoxyquinolin-8
                          0                             yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
         N     NH                                       (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                N        8                              -2-yl)amino)-2
    F3 C                Nazabicyclo[2.2.                                 1]heptan
                                                        -2-yl)methanone
57                                    6    5      252   (5-fluoro-2-(H- 1,2,3
                    N          F                        triazol-2
         N     NH                                       yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
                   0
    F3 C             N-N
                                                        (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                        -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                        azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                        -2-yl)methanone
                                 -376-

Ex.            Compound             rOXi hOXi  hOX2       Compound Name
No.                                   K      i    K
                                    (nM)  (nM)  (nM)
58                                  4    2     181   (5-fluoro-2-(pynimidmn
                    N         F                      2
             N NH                                    yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
    F3C uNP6(5
                       \ N                           (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                     -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                     azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                     -2-yl)methanone
59                                  6    9     213   (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2
                    N                                yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
                     N-N                             (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
         F3N
           C           ,N                            -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                     azabicyclo[2.2. I1]heptan
                                                     -2-yl)methanone
60                                                   (2-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                    N                                yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
     FC ,L,-N        N-N                             (trifluoromethyl)pyrimi
                       'N                            din-2-yl)amino)-2
                                                     azabicyclo [2.2. 1]heptan
                                                     -2-yl)methanone
61                                                   (6-methyl-3-(2H-1 ,2,3
                    N      N-                        triazol-2-yl)pyndmi-2
             N   H                                   yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
        FC NN-N                                      (tifluoromethyl)pyrazin
           C
         F3N           ~N                            -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                     azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                     -2-yl)methanone
                                -377-

Ex.            Compound          rOXi hOXi hOX2      Compound Name
No.                                K     i  K
                                 (nM) (nM) (nM)
62                                              (6-methyl-3-(2H-1 ,2,3
                    N     N-                    triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
             N   H                              yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
    F3 C     N       N-N                        (trifluoromethyl)pyrimi
                       'N                       din-2-yl)amino)-2
                                                azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                -2-yl)methanone
63                                              (4-methyl-2-(2H-1 ,2,3
                     N                          triazol-2
             N   H                              yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
    F3 C             N-N
                              N                 (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                -2-yl)methanone
64                                              (4-methyl-2-(2H-1 ,2,3
                     N                          triazol-2
             N   H                              yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
                     N-N                        6(5
    F3 C   N
                       "N                       (tifluoromethyl)pyrazin
                                                -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                -2-yl)methanone
65                                              (4-methyl-2-(2H-1 ,2,3
                     N                          triazol-2
           N    NH                              yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
    F3 C ,K-N        N-N
                              N                 (trifluoromethyl)pyrimi
                                                din-2-yl)amino)-2
                             -378-

Ex.         Compound         rOXi hOXi hOX2      Compound Name
No.                            K     i   K
                             (nM) (nM) (nM)
                                            azabicyclo[2.2. I1]heptan
                                            -2-yl)methanone
66                                          (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
                  N                         2
           N NH                             yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
    F3 C    ~        N F                    (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                            -2-yl)amino)-2
                                            azabicyclo[2.2. I1]heptan
                                            -2-yl)methanone
67                                          (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
                  N                         2
         N   NH                             yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
                 0
    F3 C N    ~      N F                    (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
                                            -2-yl)amino)-2
                                            azabicyclo[2.2. I1]heptan
                                            -2-yl)methanone
68                                          (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
                  N                         2
           N NH                             yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
              N   N_                          -(5
    F3 C    ~        N F                    (tifluoromethyl)pyrimi
                                            din-2-yl)amino)-2
                                            azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                            -2-yl)methanone
                         -379-

Ex.                Compound     rOXi hOXi hOX2      Compound Name
No.                               K     i   K
                                (nM) (nM) (nM)
69                                             (2-(3 -methyl- 1,2,4
                        N                      oxadiazol-5
            N       NH                         yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
         F3              0N                     ((fu   ro5-l~yii
                          N
                                               -2-yl)amino)-2
                                               azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                               -2-yl)methanone
70                                             (3-fluoro-2-(3 -methyl
                        N                      1,2,4-oxadiazol-5
                N NH                           yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
    F3 C     -PN~F
                            '0                 (trifluoromethyl)pyridmn
                                               -2-yl)amino)-2
                                               azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                               -2-yl)methanone
71                                             (4-fluoro-2-(3 -methyl
                         N                     1,2,4-oxadiazol-5
              N     NH\      F                 yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
          F3C      ~'N                         (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                               -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                               azabicyclo[2.2. I1]heptan
                                               -2-yl)methanone
                            -380-

Ex.        Compound                rOXi hOXi hOX2      Compound Name
No.                                  K     i   K
                                   (nM) (nM) (nM)
72                                                (3-(5
                             N                    fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)
         N   NH                                   5-methylpyridin-2
                            0                     yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                  \3 -N/                          (trifluoromethyl)pyraz
                F                                 in-2-yl)amino)-2
                                                  azabicyclo[2.2. 1]hept
                                                  an-2-yl)methanone.
73                                                (3-fluoro-2-(pynimidmn
                  N                               2
         N  0                                     yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
                                                  6(5
             "ZC 0
    F3 C   ~            N   F                     (trifluoromethyl)pyridmn
                                                  -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                  azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                                                  2-yl)methanone
74                                                (3-fluoro-2-(pynimidmn
                  N                               2
                          0                       yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
    F3 C N               N  F                     (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
                                                  -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                  azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                                                  2-yl)methanone
                               -381 -

Ex.         Compound                    rOXi     hOXi  hOX2      Compound Name
No.                                        K         i   K
                                         (nM)     (nM) (nM)
75                                                          (3-fluoro-2-(pynimidmn
                    N                                       2
         N   0                                              yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
               N 0N-6(5
    F3 C    ~           N       F                           (trifluoromethyl)pyrimi
                                                            din-2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                            azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                                                            2-yl)methanone
76                                                          (6-methyl-3-(2H-1 ,2,3
                    N      N-                               triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
         N   0yl)((l                                               S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                F 3  C
                     N-N(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                    N                       -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                            azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                                                            2-yl)methanone
77                                                          (6-methyl-3-(2H-1 ,2,3
                                N
                           6N-tiazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
         N   oyl)((l                                               S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                F3C  N-N(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
                         N                                  -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                            azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                                                            2-yl)methanone
78                                                          (6-methyl-3-(2H-1 ,2,3
                    N       N-                              triazol-2-yl)pyndmi-2
         N   0N                                             yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
    F3 C .N          N-N                                    (trifluoromethyl)pyrimi
                                    N                       din-2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                            azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                                                            2-yl)methanone
                                   -382-

Ex.               Compound                  rOXi     hOXi      hOX2      Compound Name
No.                                           K          i       K
                                            (nM)      (nM)     (nM)
79                                                                  (6-methyl-3-(2H-1 ,2,3
                               6     N    N-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
                                                                    yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
               iN    H
    F3 C        N       N-N                                         (trifluoromethyl)pyrimi
                          'N                                        din-2-yl)amino)-2
                                                                    azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                                                                    2-yl)methanone
80                                                                  (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
                       N                                            2
             N      NH                                              yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
                            0     /-6(5
    F3 C     N            N~        F                               (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
                                                                    -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                                    azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                                                                    2-yl)methanone
81                                                                  (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
                       N                                            2
                                                                    yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
               i N NH
                     N  N_                                            -(5
    F3 C          ~          N      F                               (trifluoromethyl)pyrimi
                                                                    din-2-yl)amino)-2
                                                                    azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                                                                    2-yl)methanone
82                                                                  (6-methyl-3-(2H-1 ,2,3
                       N       N-                                   triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
             N      NH                                              yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
         F3 C            N-                                         (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                         N                          -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                                    azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                                        -383-

      Ex.              Compound                    rOXi      hOXi  hOX2         Compound Name
      No.                                           Ki         Ki     Ki
                                                   (nM)      (nM)   (nM)
                                                                           2-yl)methanone
      83                                                                   (6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3
                             N       Ntriazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
                    N   NH                                                 yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                            0     N(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
            F3 C    N         N-N
                                   N                                       -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                                           azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                                                                           2-yl)methanone
      84                                                                   (6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3
                                                                           triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
                             N       N
                    N   NH                                                 yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
            F3 C,-N           N-N                                          (trifluoromethyl)pyrimi
                                   N                                       din-2-yl)amino)-2
                                                                           azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                                                                           2-yl)methanone
         Preferred compounds of the invention are set forth in the table below. Orexin receptor
activity of certain compounds of the invention is also set forth in Table 2 below.
                                             -384-

                                Table 2
 Ex.        Compound               rOXi hOXi hOX2   Compound Name
 No.                               Ki   Ki   K
                                   (nM) (nM) (nM)
1                                  74   120  4700   (R/S)-(2-(2H-1,2,3
                  N                                 triazol-2-yl)phenyl)(6
         N   O1 O                                   ((5
                   NN                               (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
     FC  N'
                                                    -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                    azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                    -2-yl)methanone
2                                  200  342  10000  (R/S)-(6-methyl-3-(2H
                                                     1,2,3-triazol-2
         N   o                                      yl)pyridin-2-yl)(6-((5
                    NNN                             (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
                      NN                            -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                    azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                    -2-yl)methanone
3                                  63   123  8900   (R/S)-(3
                      O~                            ethoxyisoquinolin-4
         N  O            -N                         yl)((5
                 0                                  (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
     F3C N            \-2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                    azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                    -2-yl)methanone
4                                  837       >10000 (R/S)-5-methyl-3-(2H
                  N                                 1,2,3-triazol-2
         N   O                                      yl)pyridin-2-yl)(6-((5
                                                    (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
                    3NN
                      N                             -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                    azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                    -2-yl)methanone
                             -385-

 Ex.           Compound                 rOXi    hOXi    hOX2   Compound Name
 No.                                    K         i     K
                                        (nM)    (nM)    (nM)
   5F25                                         18      779    (RIS)-(5-(4
                                                               fluorophenyl)-2
                                                               methylthiazol-4-yl)(6
            N   0                s(5
                     0       N-                                (trifluoromethyl)pyridmn
      F3 0                                                     -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                               azabicyclo [2.2. 1 ]heptan
                                                               -2-yl)methanone
6                                       >10000          >10000 (R/S)-(6
                                  N                            methylimidazo [2,1
            N   0           /N                                 b]thiazol-5-yl)(6-((5
                     0FNC                                      (tifluoromethyl)pyridin
                  F3C                                          -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                               azabicyclo [2.2. 1 ]heptan
                                                               -2-yl)methanone
7                                       21      12      800    (R/S)-(2-(2H-1,2,3
                      N                                        triazol-2-yl)phenyl)(6
              N   0                                            ((5
                        -~        N-N(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
           3               N                                   -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                               azabicyclo [2.2. 1 ]heptan
                                                               -2-yl)methanone
8                                       16      15      1450   (R/S)-(3
                           0                                   ethioxyisoqumnolmn-4
            N         N1      -- N                             y)6(
                     0                                         (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
      F3C                                                      -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                               azabicyclo [2.2. 1 ]heptan
                                                               -2-yl)methanone
                                  -386-

 Ex.           Compound                rOXi   hOXi hOX2   Compound Name
 No.                                   Ki     Ki   K
                                       (nM)   (nM) (nM)
9                                      56     102  2575   (R/S)-(5-methyl-3-(2H
                     N                                      ,2,3-triazol-2
           N    0                                         yl)pyridin-2-yl)(6-((5
         F            N-N                                 (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
      3C                   N-2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                          azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                          -2-yl)methanone
10                                     18     27   526    (R/S)-(7
                            0                             ethoxyquinolin-8-yl)(6
                     N        -
                                                          ((5
                     0                                    (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
     F3C                 N                                -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                          azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                          -2-yl)methanone
11                                     11     9    1475   (R/S)-(3-fluoro-2
                     N                                    (pyrimidin-2
           N    0                                         yl)phenyl)(6-((5
             I      O                                     (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
     F3C              N         F
                           IN                             -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                          azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                          -2-yl)methanone
12                                     44     59   >10000 (R/S)-(4-methoxy-2
                    N                                     (pyrimidin-2
           N      0                                       yl)phenyl)(6-((5
     F3C             N-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                         /'N                              -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                          azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                          -2-yl)methanone
                                 -387-

Ex.           Compound            rOXi hOXi hOX2   Compound Name
No.                               Ki   Ki   K
                                  (nM) (nM) (nM)
13                                52   109  >10000 (R/S)-4-methoxy-2
                  N                                (2H-1,2,3-triazol-2
           N  O            O                       yl)phenyl)(6-((5
    F3 C           N-N                             (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                             N                     -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                   azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                   -2-yl)methanone
14                                17   23   882    (R/S)-(5-fluoro-2-(2H
                    N        F                     1,2,3-triazol-2
            N  o                                   yl)phenyl)(6-((5
         F3C         N-N                           (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                        N                          -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                   azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                   -2-yl)methanone
15                                17   40   229    (R/S)-2-methoxy-6
                    N                              (2H-1,2,3-triazol-2
            N  0                                   yl)phenyl)(6-((5
         I           N-N                           (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
     3                  N.                         -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                   azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                   -2-yl)methanone
16                                8    7    1000   (R/S)-(3-fluoro-2-(2H
                    N                              1,2,3-triazol-2
            N  0                                   yl)phenyl)(6-((5
                    No                             (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
    F3C             NN     F
                      FNF                          -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                   azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                   -2-yl)methanone
                            -388-

 Ex.        Compound           rOXi hOXi hOX2 Compound Name
 No.                           Ki   Ki   K
                               (nM) (nM) (nM)
17                             8    3    234  (R/S)-(3-methyl-2-(2H
                  N                           1,2,3-triazol-2
          N  O                                yl)phenyl)(6-((5
                  N                           (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
     F 3C                                     -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                              azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                              -2-yl)methanone
18                             25   23   1800 (R/S)-(2-fluoro-6-(2H
                       F                      1,2,3-triazol-2
                  N
          N  0                                yl)phenyl)(6-((5
                   N-N                        (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
     F 3C
                      -N                      -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                              azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                              -2-yl)methanone
19                             18   9    945  (R/S)-(5-fluoro-2
                  N       F                   (pyrimidin-2
          N  O                                yl)phenyl)(6-((5
                   N-                         (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
     F 3C              N                      -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                              azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                              -2-yl)methanone
20                             15   15   2700 (R/S)-(4-fluoro-2
                  N                           (pyrimidin-2
          N  O              F                 yl)phenyl)(-6-((5
                                              (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
     F3C               N                      -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                              azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                              -2-yl)methanone
                         -389-

 Ex.             Compound                  rOXi    hOXi hOX2   Compound Name
 No.                                       Ki      Ki   K
                                           (nM)    (nM) (nM)
21                                         >10000       >10000 (R/S)-(2-(4H- 1,2,4
                       N                                       triazol-4-yl)phenyl)(6
             N    0    O                                       ((5
           3                N(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
     F3 CN
                       N'N                                     -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                               azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                               -2-yl)methanone
22                                         25      23   1000   (R/S)-(6-methyl-3-(2H
                        NN                                      1,2,3-triazol-2
             N    0                                            yl)pyridin-2-yl)(6-((5
     FC                  N--N                                  (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                         3                                     -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                               azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                               -2-yl)methanone
23                                         >10000       >10000 (6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3
               N                                               triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
                     0      N                                  yl)((l R,4S,6S)-6-((5
           N0
      N    N                          F                        (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                               -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                   F F
                                                               azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                               -2-yl)methanone
24                                         20       16  692    (6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3
                                                               triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
                        N      N
             N    0                                            yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                         N--                                   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                             N0                                -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                               azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                               -2-yl)methanone
                                     -390-

 Ex.              Compound                 rOXi      hOXi hOX2 Compound Name
 No.                                       Ki        Ki   K
                                           (nM)      (nM) (nM)
25                                          14       15   483  (6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3
                         N      Ntriazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
             N      0                                          yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                         N--N                                  (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
     F3 C                     N-2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                               azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                               -2-yl)methanone
26                                          12       15   2100 (4-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
                       N                                       2
             N     O         \        F                        yl)phenyl)((lS,4R,6R)
          F3  /N-                                              6-((5
                             N                                 (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                               -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                               azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                               -2-yl)methanone
27                                         6         5    725  (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
                         N                                     2
             N     0                                           yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
               IN                                              6-((5
     F3C                 N-         F
                              N                                (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                               -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                               azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                               -2-yl)methanone
28                                         32        21   1600 (5-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3
                        N                                      triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
             N     0   0                                       yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
           C             N-N                                   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                             N0                                -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                               azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                     -391-

 Ex.         Compound                 rOXi hOXi hOX2   Compound Name
 No.                                  Ki   Ki   K
                                      (nM) (nM) (nM)
                                                       -2-yl)methanone
29                                    55   47   >10000 (6-methyl-2-(2H-1,2,3
                    N                                  triazol-2-yl)pyridin-3
          N  10                                        yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                     N-N     N                         (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
     F3 0
                         /N                            -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                       azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                       -2-yl)methanone
30                                    19   22   1700   (3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2
                    N      N                           yl)pyridin-2
          N   0    Oyl)((l                                    S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                     o3\/N(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
     F3 C           N-N
                         /N                            -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                       azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                       -2-yl)methanone
31                                    707       >10000 (3-fluoro-2
                    N                                  methoxyphenyl)((l S,4R
            N O 00                                      6R)-6-((5
     F3 C              0      F                        (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                       -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                       azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                       -2-yl)methanone
32                                    3    6    149    (3-methyl-2-(oxazol-2
                    N                                  yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
          N   0                                        6-((5
                    0                                  (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                         N                             -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                       azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                       -2-yl)methanone
                                -392-

 Ex.           Compound               rOXi   hOXi hOX2 Compound Name
 No.                                  Ki     Ki   K
                                      (nM)   (nM) (nM)
33                                    74     86   3500 (3-fluoro-2-(l H- 1,2,3
                      N                                triazol- 1
                0                                      yl)phenyl)((l S,4R,6R)
     F3 0
        Cp        F3C    N    F6-((5
                              F
                          N                            (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                       -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                       azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                       -2-yl)methanone
34                                    162    368  1050 (6-methyl-2-(lH-1,2,3
                      N                                triazol- 1-yl)pyridin-3
             N  O    O                                 yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                             N                         (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                          N    C-2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                       azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                       -2-yl)methanone
35                                    8      3    546  (3-fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3
                      N                                triazol-2
             N  0                                      yl)phenyl)((l S,4R,6R)
     F3 C            ON-      F
                                                       (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                       -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                       azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                       -2-yl)methanone
36                                    5      13   343  (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2
                      N                                yl)phenyl)((l S,4R,6R)
             N~ 0    0
           F           N-N                             (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                          NC                           -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                       azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                -393-

 Ex.        Compound             rOXi hOXi hOX2 Compound Name
 No.                             Ki   Ki   K
                                 (nM) (nM) (nM)
                                                -2-yl)methanone
37                               170  265  1800 (3-ethoxy-6
                        O                       methylpyridin-2
                  N
          N  O                                  yl)(1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                 o       N                      (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
     F3 C                                       -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                -2-yl)methanone
38                               8    8    633  (2-fluoro-6-(pyrimidin
                        F                       2
                  N
          N  0                                  yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
                   N                            6-((5
     F3CN
                       N                        (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                -2-yl)methanone
39                               72   17   104  (2-methoxy-6-(1H
                  N                             pyrazol-5
          N    0                                yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
     F3 C
                     'NH                        (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                     N
                                                -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                -2-yl)methanone
                           -394-

 Ex.            Compound               rOXi hOXi hOX2   Compound Name
 No.                                   Ki   Ki   K
                                       (nM) (nM) (nM)
40                                     15   9    333    (2-methoxy-6
                           0
                      N                                 (pyrimidin-2
              N  0                                      yl)phenyl)((l S,4R,6R)
                       N
                                                        6-((5
     F3 CNN
                                                        (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                        -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                        azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                        -2-yl)methanone
41                                     4400      >10000 (2-(1,4-dimethyl-1H
                      N                                 pyrazol-5
              N    0                                    yl)phenyl)((l S,4R,6R)
                                                        6-((5
     F3 C
                                                        (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                        N' N
                                                        -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                        azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                        -2-yl)methanone
42                                     184  175  5800   (1H-indol-7
                       N                                yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
              N  0                                      (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
            F        O-2-yl)oxy)-2
     F3 0                HN
                                                        azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                        -2-yl)methanone
43                                     24   16   550    (5-fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3
                       N           F                    triazol-2
              N  0                                      yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
                     00-(5
         F3            N-N
                                                        (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                        -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                        azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                 -395-

 Ex.           Compound           rOXi    hOXi      hOX2 Compound Name
 No.                              Ki      Ki        K
                                  (nM)    (nM)      (nM)
                                                         -2-yl)methanone
44                                21      39        2333 (4-fluoro-2-(2H- 1,2,3
                     N                                   triazol-2
            N FC0                                        yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
         I3           N-N
                                                         (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                         -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                         azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                         -2-yl)methanone
45                                60      55        1500 (2-bromo-3
                     N                                   fluorophenyl)((1 S,4R,6
            N                                            R)-6-((5
                    O Br  F(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                         -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                         azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                         -2-yl)methanone
46                                 10     12        650  (2-fluoro-6-(2H-1,2,3
                     N                                   triazol-2
            N   0                                        yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
     F3C              N-N
                                                         (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                         -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                         azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                         -2-yl)methanone
                           -396-

 Ex.          Compound             rOXi hOXi hOX2 Compound Name
 No.                               Ki   Ki   K
                                   (nM) (nM) (nM)
47                                 6    9    524  ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                   N    F                         bromopyridin-2
            N 0                                   yl)oxy)-2
        Iu          N                             azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                  BrN                             -2-yl)(2-fluoro-6
                                                  (pyrimidin-2
                                                  yl)phenyl)methanone
48                                 4    5    903  ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                   N                              bromopyridin-2
            N 0                                   yl)oxy)-2
                    N                             azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
     Br                    F
                       N                          -2-yl)(3-fluoro-2
                                                  (pyrimidin-2
                                                  yl)phenyl)methanone
49                                 6    5    443  (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2
                   N                              yl)phenyl)((l S,4R,6R)
            N 0   O                               6-((5-bromopyridin-2
          I         N-N1                          yl)oxy)-2
                       N                          azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                  -2-yl)methanone
50                                 7    10   578  ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                   N     N                        bromopyridin-2
            N 0   0                               yl)oxy)-2
        r           N-N                           azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                       rN                         -2-yl)(6-methyl-3-(2H
                                                  1,2,3-triazol-2
                                                  yl)pyridin-2
                                                  yl)methanone
                             -397-

 Ex.         Compound                   rOXi hOXi hOX2 Compound Name
 No.                                    Ki   Ki   K
                                        (nM) (nM) (nM)
51                                      294       676  (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2
               N                                       yl)phenyl)((l S,4R,6R)
          F   0(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
        CF3    N-N
                     N                                 -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                       azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                       -2-yl)methanone
52                                      550       4000 (6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3
               N       N                               triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
     N     0                                           yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((3
                                                       (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
        CF3    N-N
                     NF                                -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                       azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                       -2-yl)methanone
53                                      3    4    169  (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2
                      N                                yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
        N     NH                                       6(5
     C                                                 (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                          N                            -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                       azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                       -2-yl)methanone
54                                      6    5    126  (6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3
                      N     N                          triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
        N     NH                                       yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
       FC              N-N                             (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                          N0                           -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                       azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                       -2-yl)methanone
                                  -398-

 Ex.            Compound            rOXi hOXi hOX2 Compound Name
 No.                                Ki   Ki   K
                                    (nM) (nM) (nM)
55                                  3    3    46   (3-methyl-2-(2H-1,2,3
                      N                            triazol-2
              N  NH                                yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
                                                   6-((5
     F3 0F3CON-        N-N'
                           'N                      (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                   -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                   azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                   -2-yl)methanone
56                                  8    10   192  (7-ethoxyquinolin-8
                                                   yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                      N     O
              N  NH                                (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                     0                             -2-yl)amino)-2
     F3 C                   \                      azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                   -2-yl)methanone
57                                  5    5    225  (5-fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3
                              F                    triazol-2
                 NH                                   )phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
      3                N-N
                           N                       (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                   -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                   azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                   -2-yl)methanone
58                                  5    3    193  (5-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
                      N       F                    2
              N  NH                                yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
           F30O                                    6-((5
     F3 0              N_
                        4
                           N                       (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                   -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                   azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                              -399-

 Ex.         Compound              rOXi hOXi hOX2 Compound Name
 No.                               Ki   Ki   Ki
                                   (nM) (nM) (nM)
                                                  -2-yl)methanone
59                                 6    7    192  (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2
                   N                              yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
              NH                                  6-((5
                                                  (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
     F3 C N         N-N
                         N                        -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                  azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                  -2-yl)methanone
60                                 20   12   617  (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2
                    N                             yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
          N   NH((5
                    N-N                           (trifluoromethyl)pyrimi
      3                 ,N                        din-2-yl)amino)-2
                                                  azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                  -2-yl)methanone
61                                 15   19   248  (6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3
                                                  triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
                    N      N
          N   NH                                  yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                                                  (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
     F3 C N         N-N
                         N                        -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                  azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                  -2-yl)methanone
62                                 28   19   569  (6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3
                                                  triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
                    N      N /                    yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
          N   NH           N                      (trifluoromethyl)pyrimi
                    N-N                           din-2-yl)amino)-2
     F3C    N
                         N                        azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                  -2-yl)methanone
                             - 400  -

 Ex.          Compound              rOXi hOXi hOX2 Compound Name
 No.                                Ki   Ki   Ki
                                    (nM) (nM) (nM)
 66                                 2    5    181  (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
                     N                             2
           N    NH                                 yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)
             I        N-                           6-((5
      F3C                     F
                          N                        (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                   -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                   azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                   -2-yl)methanone
67                                  7    7    264  (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
                    N                              2
               NH                                  yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
                              N                    6-((5
     F3C  N                  F
                         N                         (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
                                                   -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                   azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                   -2-yl)methanone
68                                  7    8    612  (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
                    N                              2
          N    NH                                  yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
                     N06-((5
     F3C     ~N              F                     (trifluoromethyl)pyrimi
                                                   din-2-yl)amino)-2
                                                   azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                   -2-yl)methanone
                              -401-

 Ex.            Compound                rOXi    hOXi hOX2 Compound Name
 No.                                    K         i  K
                                        (nM)    (nM) (nM)
73                                      8       11   575  (3-fluoro-2-(pynimidmn
                                                          2
                       N
     F3C                   N     F                        (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                          -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                          azabicyclo [2.2.2]octan
                                                          2-yl)methanone
74                                       16     16   1800 (3-fluoro-2-(pynimidmn
                                                          2
                       N
            N:r                                           yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
          F3NN
            C                                             (tifluoromethyl)pyrazmn
                                                          -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                          azabicyclo [2.2.2]octan
                                                          2-yl)methanone
76                                      4       3    211  (6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3
                                 N
                            4N-tiazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
            N    0                                        yl)(Ul S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                     0                                    (trifluoromethiyl)pyridin
     F3 0                -                                -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                          azabicyclo [2.2.2]octan
                                                          2-yl)methanone
77                                      9       13   1700 (6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3
                                 N                        triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
            N    0                                        yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                     0
             T
                   F3C N-N(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
                                   / ~N                   -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                          azabicyclo [2.2.2]octan
                                  - 402  -

 Ex.              Compound               rOXi hOXi hOX2 Compound Name
 No.                                     K      i  K
                                         (nM) (nM) (nM)
                                                        2-yl)methanone
80                                       9    7    456  (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
                                                        2
               N     NH                                 yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
             F3NN
               C                                        (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
                                                        -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                        azabicyclo [2.2.2]octan
                                                        2-yl)methanone
83                                       8    5    289  (6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3
                                  N                     triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
                N     N
                                                        y)(Ul S,4R,6R)-6-((5
               Nr NH 0          '                       (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
     F3 C    N            N-N                           -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                        azabicyclo [2.2.2]octan
                                                        2-yl)methanone
85                                       6    6    910  (3-fluoro-2-(pynimidmn
                0         N                             2
             NI    0                                    yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
                        0062H)(5
          F3 C                    F
                         \3 1 N                         (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                        -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                        azabicyclo [2.2. 1 ]heptan
                                                        -2-yl)methanone
                                   - 403  -

 Ex.         Compound               rOXi hOXi hOX2   Compound Name
 No.                                Ki   Ki   K
                                    (nM) (nM) (nM)
86                    D D           7    9    946    (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
                    N                                2
           N  o                                      yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
                     N                               6-((5
     F3C             N-      F                       (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                     -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                     azabicyclo[2.2.1]- (3
                                                     2
                                                      H, 2H)-heptan-2
                                                     yl)methanone
87                                  156  211  >10000 (2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2
                    N                                yl)pyridin-3
           N  0                                      yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                      N-N   N                        (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
      3                  sN                          -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                     azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                     -2-yl)methanone
88                                  45   36   >10000 (5-methyl-2-(2H-1,2,3
                    N                                triazol-2-yl)pyridin-3
           N  0                                      yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
         FC          N--N   N                        (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
          a               N                          -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                     azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                     -2-yl)methanone
89                                  18   8    1100   (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin
                    N                                2
           N  0                                      yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
                     N                               6-((5
     F3C
                   \  N-N                            (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                 F                                   -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                     azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                              -404-

 Ex.            Compound              rOXi hOXi hOX2 Compound Name
 No.                                  Ki   Ki   K
                                      (nM) (nM) (nM)
                                                     -2-yl)methanone
90                                    15   19   2150 (3-fluoro-2-(5
                       N                             fluoropyrimidin-2
            N    0                                   yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
                             /                       6-((5
     F3C                       F
                          N                          (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                    F                                -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                     azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                     -2-yl)methanone
91                                    8    6    331  (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin
                       N                             2-yl)-3
            N    0                                   methylphenyl)((1 S,4R,6
              I         N                            R)-6-((5
     F 3C
                      \   N                          (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                    F                                -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                     azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                     -2-yl)methanone
92                                    13   19   362  (6-methyl-3-(pyrimidin
                        N  N-                        2-yl)pyridin-2
            N    0                                   yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
          F3                                         (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
     F3C              \   N                          -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                     azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                     -2-yl)methanone
                                - 405  -

 Ex.             Compound               rOXi hOXi hOX2 Compound Name
 No.                                    Ki   Ki   K
                                        (nM) (nM) (nM)
93                                      125  76   3100 (3-phenylpyrazin-2
                       N      N                        yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
            N     0                                    (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                      O\        N                      -2-yl)oxy)-2
     F3C
                                                       azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                       -2-yl)methanone
94                                      35   30   848  (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
                       N                               2
     F3C    N     0                                    yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
                        N                              6-((6
               I                 F
                             N                         (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                       -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                       azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                       -2-yl)methanone
95                                      29   37   137  (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
                  N                                    2
            0                                          yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
          /CN-                                         6-((4
                            F
       CF 3           N                                (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                       -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                       azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                       -2-yl)methanone
96                                      320       1700 (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
                  N                                    2
       N                  /                            yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
                              N                        6-((3
            CqF3P/F
                  \   N                                (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                       -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                       azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                  - 406  -

 Ex.        Compound                rOXi hOXi hOX2 Compound Name
 No.                                Ki   Ki   K
                                    (nM) (nM) (nM)
                                                   -2-yl)methanone
97                                  21   15   1100 (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2
                  N                                yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
          N  0                                     6-((3-fluoro-5
     F 3C    F     N-N                             (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
      3N                                           -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                   azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                   -2-yl)methanone
98                                  37   28   1200 ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((3
                  N     Nfluoro-5
          N  0                                     (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
     F3 C    F    N-N                              -2-yl)oxy)-2
                      N                            azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                   -2-yl)(6-methyl-3-(2H
                                                   1,2,3-triazol-2
                                                   yl)pyridin-2
                                                   yl)methanone
99                                  11   10   725  ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((3
                                                   fluoro-5
                  N
          N  0                                     (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                   -2-yl)oxy)-2
     F3C     Ft  oN
                  FCFN                             azabicyclo[2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                   -2-yl)(2-(pyrimidin-2
                                                   yl)phenyl)methanone
                              -407-

Ex.             Compound          rOXi   hOXi hOX2   Compound Name
No.                               Ki     Ki   K
                                  (nM)   (nM) (nM)
100                               13     12   1600   (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
                       N                             2
            N    O                                   yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
                      ON
                                                     6-((3-fluoro-5
    F3C          FN        F                         (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                     -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                     azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                     -2-yl)methanone
101                               26     11   710    (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
                    N                                2
          N   0                                      yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
                    N                                6-((5-methylpyridin-2
                        N                            yl)oxy)-2
                                                     azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                     -2-yl)methanone
102                               404         1600   (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2
                 N                                   yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
      N     0                                        6-(pyridin-2-yloxy)-2
       -r         N-N                                azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                     -2-yl)methanone
103                               >10000      >10000 (6-methyl-2-(2H-1,2,3
                  N                                  triazol-2-yl)pyridin-3
      N     0                                        yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6
                  N-N    N                           (pyridin-2-yloxy)-2
                      N                              azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                     -2-yl)methanone
                            -408-

Ex.           Compound             rOXi hOXi hOX2   Compound Name
No.                                Ki   Ki   K
                                   (nM) (nM) (nM)
104                                497       5000   (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
                 N                                  2
      N     0                                       yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
               ON                                   6-(pyridin-2-yloxy)-2
                    N                               azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                    -2-yl)methanone
105                                119  337  >10000 ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                   N                                bromopyridin-2
               0                                    yl)oxy)-2
           N
                   BrN                              azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
    Br~u            N-N
                                                    -2-yl)(6-methyl-2-(2H
                                                    1,2,3-triazol-2
                                                    yl)pyridin-3
                                                    yl)methanone
106                                3    4    436    ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                   N                                bromopyridin-2
           N  0                                     yl)oxy)-2
        B                                           azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
        BrN-N              F
                        N                           -2-yl)(3-fluoro-2-(2H
                                                    1,2,3-triazol-2
                                                    yl)phenyl)methanone
107                                16   26   1960   ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                    N                               bromopyridin-2
           N  0    O                                yl)oxy)-2
         r          N-N                             azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                        rN                          -2-yl)(4-fluoro-2-(2H
                                                    1,2,3-triazol-2
                                                    yl)phenyl)methanone
                             - 409  -

Ex.          Compound                rOXi hOXi hOX2 Compound Name
No.                                  Ki   Ki   K
                                     (nM) (nM) (nM)
108                                  8    31   776  ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                    N         F                     bromopyridin-2
          N  0                                      yl)oxy)-2
         BONNazabicyclo                                         [2.2.1 ]heptan
    Brlu             N-N
                         N                          -2-yl)(5-fluoro-2-(2H
                                                    1,2,3-triazol-2
                                                    yl)phenyl)methanone
109                                  6    5    442  ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                   N     F                          bromopyridin-2
          N  0                                      yl)oxy)-2
         Br          o\/azabicyclo[2.2.                               1]heptan
                         N                          -2-yl)(2-fluoro-6-(2H
                                                    1,2,3-triazol-2
                                                    yl)phenyl)methanone
110                                  6    11   1200 ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                    N                               bromopyridin-2
           N 0                                      yl)oxy)-2
                   O      \ /    F                  azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan
         Br
     r                   N                          -2-yl)(4-fluoro-2
                                                    (pyrimidin-2
                                                    yl)phenyl)methanone
111                                  5    5    458  ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                    N         F                     bromopyridin-2
          N  0                                      yl)oxy)-2
         B                                          azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
    Br                4
                   r     N                          -2-yl)(5-fluoro-2
                                                    (pyrimidin-2
                                                    yl)phenyl)methanone
                               -410-

Ex.       Compound            rOXi hOXi hOX2 Compound Name
No.                           Ki   Ki   K
                              (nM) (nM) (nM)
112                           8    10   459  (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2
               N                             yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
      N   0                                  6-((5-chloropyridin-2
        I     0-                             yl)oxy)-2
                   N                         azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                             -2-yl)methanone
113                           17   14   984  ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
               N       F                     chloropyridin-2
      N   O                                  yl)oxy)-2
        I     0
    CI         N-N                           azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                   N                         -2-yl)(5-fluoro-2-(2H
                                             1,2,3-triazol-2
                                             yl)phenyl)methanone
114                           11   23   668  ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
               N     N                       chloropyridin-2
      N   0                                  yl)oxy)-2
    I          N-N                           azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                   NN                        -2-yl)(6-methyl-3-(2H
                                             1,2,3-triazol-2
                                             yl)pyridin-2
                                             yl)methanone
115                           7    8    852  ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
               N                             chloropyridin-2
      N   0                                  yl)oxy)-2
    CI                                       azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                   N                         -2-yl)(3-fluoro-2
                                             (pyrimidin-2
                                             yl)phenyl)methanone
                        -411-

Ex.          Compound                 rOXi hOXi hOX2 Compound Name
No.                                   Ki   Ki   K
                                      (nM) (nM) (nM)
116                                   11   12   939  ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                   N                                 chloropyridin-2
          N  0                                       yl)oxy)-2
                    N                                azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
    CI
                                                     -2-yl)(2-(5
                        'N
                F                                    fluoropyrimidin-2
                                                     yl)phenyl)methanone
117                                   16   28   1600 ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                   N                                 chloropyridin-2
          N  0                                       yl)oxy)-2
                  0                                  azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
    C1              N.        F
                                                     -2-yl)(3-fluoro-2-(5
                     $//N
                F                                    fluoropyrimidin-2
                                                     yl)phenyl)methanone
118                                   133  105  1600 (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2
                 N                                   yl)phenyl)((l S,4R,6R)
         N                                           6-((5-fluoropyridin-2
         F        N-                                 yl)oxy)-2
                                                     azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                     -2-yl)methanone
119                                   262       3600 ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                     N      N                        fluoropyridin-2-yl)oxy)
           N O                                       2
                                                     azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
       F             N--N
                          N                          -2-yl)(6-methyl-3-(2H
                                                     1,2,3-triazol-2
                                                     yl)pyridin-2
                                                     yl)methanone
                                -412-

Ex.          Compound                 rOXi     hOXi hOX2 Compound Name
No.                                   Ki       Ki   K
                                      (nM)     (nM) (nM)
120                                   60       111  4100 (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
                 N                                       2
        N   O                                            yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
                 S006-((5-fluoropyridin-2
    F                 N    F                             yl)oxy)-2
                                                         azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                         -2-yl)methanone
121                                   10       11   50   (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2
                    N                                    yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
    F                                                    (difluoromethyl)pyridin
      F                                                  -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                         azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                         -2-yl)methanone
122                                   28       30   218  ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                    N     N                              (difluoromethyl)pyridin
          N   o                                          -2-yl)oxy)-2
    F                N-N                                 azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
      F/N                                                -2-yl)(6-methyl-3-(2H
      F
                                                         1,2,3-triazol-2
                                                         yl)pyridin-2
                                                         yl)methanone
123                                   11       10   149  ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                    N                                    (difluoromethyl)pyridin
          N   0                                          -2-yl)oxy)-2
                   F    /Nazabicyclo[2.2.                                 1]heptan
      F                  N    F-2-yl)(3-fluoro-2
                                                         (pyrimidin-2
                               -413-

Ex.           Compound                rOXi hOXi hOX2   Compound Name
No.                                   Ki   Ki   K
                                      (nM) (nM) (nM)
                                                       yl)phenyl)methanone
124                                   200  109  4500   (5-fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3
                      N          F                     triazol-2
            N                                          yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
    F3 C    N         N-N
                          N                            (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
                                                       -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                       azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                       -2-yl)methanone
125                                   220  88   5500   (6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3
                      N     N-                         triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
            N  O                                       yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                                                       (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
    F3C     N         N-N
                          N                            -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                       azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                       -2-yl)methanone
126                                   27   22   4200   (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
                      N                                2
            N    O                                     yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
                      N                                6-((5
                      N~
                      r,
    F3C     N                  F
                          N                            (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
                                                       -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                       azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                       -2-yl)methanone
127                                   116  143  >10000 (4-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
                     N                                 2
                                                       yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)
         F IN    O ON              F                   6-((5
                    \   NN                             (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
                                -414-

Ex.       Compound             rOXi hOXi hOX2 Compound Name
No.                            Ki   Ki   K
                               (nM) (nM) (nM)
                                              -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                              azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                              -2-yl)methanone
128                            69   62   3800 (5-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
                  N       F                   2
        N  O                                  yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
        N       ON-                           6-((5
    F3C N
                F3C N                         (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
                                              -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                              azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                              -2-yl)methanone
129                            53   47   4400 (2-fluoro-6-(pyrimidin
                       F                      2
                 N
        N  O                                  yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
                  N                           6-((5
    F3C N
                \   NNN                       (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
                                              -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                              azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                              -2-yl)methanone
130                            29   27   3500 (2-(pyrimidin-2
                 N                            yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
        N    0                                6-((5
                  N                           (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
    F3C N             N                       -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                              azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                              -2-yl)methanone
                         -415-

Ex.      Compound                 rOXi hOXi hOX2   Compound Name
No.                               Ki   Ki   K
                                  (nM) (nM) (nM)
131                               140  132  2200   (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2
                N                                  yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
                                                   6-((5-methylpyrimidin
      N    O   O
        N        N-N                               2-yl)oxy)-2
                    N                              azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                   -2-yl)methanone
132                               425       6800   (6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3
             N                                     triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
      N O          NJyl)((1                               S,4R,6R)-6-((5
      N       N-N                                  methylpyrimidin-2
                  N                                yl)oxy)-2
                                                   azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                   -2-yl)methanone
133                               60   102  4200   (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
             N                                     2
    N   O                                          yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
             N                                     6-((5-methylpyrimidin
                  N                                2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                   azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                   -2-yl)methanone
134                               668       >10000 (5-methyl-3-(pyrimidin
               N     N                             2-yl)pyridin-2
     N   O                                         yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                                                   methylpyrimidin-2
                   N                               yl)oxy)-2
                                                   azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                   -2-yl)methanone
                            -416-

Ex.    Compound                  rOXi hOXi hOX2 Compound Name
No.                              Ki   Ki   K
                                 (nM) (nM) (nM)
135                              61   100  1200 (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2
               N                                yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
        S6-((5-ethylpyrimidin-2
          N    N-N                              yI)oxy)-2
                    N                           azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                                                -2-yl)methanone
136                              380       4700 ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                                                ethylpyrimidin-2
              N
    N   O                                       yl)oxy)-2
               N-N                              azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                    N                           -2-yl)(6-methyl-3-(2H
                                                1,2,3-triazol-2
                                                yl)pyridin-2
                                                yl)methanone
137                              39   65   1700 ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                 N                              ethylpyrimidin-2
     N   O                                      yl)oxy)-2
                  N                             azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                      N    F                    -2-yl)(3-fluoro-2
                                                (pyrimidin-2
                                                yl)phenyl)methanone
138                              300       2700 ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
              N                                 ethylpyrimidin-2
    N   O                                       yl)oxy)-2
             ON..                               azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                    N                           -2-yl)(6-methyl-3
                                                (pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin
                                                2-yl)methanone
                           -417-

Ex.       Compound               rOXi hOXi hOX2   Compound Name
No.                              Ki   Ki   Ki
                                 (nM) (nM) (nM)
139                              208  150  3700   (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2
                N                                 yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
        N  0                                      6-((6
        N  O
    F3C          N-N                              (trifluoromethyl)pyridaz
                     N                            in-3-yl)oxy)-2
                                                  azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                  -2-yl)methanone
140                              330       7700   (6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3
                      N-                          triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
                N
        N  0                                      yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((6
               ON-N                               (trifluoromethyl)pyridaz
    FC
                     N                            in-3-yl)oxy)-2
                                                  azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                  -2-yl)methanone
141                              208  348  >10000 (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
                N                                 2
        N  0                                      yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
                 N-                               6-((6
    F3C             /N    F                       (trifluoromethyl)pyridaz
                                                  in-3-yl)oxy)-2
                                                  azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                  -2-yl)methanone
142                              376       7900   (6-methyl-3-(pyrimidin
                N      N-                         2-yl)pyridin-2
        N  0                                      yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((6
                N-                                (trifluoromethyl)pyridaz
    F3C
                     N                            in-3-yl)oxy)-2
                                                  azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                  -2-yl)methanone
                           -418-

Ex.        Compound              rOXi hOXi hOX2 Compound Name
No.                              Ki   Ki   Ki
                                 (nM) (nM) (nM)
143                              24   34   7300 (6-methyl-2-(2H-1,2,3
                 N                              triazol-2-yl)pyridin-3
         N  NH                                  yl)(( S,4S,6R)-6-((5
    F3C           N-N                           (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                -2-yl)methanone
144                              3    3    133  (3-fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3
                 N                              triazol-2
         N  NH                                  yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
    F3C           N-N     F
                       'N                       (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                -2-yl)methanone
145                              17   7    934  (4-fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3
                 N                              triazol-2
         N  NH               F                     )phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
                                                6(5
        I3       N-N
     3              'N                          (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                -2-yl)methanone
146                              6    3    150  (2-fluoro-6-(2H-1,2,3
                        F                       triazol-2
                 N,
         N  NH                                  yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
                  N-N                           6-((5
    F3C
                       N                        (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                           -419-

Ex.       Compound               rOXi    hOXi hOX2 Compound Name
No.                              Ki      Ki   Ki
                                 (nM)    (nM) (nM)
                                                   -2-yl)methanone
147                              5       6    190  (2-fluoro-6-(pyrimidin
                    F                              2
                N,
        N  NH                                      yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
               FN                                  6-((5
    F3C            N                               (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                   -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                   azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                   -2-yl)methanone
148                              3       5    189  (2-(pyrimidin-2
                N                                  yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
        N  NH                                      6-((5
                 N  D(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
    F3C            N                               -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                   azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                   -2-yl)methanone
149                              14      7    4600 (5-methyl-3-(pyrimidin
                                                   2-yl)pyridin-2
                N    N
        N  NH                                      yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                N0                                 (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
    F3C            N                               -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                   azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                   -2-yl)methanone
150                              13      9    88   (6-methyl-3-(pyrimidin
                N    N2-yl)pyridin-2
        N  NH                                      yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
          NN
                 N                                 (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
    F3C             N                              -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                   azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                           - 420  -

Ex.           Compound               rOXi    hOXi       hOX2 Compound Name
No.                                   Ki     Ki         Ki
                                      (nM)   (nM)       (nM)
                                                             -2-yl)methanone
151                                   21     47         5100 (5-methyl-2-(pyrimidin
                     N                                       2-yl)pyridin-3
          N    NH                                            yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                      N     N                                (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
    F3C                  N                                   -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                             azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                             -2-yl)methanone
152                                   30     16         1600 (4-fluoro-2-(3-methyl
                     N                                       1,2,4-oxadiazol-5
          N    NH                                            yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
                 F3C      \      F6-((5
        F3 C
           -~         N                                      (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                       N
                                                             -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                             azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                             -2-yl)methanone
153                                   3      3          342  (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2
                     N                                       yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
          N    N     /                                       6-(methyl(5
        F3C          N                                       (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                         N                                   -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                             azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                             -2-yl)methanone
154                                   4      6          329  (3-fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3
                     N                                       triazol-2
          N    N                                             yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
                     NN      F6-(methyl(5
                         N    F(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                             -2-yl)amino)-2
                              -421-

Ex.        Compound                         rOXi hOXi hOX2 Compound Name
No.                                         Ki   Ki   Ki
                                            (nM) (nM) (nM)
                                                           azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                           -2-yl)methanone
155                                         5    3    303  (5-fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3
                  N               F                        triazol-2
         N  N                                              yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
        FC         N-N                                     6-(methyl(5
     3                 'N                                  (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                           -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                           azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                           -2-yl)methanone
156                                         7    5    274  ((1 S,4S,6R)-6
                  N      N-                                (methyl(5
         N  N                                              (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
        F3C        N-N      /-2-yl)amino)-2
    F3C
                        N                                  azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                           -2-yl)(6-methyl-3-(2H
                                                           1,2,3-triazol-2
                                                           yl)pyridin-2
                                                           yl)methanone
157                                         6    3    351  (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
                 N                                         2
            N                                              yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
                   N-                                      6-(methyl(5
    F3C                       F
                 \    ,N                                   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                           -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                           azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                           -2-yl)methanone
                                -   422      -

Ex.         Compound                   rOXi   hOXi    hOX2 Compound Name
No.                                    K        i     K
                                       (nM)   (nM)    (nM)
158                                    5      2       340  (5-fluoro-2-(pynimidmn
                   N-             F                        2
         N   N                /yl)phenyl)((1                             S,4S,6R)
                    K-N~6-(methyl(5
                   U\    1,N                               (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                           -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                           azabicyclo [2.2. 1 ]heptan
                                                           -2-yl)methanone
159                                    6      4       209  (2-fluoro-6-(pynimidmn
                 4          F                              2
           N~ N                /yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)
        I3             N-                                  6-(methyl(5
        F3            \N                                   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                           -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                           azabicyclo [2.2. 1 ]heptan
                                                           -2-yl)methanone
160                                    9      6       208  (2-fluoro-6-(2H-1,2,3
                   N                                       triazol-2
         N   N                                             yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
    F3C                 N~     F                           (tifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                           -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                           azabicyclo [2.2. 1 ]heptan
                                                           -2-yl)methanone
                                -  423  -

Ex.        Compound              rOXi   hOXi hOX2   Compound Name
No.                              Ki     Ki   Ki
                                 (nM)   (nM) (nM)
161                              14     5    384    ((1S,4S,6R)-6
                  N                                 ((cyclopropylmethyl)(5
         N  N                                       (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
    F3C        A N          F                       -2-yl)amino)-2
                       N                            azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                    -2-yl)(3-fluoro-2
                                                    (pyrimidin-2
                                                    yl)phenyl)methanone
162                              >10000      >10000 N-((1S,4R,6R)-2-(3
                  N                                 fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
         N  NAc                                     yl)benzoyl)-2
                    N       F                       azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan
    F3C
                       N                            -6-yl)-N-(5
                                                    (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                    -2-yl)acetamide
163                              19     12   962    (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
                  N                                 2
         N  N                                       yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
    F3C             N       F                       6-((2-methoxyethyl)(5
                       MN                           (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                    -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                    azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                    -2-yl)methanone
166                              2      4    236    (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2
                N                                   yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
        N  NH                                       6-((5-bromopyridin-2
               0
                 N-N                                yl)amino)-2
    Br
                     N                              azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                    -2-yl)methanone
                          -  424  -

Ex.           Compound                rOXi hOXi hOX2 Compound Name
No.                                   Ki   Ki   Ki
                                      (nM) (nM) (nM)
167                                   2    6    239  ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                    N                                bromopyridin-2
          N   NH                                     yl)amino)-2
    Br               N-       F                      azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                         N                           -2-yl)(3-fluoro-2
                                                     (pyrimidin-2
                                                     yl)phenyl)methanone
168                                   2    4    351  ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                    N     F                          bromopyridin-2
          N   NH                                     yl)amino)-2
                   ON                                azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
    B
                    r    N                           -2-yl)(2-fluoro-6
                                                     (pyrimidin-2
                                                     yl)phenyl)methanone
169                                   3    4    285  (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2
                    N                                yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
          N   NH                                     6-((5-chloropyridin-2
                     N-N                             yl)amino)-2
    C1
                         N                           azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                     -2-yl)methanone
170                                   4    12   321  ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                      N                              chloropyridin-2
            N   NH                                   yl)amino)-2
          C            N-                            azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
       CI                       F
                            N                        -2-yl)(3-fluoro-2
                                                     (pyrimidin-2
                                                     yl)phenyl)methanone
                                - 425  -

Ex.         Compound                rOXi hOXi hOX2 Compound Name
No.                                 Ki   Ki   Ki
                                    (nM) (nM) (nM)
171                                 27   25   1900 ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                  N                                chloropyridin-2
         N  NH            /     F                  yl)amino)-2
    c1             Nl  \                           azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                 \    N                            -2-yl)(4-fluoro-2
                                                   (pyrimidin-2
                                                   yl)phenyl)methanone
172                                 8    7    400  ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                 N          F                      chloropyridin-2
         N" NH                                     yl)amino)-2
                0 N-                               azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
    CI
                 C1/N                              -2-yl)(5-fluoro-2
                                                   (pyrimidin-2
                                                   yl)phenyl)methanone
173                                 55   33   264  (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2
                   N                               yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)
          N  NH                                    6-((5
    F yk            N-N                            (difluoromethyl)pyridin
       F               N                           -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                   azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                   -2-yl)methanone
174                                 18   15   230  ((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                   N                               (difluoromethyl)pyridin
          N  NH                                    -2-yl)amino)-2
    F               N       F                      azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
       F                N                          -2-yl)(3-fluoro-2
                                                   (pyrimidin-2
                                                   yl)phenyl)methanone
                              - 426  -

Ex.           Compound             rOXi    hOXi     hOX2 Compound Name
No.                                 Ki     Ki       Ki
                                    (nM)   (nM)     (nM)
175                                 170    191      844  (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2
                     N                                   yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
           N    NH                                       6-((5-methoxypyridin
                     N-N                                 2-yl)amino)-2
    MeOUMO
                          N                              azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                         -2-yl)methanone
176                                 56     52       1300 (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
                      N                                  2
            N   NH                                       yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)
          M           N       F6-((5-methoxypyridin
     MeO               N~     F
                           N                             2-yl)amino)-2
                                                         azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                         -2-yl)methanone
177                                 3      3        200  (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2
          F         N                                    yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
               NH                                        6-((3-fluoro-5
                                                         (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
    F3C    -N       N-N
                        N                                -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                         azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                         -2-yl)methanone
178                                 6      8        112  ((1S,4S,6R)-6-((3
                                                         fluoro-5
               NH                                        (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                     N-N                                 -2-yl)amino)-2
    F   C    N
      3                 N                                azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                         -2-yl)(6-methyl-3-(2H
                                                         1,2,3-triazol-2
                                                         yl)pyridin-2
                                                         yl)methanone
                             - 427   -

Ex.         Compound               rOXi hOXi hOX2 Compound Name
No.                                Ki   Ki   Ki
                                   (nM) (nM) (nM)
179                                5    5    217  (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
          F          N                            2
              NH                                  yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)
                    0      /
            N        N                            6-((3-fluoro-5
    F3C                  N   F                    (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                  -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                  azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                  -2-yl)methanone
180                                6    5    380  ((1S,4S,6R)-6-((3
        F          N                              fluoro-5
             NH                                   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                  O
           N        N                             -2-yl)amino)-2
                  F3C   N                         azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                 F                                -2-yl)(2-(5
                                                  fluoropyrimidin-2
                                                  yl)phenyl)methanone
181                                5    8    163  ((1S,4S,6R)-6
                                                  (benzo[d]oxazol-2
                  N     N
            NH                                    ylamino)-2
         O        N-N                             azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                       N                          -2-yl)(6-methyl-3-(2H
                                                  1,2,3-triazol-2
                                                  yl)pyridin-2
                                                  yl)methanone
                             -428-

Ex.            Compound               rOXi  hOXi hOX2 Compound Name
No.                                    Ki   Ki   Ki
                                       (nM) (nM) (nM)
182                                    3    4    218  ((1S,4S,6R)-6
                    N                                 (benzo[d]oxazol-2
              NNH                                     ylamino)-2
                             F
                      -N qazabicyclo                              [2.2.1 ]heptan
        d :10        N-N      F
                         N                            -2-yl)(3-fluoro-2-(2H
                                                      1,2,3-triazol-2
                                                      yl)phenyl)methanone
183                                    5    7    206  ((1 S,4S,6R)-6
                    N                                 (benzo[d]oxazol-2
               NH                                     ylamino)-2
                             F                        azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                    d   /N                            -2-yl)(3-fluoro-2
                                                      (pyrimidin-2
                                                      yl)phenyl)methanone
184                                    13   15   337  (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
                   N                                  2
             NH                                       yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
                              N                       6-(p-tolylamino)-2
                        N                             azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                      -2-yl)methanone
185                                    27   33   146  (1H-indol-7
                       N                              yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
          N     NH                                    (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                           N                          -2-yl)amino)-2
    F3C     CH           HN~-azabicyclo
                                                                  [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                      -2-yl)methanone
                                - 429   -

Ex.        Compound                rOXi   hOXi hOX2   Compound Name
No.                                Ki     Ki   Ki
                                   (nM)   (nM) (nM)
186                                123    151  2700   (1H-indazol-7
                  N                                   yl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
        N    NH                                       (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                      -2-yl)amino)-2
                    HN,
    F3C                  N                            azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                      -2-yl)methanone
187                                28     30   1600   (5-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3
                 N                                    triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
        N   NH                                        yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                 NN(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
    F3C NF3C      N-N
                      N                               -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                      azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                      -2-yl)methanone
188                                191    210  >10000 (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2
                  N                                   yl)pyridin-3
        N    NH                                       yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                           N                          (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
    F3C N         N-N
                       N                              -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                      azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                      -2-yl)methanone
189                                14     11   678    (3-(pyrimidin-2
                                                      yl)pyridin-2
                  N      N
        N    NH                                       yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                                                      (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
    F3C N              N                              -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                      azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                      -2-yl)methanone.
                             -430-

Ex.          Compound             rOXi hOXi hOX2   Compound Name
No.                               Ki   Ki   Ki
                                  (nM) (nM) (nM)
190                               12   12   >10000 (5-methyl-3-(pyrimidin
                   N     N                         2-yl)pyridin-2
        N     NH                                   yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                                                   (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
    F3C N IT           N                           -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                   azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                   -2-yl)methanone
191                               15   13   163    (6-methyl-3-(pyrimidin
                   N     N                         2-yl)pyridin-2
        N     NH                                   yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                                                   (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
    F3C N         ON-
                       N                           -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                   azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                   -2-yl)methanone
192                               8    7    249    (3-fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3
                   N                               triazol-2
        N     NH                                   yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
                                                   6-((5
    F3C N          N-N     F
                       'N                          (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
                                                   -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                   azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                   -2-yl)methanone
193                               40   65   2000   (4-fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3
                   N                               triazol-2
        N     NH                                   yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
    F3C N          N-N
                       'N                          (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
                                                   -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                   azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                            -431-

Ex.        Compound             rOXi hOXi hOX2 Compound Name
No.                             Ki   Ki   Ki
                                (nM) (nM) (nM)
                                               -2-yl)methanone
194                             8    8    241  ((5-fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3
                  N        F                   triazol-2
         N  NH                                 yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
    F3 C N        N-N
                       'N                      (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
                                               -2-yl)amino)-2
                                               azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                               -2-yl)methanone
195                             9    8    199  (2-fluoro-6-(2H-1,2,3
                        F                      triazol-2
         N  NH                                 yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
    F3C  N        N-N6
                       'N                      (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
                                               -2-yl)amino)-2
                                               azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                               -2-yl)methanone
196                             6    4    60   (3-methyl-2-(2H-1,2,3
                  N                            triazol-2
         N  NH                                 yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
                ,6-((5
    F3C  N        N-N
                       'N                      (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
                                               -2-yl)amino)-2
                                               azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                               -2-yl)methanone
                          -432-

Ex.        Compound            rOXi hOXi hOX2 Compound Name
No.                            Ki   Ki   Ki
                               (nM) (nM) (nM)
197                            93   39   9700 (4-methoxy-2-(2H
               N                              1,2,3-triazol-2
        N  NH O         OMe                   yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)
    F3C N       N-N                           6-((5
                    N                         (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
                                              -2-yl)amino)-2
                                              azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                              -2-yl)methanone
198                            11   9    1375 (4-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
                 N                            2
        N   NH                                yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
                  N         F                 6-((5
    F3C N
                 \ N-N                        (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
                                              -2-yl)amino)-2
                                              azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                              -2-yl)methanone
199                            6    8    221  (5-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
                  N       F                   2
         N  NH                                yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
                                              6-((5
         N        N
    F3C               N                       (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
                                              -2-yl)amino)-2
                                              azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                              -2-yl)methanone
                         -433-

 Ex.          Compound                 rOXi    hOXi hOX2 Compound Name
 No.                                   Ki      Ki   Ki
                                       (nM)    (nM) (nM)
200                                    7       6    240  (2-fluoro-6-(pyrimidin
                           F                             2
                     N
          N     NH                                       yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
                     N                                   6-((5
     F3C  NITN
                                                         (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
                                                         -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                         azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                         -2-yl)methanone
201                                    6       6    213  (2-(pyrimidin-2
                     N                                   yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
          N     NH                                       6-((5
                           N                             (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
     F3C  N               N                              -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                         azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                         -2-yl)methanone
202                                    13      13   302  (5-fluoro-2-(oxazol-2
                     N            F                      yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)
          N     NH                                       6-((5
            F3       N(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
     F3 C N
                                                         -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                         azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                         -2-yl)methanone
203                                    9       9    545  (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin
                     N                                   2
          N     NH                                       yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
             N0                                          6-((5
     F 3C         N    N                                 (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
                   F                                     -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                         azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                 -434-

 Ex.        Compound             rOXi hOXi hOX2 Compound Name
 No.                             Ki   Ki   Ki
                                 (nM) (nM) (nM)
                                                -2-yl)methanone
204                              9    9    960  (3-fluoro-2-(5
                    N                           fluoropyrimidin-2
         N    NH                                yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
           NN                                   6-((5
     F3C N          N     F
                  F3 C N                        (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
                 F                              -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                -2-yl)methanone
205                              51   35   846  (3-phenylpyrazin-2
                        N                       yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                    N
         N    NH                                (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
                   0NN                          -2-yl)amino)-2
     F3C N
                                                azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                -2-yl)methanone
206                              8    10   103  [1,1'-biphenyl]-2
                    N                           yl((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
         N    NH                                (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
                                                -2-yl)amino)-2
     F3C N
                                                azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                -2-yl)methanone
207                              143  127  611  (3-phenylfuran-2
                                                yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                   HN                           (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
          N    H       O                        -2-yl)amino)-2
     F3C N                                      azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                -2-yl)methanone
                           -435-

 Ex.          Compound              rOXi hOXi hOX2 Compound Name
 No.                                Ki   Ki   Ki
                                    (nM) (nM) (nM)
208                                 7    6    846  (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
                    N                              2
          N,   NMe                                 yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
                                                   6-(methyl(5
     F3C  N              /N  F                     (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
                                                   -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                   azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                   -2-yl)methanone
209                                 9    5    753  (5-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
                    N         F                    2
          N    NMe                                 yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
                                                   6-(methyl(5
     F3C  N IN
                    F3,NN                          (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
                                                   -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                   azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                   -2-yl)methanone
210                                 6    5    502  ((1 S,4S,6R)-6
                    N                              (methyl(5
          N    NMe                                 (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
                      NT                           -2-yl)amino)-2
     F 3C N                N                       azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                   -2-yl)(2-(pyrimidin-2
                                                   yl)phenyl)methanone
211                                 31   16   1300 ((1S,4S,6R)-6
                    N                              ((cyclopropylmethyl)(5
          N    N                                   (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
                      NN                           -2-yl)amino)-2
     F3C  N           N
                    \      N                       azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                   -2-yl)(3-fluoro-2
                              -436-

 Ex.         Compound                   rOXi hOXi hOX2 Compound Name
 No.                                    Ki   Ki   Ki
                                        (nM) (nM) (nM)
                                                       (pyrimidin-2
                                                       yl)phenyl)methanone
212                                     14   9    607  ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                  N                                    chloropyrazin-2
          N  NH                                        yl)amino)-2
           C
           T   N O            F..
                         qazabicyclo                               [2.2.1 ]heptan
     CI   N         N-N       F
                        N                              -2-yl)(3-fluoro-2-(2H
                                                       1,2,3-triazol-2
                                                       yl)phenyl)methanone
213                                     39   31   871  ((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                   N            F                      chloropyrazin-2
          N  NH                                        yl)amino)-2
                                                       azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
        clN         N-N
                        N                              -2-yl)(5-fluoro-2-(2H
                                                       1,2,3-triazol-2
                                                       yl)phenyl)methanone
214                                     13   14   708  ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                  N                                    chloropyrazin-2
          N  NH                                        yl)amino)-2
                                                       azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
     CI   N                   F
                  \     N                              -2-yl)(3-fluoro-2
                                                       (pyrimidin-2
                                                       yl)phenyl)methanone
                                  -437-

 Ex.           Compound                 rOXi hOXi hOX2 Compound Name
 No.                                    Ki   Ki   Ki
                                        (nM) (nM) (nM)
215                                     12   13   435  ((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                      N                                chloropyrazin-2
          N    NH                                      yl)amino)-2
                    NONazabicyclo                                  [2.2.1 ]heptan
     CI   NCr         N
                            N                          -2-yl)(2-(pyrimidin-2
                                                       yl)phenyl)methanone
216                                     9    9    500  ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                      N                                chloropyrazin-2
          N    NH                                      yl)amino)-2
                                                       azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
     CI   N                    F
                     \    ,,N                          -2-yl)(3-fluoro-2-(5
                   F                                   fluoropyrimidin-2
                                                       yl)phenyl)methanone
217                                     12   29   390  (3-fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3
                       N                               triazol-2
           N     NH                                    yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
                                F                      6-((5-methylpyrazin-2
           N
           N            N-NN-
                        N       F
                             N                         yl)amino)-2
                                                       azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                       -2-yl)methanone
218                                     31   49   490  (5-fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3
                               F                       triazol-2
        N     NH                                       yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
                    N-N                                6-((5-methylpyrazin-2
                          N                            yl)amino)-2
                                                       azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                       -2-yl)methanone
                                  -438-

 Ex.             Compound                rOXi hOXi hOX2   Compound Name
 No.                                     Ki   Ki   Ki
                                         (nM) (nM) (nM)
219                                      20   27   480    (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
                      N                                   2
          N     NH                                        yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
                      N~                                  6-((5-methylpyrazin-2
          NNIN-                 F6
                           N                              yl)amino)-2
                                                          azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                          -2-yl)methanone
220                                      11   17   284    ((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                      N                                   methylpyrazin-2
          N     NH                                        yl)amino)-2
                      N-                                  azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                           N                              -2-yl)(2-(pyrimidin-2
                                                          yl)phenyl)methanone
221                                      2100      3000   Methyl 5-(((1S,4S,6R)
                             N                            2-(2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol
                 N    NH                                  2-yl)benzoyl)-2
                 N           N-N                          azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
     MeO 2C
                                 N                        -6-yl)amino)pyrazine-2
                                                          carboxylate
222                                      261       >10000 (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2
                         N                                yl)pyridin-3
             N     NH                                     yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                        0
     F 3C     -N          NN     N                        (trifluoromethyl)pyrimi
                              N                           din-2-yl)amino)-2
                                                          azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                          -2-yl)methanone
                                   -439-

 Ex.           Compound              rOXi hOXi hOX2 Compound Name
 No.                                 Ki   Ki   Ki
                                     (nM) (nM) (nM)
223                                  11   6    619  (3-fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3
                      N                             triazol-2
           N    NH                                  yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)
                      N-N    F
     F3C
                          'N                        (trifluoromethyl)pyrimi
                                                    din-2-yl)amino)-2
                                                    azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                    -2-yl)methanone
224                                  37   33   1900 (4-fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3
                      N                             triazol-2
           SNH      /F                              yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)
         F3C N        N-N
       3                  N                         (trifluoromethyl)pyrimi
                                                    din-2-yl)amino)-2
                                                    azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                    -2-yl)methanone
225                                  20   16   800  (5-fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3
                      N         F                   triazol-2
           N    NH                                  yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
                                                         5N-N
             I       0
                       N
     F3C
                          N                         (trifluoromethyl)pyrimi
                                                    din-2-yl)amino)-2
                                                    azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                    -2-yl)methanone
226                                  17   19   874  (2-fluoro-6-(2H-1,2,3
                           F                        triazol-2
           N    NH                                  yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
         CN-N                                       6-((5
                          N                         (trifluoromethyl)pyrimi
                              -  440  -

 Ex.          Compound            rOXi hOXi hOX2 Compound Name
 No.                              Ki   Ki   Ki
                                  (nM) (nM) (nM)
                                                 din-2-yl)amino)-2
                                                 azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                 -2-yl)methanone
227                               12   13   3100 (4-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
                    N                            2
          N    NH                                yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
                     N  \/F                      6(5
     F3C    N        N
                    F3CN                         (trifluoromethyl)pyrimi
                                                 din-2-yl)amino)-2
                                                 azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                 -2-yl)methanone
228                               11   9    544  (5-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
                     N       F                   2
          N    NH                                yl)phenyl)((1S,4S,6R)
                 N   N-                          6-((5
     F3 C               N                        (trifluoromethyl)pyrimi
                                                 din-2-yl)amino)-2
                                                 azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                 -2-yl)methanone
229                               9    11   724  (2-fluoro-6-(pyrimidin
                          F                      2
                      N
           N    NH                               yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
      F3C
                         N                       (trifluoromethyl)pyrimi
                                                 din-2-yl)amino)-2
                                                 azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                 -2-yl)methanone
                            -441-

 Ex.         Compound              rOXi hOXi hOX2 Compound Name
 No.                               Ki   Ki   Ki
                                   (nM) (nM) (nM)
230                                4    4    470  (2-(pyrimidin-2
                    N                             yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
          N   NH                                  6-((5
          CN         N-                           (trifluoromethyl)pyrimi
     F 3C                 N                       din-2-yl)amino)-2
                                                  azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                  -2-yl)methanone
231                                9    12   1300 (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin
                    N                             2
          N   NH                                  yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
                             N                    6-((5
     F3C    N
                  F3 /- N                         (trifluoromethyl)pyrimi
                 F                                din-2-yl)amino)-2
                                                  azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                  -2-yl)methanone
232                                24   25   1352 (2-fluoro-6-(oxazol-2
                    N      F                      yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
          N   NH                                  6-((5
                   0                              (trifluoromethyl)pyrimi
          FCN        0  N
     F3                   N                       din-2-yl)amino)-2
                                                  azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                  -2-yl)methanone
233                                280       1100 (3-ethoxy-6
                                                  methylpyridin-2
                    N
          N   NH                                  yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                   0                              (trifluoromethyl)pyrimi
     F3 0  -N          EtO                        din-2-yl)amino)-2
                                                  azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                  -2-yl)methanone
                             - 442  -

 Ex.        Compound              rOXi    hOXi hOX2 Compound Name
 No.                              Ki      Ki   Ki
                                  (nM)    (nM) (nM)
234                               17      12   827  ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                 N                                  chloropyrimidin-2
        N   NH                                      yl)amino)-2
          N      N-N     F                          azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                     N                              -2-yl)(3-fluoro-2-(2H
                                                    1,2,3-triazol-2
                                                    yl)phenyl)methanone
235                               36      41   1300 ((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                  N         F                       chloropyrimidin-2
         N   NH
              6                                     yl)amino)-2
                                                    azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
     C1    N       N-N
                       N                            -2-yl)(5-fluoro-2-(2H
                                                    1,2,3-triazol-2
                                                    yl)phenyl)methanone
236                               10      9    1020 ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                 N                                  chloropyrimidin-2
        NNNH                                        yl)amino)-2
                 N                                  azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
        C1               F
                     N                              -2-yl)(3-fluoro-2
                                                    (pyrimidin-2
                                                    yl)phenyl)methanone
237                               32      13   1900 ((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                 N                                  chloropyrimidin-2
        N   NH                F                     yl)amino)-2
                 N-   \       Fazabicyclo                       [2.2.1 ]heptan
                 C1/N                               -2-yl)(4-fluoro-2
                                                    (pyrimidin-2
                                                    yl)phenyl)methanone
                           - 443   -

 Ex.        Compound               rOXi hOXi hOX2 Compound Name
 No.                               Ki   Ki   Ki
                                   (nM) (nM) (nM)
238                                20   8    991  ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                   N        F                     chloropyrimidin-2
                                                  yl)(methyl)amino)-2
       NI     Me
                    N-                            azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
     C
                        N                         -2-yl)(5-fluoro-2
                                                  (pyrimidin-2
                                                  yl)phenyl)methanone
239                                23   41   726  ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                   N    F                         chloropyrimidin-2
       N     NH                                   yl)amino)-2
          N        N-                             azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                  C1/N                            -2-yl)(2-fluoro-6
                                                  (pyrimidin-2
                                                  yl)phenyl)methanone
240                                17   12   831  ((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                     N                            chloropyrimidin-2
          NY   NH                                 yl)amino)-2
                                                  azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
            SON-
                          N                       -2-yl)(2-(pyrimidin-2
                                                  yl)phenyl)methanone
241                                21   12   971  ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                   N                              chloropyrimidin-2
       N     NMe                                  yl)(methyl)amino)-2
          C       ON                              azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                   \ N
                                                  -2-yl)(2-(5
                       'N
                F                                 fluoropyrimidin-2
                                                  yl)phenyl)methanone
                             - 444  -

 Ex.       Compound                rOXi hOXi hOX2 Compound Name
 No.                               Ki   Ki   Ki
                                   (nM) (nM) (nM)
242                                89   113  2100 (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2
                  N                               yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
         N  NH                                    6-((6
         N   H
                                                  (trifluoromethyl)pyridaz
     F3C           N-N
                       N                          in-3-yl)amino)-2
                                                  azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                  -2-yl)methanone
243                                112  131  1800 (6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3
                                                  triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
                 N      N-
         N  NH                                    yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((6
                0
                                                  (trifluoromethyl)pyridaz
     FC         ON-N
                       N                          in-3-yl)amino)-2
                                                  azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                  -2-yl)methanone
244                                114  143  1700 (6-methyl-3-(pyrimidin
                 N       N-                       2-yl)pyridin-2
         N  NH                                    yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((6
                  N-                              (trifluoromethyl)pyridaz
                 \     N                          in-3-yl)amino)-2
                                                  azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                  -2-yl)methanone
245                                65   53   4300 (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
                  N                               2
         N  NH                                    yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
                0
                    N-                            6-((6
     F3C          \     N   F                     (trifluoromethyl)pyridaz
                                                  in-3-yl)amino)-2
                                                  azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                  -2-yl)methanone
                             - 445  -

 Ex.             Compound                    rOXi hOXi hOX2 Compound Name
 No.                                         Ki   Ki   Ki
                                             (nM) (nM) (nM)
246                                          194  155  843  (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2
                         N                                  yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
                    NH                                      6-((6
          FC N(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                          N-N
     F3C      N
                               N                            -3-yl)amino)-2
                                                            azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                            -2-yl)methanone
247                                          26   31   939  (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
                         N                                  2
                    NH                                      yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
                          N7P6-((6
     F3C      N                      F
                               N                            (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                            -3-yl)amino)-2
                                                            azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                            -2-yl)methanone
248                                          11   14   467  (R/S)-(3-fluoro-2
                                                            (pyrimidin-2
                         N
              N    O                                        yl)phenyl)(6-((5
                          N                                 (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
     F3C                       N     F                      -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                            azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                                                            2-yl)methanone
249                                          8    15   758  (R/S)- (3-fluoro-2-(2H
                                                            1,2,3-triazol-2
                         N
              N    O                                        yl)phenyl)(6-((5
            F                                               (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
     F3 0                 N-N        F                      -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                            azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                                                            2-yl)methanone
                                       - 446  -

 Ex.          Compound                rOXi   hOXi hOX2   Compound Name
 No.                                  K        i  K
                                      (nM)   (nM) (nM)
250                                   22     24   1800   (R/S)- (4-fluoro-2
                    N                                    (pyrimidin-2
           Nz                      F                     yl)phenyl)(6-((5
                   0                                     (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
     F3 C              N~                                -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                         azabicyclo [2.2.2]octan
                                                         2-yl)methanone
251                                   18     11   760    (RIS)- (2-(5
                    N                                    fluoropyrimidmn-2
          N    0                                         yl)phenyl)(6-((5
                   0                                     (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
     F3C               N~                                -2-yl)oxy)-2
                  F                                      azabicyclo [2.2.2]octan
                                                         2-yl)methanone
252                                   13     14   312    (R/S)-(6-methyl-3-(2H
                            6  N      N-1                  ,2,3-triazol-2
                      N NH                               yl)pyridin-2-yl)-6-((5
                   0                                     (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
     F3 0 N          N-N                                 -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                         azabicyclo [2.2.2]octan
                                                         2-yl)methanone
253                                   >10000      >10000 (R/S)-(6-methyl-3-(2H
               H
          NN                                             1,2,3-triazol-2
     F3 0 N                 \/yl)pyridin-2
                      N-N                                yl)((l S,4R,6S)-6-((5
                        /-N                              (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
                                                         -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                         azabicyclo [2.2.2]octan
                                                         2-yl)methanone
                                - 447  -

 Ex.         Compound               rOXi hOXi hOX2 Compound Name
 No.                                Ki   Ki   Ki
                                    (nM) (nM) (nM)
254                                 12   10   307  (R/S)-(2-(2H-1,2,3
                    N                              triazol-2-yl)phenyl)(6
          N   NH     O((5
                                                   (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
     F3C  N            NN                          -2-yl)amino)-2
                       /
                                                   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                                                   2-yl)methanone
255                                 12   11   1000 (R/S)- (3-fluoro-2-(2H
                                                   1,2,3-triazol-2
                    N
          N   NH                                   yl)phenyl)(6-((5
                   0                               (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
     F3C  NIN-N             F                      -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                                                   2-yl)methanone
256                                 20   10   348  (R/S)- (3-methyl-2-(2H
                                                   1,2,3-triazol-2
                      N
           N    NH                                 yl)phenyl)(6-((5
                     0                             (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
      F3C  N           N-N
                       3N                          -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                                                   2-yl)methanone
257                                 21   24   741  (R/S)- (3-fluoro-2
                                                   (pyrimidin-2
                    N
          N   NH                                   yl)phenyl)(6-((5
                     N                             (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
     F3C  N               N F                      -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                              -448-

 Ex.          Compound             rOXi hOXi hOX2 Compound Name
 No.                               Ki   Ki   Ki
                                   (nM) (nM) (nM)
                                                  2-yl)methanone
258                                26   17   2600 (R/S)- (4-fluoro-2
                    N                             (pyrimidin-2
            N  NH                                 yl)phenyl)(6-((5
                   ON-                            (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
     F3C    N
                        N                         -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                  azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                                                  2-yl)methanone
259                                16   19   865  (4-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
                    N                             2
            N  O               F                  yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)
         F3        O0   \                         6-((5
                        N                         (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                  -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                  azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                                                  2-yl)methanone
260                                11   10   294  (5-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
                     N        F                   2
            N   O                                 yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
                      N                           6-((5
      3             \     N                       (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                  -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                  azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                                                  2-yl)methanone
                            -  449  -

 Ex.         Compound             rOXi hOXi hOX2   Compound Name
No.                                K     i  K
                                  (nM) (nM) (nM)
261                                21  9    400    (2-fluoro-6-(pynimidmn
                         F                         2
                    N
           N   0                                   yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
     F3C               N~                          (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                   -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                   azabicyclo [2.2.2]octan
                                                   2-yl)methanone
262                                10  10   550    (2-(5-fluoropyrimidmn
                                                   2
           N   0                                   yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
             N       N
     F3C               N~                          (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                  F                                -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                   azabicyclo [2.2.2]octan
                                                   2-yl)methanone
263                                11  9    1100   (3-fluoro-2-(5
                    N                              fluoropyrimidin-2
              N ~                                  yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
     F3C             NP      F                     (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                  F                                -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                   azabicyclo [2.2.2]octan
                                                   2-yl)methanone
264                                10  16   >10000 (5-methyl-3-(pyrimidmn
                             N N-                  2-yl)pyridin-2
          N   0                                    yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
         I3        0N-                             (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                        NF2yloC)2
                              -450-

 Ex.            Compound                rOXi   hOXi     hOX2  Compound Name
No.                                      K       i      K
                                        (nM)   (nM)     (nM)
                                                              azabicyclo [2.2.2]octan
                                                              2-yl)methanone
265                                      14    19       306   (6-methyl-3-(pyrimidin
                                    N  PN-2-yl)pyridin-2
                        N                                     yl)Q(l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
               NOtilooety~yii
                 NN
                    F3C       N-2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                              azabicyclo [2.2.2]octan
                                                              2-yl)methanone
266                                      11    11       654   (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
                                                              2
            N    0j                                           yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
                                  0                           6-((3 -fluoro-5
     F3 0         F       N~      F                           (tifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                              -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                              azabicyclo [2.2.2]octan
                                                              2-yl)methanone
267                                      26    19        1100 (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
                           AN                                 2
          N   U                                               yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
                                0                             6-((5-methylpyridin-2
                               F
                      \1       F                              yl)oxy)-2
                                                              azabicyclo [2.2.2]octan
                                                              2-yl)methanone
                                   -451-

 Ex.         Compound                   rOXi    hOXi   hOX2 Compound Name
No.                                     K         i    K
                                        (nM)    (nM)   (nM)
268                                     5       4      200  (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2
                     N                                      yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
            N0                                              6-((5-bromopyridin-2
                    0N                                      yl)oxy)-2
                      N-N
                      /ru                                   azabicyclo [2.2.2]octan
                                                            2-yl)methanone
269                                     4       5      363  ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                     N                                      bromopyridin-2
                N           c~yl)oxy)-2
                                           ~azabicyclo                  [2.2.2]octan
     Br                  N~    F                            2-yl)(3-fluoro-2
                                                            (pyrimidin-2
                                                            yl)phenyl)methanone
270                                     4       3      200  (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2
                     N                                      yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
                                                            6-((5-chloropyridin-2
            N C
                                                            yl)oxy)-2
                    0
                  cl N-Nazabicyclo                                      [2.2.2]octan
                                                            2-yl)methanone
271                                     7       8      452  ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                     N                                      chloropyridin-2
        N     0j                                            yl)oxy)-2
          I          00                                     azabicyclo [2.2.2]octan
                    \l    N    F                            2-yl)(3-fluoro-2
                                                            (pyrimidin-2
                                                            yl)phenyl)methanone
                                  - 452  -

 Ex.         Compound             rOXi hOXi hOX2 Compound Name
No.                                K     i  K
                                  (nM) (nM) (nM)
272                                23  11   1400 (2-(5-fluoropyrimidmn
                                                 2
         N    0                                  yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
     F3C N          N-                           (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
                  F                              -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                 azabicyclo [2.2.2]octan
                                                 2-yl)methanone
273                                44  16   3800 (3-fluoro-2-(5
                    N                            fluoropyrimidin-2
         N    0                                  yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
     F3C N          N~      F                    (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
                  F                              -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                 azabicyclo [2.2.2]octan
                                                 2-yl)methanone
274                                11  8    534  (3-fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3
                                                 triazol-2
         N    NH                                 yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
     F3C NI         N-N     F                    (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
                          N
                                                 -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                 azabicyclo [2.2.2]octan
                                                 2-yl)methanone
275                                8   5    175  (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2
                    N,                           yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
         N,   NH(5
                H
          :N                0,-Q                 (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
     F3C N          N-N                          -2-yl)amino)-2
                       I'
                             -453-

 Ex.          Compound                 rOXi hOXi hOX2   Compound Name
 No.                                   Ki   Ki   Ki
                                       (nM) (nM) (nM)
                                                        azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                                                        2-yl)methanone
276                                    2700      >10000 (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
                                                        2
              N
                   HN    N                              yl)phenyl)((1R,4S,6S)
                                                        6
            FN
      F   N   /          N    CF 3                      (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
                                                        -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                        azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                                                        2-yl)methanone
277                                    17   15   998    (4-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
                     N                                  2
                NH        \/F                           yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
     F3C   N          N6
                         N                              (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
                                                        -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                        azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                                                        2-yl)methanone
278                                    14   7    243    (5-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin
                       N          F                     2
           N     NH                                     yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
                       N                                6-((5
     F3 C  N               N                            (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
                                                        -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                        azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                                                        2-yl)methanone
                                -  454  -

 Ex.               Compound                 rOXi    hOXi hOX2   Compound Name
No.                                          K        i  K
                                            (nM)    (nM) (nM)
279                                          11     13   177    (2-fluoro-6-(pynimidmn
                                 F                              2
                           N
             N       NH                                         yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
                           0
                                                                   -( 5
     F3 0       I     N       N~                                (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
                                                                -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                                azabicyclo [2.2.2]octan
                                                                2-yl)methanone
280                                          7      4    189    (2-(pynimidmn-2
                           N                                    yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
             N,      NH   06(5
                        F3C N-P(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
           F3NN~                                                -2-yl)amino)-2
                                                                azabicyclo [2.2.2]octan
                                                                2-yl)methanone
281                                          5      19   336    ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3
                                       N                        chloro-5
             N       0~                                         (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                          0                                     -2-yl)oxy)-2
     F3C      -~ci            N~      F                         azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                                                                2-yl)(3-fluoro-2
                                                                (pyrimidin-2
                                                                yl)phenyl)methanone
282                                          81     65   >10000 (5-methy1-3-(pyrimidmn
                                       N                        2-yl)pyridin-2
                                                                  l)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
          ,N        0O
                        F3C       N
                            N-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin
           F3NN~                                                -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                                azabicyclo [2.2.2]octan
                                       -455-

 Ex.         Compound               rOXi hOXi hOX2   Compound Name
 No.                                Ki   Ki   Ki
                                    (nM) (nM) (nM)
                                                     2-yl)methanone
283                                 21   27   >10000 ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3
                   N    Nfluoro-5
           N    0                                    (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
              F   ON                                 -2-yl)oxy)-2
     F3C
                       N                             azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                                                     2-yl)(5-methyl-3
                                                     (pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin
                                                     2-yl)methanone
284                                 45   47   5600   ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                  N                                  chloropyrimidin-2
          N  Or                                      yl)oxy)-2
                  N                                  azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
     CN                    F                         -2-yl)(3-fluoro-2
                                                     (pyrimidin-2
                                                     yl)phenyl)methanone
285                                 117  215  6000   ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                  N    N-                            chloropyrimidin-2
          N  O                                       yl)oxy)-2
                  N                                  azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
     CI               N                              -2-yl)(6-methyl-3
                                                     (pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin
                                                     2-yl)methanone
286                                 822       3100   ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((1,8
                   N    N                            naphthyridin-2-yl)oxy)
        N  N  O                                      2
                   N-N                               azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                        N                            -2-yl)(6-methyl-3-(2H
                                                     1,2,3-triazol-2
                              -456-

 Ex.            Compound               rOXi  hOXi hOX2 Compound Name
 No.                                    Ki   Ki   Ki
                                        (nM) (nM) (nM)
                                                       yl)pyridin-2
                                                       yl)methanone
287                                     155  226  2700 ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((1,8
                         N                             naphthyridin-2-yl)oxy)
          N   N  O                                     2
                        ON-N                           azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                            N                          -2-yl)(2-(2H-1,2,3
                                                       triazol-2
                                                       yl)phenyl)methanone
288                                     29   39   5100 ((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                       N    N                          (difluoromethyl)pyridin
            N      0                                   -2-yl)oxy)-2
     F       /         N                               azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
        F                  N                           -2-yl)(5-methyl-3
                                                       (pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin
                                                       2-yl)methanone
289                                     14   24   207  (2-methoxy-6-(2H
                         N     OMe                     1,2,3-triazol-2
              N   0                                    yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
       FOC           F   N-NC
                         N-N6-((5
        3                    N                         (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                       -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                       azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                       -2-yl)methanone
                                  -457-

 Ex.          Compound           rOXi  hOXi hOX2   Compound Name
 No.                              Ki   Ki   Ki
                                  (nM) (nM) (nM)
290                               97   188  >10000 (5-methyl-2-(pyrimidin
                    N                              2-yl)pyridin-3
            N  O                                   yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
          ION             N                        (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
     F3C               N                           -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                   azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                   -2-yl)methanone
291                               43   82   4200   (4-fluoro-2-(3-methyl
                    N                              1,2,4-oxadiazol-5
            N  O             F                     yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
                                                   6-((5
         F3        O    \
                   N,  N                           (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                   -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                   azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                   -2-yl)methanone
292                               19   40   673    (2-fluoro-6-(oxazol-2
                        F                          yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
            N  0                                   6-((5
                                                   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                       N                           -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                   azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                   -2-yl)methanone
293                               16   26   535    (5-fluoro-2-(oxazol-2
                    N       F                      yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
            N  O                                   6-((5
          F                                        (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
     F3             0N                             -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                   azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                   -2-yl)methanone
                            -458-

 Ex.             Compound                 rOXi  hOXi   hOX2 Compound Name
 No.                                       Ki   Ki     Ki
                                           (nM) (nM)   (nM)
294                                        166  580    1400 (5-methyl-3-(1H-1,2,3
                                                            triazol-1-yl)pyridin-2
                         N(
            N     O                                         yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                        0    ~(trifluoromethyl)pyridin
     F 3C    -~N
                              F                             -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                            azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                            -2-yl)methanone
295                                        19   34     5800 (4-methoxy-2
                       N                                    (pyrimidin-2
           NO
                      F
                      O         /OMe                        yl)phenyl)((1S,4R,6R)
     F3CN-6(5
                            N                               (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
                                                            -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                            azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                            -2-yl)methanone
296                                        8    14     474  (3-(pyrimidin-2
                                                            yl)pyridin-2
                           N      N
              N     O                                       yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                          O                                 (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
       F3C                  NN                              -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                            azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                            -2-yl)methanone
297                                        10   10     606  (2-(pyrimidin-2
                         N                                  yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
            N     0                                         6-((5
                        0                                   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
     F3C                  N-                                -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                            azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                            -2-yl)methanone
                                     -459-

 Ex.           Compound                rOXi hOXi hOX2   Compound Name
 No.                                   Ki   Ki   Ki
                                       (nM) (nM) (nM)
298                                    24   29   >10000 (5-methyl-3-(pyrimidin
                     N      N2-yl)pyridin-2
            N    O                                      yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                      N                                 (trifluoromethyl)pyridin
     F3C              N-                                -2-yl)oxy)-2
                                                        azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                        -2-yl)methanone
299                                                     ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                                                        chloropyrimidin-2
                    N      N
           N   0                                        yl)oxy)-2
         C -N       N N                                 azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                         N                              -2-yl)(6-methyl-3-(2H
                                                        1,2,3-triazol-2
                                                        yl)pyridin-2
                                                        yl)methanone
300                                    92   112  3700   (2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2
                    N                                   yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
           N   0                                        6-((5-chloropyrimidin
                                                        2-yl)oxy)-2
     CI              N-N
                         N                              azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                                                        -2-yl)methanone
301                                                     ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((1,8
                       N                                naphthyridin-2-yl)oxy)
         N   N    0                                     2
                                                        azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                            N                           -2-yl)(3-fluoro-2
                                                        (pyrimidin-2
                                                        yl)phenyl)methanone
                                - 460   -

 Ex.     Compound            rOXi      hOXi hOX2 Compound Name
 No.                         Ki        Ki   Ki
                             (nM)      (nM) (nM)
302                                              ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((1,8
               N   Nnaphthyridin-2-yl)oxy)
     N N  0                                      2
              0'
                                                 azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                  N                              -2-yl)(6-methyl-3
                                                 (pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin
                                                 2-yl)methanone
                       -461-

   What is Claimed:
      1. A compound of formula I
                                           R4        R3
                                  NY
           R5 -Z                                X
                                       0                 1
          or an enantiomer or diastereomer thereof;
 5        or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof;
          wherein
          X is N or CRi;
          Y is N or CR2;
          Ri is H, alkoxy, halo, triazolyl, thiazolyl, pyridazinyl, pyrimidinyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl,
 0                 oxadiazolyl, pyridyl, phenylor pyrazolyl, wherein triazolyl, thiazolyl, pyridazinyl,
                   pyrimidinyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, oxadiazolyl, pyridyl, phenyl or pyrazolyl is
                   optionally substituted with up to two substituents selected from halo and alkyl;
          R2 is H, alkyl, alkoxy, or halo;
          Z is NH, N-CH3, N-CH 2CH 3 , N-CH2-cyclopropyl, N-C(=O)CH 3, N-CH2CH20CH3or 0;
 5        R3 is H, alkyl, alkoxy, halo, triazolyl, thiazolyl, pyridazinyl, pyrimidinyl, oxazolyl,
                   isoxazolyl, oxadiazolyl, pyridyl, phenyl or pyrazolyl, wherein triazolyl, thiazolyl,
                  pyridazinyl, pyrimidinyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, oxadiazolyl, pyridyl, phenyl or
                  pyrazolyl is optionally substituted with up to two substituents selected from halo and
                   alkyl;
20        R4 is H or alkyl;
                   or R3 and R4, together with the atoms to which they are attached, form a 6
          membered aryl ring or a 5- or 6-membered heteroaryl ring;
          R5 is phenyl, pyridyl, pyrazinyl, benzoxazolyl, pyridazinyl, naphthyridinyl or pyrimidinyl,
                   wherein the pyridyl, pyrazinyl, benzoxazolyl, pyridazinyl, naphthyridinyl or
25                 pyrimidinyl is optionally substituted with up to two groups selected fromhalo,
                   alkoxy, hydroxymethylandalkyl; and
          n is 1 or 2.
     2. The compound of claim 1, wherein Z is NH.
                                                - 462  -

   3.  The compound of claim 1, wherein Z is 0.
   4. The compound of any one of claims I to 3, wherein X is CRi and Y is CR2.
   5.  The compound of any one of claims I to 3, wherein X is CRi and Y is N.
   6. The compound of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein X is N and Y is CR2.
 5 7. The compound of any one of claims I to 5, wherein Ri is alkoxy, halo, triazolyl,
       pyrimidinyl, oxazolyl, isoxaolyl, oxadiazolyl, or pyrazolyl.
   8.  The compound of claim 7, wherein Ri is alkoxy, halo, triazolyl, or pyrimidinyl.
   9. The compound of claim 7, wherein pyrazolyl is methyl-pyrazolyl or dimethyl-pyrazolyl.
   10. The compound of claim 7, wherein oxadiazolyl is methyl-oxadiazolyl.
 0 11. The compound of any one of claims 1 to 4 or 6, wherein    R2 is H.
   12. The compound of any one of claims I to 4 or 6, wherein    R2 is alkyl.
   13. The compound of claim 12, wherein alkyl is -CH3.
   14. The compound of any one of claims I to 4 or 6, wherein    R2 is alkoxy.
   15. The compound of any one of claims I to 4 or 6, wherein    R2 is halo.
[5 16. The compound of claim 15, wherein halo is F.
   17. The compound of any one of the preceding claims, wherein R3 is H.
   18. The compound of any one of claims I to 16, wherein R3 is alkyl.
   19. The compound of any one of claims I to 16, wherein R3 is alkoxy.
   20. The compound of any one of claims I to 16, wherein R3 is halo.
20 21. The compound of any one of claims 1 to 16, wherein R3 is triazolyl.
   22. The compound of any one of the preceding claims, wherein R4 is H.
                                           - 463 -

   23. The compound of any one of claims I to 21, wherein R4 is alkyl.
   24. The compound of claim 23, wherein alkyl is -CH3.
   25. The compound of any one of claims I to 16, wherein R3 and R4 together with the atoms to
       which they are attached, form a 6-membered aryl ring.
 5 26. The compound of any one of claims I to 16, wherein R3 and R4 together with the atoms to
       which they are attached, form a 6-membered heteroaryl ring containing one N.
   27. The compound of any one of claims I to 16, wherein R3 and R4 together with the atoms to
       which they are attached, form a 5-membered heteroaryl ring containing one N.
   28. The compound of any one of the preceding claims, wherein R5 is pyridyl, optionally
 0     substituted with halo or alkyl.
   29. The compound of claim 28, wherein alkyl is trihaloalkyl.
   30. The compound of claim 28, wherein R5 is pyridyl optionally substituted with
       trifluoromethyl.
   31. The compound of any one of claims 1 to 27, wherein R5 is pyrazinyl, optionally substituted
 5     with halo or alkyl.
   32. The compound of claim 31, wherein alkyl is trihaloalkyl.
   33. The compound of claim 31, wherein R5 is pyrazinyl optionally substituted with
       trifluoromethyl.
   34. The compound of any one of claims I to 27, wherein R5 is pyrimidinyl, optionally
20     substituted with halo or alkyl.
   35. The compound of claim 34, wherein alkyl is trihaloalkyl.
   36. The compound of claim 34, wherein R5 is pyrimidinyl optionally substituted with
       trifluoromethyl.
   37. The compound of any one of the preceding claims, wherein n is 1.
                                          - 464 -

38. The compound of any one of claims I to 36, wherein n is 2.
39. A compound selected from the group consisting of
         Ex.              Compound                              Compound Name
         No.
                  I                                  (R/S)-(2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2
                                  N                  yl)phenyl)(6-((5
                              0                      (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)oxy)
                     3  Y            -               2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                        /    . ~Kjyl)methanone
       2                                             (R/S)-(6-methyl-3-(2H- 1,2,3
                                  N        N-        trao12y)pyidin-2y)(6-((5
                       N   O0                        (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)oxy)
                    F3 NN-                           2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                         /           yl)methanone
       3                                             (R/S)-(3 -ethoxyisoquinolin-4
                                    -70'             yl)((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
                                   N           N     y)oxy)-2-azabicyco[2.2.1I ]heptan
                                0         \/         2-yl)methanone
              F3 C     N
       4                                             (R/S)-5-methyl-3-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol
                                  N                  2-yI)pyridin-2-yI)(6-((5
                              N 0 '\       N-        (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)oxy)
              F3 C     N           N-N               2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                        /            yl)methanone
       7                                             (R/S)-(2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2
                                  N                  yl)phenyl)(6-((5
                       N    0                        (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                        F3 0N-N2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                        /            yl)methanone
                                       -   465 -

 Ex.              Compound                       Compound Name
 No.
8                                     (R/S)-(3-ethoxyisoquinolin-4-yl)(6
                              0'      ((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
              N    0               N  yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I ]heptan
                        o0            2-yl)methanone
     F3 C
9                                     (R/S)-(5-methyl-3-(2H- 1,2,3
                         'N           triao12y)pyidin-2y)(6-((5
                 N 0    0             (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
     F3 C      -     ~    N-N         2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                              /       yl)methanone
10                                    (R/S)-(7-ethoxyquinolin-8-yl)(6
                              0'      ((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
              N    0                  yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                        o0      '     2-yl)methanone
     F3 0'                  N~
         11                           (R/S)-(3 -fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                         N            yl)phenyl)(6-((5
              N    0                  (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                       o              2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
           F3C            N 1         yl)methanone
12                                    (R/S)-(4-methoxy-2-(pyrimidin-2
                        N             yl)phenyl)(6-((5
             N O0o                     tilooehlprdn2y~x)
                       0               tilooehlprdn2y~x)
     F3C"'Ul             N            2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                            J/N       yl)methanone
                             -  466 -

 Ex.            Compound                                Compound Name
 No.
13                                           (R/S)-4-methoxy-2-(2H- 1,2,3
                    4 N                      triazol-2-yl)phenyl)(6-((5
           N    O0                           (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
     FC'              N-N                    2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                N            yl)methanone
14                                           (R/S)-(5-fluoro-2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol
                       N                F    2-yl)phenyl)(6-((5
           N      0(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                  0   0
             F 3 CN-N2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                              /  ..          yl)methanone
15                              /(R/S)-2-methoxy-6-(2H-                 1,2,3
                          No                 triazol-2-yl)phenyl)(6-((5
           N      0(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                        N-N                  2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
             F3 C       /yl)methanone
16                                           (R/S)-(3-fluoro-2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol
                       N                     2-yl)phenyl)(6-((5
                                    ~(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
         3   I                       F"      2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                            N                yl)methanone
17                                           (R/S)-(3-methyl-2-(2H- 1,2,3
                       N                     triazol-2-yl)phenyl)(6-((5
           N      0   0                      (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
         F0N-NQ                              2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                            N                yl)methanone
                             -  467   -

 Ex.          Compound                            Compound Name
 No.
18                                     (R/S)-(2-fluoro-6-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol
                  4 N     F            2-yl)phenyl)(6-((5
         N     0   0(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
     3 I              -                2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                         /             yl)methanone
19                                     (R/S)-(5 -fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                    N              F   yl)phenyl)(6-((5
            N 0                 /      (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
          F3 0                         2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
                      \,N              yl)methanone
20                                     (R/S)-(4-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                    N                  yl)phenyl)(-6-((5
            N N\                 /   F (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
          F3 0                         2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
                      \,N              yl)methanone
21                                     (R/S)-(2-(4H- 1,2,4-triazol-4
                    N                  yl)phenyl)(6-((5
                 0              /      (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
          F3 C       T-N2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                        N , Nyl)methanone
22                                     (R/S)-(6-methyl-3-(2H- 1,2,3
                    N      N-..        triao12y)pyidin-2-y)(6-((5
         NI    00                      (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
          F 3 CN-N2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                         N             yl)methanone
                         - 468-

 Ex.            Compound                           Compound Name
 No.
23                                       (6-methyl-3-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
             7 fN                        yl)pyridin-2-yl)(( 1R,4S,6S)-6-((5
               N
                     0'N                 (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
       N N                           F   2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                F F      yl)methanone
24                                       (6-methyl-3-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                        N     N-         yl)pyridin-2yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
           N      0    0(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
             F 3 CN-N2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                            /            yl)methanone
25                                       (6-methyl-3-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                           N N~          yl)pyridin-2yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
            Nz      0                    (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                            N-N2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
             F3 C        /~,.,jyl)methanone
26                                       (4-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                        N                yl)phenyl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
              N 0                /     F (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
             F3 C                        2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
                            N            yl)methanone
27                                       (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                        N                yl)phenyl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
           N      0              /       (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                            N~.          2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
     F3 C                          F
                       \/   N            yl)methanone
                           -  469  -

 Ex.                 Compound                          Compound Name
 No.
28                                          (5-methyl-3-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                           N       N-       yl)pyridin-2yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                     *-
                      0                     (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
           F3 CN-                           2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                   ,   N    yl)methanone
29                                          (6-methyl-2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2
                           N                yl)pyr1idin-3-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                  N0      0                 (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                                       N    2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
     F3 C'     -            N-N
                                /           yl)methanone
30                                          (3-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
                           N       N-       yl)((1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                     0                 /    (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                 F 3 CN-N2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                     - N    yl)methanone
31                                          (3-fluoro-2
                           N                methoxyphenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                  N0      0            /    (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                       %       0!:          2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
                 F3 C                    F  yl)methanone
32                                          (3-methyl-2-(oxazol-2
                           N                yl)phenyl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
               N      0   0                 (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
            F3                              2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
            F3C                 N           yl)methanone
                                -   470   -

 Ex.               Compound                           Compound Name
 No.
33                                         (3-fluoro-2-( 1H- 1,2,3-triazol- 1
                         N                 yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                 NI 0   0                  (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
              I lAIl%                      2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
            F3                N            yl)methanone
34                                         (6-methyl-2-(1H-1 ,2,3-triazol- 1
                         N                 yl)pyr1idin-3-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                 N0                  /     (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
          F3C                       N      2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
                                           yl)methanone
35                                         (3-fluoro-2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2
                         N                 yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                 N- 0   0                  (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
         F3 C             N-               2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
                                  - N      yl)methanone
36                                         (2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2
                         N                 yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                 N0     0                  (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                F3 C  -   N-N2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
           F3C'           N/
                                ..-    Nyl)methanone
37                                         (3-ethoxy-6-methylpyridin-2
                            N0             yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
              N     0                      (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                            0 N     /      2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
     F3 0                                  yl)methanone
                              -471-

 Ex.               Compound                              Compound Name
 No.
38                                            (2-fluoro-6-(pyrimidin-2
                                F
                         N,                   yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                 N0     L                     (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                F3C'      N P2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
            F3              /N                yl)methanone
39                                /(2-methoxy-6-(1              H-pyrazol-5
                         N7                   yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                 N0     0            /        (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                F3C                           2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
                           N NH               yl)methanone
40                                /(2-methoxy-6-(pyrimidin-2
                            N                 yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                 N0     0                     (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
     F3 C'                N         ~         2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
                             /N               yl)methanone
41                                            (2-( 1,4-dimethyl- 1H-pyrazol-5
                         N,                   yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                 N0     0            /        (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                F3C                           2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
                            N..N-             yl)methanone
42                                            (1H-indol-7-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                          N                   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
               N    0   0                     2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
        F3 C                 HN               yl)methanone
                                - 472  -

 Ex.          Compound                                 Compound Name
 No.
43                                           (5-fluoro-2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2
                        N              F     yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
               N      o        \/            (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
           F 3 CN-N2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                              /              yl)methanone
44                                           (4-fluoro-2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2
                      -N                     yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
            N             -F    \ /          (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
           F3 C   -     N-N2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                              /              yl)methanone
45                                           (2-bromo-3
                        N                    fluorophenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
          N     0                            (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
     3  I                 Br        F        2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
           F3C'           Br        F        yl)methanone
46                                           (2-fluoro-6-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2
                          N                  yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
          N     0     0                      (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
           F 3 CN-N2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                              /              yl)methanone
47                                           ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2
                           F
                     N,                      yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
           N 0      0            /2-yl)(2-fluoro-6-(pyrimidin-2
                           5                 yl)phenyl)methanone
       Br               \ N
                             -  473  -

 Ex.            Compound                               Compound Name
 No.
48                                           ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2
                     N                       yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
            N0       0           /2-yl)(3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
      Br,                                    yl)phenyl)methanone
                         \N
49                                           (2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2
                     N                       yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
               N0                            bromopyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
     Br               N-N                    azabicyclo [2.2,1 ]heptan-2
                           N                 yl)methanone
50                                           ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2
                     NN                      yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I ]heptan
           N 10     0                        2-yl)(6-methyl-3-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol
     Br               N-N                    2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone
51                                           (2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2
              4 N                            yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3
                       \ /                   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
              C3N-N                          2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
                           ~., Nyl)methanone
52                                           (6-methyl-3-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2
                  N     N-                   yl)pyridin-2-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((3
          0/           \                     (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
          CF 3    N-N                        2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
                         /  ,    Nyl)methanone
                              - 474  -

  Ex.             Compound                                 Compound Name
  No.
53                                              (2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2
                         N                      yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4S,6R)-6-((5
               N NH    0                        (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                         N-                     yl)amino)-2
              F 3 C/        ,azabicyclo                     [2.2,1 ]heptan-2
                                                yl)methanone
54                                              (6-methyl-3-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2
                         N        N-            yl)pyridin-2yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
               N NH                     /       (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
              F3 C       N-Nyl)amino)-2
                               / ,azabicyclo                [2.2,1 ]heptan-2
                                                yl)methanone
55                                              (3-methyl-2-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                         N                      yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4S,6R)-6-((5
             N     NH             ?             (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                               N-N              yl)amino)-2
              F 3 C/       ,azabicyclo                      [2.2,1 ]heptan-2
                                                yl)methanone
56                                N(7-ethoxyquinolin-8-yl)(( 1S,4S,6R)
                        (7     0'               6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
            N      NH  -      8yl)amino)-2
                                         /      azabicyclo [2.2, 1]heptan-2
      F3 C' -                N\       /yl)methanone
57                                              (5-fluoro-2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2
                         N                   F  yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
            Nz     NH        -0                 (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
              F3 C       N-Nyl)amino)-2
                               / ,.Nazabicyclo [2.2,1 ]heptan-2
                                                yl)methanone
                               -   475     -

 Ex.               Compound                           Compound Name
 No.
58                                         (5-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                          N              F yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
             NIzNH       0                 (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
              F3 C         Nyl)amino)-2
                               /N          azabicyclo [2.2. 1]heptan-2
                                           yl)methanone
59                                         (2-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                          N                yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                     NH
                    6/                     (tnifluoromethiyl)pyrazmn-2
     F3 C    N'I           N-N             yl)amino)-2
                              -'N          azabicyclo [2.2. 1 ]heptan-2
                                           yl)methanone
60                                         (2-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                          N                yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                 N NH                 /    (trifluoromethyl)pyrimidin-2
     F3 C  -     N         N-N             yl)amino)-2
                                'N         azabicyclo [2.2. 1]heptan-2
                                           yl)methanone
61                                         (6-methyl-3 -(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                          N        N-      yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                 N NH                 /    (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
               F3 C     N N-Nyl)amino)-2
                             / N           azabicyclo [2.2. 1]heptan-2
                                           yl)methanone
62                                         (6-methyl-3 -(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                          N        N-      yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
             N      NH                /    (trifluoromethyl)pyrimidin-2
        F3       N     N                   yl)amino)-2
                                N          azabicyclo [2.2. 1]heptan-2
                                           yl)methanone
                                 - 476  -

 Ex.               Compound                         Compound Name
 No.
63                                       (4-methyl-2-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                       4 N,              yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                 N NH               /    (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                F3 C    - N-Nyl)amino)-2
                             / N         azabicyclo [2.2. 1]heptan-2
                                         yl)methanone
64                                       (4-methyl-2-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                          N,             yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                      NH                 (tnifluoromethyl)pyrazmn-2
     F3 C      N    ~     N-N            yl)amino)-2
                             /,'N        azabicyclo [2.2. 1]heptan-2
                                         yl)methanone
65                                       (4-methyl-2-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                          N              yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                 N NH     /~             (trifluoromethyl)pyrimidin-2
     F3 C   .-   N        N-N            yl)amino)-2
                             / N         azabicyclo [2.2. 1]heptan-2
                                         yl)methanone
66                                       (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                          N              yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                 N NH               /    (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
           F3 CN-                        yl)amino)-2
                               /N        azabicyclo [2.2. 1]heptan-2
                                         yl)methanone
67                                       (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                          N              yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
               NIrNH 0                   (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
                F    N    N-yl)amino)-2
      F3 C     NF
                               /N        azabicyclo [2.2. 1]heptan-2
                                         yl)methanone
                                - 477 -

 Ex.               Compound                                   Compound Name
 No.
68                                                 (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                         N                         yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                  N NH                    /        (trifluoromethyl)pyrimidin-2
        F3     -N         N-                       yl)amino)-2
                              ,  N                 azabicyclo [2.2. 1]heptan-2
                                                   yl)methanone
69                                                 (2-(3-methyl- 1,2,4-oxadiazol-5
                         N                         yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                  N NH  0                          (tnifluoromethyl)pyndmi-2
           F3             N-                       yl)amino)-2
                            '0                     azabicyclo [2.2. 1]heptan-2
                                                   yl)methanone
70                                                 (3-fluoro-2-(3 -methyl- 1,2,4
                         N                         oxadiazol-5-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)
                  N NH                    /        6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                   ,U-       - P            F      yl)amino)-2
     F3 C     -N-                           F
                           N'                      azabicyclo [2.2. 1]heptan-2
                                                   yl)methanone
71                                                 (4-fluoro-2-(3 -methyl-i ,2,4
                         N                         oxadiazol-5-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
                  N ~NH 0-F                        6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                F3 C      N  -yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo                        [2.2.1I ]heptan
                           N
                                  - 478-

 Ex.             Compound                             Compound Name
 No.
72                                         (3-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-5
                                NN-       methylpyridin-2-yl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6
             N     NH                     ((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazmn-2
         F3   T                           yl)amino)-2
               -N             /3 N        azabicyclo [2.2. 1]heptan-2
                       F                  yl)methanone
73                                        (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                         N                yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                  0     o                 (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                         C                2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                                N
                             /3-*      FF yl)methanone
74                                        (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                         N                yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
            N     0                       (tnifluoromethyl)pyrazmn-2-yl)oxy)
                        0                   -zbcco222otn2
       F3 C N             N-           F    -zbcco222otn2
                             /C"N      FF yl)methanone
75                                        (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                         N                yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                                  \ /     (trifluoromethyl)pyrimidin-2
                 N        N_              Yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
     FC                                Fc
           3C                   N      FF yl)methanone
76                                        (6-methyl-3 -(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                         C N N-           yl)pyridin-2-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
            N     0                  /    (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
              F3 C   -    N-N2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                            I N           yl)methanone
                                -  479  -

 Ex.                Compound                          Compound Name
 No.
77                                         (6-methyl-3 -(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                                   NN-     yl)pyridin-2-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                     0/             \      (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)oxy)
            FC NN-N                        2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
             F3NC                  N       yl)methanone
78                                         (6-methyl-3 -(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                                   NN-     yl)pyridin-2-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                   N0                  /   (tnifluoromethyl)pynimidmn-2
           C    Y N           -              loy-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                                ,  N       yl)methanone
79                                         (6-methyl-3 -(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                                   NN-     yl)pyridin-2-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                   N NH                /   (trifluoromethyl)pyrimidin-2
                        ~- NN-Nyl)amino)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.2]octan
             F3 C/                 N       2-yl)methanone
80                                         (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                           N               yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                   N NH                /   (tnifluoromethyl)pyrazmn-2
      F3 C     NFF    N     N-yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.2]octan
                                  /N       2-yl)methanone
81                                         (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                           N               yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
               NY    NH                /   (tnifluoromethyl)pynimidmn-2
                       N    N__            yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.2]octan
     F3 C"                               F
                                  /N       2-yl)methanone
                                   - 480-

 Ex.              Compound                              Compound Name
 No.
82                                         (6-methyl-3 -(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                             NN-           yl)pyridin-2-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                N NH               /       (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                        N-N1               yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.2]octan
           F3 C               N            2-yl)methanone
83                                         (6-methyl-3 -(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                             N             yl)pyridin-2-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                           NN
                N NH               /       (tnifluoromethyl)pyrazmn-2
          F3 TN-N                          yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.2]octan
           F3NC               N            2-yl)methanone
84                                         (6-methyl-3 -(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                             NN-           yl)pyridin-2-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                N NH               /       (trifluoromethyl)pyrimidin-2
                     N N-N                 yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.2]octan
           F3 C               N            2-yl)methanone
85                                                 (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                0       N                    yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-(6- 2H)-((5
                N0                  /       (trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2-yl)oxy)
                                N-              2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
     F3 C                             F
                            /' N                         yl)methanone
86                       D0                        (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                        N                       yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
              N    0      ~                 (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                              ~ ~'/2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]-              (3-2 H, H)
     F3C'               N-            F             heptan-2-yl)methanone
                              -481-

 Ex.                 Compound                        Compound Name
 No.
87                                        (2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-3
                            N                     yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                      0                   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                 o          N-                2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
             3                   N                     yl)methanone
88                                          (5-methyl-2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2
                            N              yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                   N0      0              (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                    IN                        2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
     F3 C      -             N-N
                                  N                    yl)methanone
89                                               (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2
                            N                 yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                   N0                /    (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
         F3 C0                                2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
                           $\-//'N                     yl)methanone
                         F
90                                         (3-fluoro-2-(5 -fluoropyrimidin-2
                            N                 yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                   N0                /    (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
         F3 C                          F      2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
                           $\// N                      yl)methanone
                         F
91                                           (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-3
                            N              methylphenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                   N    0              /  (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                  F3 0                        2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
                           $\// N                      yl)methanone
                         F
                                 - 482  -

 Ex.             Compound                                Compound Name
 No.
92                                                 (6-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2
                         N       N-          yl)pyidin-2yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                   0                 /       (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
               F30                               2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
                               N                           yl)methanone
94                                                  (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                        N                        yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((6
     F3 C   N~ 0                    /        (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                                       F         2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
                               N                           yl)methanone
95                                                  (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                   N                             yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((4
          N~0               /(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                    N-       F                   2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
       CF 3        \   N                                   yl)methanone
96                                                  (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                   N                             yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((3
                        \ /                  (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                             F-                  2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
                       N                                   yl)methanone
97                                                   (2-(2H- 1,2,3 -triazol-2
                        N                   yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro
             N. N 0 0                            5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
              F3 C       N-Nyl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I ]heptan
                         /3C                              2-yl)methanone
                              -483-

 Ex.         Compound                               Compound Name
 No.
98                                           ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5
                    N      N-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
               0l
             Nll               /,       2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2-yl)(6
               F    N;-N                    methyl-3-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2
            F3 C    /yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone
99                                           ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5
                    N                   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
          N    0                        2-azabicyclo[2.2. I1]heptan-2-yl)(2
                    o-                  (pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone
     F3 0      Ft
                       \,N
100                                            (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                    N                  yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro
          N    0                            5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                        N-              yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan
     F3 0      FqF
                       \,N                          2-yl)methanone
101                                            (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                  N                         yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
          N0               /methylpyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
                             F-               azabicyclo[2.2. I1]heptan-2
                      N                              yl)methanone
102                                             (2-(2H- 1,2,3 -triazol-2
                N                      yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-(pyridin-2
       N  0                            yloxy)-2-azabicyclo [2.2. 1]heptan-2
             I  N-Nyl)methanone
                          -484    -

 Ex.                 Compound                                  Compound Name
 No.
103                                                   (6-methyl-2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2
                         N                             yl)pyr~idin-3-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6
      N      0                                               (pyridin-2-yloxy)-2
                   I     N-N
                        -~           Nazabicyclo[2.2.                      I1]heptan-2
                           k.,l N                               yl)methanone
104                                                       (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                        N                          yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-(pyridin-2
      N      0                                     yloxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
        I-            o          \0
          I              N-                                     yl)methanone
                                      F
                            \,N
105                                                 ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2
                                N                   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                  N0               j                2-yl)(6-methyl-2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol
         Br -fN-                         N              2-yl)pyridin-3 -yl)methanone
106                                                 ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2
                                N                   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
            N        0%                              2-yl)(3-fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol
                               0
                                                           2-yl)phenyl)methanone
     Br~u                       N-N       F
107                                                 ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2
                                N                   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                  N 0                                2-yl)(4-fluoro-2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol
         Br  -!N-                                          2-yl)phenyl)methanone
                                   'N
                                      - 485-

 Ex.         Compound                               Compound Name
 No.
108                                      ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2
                    N           F         yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I ]heptan
         N   0                            2-yl)(5-fluoro-2-(24- 1,2,3-triazol
                  0
            Br      N-N2-yI)phenyI)methanone
109                                      ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2
                  (N     F                yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
         N  0                             2-yl)(2-fluoro-6-(2H-1,2,3-triazol
            Br    - N-N2-yI)phenyI)methanone
110                                      ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2
                    N                     yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
           N0                                2-yl)(4-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
            Br                                    yl)phenyl)methanone
                      \  N
     111                                 ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2
                    N           F         yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I ]heptan
           N0                /2-yl)(5-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
            Br                                    yl)phenyl)methanone
                      \,N
112                                              (2-(2H- 1,2,3 -triazol-2
                   N                         yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
         N, 06         -0                      chloropyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
           ci   -   N-Nazabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                      yl)methanone
                          -486-

 Ex.             Compound                                Compound Name
 No.
113                                           ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2
                       N            F         yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I ]heptan
           N,    0         -                   2-yl)(5-fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol
     ci     -          N-N                           2-yl)phenyl)methanone
                          'N
114                                           ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2
                          N    -              yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                 0N"            /             2-yl)(6-methyl-3-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol
     ci                N-N                        2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone
115                                           ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2
                       N                      yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
               N0                /2-yl)(3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
        ci    ::                  F                   yl)phenyl)methanone
                         \,N
116                                           ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2
                       N                      yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
           N                                      2-yl)(2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2
     ci                N                              yl)phenyl)methanone
                     F
117                                           ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2
                       N                      yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
           N     0                           2-yl)(3-fluoro-2-(5-fluoropyrimidin
     ci0N                         F                  2-yl)phenyl)methanone
                     F
                             -487-

 Ex.             Compound                                Compound Name
 No.
118                                                  (2-(2H- 1,2,3 -triazol-2
                      N                          yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
              N0                                  fluoropyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
            -  0      N-                          azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                 F                                        yl)methanone
119                                          ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-fluoropyridin-2
                          6 N N-             yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
               N0                   /        2-yl)(6-methyl-3-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol
                 F        N~N2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone
120                                                (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                      N                          yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
          N    0                                  fluoropyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
                     % ,-        /                azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                  F                       yl)methanone
121                                                  (2-(2H- 1,2,3 -triazol-2
                         N                       yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                    0(1              /       (difluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
              F           N-N2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
        F                 /yl)methanone
122                                                    ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                         N      N-           (difluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
            N      0                         2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2-yl)(6
     F-                   N-N                    methyl-3-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2
        F                 /yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone
                               -488-

 Ex.             Compound                               Compound Name
 No.
123                                                    ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                          N                 (difluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
             N    0                         2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)(3
               F                                    fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                  F           N                      yl)phenyl)methanone
124                                            (5-fluoro-2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2
                          N          F          yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                   (1O 0                   (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)oxy)
          FCIN            N-N                    2-azabicyclo[22. ]heptan-2
                 F  3  C / Nyl)methanone
125                                           (6-methyl-3-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2
                          N     N-          yl)pyridin-2-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                         0
                      N 0(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)oxy)
          FC N            N-N                    2-azabicyclo[22. ]heptan-2
                 F  3  0 /yl)methanone
126                                                (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                          N                     yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                      N 0                  (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)oxy)
                          N.                     2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
     F3 C    N-                    F
                              N                           yl)methanone
127                                                (4-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                         N                      yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                   N                   F   (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)oxy)
     F3 C    N            N-2-azabicyclo[2.2.                       1]heptan-2
                            \ N                           yl)methanone
                              -489-

 Ex.               Compound                              Compound Name
 No.
128                                                 (5-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                          N              F       yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                    ('/             \        (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)oxy)
     F3 0      N           N-2-azabicyclo[22.                          ]heptan-2
                            \ ,                           yl)methanone
129                                                 (2-fluoro-6-(pyrimidin-2
                            N7 F                 yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                          0
                      N 0(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)oxy)
     F3 C I    NT           -2-azabicyclo[2.2.                       1]heptan-2
                            \                             yl)methanone
130                                                      (2-(pyrimidin-2
                          N                      yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                      N 0                    (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)oxy)
            F3C                                  2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
                                 N                        yl)methanone
131                                                  (2-(2H- 1,2,3 -triazol-2
                          N                      yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
              rN    (0                           methylpyrimidin-2-yl)oxy)-2
                      N    N-N                     azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                 N                        yl)methanone
132                                            (6-methyl-3-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2
                        N    N-yl)pyridin-2-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
         rN      0    0methylpyrimidin-2-yl)oxy)-2
                   N N-N                           azabicyclo[2.2. I1]heptan-2
                                  /                       yl)methanone
                                -  490 -

 Ex.          Compound                               Compound Name
 No.
133                                             (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                   N                         yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
     N-z 0                                  methylpyrimidin-2-yl)oxy)-2
                  0
      KN                     Fazabicyclo[2.2.                   1]heptan-2
                     \N                               yl)methanone
134                                            (5-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2
                     N     N-yl)pyidin-2yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
       N      0                             methylpyrimidin-2-yl)oxy)-2
                    NN-                       azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                       \                              yl)methanone
135                                              (2-(2H- 1,2,3 -triazol-2
                      N                      yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
         Nj       0                           ethylpyrimidin-2-yl)oxy)-2
                  N   N-N                     azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                              /   -   Nyl)methanone
136                                      ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-ethylpyrimidin
                     N      N-2-yl)oxy)-2
           N 0                             azabicyclo [2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)(6
           N            I~
          -N          N-N                   methyl-3-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2
                          N                   yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone
137                                      ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-ethylpyrimidin
                        N                              2-yl)oxy)-2
               N-                          azabicyclo [2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)(3
             -N         N-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                                   F              yl)phenyl)methanone
                          -491-

 Ex.              Compound                                    Compound Name
 No.
138                                               ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-ethylpyrimidin
                                   N N-                          2-yl)oxy)-2
            N      0                                azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)(6
                              o   ~/             methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2
                            \,N                                 yl)methanone
139                                                       (2-(2H- 1,2,3 -triazol-2
                          N                           yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((6
               N    0    0            /(trifluoromethyl)pyridazmn-3
                      -~   N-Nyl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1I ]heptan
           F3 C/                N                              2-yl)methanone
140                                                 (6-methyl-3-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                         N        N-.             yl)pyridin-2-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((6
                 N0                                   (trifluoromethyl)pyridazin-3
                                N-N               yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
           F3 CN                                               2-yl)methanone
141                                                      (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                          N                           yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((6
           NN      0                  /(trifluoromethyl)pyridazmn-3
                           N-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                           C
     F3 C'                              F
                               /N                              2-yl)methanone
142                                                     (6-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2
                         N        N-              yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((6
                 N0                  /                (trifluoromethyl)pyridazin-3
               F3 C       N~                      yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                              /N                               2-yl)methanone
                                - 492    -

 Ex.           Compound                               Compound Name
 No.
143                                          (6-methyl-2-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                      N                     yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                       NH   ~    /(trifluoromethiyl)pyridin-2
     F3 0              N-N                              yl)amino)-2
                                 N              azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2
                                                        yl)methanone
144                                           (3-fluoro-2-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                      N                        yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                   NH0                          (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                               -                        yl)amino)-2
     F3 C   -          N-N        F
                         "N                     azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
                                                        yl)methanone
145                                           (4-fluoro-2-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                      N                        yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
              N NH   0                          (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
       FC3  -           -                               yl)amino)-2
                          ~N                    azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                        yl)methanone
146                                           (2-fluoro-6-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                   4         F                 yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
              N NH   0                          (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
               F 3 C N-Nyl)amino)-2
                         /N                     azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
                                                        yl)methanone
147                                              (2-fluoro-6-(pyrimidin-2
                   4         F                 yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
           N    NH   0                          (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
               F 3 C N~yl)amino)-2
                           /N                   azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                        yl)methanone
                            - 493  -

 Ex.       Compound                                 Compound Name
 No.
148                                                 (2-(pyrimidin-2
                 N                          yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
          N NH               /(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
     3           0         D        ~                 yl)amino)-2
                      /N                     azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                      yl)methanone
149                                          (5-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2
                       NN-               yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
       N    NH                               (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                          o /yl)amino)-2
                                  ~
     F3 C
                    /3CN                     azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2
                                                      yl)methanone
150                                          (6-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2
                        NN-              yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
       N    NH                               (trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2
                           o /yl)amino)-2
                                  ~
     F3C          N-     N                   azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                      yl)methanone
151                                          (5-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2
                 N                       yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
       Nz   NH  0(trifluoromethiyl)pyridin-2
                             N                        yl)amino)-2
     F3C/                N                   azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2
                                                      yl)methanone
152                                         (4-fluoro-2-(3-methyl-1 ,2,4
                 N                      oxadiazol-5-yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4S,6R)
          N NH  0                   F     6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2
           F 3 C N-yl)amino)-2
                  N
                                                      yl)methanone
                       -  494   -

 Ex.           Compound                                   Compound Name
 No.
153                                                   (2-(2H- 1,2,3 -triazol-2
                        N                      yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4S,6R)-6-(methyl(5
          N      N                  /(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
               F  3 C N-Nyl)amino)-2
                            -
                              N                    azabicyclo [2.2. 1]heptan-2
                                                           yl)methanone
154                                              (3-fluoro-2-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                        N                      yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4S,6R)-6-(methyl(5
              NN                    /(trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2
                       1-:11--Pyl)amino)-2
     F3 C  -            N-N           F
                           /,N                     azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
                                                           yl)methanone
155                                              (5-fluoro-2-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                        N                F     yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4S,6R)-6-(methiyl(5
              N N      0                           (trifluoromethiyl)pyridin-2
     F3 C  -       ~     N-N 0yl)amino)-2
                               'N                  azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                           yl)methanone
156                                                 ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-(methyl(5
                        N        N-                (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
          N      N     0                                    yl)amino)-2
             F3 C    -   N-Nazabicyclo[2.2.                      1]heptan-2-yl)(6
                                                   yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone
157                                                 (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                        N                      yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4S,6R)-6-(methyl(5
          N      N                  /(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                                                            yl)amino)-2
     F3 C                             F
                               N                   azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2
                                                           yl)methanone
                              - 495    -

 Ex.            Compound                                  Compound Name
 No.
158                                                 (5-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                      N               F      yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4S,6R)-6-(methiyl(5
               N N                /(trifluoromethiyl)pyridin-2
     F3 C              N-                                    yl)amino)-2
                          /N                       azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2
                                                            yl)methanone
159                                                 (2-fluoro-6-(pyrimidin-2
                           N                 yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4S,6R)-6-(methyl(5
              N   N    0                           (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
          F3 C           N1                                  yl)amino)-2
                          \  ,                     azabicyclo [2.2. 1]heptan-2
                                                            yl)methanone
160                                             (2-fluoro-6-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                      N                           yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
            N   N                                  (trifluoromethiyl)pyridin-2
                    ,U-N-yl)amino)-2
     F3 C                          F
                          /N                       azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2
                                                            yl)methanone
161                                                        ((1 S,4S,6R)-6
                      N                              ((cyclopropylmethyl)(5
                     N~        N~  /yl)amino)-2
     F3 C                N)           IF(tflooehlprdn2
                                IN/            azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)(3
                                                      fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                                                       yl)phenyl)methanone
                           -   496  -

 Ex.          Compound                                   Compound Name
 No.
162                                             N-((1 S,4R,6R)-2-(3-fluoro-2
                      N                           (pyrimidin-2-yl)benzoyl)-2
           N     NAc 0                      azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-6-yl)-N-(5
             F3 C                     F(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                             J/N                           yl)acetamide
163                                                 (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                      N                          yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((2
           N      >N                                     methoxyethyl)(5
                 Me>     N-           F            (trflfuoromethyl)pyridin-2
     F3 0     Me ;        N    N      Iyl)amino)-2
                                                   azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
                                                           yl)methanone
164                                                (2-methyl-4-(pyrimidin-2
                       N                     yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
           N     0           \ N             (tifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                         o   X                    2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
     F3 C             N_/N                                 yl)methanone
165                                                (6-methyl-4-(pyrimidin-2
                      N                      yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
           N     0                           (tifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                     o      X                     2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
     F3 C"               -,Ny~ehnn
                     \   J/                                 lmehnn
166                                                   (2-(2H- 1,2,3 -triazol-2
                     N                           yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
            N NH        ~       /bromopyndmi-2-yl)ammno)-2
     Br-       ~     N-N                           azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                        I N                                yl)methanone
                            -497    -

 Ex.          Compound                                 Compound Name
 No.
167                                       ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2
                    N                                   yl)amino)-2
            N NH               /azabicyclo[2.2.               1]heptan-2-yl)(3
                                                   fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
     Br             N~          F
                         /N                         yl)phenyl)methanone
168                                       ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2
                       NF                               yl)amino)-2
            N NH                             azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)(2
     Br~u           N-                             fluoro-6-(pyrimidin-2
                         /N                         yl)phenyl)methanone
169                                                (2-(2H- 1,2,3 -triazol-2
                    N                          yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
              6
              NH        -0                     chloropyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
             ci   - N-Nazabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                          'N                            yl)methanone
170                                        ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2
                       N                                yl)amino)-2
            N    NH                          azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)(3
                      0
        CI,             N~                         fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                            /N                      yl~phenyl~methanone
171                                        ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2
                     N                                  yl)amino)-2
            N NH/                            azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(4
                                                   fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                    \l      N                       yl~phenyl~methanone
                            -498-

 Ex.          Compound                                 Compound Name
 No.
172                                        ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2
                     N             F                      yl)amino)-2
              NH                             azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)(5
             ci      N~fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                         /N                         yl)phenyl)methanone
173                                                (2-(2H- 1,2,3 -triazol-2
                      N                        yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                NH       -0                     (difluoromethyl)pyndmi-2
     FY   UN-N                                            yl)amino)-2
        F                 -'N                   azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                         yl)methanone
174                                                   ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                      N                         (difluoromethyl)pyridin-2
             N NH                /yl)amino)-2
            F          N~          F         azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)(3
        F                 /N                       fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                                                    yl)phenyl)methanone
175                                                (2-(2H- 1,2,3 -triazol-2
                       N                       yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                 6
                NHz         -      /         methoxypyridmn-2-yl)ammno)-2
             MeO   -   N-Nazabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                              'N                         yl)methanone
176                                              (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                        N                      yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
            N1-ZNH     0                     methoxypyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
                                                azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
      MeOU               N            F
                              /N                         yl)methanone
                            -  499  -

 Ex.                Compound                              Compound Name
 No.
177                                                   (2-(2H- 1,2,3 -triazol-2
              F             N                yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((3-fluoro
                      NH         0                5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
           F3 N             N-N                             yl)amino)-2
            F3 0                                   azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                            yl)methanone
178                                                ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5
                    FN                 -N          (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                     NH    0yl)amino)-2
     F3 C &      -N         N-N                azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(6
                                ~N               methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2
                                                   yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone
179                                                  (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                 F            N              yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((3-fluoro
                       NH                         5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                        ,&     N
                              N-yl)amino)-2
       F3 C                                F
                                   /N              azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                            yl)methanone
180                                                ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5
              F             N                      (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                     NH                                     yl)amino)-2
            F3 C N          N                azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(2-(5
                           \   /N                        fluoropyrimidin-2
                         F                             yl)phenyl)methanone
181                                           ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-(benzo[d]oxazol-2
                          N      N-                          ylamino)-2
                 N NH    0azabicyclo                         [2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)(6
          d :0            N-N                    methyl-3-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                                       N           yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone
                                  -500   -

 Ex.     Compound                                Compound Name
 No.
182                                   ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-(benzo[d]oxazol-2
                 N                                  ylamino)-2
         NH                            azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)(3
                                          fluoro-2-(2H- 1,2,3 -triazol-2
                 N-N       F
                   'N                         yl)phenyl)methanone
183                                   ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-(benzo[d]oxazol-2
                 N                                  ylamino)-2
      N NH                /azabicyclo[2.2.               1]heptan-2-yl)(3
                           F-                 fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                    /N                        yl)phenyl)methanone
184                                         (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
               N                          yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-(p
     SNH                                          tolylammno)-2
           I   N~        Fazabicyclo[2.2.                   I1]heptan-2
                 \  N,                             yl)methanone
185                                   (1H-indol-7-yl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                  N                        (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
     N      NH   0yl)amino)-2
             1 -:1azabicyclo[2.2.                           1]heptan-2
         F3 C        HNyl)methanone
186                                  (1H-indazol-7-yl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                  N                        (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
     Nz     NH              /                      yl)amino)-2
        F3 C         HN       ~azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2
                         N                         yl)methanone
                       -501-

 Ex.          Compound                                 Compound Name
 No.
187                                          (5-methyl-3-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                    N        N-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
             N NH               /(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
     F3 C  N   ~    N-N                                  yl)amino)-2
                        ,  N                    azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2
                                                         yl)methanone
188                                        (2-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-3
                    N                              yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
             N NH  0                            (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
          FC
           NTNN                 N                        yl)amino)-2
                       " N                      azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
                                                         yl)methanone
189                                            (3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2
                    N        N-                     yl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
               NH               /(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
                       NT
              F3C N-yl)amino)-2
                          /N                    azabicyclo [2.2. 1]heptan-2
                                                        yl)methanone.
190                                             (5-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2
                    N        N-             yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
           N   NH               /(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
                       N
              F3C N-yl)amino)-2
                          /N                    azabicyclo [2.2. 1]heptan-2
                                                         yl)methanone
                           - 502   -

 Ex.           Compound                               Compound Name
 No.
191                                             (6-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2
                    N        N-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                NH             /(trifluoromethiyl)pyrazin-2
                         N
               F3C N-yl)amino)-2
                         /N                    azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2
                                                       yl)methanone
192                                          (3-fluoro-2-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                     N                        yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
              N NH  0                          (tnifluoromethyl)pyrazmn-2
                 ,     lT        6
                      -yl)amino)-2
     F3 C  N          N-N        F
                        ",N                    azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
                                                       yl)methanone
193                                          (4-fluoro-2-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                     N                        yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
              N NH 0                           (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
        3I NI        N-                                 yl)amino)-2
                          'N                   azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                       yl)methanone
194                                         ((5-fluoro-2-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                     N               F        yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                 NH     -0                     (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
     F3 C  NT         N-N                               yl)amino)-2
                        "N                     azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
                                                       yl)methanone
195                                          (2-fluoro-6-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                        NF                    yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
           N    NH  0                          (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
     F3 C  NT         N-N                               yl)amino)-2
                        /N                     azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                       yl)methanone
                           - 503   -

 Ex.           Compound                                 Compound Name
 No.
196                                           (3-methyl-2-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                     N                          yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
              N NH               /(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
         3 NT    6      -N                                yl)amino)-2
                         /,N                     azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2
                                                         yl)methanone
197                                          (4-methoxy-2-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2
                     N                          yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
              N NH  0                            (tnifluoromethiyl)pyrazmn-2
     F3    N,         N-                                  yl)amino)-2
                        ",N                      azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
                                                         yl)methanone
198                                               (4-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                     N                          yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
              N NH/                              (trifluoromethiyl)pyrazin-2
        F3            N-                                  yl)amino)-2
                           /N                    azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2
                                                         yl)methanone
199                                               (5-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                      N               F         yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
           N    NH                /(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
                               T
               F3C IN-yl)amino)-2
                            /N                   azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2
                                                         yl)methanone
                             - 504  -

 Ex.            Compound                                   Compound Name
 No.
200                                                  (2-fluoro-6-(pyrimidin-2
                          NF                       yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                       N
              N NH   0                              (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
                          NT
                F3C N-yl)amino)-2
                         \  ,                       azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                            yl)methanone
201                                                        (2-(pyrimidin-2
                       N                           yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
               N NH                  /(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
            -3          N-                                   yl)amino)-2
                              /N                    azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2
                                                            yl)methanone
202                                                    (5-fluoro-2-(oxazol-2
                       N                  F        yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
               N NH   0                             (tnifluoromethyl)pyrazmn-2
                  ,   f      '
                            pyl)amino)-2
     F3 C N0\
                           '~N                      azab icyclo [2.2. 1] heptan-2
                                                            yl)methanone
203                                                   (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2
                       N                           yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
          N      NH                  /(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
                            NT
                F3C N-yl)amino)-2
                      \        N                    azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2
                    F                                       yl)methanone
                                -505    -

 Ex.             Compound                                  Compound Name
 No.
204                                             (3-fluoro-2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2
                         N                         yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                N NH               /(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
                        TN-                                  yl)amino)-2
     F3 C   N                        F
                            /' N                    azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2
                      F                                     yl)methanone
206                                             [1,1 -biphenyl]-2-yl((1 S,4S,6R)-6
                         N                        ((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
                NTNH   0                                     yl)amino)-2
                F3C    Nazabicyclo[2.2.                              1]heptan-2
                                 \ /                        yl)methanone
208                                                  (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                         N                    yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4S,6R)-6-(methiyl(5
                N-   e0                             (trifluoromethiyl)pyrazin-2
              -          N~                                  yl)amino)-2
     F3 C   N      qF
                             /N                     azabicyclo [2.2. 1]heptan-2
                                                            yl)methanone
209                                                  (5-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                         N              F     yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4S,6R)-6-(methiyl(5
                N We               /(trifluoromethiyl)pyrazin-2
          I N'N                                              yl)amino)-2
     F3 C
                             /N                     azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2
                                                            yl)methanone
210                                                  ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-(methyl(5
                         N                          (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
            N     NWe 0                                      yl)amino)-2
             -T          N-                      azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)(2
     F3 C   N      q
                            / N                (pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone
                              - 506   -

 Ex.             Compound                              Compound Name
 No.
211                                                     ((1 S,4S,6R)-6
                          N                       ((cyclopropylmethyl)(5
            N      N/                           (tnifluoromethyl)pyrazmn-2
                          ,N- qyl)amino)-2
                         I~r
     F3 CF
                             /llN            azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)(3
                                                   fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                                                    yl)phenyl)methanone
212                                        ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5-chloropyrazin-2
                        N                                 yl)amino)-2
               N NH    0                     azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)(3
                 I6 "T--7- Qfluoro-2-(2H-                       1,2,3 -triazol-2
     CI    N             N-N        F
                             N                      yl)phenyl)methanone
213                                        ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5-chloropyrazin-2
                        N             F                   yl)amino)-2
                   NH                        azabicyclo[2.2. ]heptan-2-yl)(5
     CI    N      ~      N-N                   fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2
                             N                      yl)phenyl)methanone
214                                        ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5-chloropyrazin-2
                        N                                 yl)amino)-2
               N NH                          azabicyclo [2.2.1I ]heptan-2-yl)(3
            -lNI         N-                        fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                           \                        yl)phenyl)methanone
215                                        ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5-chloropyrazin-2
                        N                                 yl)amino)-2
           N     NH 0                        azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)(2
                     -IT N                 (pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone
     cI    N
                           \N
                                _ 507 -

 Ex.             Compound                                  Compound Name
 No.
216                                            ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5-chloropyrazin-2
                         N                                  yl)amino)-2
             N NH       0                        azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)(3
                     -~   N~fluoro-2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2
     CI   N                          F
                              /N                        yl)phenyl)methanone
                     F
217                                               (3-fluoro-2-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                            N                      yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                N NH      0                        methylpyrazmn-2-yl)ammno)-2
                   611 T . - Qazabicyclo[2.2.                       1]heptan-2
            N               N-N        F
                                 N                          yl)methanone
218                                               (5-fluoro-2-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                      N              F             yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
           N NH                                    methylpyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2
        N              N-N                          azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                           /,N                              yl)methanone
219                                                  (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                      N                            yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
           N NH                   /methylpyrazin-2-yl)amino)-2
                 ~     N-                           azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2
        N                          F
                          \N                                yl)methanone
220                                            ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5-methylpyrazin-2
                      N                                     yl)amino)-2
        N      NH                 /azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(2
              -        N                        (pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone
        N
                          \N
                                 - 508-

 Ex.             Compound                                 Compound Name
 No.
221                                             Methyl 5-(((1 S,4S,6R)-2-(2-(2H
                           N                      1,2,3 -triazol-2-yl)benzoyl)-2
                      N     NHazabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-6
                K-     H
     Me   2C    N           N-N                 yl)amino)pyrazine-2-carboxylate
222                                            (2-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2-yl)pyridin-3
                       N                               yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                N NH                /(tnifluoromethyl)pynimidmn-2
                             NN N                           yl)amino)-2
           F3                N                      azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2
                                                            yl)methanone
223                                              (3-fluoro-2-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                       N                          yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
               rN H                               (trifluoromethyl)pyrimidin-2
           F3 N        N-N           Fyl)amino)-2
                          /-N                       azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                            yl)methanone
224                                              (4-fluoro-2-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                               N                  yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
              ri NNH 0 -F                         (tnifluoromethyl)pynimidmn-2
     F3 C       N      N-N                                  yl)amino)-2
                          /,N                       azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
                                                            yl)methanone
225                                              (5-fluoro-2-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                       N                F         yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
             Nl N 6/H                             (trifluoromethyl)pyrimidin-2
     F3 C A,- N        N-N                                  yl)amino)-2
                            SN                      azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                            yl)methanone
                             -  509   -

 Ex.                  Compound                      Compound Name
 No.
226                                        (2-fluoro-6-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                                 NF         yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                             N
             rN '       NH   0(trifluoromethyl)pyrimidin-2
           FCK N              N-N                     yl)amino)-2
            F3                    N           azabicyclo [2.2. 1]heptan-2
                                                     yl)methanone
227                                            (4-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                             N              yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                    N NH/                   (trifluoromethyl)pyrimidin-2
     F3 C"     .    N         N-                      yl)amino)-2
                                \,N           azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
                                                     yl)methanone
228                                            (5-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                              N          F  yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                   rlN"rNH 0                (tnifluoromethyl)pynimidmn-2
     F3 C        .-  N         N-P                    yl)amino)-2
                                  /N          azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                     yl)methanone
229                                            (2-fluoro-6-(pyrimidin-2
                                      F     yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                                N
                          rl     NH
                              N0(trifluoromethyl)pyrimidin-2
       F3 C            N        N-                    yl)amino)-2
                                    /N        azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2
                                                     yl)methanone
230                                                 (2-(pyrimidin-2
                             N              yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
             rN " rNH 0                     (trifluoromethyl)pyrimidin-2
           FC        N        N-                      yl)amino)-2
                                   N          azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                     yl)methanone
                                   -510-

 Ex.            Compound                            Compound Name
 No.
231                                             (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2
                        N                   yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
             rlN NH    0                    (trifluoromethyl)pyrimidin-2
     F3C A,- N           N-                            yl)amino)-2
                             /N               azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                     F                                yl)methanone
232                                              (2-fluoro-6-(oxazol-2
                    (S-N       F            yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
           rN -rNH     0(trifluoromethyl)pyrimidin-2
       F  3  00Nyl)amino)-2
         F3                   N               azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                      yl)methanone
233                                         (3-ethoxy-6-methylpyridin-2
                                NN-              yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
               N
               rNH     0                    (trifluoromethyl)pyrimidin-2
       F3    -N           EOyl)amino)-2
                                              azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
                                                      yl)methanone
234                                     ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5-chloropyrimidin
                      N                              2-yl)amino)-2
            rN   H                        azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)(3
                      N-N                    fluoro-2-(2H- 1,2,3 -triazol-2
                       I                         yl)phenyl)methanone
235                                     ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5-chloropyrimidin
                         N          F                2-yl)amino)-2
            N N 6H           -0           azabicyclo[2.2. I1]heptan-2-yl)(5
          CIK- N         N-N                 fluoro-2-(2H- 1,2,3 -triazol-2
                            / N                  yl)phenyl)methanone
                              -511-

 Ex.          Compound                          Compound Name
 No.
236                                  ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5-chloropyrimidin
                   N                             2-yl)amino)-2
         rlN NH   0                    azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)(3
          N         N-                      fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                        /z N                 yl)phenyl)methanone
237                                  ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5-chloropyrimidin
                    N                            2-yl)amino)-2
         rlN NH              \/F       azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan-2-yl)(4
           N        N-                      fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                       \N                    yl)phenyl)methanone
238                                  ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5-chloropyrimidin
                   N               F        2-yl)(methyl)amino)-2
      rN      NWe 0azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(5
     C,    N        N-                      fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                      \                      yl)phenyl)methanone
239                                  ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5-chloropyrimidmn
                       NF                        2-yl)amino)-2
          NzlrNH  0                    azabicyclo [2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)(2
     VL N           N-                      fluoro-6-(pyrimidin-2
                      \   N                  yl)phenyl)methanone
240                                  ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5-chloropyrimidin
                       N                         2-yl)amino)-2
         rN -rNH     0                 azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)(2
              N         N-            (pyrimidin-2-yl)phenyl)methanone
                            -  512 -

 Ex.            Compound                              Compound Name
 No.
241                                       ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5-chloropyrimidin
                      N                           2-yl)(methyl)amino)-2
          rN -rNH                         azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)(2-(5
             N        o -P                           fluoropyrimidin-2
                      \    ,N                       yl)phenyl)methanone
                    F
242                                                (2-(2H- 1,2,3 -triazol-2
                        N                     yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((6
              INH                             (trifluoromethyl)pyridazmn-3
                F 3 C N-Nyl)amino)-2
                                N               azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
                                                        yl)methanone
243                                         (6-methyl-3-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                        N        N-yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((6
           N     NH                           (trifluoromethyl)pyridazmn-3
                F 3 C N-Nyl)amino)-2
                            -
                            ,N                  azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2
                                                        yl)methanone
244                                             (6-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2
                        N        N-        yl)pyridin-2-yl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((6
           N     NH                           (trifluoromethyl)pyridazin-3
                F 3 C N~yl)amino)-2
                              /N                azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2
                                                        yl)methanone
245                                              (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                        N                     yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((6
           N     NH                           (trifluoromethiyl)pyridazmn-3
                       0            /
                                  N- F                  yl)amino)-2
     F3 C
                        \/      N               azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2
                                -513-

 Ex.        Compound                                   Compound Name
 No.
                                                         yl)methanone
246                                                (2-(2H- 1,2,3 -triazol-2
                    N                         yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((6
              NH                                (trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-3
            F   3       N
                  C N-Nyl)amino)-2
                          -'N                   azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2
                                                         yl)methanone
247                                              (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                    N                         yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((6
              NH                                (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-3
                   o0
            -N-                                          yl)amino)-2
     F3C NF
                         ,  N                   azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2
                                                         yl)methanone
248                                         (R/S)-(3-fluoro-2-(pynimidmn-2
                    N                                  yl)phenyl)(6-((5
         N    0                           (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                       0                       2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                    \3CN                                 yl)methianone
249                                      (R/S)- (3-fluoro-2-(2H- 1,2,3 -triazol
                    N                                2-yl)phenyl)(6-((5
         N    0j                          (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                   o0         "                2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
            F3 0       -N         Fyl)methianone
250                                         (RIS)- (4-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                    N                                  yl)phenyl)(6-((5
         N    0j                          (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                   0                           2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                     N  /3N                              yl)methanone
                             -514  -

 Ex.            Compound                                Compound Name
 No.
251                                           (R/S)- (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2
                        N                               yl)phenyl)(6-((5
            N    0                          (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                       o0                        2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                        \3C
                          N-N                             yl)methanone
                     F
252                                             (R/S)-(6-methyl-3-(2H-1 ,2,3
                              N               triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)-6-((5
                     6     N                     (rfurmthlprzn2
            N    NH                               tilooehlprzn2
                         N-N               yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
          F3 C/N                                         2-yl)methanone
253              H(R/S)-(6-methyl-3-(2H-1                                   ,2,3
            N    N                                   triazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
                               NJ                    yl)(( S,4R,6S)-6-((5
     F3 0   N              N -'                  (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
                             /             yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                                                         2-yl)methanone
254                                             (RJS)-(2-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                        N                               yl)phenyl)(6-((5
            N    NH                              (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
                  T    0        '          yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
     F3 0   N            /
                                  ~N                     2-yl)methanone
255                                        (R/S)- (3-fluoro-2-(2H- 1,2,3 -triazol
                        N                              2-yl)phenyl)(6-((5
            N    NH                              (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
                     ~ N-T                 yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                F3 0     /          F2-yl)methanone
                            -   515 -

 Ex.       Compound                                 Compound Name
 No.
256                                        (R/S)- (3-methyl-2-(2H-1 ,2,3
                       N                      triazol-2-yl)phenyl)(6-((5
         N     NH                            (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
     F30               N0              yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                             N                      2-yl)methanone
257                                       (R/S)- (3-fluoro-2-(pynimidmn-2
                     N                              yl)phenyl)(6-((5
      N     NH                               (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
                  o0         "         yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
       N                /3 N    FF2-yl)methanone
258                                       (R/S)- (4-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                     N                              yl)phenyl)(6-((5
      N     NH                               (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
                   0o                  yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
         -N              /3N                        2-yl)methanone
259                                            (4-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                     N                      yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
      N     0j                          (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                   o0                        2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                     N  /3N                           yl)methanone
260                                            (5-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                     N            F        yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
      N     0          ~                (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                    0     P'                 2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                      N  /3N                          yl)methanone
                            -516-

 Ex.           Compound                               Compound Name
 No.
261                                              (2-fluoro-6-(pyrimidin-2
                         NF                   yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                      N
           N    0j                        (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                             O ~/2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                        N /3 N                          yl)methanone
262                                               (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2
                      N                       yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
           N    0                         (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                     o0       '                2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
     F3C"N                   N                          yl)methanone
                      \   /N
                   F
263                                        (3-fluoro-2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2
                      N                       yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
           N    0                         (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                             o ~/2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
         F3 CN                                          yl)methianone
                   F
264                                             (5-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2
                            NN-yl)pyridin-2-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                       N                  (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                     O0                        2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                      \3N-                              yl)methanone
265                                             (6-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2
                                          yl)pyridin-2-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                    (I N        N-         tilooehlprdn2y~x)
             N  O0(rfurmty~prdn2y~x)
         F3C             N                     2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                        \3
                         N-                             yl)methanone
                            - 517  -

 Ex.             Compound                               Compound Name
 No.
266                                                (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                          N                 yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro
            N      0j                           5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                             N-     /       yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
          F3 0FN                                         yl)methanone
267                                                (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                      N                         yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
         N    0j                                 methylpyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
                             ~ /azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                                  ~
                              NF                         yl)methanone
268                                                 (2-(2H- 1,2,3 -triazol-2
                        N                       yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
              N0            ~                     bromopyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
                       o0                          azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
     Bru                 N-N
                                 /                       yl)methanone
269                                         ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2
                        N                   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
           N     0j                              yl)(3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                       o0                            yl)phenyl)methanone
     Br                  N~         F
                          \ N
270                                                 (2-(2H- 1,2,3 -triazol-2
                        N                       yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
           N     0j                               chloropyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
                         N-N                       azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
     cil
                                     N                   yl)methanone
                                -518-

 Ex.          Compound                               Compound Name
 No.
271                                       ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2
                    N                    yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
          N  0j                                yl)(3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                  C N-         /                   yl)phenyl)methanone
     ci                          F
                      \  N
272                                              (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2
                     N                        yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
           N   0                          (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)oxy)
                    o0                         2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
     F3 C  N          N-Nyl)methanone
                   F
273                                        (3-fluoro-2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2
                     N                        yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
             ~
             N                            (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)oxy)
                    0~N                        2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
     F3C   N             P        F                    yehnn
                           N
                         /Nmthnn
                   F
274                                          (3-fluoro-2-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                     N                        yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
           N    NH                             (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
                      ,.  -P'            yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
             F 3~0    N
                      N-N         F2-yl)methanone
275                                               (2-(2H- 1,2,3 -triazol-2
                     N                        yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
           N    NH                             (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
                 T  0        '           yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
     F3 0  N          /
                                 ~N                   2-yl)methianone
                           -519-

 Ex.             Compound                          Compound Name
 No.
276                                           (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                 N                          yl)phenyl)((1R,4S,6S)-6-((5
                     HN      N               (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
       F"     -N             N       F  yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
         F    NN                   CF               2-yl)methanone
277                                           (4-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                        N                   yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
             N    NH                         (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
                       0                yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
               -N           /3N                     2-yl)methanone
278                                           (5-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                        N             F     yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
             N     NH                        (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
          F3 N0                         yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
               -N           /3 N                    2-yl)methianone
279                                           (2-fluoro-6-(pyrimidin-2
                          NF                yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                        N
             N    NH                         (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
          F3 N0               ~         yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
             NN            /3 N                     2-yl)methanone
280                                                 (2-(pyrimidin-2
                        N                   yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
             N    NH                         (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
     F3C     N           N-P            yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                          \   N                     2-yl)methianone
                              - 520 -

 Ex.        Compound                                   Compound Name
 No.
281                                            ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5
                    N                      (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
        N     0                             2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(3
              C    O3 -          /                 fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                          /N                        yl)phenyl)methanone
282                                              (5-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2
                           NN-yl)pyridin-2-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                     N                    (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)oxy)
           NO                   /
      F3 0       ~              /2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
        NN              /3 N                            yl)methanone
283                                             ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5
                           NN-            (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                    N          N0           2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(5
                   0          "           methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2
              F     \3     N                            yl)methanone
284                                       ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyrimidin
                   N                                     2-yl)oxy)-2
      Nl    a                                azabicyclo [2.2.1I ]heptan-2-yl)(3
                C                                  fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
              N                 F                   yl)phenyl)methanone
285                                       ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyrimidin
                                N
                           N-2-yl)oxy)-2
      N     0                                azabicyclo [2.2.1I ]heptan-2-yl)(6
     CI            N-                     methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2
                       /N                               yl)methanone
                            _ 521  -

 Ex.          Compound                               Compound Name
 No.
286                                     ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((1,8-naphthyridin-2
                          NN-            yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1I ]heptan
        N N    00                        2-yl)(6-methyl-3-(2H-1I,2,3-tfiazol
          110:5      N-                       2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone
287                                     ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((1,8-naphthyridin-2
                   4 N                   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1I ]heptan
            N    0                  /:,       2-yl)(2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2
     --                NI                        yl)phenyl)methanone
288                                                ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                     N        N-         (difluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
           N    0                        2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)(5
            F~            ~       /     methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2
     F                   /N                           yl)methanone
289                                       (2-methoxy-6-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                       N         OMe         yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                   0                /    (trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2-yl)oxy)
                               N-N2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
            3                N                        yl)methanone
290                                            (5-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2
                     N                   yl)pyridin-3-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
          N    0                  /      (trifluoromethiyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                                 N            2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
                           N
                        /3-'N                         yl)methanone
                            -522    -

 Ex.            Compound                               Compound Name
 No.
291                                              (4-fluoro-2-(3-methyl-1 ,2,4
                        N                  oxadiazol-5-yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)
                  N
                  0    0                 F    6-((5-(trifluoromethiyl)pyridin-2
           F3 C                            y~oxy-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1I ]heptan
                       Nx N                             2-yl)methanone
292                                                 (2-fluoro-6-(oxazol-2
                               F                yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
               N0                  /        (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
         F0                                     2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
         F3C                 N                           yl)methanone
293                                                 (5-fluoro-2-(oxazol-2
                        N              F        yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
               N0                  /        (trifluoromethiyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
         FO\                                    2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
         F3C                 N                           yl)methanone
294                                           (5-methyl-3-(1 H-i ,2,3-triazol-1
                             NN-yl)pyridin-2-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
            N     0    0(trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2-yl)oxy)
               F3 0      /  N2-azabicyclo[2.2.                     1]heptan-2
                             N                           yl)methanone
295                                              (4-methoxy-2-(pyrimidin-2
                     N                          yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
           NO0
                    00     \         OMe   (trifluoromethiyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
     F3C              N-                        2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                               \ I                       yl)methanone
                             -  523  -

 Ex.           Compound                                    Compound Name
 No.
296                                                (3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2
                                  NN-                   yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
             NIl                              (trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2-yl)oxy)
                     N   ~~           /2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                        N    /3N                             yl)methanone
297                                                        (2-(pyrimidin-2
                      N                            yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
        N 0                                   (trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2-yl)oxy)
        I                  P                       2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
      F3 C
                      \   ,, N                               yl)methanone
298                                                  (5-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2
                             N                 yl)pyridin-2-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
        N        0      ~                      (tifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2-yl)oxy)
                             ~ ~'/2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                      \3C
                       N-N                                   yl)methanone
299                                           ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyrimidin
                     N       N-2-yl)oxy)-2
          rlN 00                                 azabicyclo [2.2.1I ]heptan-2-yl)(6
          .-       N                               methyl-3-(2H- 1,2,3-triazol-2
                          N                         yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone
300                                                    (2-(2H- 1,2,3 -triazol-2
                     N                             yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
      rN        0(1                /               chloropyrimidin-2-yl)oxy)-2
     C  -    N       N-N                            azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                          N                                  yl)methanone
                              -524    -

 Ex.                 Compound                                  Compound Name
 No.
301                                                ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((1,8-naphthyridin-2
                                     N              yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1I ]heptan
          N     N       0                               2-yl)(3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidmn-2
                                      ~    /yl)phenyl)methanone
                                             ~
             '~  -N-
                                             F
                                 \   N
302                                                ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((1,8-naphthyridin-2
                                   N PN-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1I ]heptan
       N      N       0                                2-yl)(6-methyl-3-(pynimidmn-2
                       C        ~\      /                 yl)pyridin-2-yl)mthanone
           '     ~N
                              \   N
303                                                             (2-(pyridazin-3
                            N                           yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
               N      0    0(trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2-yl)oxy)
                          N  ~           /2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                            \3C, N                               yl)methanone
                               N
304                                                             (2-(pyridazin-4
                            N                           yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                  N0       0         \/             (trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2-yl)oxy)
                 F3 C                                   2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
                                 /                               yl)methanone
                            N-N
305                                                              (2-(pyridin-2
                            N                           yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
               N      0                             (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                                   ~ ~/2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
     F3 C
                                / N                              yl)methanone
                                   -  525  -

 Ex.              Compound                           Compound Name
 No.
306                                                    (2-(pyridin-3
                        N                     yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
             N      0  0(trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2-yl)oxy)
                             o ~/2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
     F3 C     l
                            P/.                        yl)methanone
                           N
307                                                    (2-(pyridin-4
                        N                     yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                NI 0   0                  (trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2-yl)oxy)
                F3 0                          2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
                                 \  /                  yl)methanone
308                                                    (2-(pyrazin-2
                        N                     yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                N0                        (trifluoromethiyl)pyridmn-2-yl)oxy)
                             o ~/2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
          F3C          N     N                         yl)methanone
309                                               (2-(3 -methylpyridin-2
                        N                     yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
             NNZ0                         (trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2-yl)oxy)
                             ~ ~/2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
     F3 C                N
                                 \ /                   yl)methanone
310                                              (2-(5-methylisoxazol-3
                      SN                      yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
             N      0                     (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
     F3 C                                     2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
                          0' Nyl)methanone
                              _ 526  -

 Ex.         Compound                                   Compound Name
 No.
311                                             (2-(3 ,5-dimethylisoxazol-4
                     N                         yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
           NI 0     0                      (trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2-yl)oxy)
           F3 0                                 2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
                      I    \                             yl)methanone
312                                                 ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((4,6
                  N       N-                 dimethylpyrimidin-2-yl)oxy)-2
            N o                              azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)(5
                              /methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2
                             's"
                      /N                                 yl)methanone
313                                                 ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((4,6
                  N                          dimethylpyrimidin-2-yl)oxy)-2
         N0                    /azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(6
                  N-         N             methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3
                      /N                                 yl)methanone
314                                              (6-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2
                    N                       yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
           N0                      /       (trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2-yl)oxy)
                                  N            2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
                            N
                         /3"N                            yl)methanone
315                                                   ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                     N                      (difluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
         N      0                           2-azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(6
     F                N~          N        methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3
       F                  /N                             yl)methanone
                             -527    -

 Ex.               Compound                                Compound Name
 No.
316                                                     (2-(2H- 1,2,3 -triazol-2
                  4 N                                yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
      N       0    0                             (hydroxymethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
         IN-N                                        2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
                        ~N                                   yl)methanone
          OH
317                                                     (2-(2H- 1,2,3 -triazol-2
                    N                                yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
      N       0    0                             (fluoromethyl)pyridmn-2-yl)oxy)-2
         IN-N                                         azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                         N                                   yl)methanone
           F
318                                                       ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                           N-
                           N                     (hydroxymethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
      N       0~                                 2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)(5
                I                                methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2
                      \/ N                                   yl)methanone
          OHU
319                                                       ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                    N      N         ~           (fluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
      N       0                                    azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)(5
                I                                methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2
                       \,N                                   yl)methanone
320                                                 (3-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-5
                           N      N-             methylpyridin-2-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6
               N    0                /((5-(trifluoromethiyl)pyridin-2
     F3 C                  N-                    yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1I ]heptan
                              /' N                          2-yl)methanone
                         F
                                -528-

 Ex.            Compound                                 Compound Name
 No.
321                                               (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-6
                      N                        methylpyridin-3-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6
               N0                  /((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                                 N             yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1I ]heptan
     F3 C"N
                        \   N                             2-yl)methanone
                    F
322                                               (3-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-6
                      N        N-methylpyridin-2-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6
                  0               /((5-(trifluoromethiyl)pyridin-2
     F3 C             N-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan
                          /' N                            2-yl)methanone
                    F
323                                               (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-5
                      N                        methylpyridin-3-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6
               N0                  /((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyndmi-2
                                 N             yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1I ]heptan
     F3 C             N-P
                          /' N                            2-yl)methanone
                    F
324                                               (3-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-4
                      N        N-              methylpyridin-2-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6
            N     0               /((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
              F3C                              yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1 ]heptan
                       $ /' N                             2-yl)methanone
                    F
                             - 529   -

 Ex.             Compound                                Compound Name
 No.
325                                          (3-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin
                        N        N-2-yl)((l                    S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                  0                  /       (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
               F 3 C2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                             /' N                          yl)methanone
                      F
326                                          (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin
                                                     3 -yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                        N
               N0                     /      (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
            F3             -         N           2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
                             /' N                          yl)methanone
                      F
327                                              (5'-methyl-[2,3 -bipyridin]-2'
                          4      N-yl)((l                     S,4,6R)-6-((5
             N    0       ~                  (tifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2-yl)oxy)
                   ! ;                           2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
     F3 C               N
                                  \ /                      yl)methanone
328                                              (6-methyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3
                        N                             yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                        0
                    N 0(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                                    N            2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
     F3 C"N
                                  \ /                      yl)methanone
329                                              (6'-methyl-[2,3 -bipyridin]-2'
                                 N
                                 N-                   yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                     0 N                      tilooehlprdn2y~x)
             N                  \jtiloomty~yiin2y~x)
                               ~ ~'/2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
     F3 C                N
                          \/                               yl)methanone
                               -530-

 Ex.             Compound                               Compound Name
 No.
330                                               (5-methyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3
                      4 N                            yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                N0      0                    (trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2-yl)oxy)
                                 :N               2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
     F3 C"                N-.
                                 \ /                      yl)methanone
331                                              (4'-methyl-[2,3 -bipyridin]-2'
                                  NN-                yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
               N    0                        (trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2-yl)oxy)
                                ~ ~' /2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
       F3 C                 N
                                   \ /                    yl)methanone
332                                          [2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl((1 S,4R,6R)-6
                         N      N       ~       ((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
             N    0     0yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo                        [2.2.1I ]heptan
                                ~ /2-yl)methanone
                                     ~"
     F3 C                 N
333                                          [2,2'-bipyridin]-3-yl((1 S,4R,6R)-6
                       (]N                      ((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                    Q
                    0     0yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1I ]heptan
                    1 ;N                                 2-yl)methanone
       F3 C                 N
334                                           (3,5'-dimethyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'
                           4    N-yl)((l                    S,4,6R)-6-((5
             N    0                          (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
          F3             N-         /            2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                          \                               yl)methanone
                              - 531   -

 Ex.            Compound                             Compound Name
 No.
335                                        (3',6-dimethyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3
                   4 N                            yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
               N0    0                   (trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2-yl)oxy)
                                  N          2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
     F3C"              N-.
                                \ /                    yl)methanone
336                                       (3,6'-dimethyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'
                             N    '
                              N-yl)((l                   S,4R,6R)-6-((5
             N   0                       (tifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                            o ~/2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
     F3 C-'N
                                \/                     yl)methanone
337                                        (3',5-dimethyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3
                             N                    yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
               N0    0                   (trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2-yl)oxy)
                              EN              2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
     F3 C              N
                                \/                     yl)methanone
338                                       (3,4'-dimethyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'
                              N-
                              N                   yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
             N   0                       (trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2-yl)oxy)
                      o3
                       N-                    2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                \/                     yl)methanone
339                                          (3-methyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'
                                                  yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                           N
             N   0                       (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                      0N      '              2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
     F3 C              N
                                \/                     yl)methanone
                            -532-

 Ex.          Compound                             Compound Name
 No.
340                                         (3 -methyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3
                    N                           yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
             N                   /ll   (trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2-yl)oxy)
                               N            2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
     F3 C            N-.
                             \ /                     yl)methanone
341                                    (3-fluoro-5'-methyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]
                            N-                 2'-yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
           N   0      ~                 (trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2-yl)oxy)
                          o ~/2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                   \C/-       F                      yl)methanone
342                                    (3'-fluoro-6-methyl-[2,21-bipyridin]
                                               3 -yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                   N
             N0                 /      (trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2-yl)oxy)
          F3          -       N             2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
                         \/   F                      yl)methanone
343                                    (3-fluoro-6'-methyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]
                                               2'-yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                    N       N
           N   0                        (tifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2-yl)oxy)
                   o3N-         /           2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                         \/   F                      yl)methanone
344                                    (3 -fluoro-5-methyl-[2,21-bipyridin]
                            N                  3 -yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
           N   0   0       \    /       (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                               N            2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
     F3 C            N
                        X     F                      yl)methanone
                          -533-

 Ex.             Compound                             Compound Name
 No.
345                                      (3-fluoro-4'-methyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]
                             N~                  2'-yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                     4N
             N    0                       (trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2-yl)oxy)
                           o ~/2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
     F3 C               N
                          \/   F                        yl)methanone
346                                            (3-fluoro-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'
                             N                     yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
             N    0                      (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                           ~ ~'/2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
     F3 C               N
                                X                       yl)methanone
347                                            (3 -fluoro-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3
                    SN                             yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
               N0     0                  (trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2-yl)oxy)
                               N              2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
     F3 C               N
                          \/   F                        yl)methanone
348                                      (5-methyl-3-(oxazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
                             N N-                  yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
               N0     0                  (trifluoromethiyl)pyridmn-2-yl)oxy)
          F3 ~N-                              2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                       4 1                              yl)methanone
349                                      (6-methyl-2-(oxazol-2-yl)pyridin-3
                       N                           yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
             N    0             /        (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                               N              2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
     F3C               J~
                              ~                         yl)methanone
                            -534-

 Ex.           Compound                          Compound Name
 No.
350                                 (6-methyl-3-(oxazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
                            N
                        CPN-yl)((l                  S,4R,6R)-6-((5
              N0     0               (trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2-yl)oxy)
              F3 0  ~ N2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                             ~                    yl)methanone
351                                 (5-methyl-2-(oxazol-2-yl)pyridin-3
                      N                      yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
              N0     0          '    (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                                  N      2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
     F3 0 U,-         ,
                      4                           yl)methianone
352                                 (4-methyl-3-(oxazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
                   C N     qN                  l)( S,4R,6R)-6-((5
              N0     0              (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
              F3 0      N.2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                             ~                    yl)methanone
353                                        (3-(oxazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
                            N                yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
              N0               /    (trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2-yl)oxy)
              F3 0  ~ N2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                      4                           yl)methanone
354                                        (2-(oxazol-2-yl)pyridin-3
                   C N                       yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
           N     0              /   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                              N          2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
     F3 0             J~
                             ~                    yl)methanone
                           -535-

 Ex.               Compound                           Compound Name
 No.
355                                       (5-methyl-3-(thiazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
                         N       N-yl)((l                 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                  N0                /      (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
          F3 C -5                              2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                         4    s                         yl)methanone
356                                       (6-methyl-2-(thiazol-2-yl)pyridin-3
                         N                         yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                  N0    0                  (trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2-yl)oxy)
                                   N           2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
     F3C"                J
                         4.   s                         yl)methanone
357                                       (6-methyl-3-(thiazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
                         N PN                       l)( S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                  N0    0                  (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
           F0N-                                2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                  'x  s                 yl)methanone
358                                       (5-methyl-2-(thiazol-2-yl)pyridin-3
                         N                         yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                  N0    0                  (trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2-yl)oxy)
                                   N           2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
     F3 0   Ul
                         4    s                         yl)methianone
359                                       (4-methyl-3-(thiazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
                      C NN                         yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
              N     0   0                  (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
           F3 ~N-                              2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                          'N. s                         yl)methanone
                                -536-

 Ex.         Compound                                  Compound Name
 No.
360                                              (3-(thiazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
                      C jN-yl)((l
                            N                              S,4R,6R)-6-((5
            N0    0                       (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
            F3 0    N2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                    N4. s                                yl)methanone
361                                              (2-(thiazol-2-yl)pyridin-3
                   N                                yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
            N0    0                       (trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2-yl)oxy)
                                  N             -azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
     F3 0           J
                             ~s                          yl)methianone
362                                                    (2-(pyridazin-3
                   N                          yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
            N NH              /(trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2
                                                          yl)amino)-2
                   \3C- ,N                      azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                       N                                 yl)methanone
363                                                     (2-(pyridazin-4
                   N                          yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
          N    NH                               (trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2
                            o /yl)amino)-2
                                   ~
                        /3C                     azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                              N                          yl)methanone
364                                                      (2-(pyridin-2
                   N                          yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
          N    NH                               (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                            ~ /yl)amino)-2
                                   ~
     F3 C
                         /N                     azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2
                                                         yl)methanone
                          -537-

 Ex.            Compound                                Compound Name
 No.
365                                                      (2-(pyridin-3
                       N                       yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
            N    NH                              (trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2
                                o /yl)amino)-2
                                      ~
                            /3C                  azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                           N                             yl)methanone
366                                                      (2-(pyridin-4
                       N                       yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
               N NH   0                          (trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2
                                                          yl)amino)-2
     F3 0 U
                       N                         azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2
                                                         yl)methanone
367                                                      (2-(pyrazin-2
                         N                     yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
              N   NH                             (trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2
                                 ~ /yl)amino)-2
                                        ~'
           3            NN     N                 azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
                                                         yl)methanone
368                                                 (2-(3 -methylpyridin-2
                       N                       yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
            N    NH                              (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                                ~ /yl)amino)-2
                                      ~
     F3 C               N
                              \ /                azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                         yl)methanone
369                                                (2-(5-methylisoxazol-3
                    ( N                        yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
            N    NH               /(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                                                          yl)amino)-2
     F3 C                                        azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
                                                         yl)methanone
                             -538-

 Ex.       Compound                                   Compound Name
 No.
370                                           (2-(3 ,5-dimethylisoxazol-4
                  N                          yl)phenyl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
          N NH   0                             (trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2
                                                        yl)amino)-2
     F3 '         N    \P                      azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                       yl)methanone
371                                         (3-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-5
                  N       N-              methylpyridin-2-yl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6
          N NH               /((5-(trifluoromethiyl)pyridin-2
     F3 C         N-                                    yl)amino)-2
                     /' N                      azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
               F                                       yl)methanone
372                                         (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-6
                  N                       methylpyridin-3-yl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6
          N NH  0                           ((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyndmi-2
                             N                          yl)amino)-2
     F3 C         N
                     /' N                      azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2
               F                                       yl)methanone
373                                         (3-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-6
                  N       N-              methylpyridin-2-yl)(( 1S,4S,6R)-6
          N NH               /((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
           F 3 C N~yl)amino)-2
                       /N                      azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2
               F                                       yl)methanone
                        - 539-

 Ex.           Compound                                    Compound Name
 No.
374                                                (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-5
                      N                         methylpyridin-3-yl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6
              N NH                  /((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                                   N                          yl)amino)-2
     F3 C"N
                          /' N                       azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2
                    F                                         yl)methanone
375                                                (3-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-4
                      N        q                methylpyridin-2-yl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6
              N NH                 /((5-(trifluoromethiyl)pyridin-2
     F3 C              N-                                     yl)amino)-2
                      \   /N                         azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                    F                                         yl)methanone
376                                             (3-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin
                                                       2 -yl((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                      N         N-
                NH                 /(trifluoromethiyl)pyridmn-2
     F3 C              N-                                     yl)amino)-2
                          /' N                       azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2
                    F                                         yl)methanone
377                                             (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin
                                                       3 -yl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                      N
              N NH                  /(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                                   N                          yl)amino)-2
     F3 C              N
                          /' N                       azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2
                    F                                         yl)methanone
378                                                (5'-methyl-[2,3 -bipyridin]-2'
                   ( N          N           ~            yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
            N   NH                                   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                                ~ /yl)amino)-2
                                        ~
     F3 C"  -
                               \ /                   azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                             -  540   -

 Ex.            Compound                               Compound Name
 No.
                                                         yl)methanone
379                                            (6-methyl-[2,2'-bipyndmi]-3
                      N                             yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
               N NH              /(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                                N                        yl)amino)-2
     F3 C.'N
                             \/                 azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                         yl)methanone
380                                           (6'-methyl-[2,3 -bipyridin]-2'
                             N'                     yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                         N
             N   NH                             (trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2
                  ; - N                                  yl)amino)-2
     F3 C
                             \/                 azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                         yl)methanone
381                                           (5-methyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3
                             N                      yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
               N NH              /(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                               :N                        yl)amino)-2
     F3 C             N
                             \/                 azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2
                                                         yl)methanone
382                                           (4'-methyl-[2,3 -bipyridin]-2'
                             N                      yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
             N   NH                             (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                              ~ /yl)amino)-2
                                  ~"
     F3 C             N
                             \/                 azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                         yl)methanone
                           - 541   -

 Ex.            Compound                              Compound Name
 No.
383                                       [2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl((1 S,4S,6R)-6
                      N      N-             ((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
               NzNH             /yl)amino)-2
               F3 C   N          ~azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                             \/                         yl)methanone
384                                       [2,2'-bipyridin]-3-yl((1 S,4S,6R)-6
                      N                     ((5-(trifluoromthyl)pyridin-2
             N    NH o      \/yl)amino)-2
                               N               azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
     F3 C             N
                             \/                         yl)methanone
385                                        (3,5'-dimethyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'
                            N N-                   yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
             N    NH                           (trifluoromethiyl)pyridmn-2
          F3          N-        /                       yl)amino)-2
                            \/                 azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                        yl)methanone
386                                        (3',6-dimethyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3
                      N                            yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
             N    NH                           (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                          N- N                          yl)amino)-2
     F3 C"
                       \/                      azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                        yl)methanone
387                                        (3,6'-dimethyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'
                                   N-              yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
             N    NH                           (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
          F3          N-         /                      yl)amino)-2
                            \/                 azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                        yl)methanone
                          - 542    -

 Ex.         Compound                        Compound Name
 No.
388                               (3',5-dimethyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3
                          N               yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
          N   NH                      (trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2
                             N                 yl)amino)-2
     F3 C           N
                          \/          azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2
                                               yl)methanone
389                               (3,4'-dimethyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'
                          N               yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
          N   NH                      (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                   oN-       /                 yl)amino)-2
     F3 C
                          \/          azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2
                                               yl)methanone
390                                  (3-methyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'
                      S N                 yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                      N
          NIzNH    o(trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2
                   oI"                         yl)amino)-2
     F3 C           N?
                          \/          azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2
                                               yl)methanone
391                                  (3 -methyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3
                    N                     yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
            N NH                      (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                             N                 yl)amino)-2
     F3 C           N
                          \/          azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                               yl)methanone
392                              (3-fluoro-5'-methyl-[2,3'-bipyridm]
                          N~            2'-yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                 1    N
          N"ZNH                       (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
              4 1                              yl)amino)-2
     F3 C           N
                       \/   F         azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                               yl)methanone
                        - 543  -

 Ex.             Compound                                Compound Name
 No.
393                                          (3'-fluoro-6-methyl-[2,21-bipyridin]
                                                     3 -yl)((  S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                     ( N
                N NH              /(trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2
                                N                           yl)amino)-2
     F3 C"N
                           \/   F                  azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                            yl)methanone
394                                          (3-fluoro-6'-methyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]
                                                     2'-yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                       N      N
             N    NH                               (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                              ~  /yl)amino)-2
                                      ~
     F3 C               N
                           \/   F                  azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                            yl)methanone
395                                          (3 -fluoro-5-methyl-[2,21-bipyridin]
                                                     3 -yl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                              N
                N NH              /(trifluoromethiyl)pyridmn-2
                                N                           yl)amino)-2
                       \3
                        NX      F                  azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                            yl)methanone
396                                          (3-fluoro-4'-methyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]
                         (1 N2'-yl)((l
                               N                               S,4S,6R)-6-((5
             N    NH                               (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
             I0                                             yl)amino)-2
     F3 C               N
                           \/   F                  azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2
                                                            yl)methanone
397                                               (3-fluoro-[2,3'-bipyridm]-2'
                              N                        yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
             N    NH                               (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                        N-                                  yl)amino)-2
          F3
                         \      F                  azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                            yl)methanone
                            - 544   -

 Ex.         Compound                                   Compound Name
 No.
398                                             (3 -fluoro-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3
                    N                                yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
            NI NH                 /(trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2
               4;N                                        yl)amino)-2
     F3 C            N
                          \/    F                azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                          yl)methanone
399                                          (5-methyl-3-(oxazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
                              N-
                              N                      yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
            NI NH  o~                            (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
             F  3 0 Nyl)amino)-2
                              K                  azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                          yl)methanone
400                                          (6-methyl-2-(oxazol-2-yl)pyridin-3
                    N                                yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
            N NH                  /(trifluoromethiyl)pyridmn-2
                                 N                        yl)amino)-2
     F3 0            J~
                     4s. O                       azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                          yl)methanone
401                                          (6-methyl-3-(oxazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
                              N-
                              N                      yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
            N NH   0                             (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
             F  3 0 Nyl)amino)-2
                             '~   ~jazabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                          yl)methanone
402                                          (5-methyl-2-(oxazol-2-yl)pyridin-3
                             N                       yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
          N    NH                /\              (trifluoromethiyl)pyridin-2
                                N                         yl)amino)-2
     F3 0
                    4x1,1                        azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                          yl)methanone
                           -  545   -

 Ex.       Compound                                Compound Name
 No.
403                                     (4-methyl-3-(oxazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
                        N
                        qN-yl)((l                      S,4S,6R)-6-((5
          N NH   0                          (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
           F 3  0 Nyl)amino)-2
                  4'                        azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                     yl)methanone
404                                          (3-(oxazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
                  N      N-                     yl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
          N NH   0                          (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
           F 3  0 Nyl)amino)-2
                  4K                        azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                     yl)methanone
405                                          (2-(oxazol-2-yl)pyridin-3
                  N                             yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
             NH  0                          (trifluoromethiyl)pyridmn-2
                      N- N                           yl)amino)-2
     F3 0         J-P
                  4                         azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                     yl)methanone
406                                     (5-methyl-3-(thiazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
                    O NN-yl)((l                        S,4S,6R)-6-((5
             NH             /(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
           F 3  0 Nyl)amino)-2
                  4. s                      azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2
                                                     yl)methanone
407                                     (6-methyl-2-(thiazol-2-yl)pyridin-3
                  N                             yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
           NNH               /(trifluoromethiyl)pyridin-2
                      N- N                           yl)amino)-2
     F3 0
                  4   s                     azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                     yl)methanone
                      - 546    -

 Ex.              Compound                                  Compound Name
 No.
408                                              (6-methyl-3-(thiazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
                                  N-
                                  N                      yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                 N NH                /(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                  F 3 0 Nyl)amino)-2
                        4K s                         azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                              yl)methanone
409                                              (5-methyl-2-(thiazol-2-yl)pyridin-3
                        N                                yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                 N NH  0                             (trifluoromethiyl)pyridin-2
                                     N                        yl)amino)-2
     F3                 I-P
                        4      s                     azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                              yl)methanone
410                                              (4-methyl-3-(thiazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
                                  N    qN-yl)((l                S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                 N NH  0                             (trifluoromethiyl)pyridmn-2
          F0N-                                                yl)amino)-2
                        4.     s                     azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2
                                                              yl)methanone
411                                                   (3-(thiazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
                          O NN-yl)((l                           S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                    NH               /(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
          F3 0           N                                    yl)amino)-2
                           '~s                       azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                              yl)methanone
412                                                   (2-(thiazol-2-yl)pyridin-3
                        N                                yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
               N   NH                 /(trifluoromethiyl)pyridin-2
                                 \lain)2
                                     N
     F3 0                   -        Ny~mn)2
                        4.     s                     azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                              yl)methanone
                               -  547   -

 Ex.           Compound                                    Compound Name
 No.
413                                                      ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((4,6
                    N       N-                  dimethylpyrimidin-2-yl)amino)-2
         N    NH                                 azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)(5
                                               methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2
                         /N                                  yl)methanone
414                                                      ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((4,6
                    N                           dimethylpyrimidin-2-yl)amino)-2
            N NH                 /               azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)(6
               N     N          N              methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3
                         /N                                  yl)methanone
415                                                   (6-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2
                       N                        yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
              N NH                  /(trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2
           F3             -        N                          yl)amino)-2
                             /N                      azabicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2
                                                             yl)methanone
416                                                       ((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                        N                            (difluoromethyl)pyridin-2
            N     NH                                          yl)amino)-2
                       0
     F                   N-        N             azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2-yl)(6
       F                       N               methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3
                                                             yl)methanone
417                                                   (5-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2
                       N                        yl)pyridin-3-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
            N    0                              (tifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                                   N                 2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                        N   /3N                              yl)methanone
                                -548-

 Ex.              Compound                         Compound Name
 No.
418                                      (6-methyl-3-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                              N        yl)pyridin-2-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                  -      N             (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                       0                    2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
     F3 0    -           N-N
                              N                     yl)methanone
419                                      (5-methyl-2-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                        N              yl)pyridin-3-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
             N     0j                  (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)oxy)
          FC NN-N                 N         2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
           F3N
             0                                      yl)methanone
420                                           (2-fluoro-6-(pyrimidin-2
                           NF              yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                      AN
             N     0                   (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)oxy)
          F3 N0                             2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
             NN             /3N                     yl)methanone
421                                          (6-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2
                        N              yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
             N     0j                  (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                                  N         2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
               luN         /3N                      yl)methanone
422                                           (5-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                        N            F     yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
             N     0                   (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)oxy)
     F3 C    NT          N-                 2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                             /N                     yl)methanone
                              - 549 -

 Ex.            Compound                                Compound Name
 No.
423                                                (4-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                       N                        yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
           N       0                        (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)oxy)
                    T                            2-azabicyclo[2.2.2octan-2
           NN              /3 N                          yl)methanone
424                                               (6-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2
                              N PN-yl)pyridin-2-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                        N                   (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)oxy)
               NO                 /
                N              "" /2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
     F3C   N/N                N                          yl)methianone
425                                               (5-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2
                       N                     yl)pyridin-3-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
               N                            (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)oxy)
                 -      NP                       2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
             -N            /3N                           yl)methianone
426                                               (6-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2
                      N                     yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
           N       0j                       (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)oxy)
            -3         N-         N              2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                            /N                           yl)methanone
427                                                 (2-(2H- 1,2,3 -triazol-2
                       N                        yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
           N       0j                       (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)oxy)
                      0                          2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
           NTN-N
         F3C
                F3 0        N
                        /yl)methianone
                              -550-

 Ex.             Compound                           Compound Name
 No.
428                                        (3-fluoro-2-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                       N                    yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                N~j   0(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)oxy)
                      oT                     2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
     F3 0     N         N-N         F
                              N                      yl)methanone
429                                          ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5
                           NF           (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                       N
              N   0                      2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(2
                       0~N                      fluoro-6-(pyrimidin-2
                  F     N   /3 N                 yl)phenyl)methanone
430                                            (5-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                       N              F yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro
              N   0        ~                5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                       oN-              yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
     F3 C         Fq
                            /' N                     yl)methanone
431                                            (4-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                       N                yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro
              N   0                         5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                      o0                yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                  F    \3 -N                         yl)methanone
432                                      (3-fluoro-2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2
                       N                yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro
              N   0                         5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                           0     '      yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
          F3CF                                       y~mehaon
          F3C     F~        /'N                      ymehne
                     F
                               -551 -

 Ex.         Compound                              Compound Name
 No.
433                                         ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-flUOro-5
                   N                  (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                  o                     2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(6
          F3  F     N-          N     methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3
                        /N                          yl)methianone
434                                         ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5
                   N                  (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
           N  0                       2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(2-(5
                   o  -                          fluoropyrimidin-2
     F3C      F       N             ~           yl)phenyl)methanone
                 F
435                                         ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5
                         NN-          (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                    N                   2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(6
                  O0        "         methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2
               F     N /3N                          yl)methanone
436                                         ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5
                   N                   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
              0
              Q                         2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(5
                         N- N         methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3
                       /3N                          yl)methanone
437                                         ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5
                   N                   (tifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
           N  0                         2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(5
             10                 N         methyl-2-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
     F3 0     F     N-N
                         N                   yl)pyridin-3-yl)methanone
                           -552   -

 Ex.           Compound                                  Compound Name
 No.
438                                              ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-flUOro-5
                              NN-           (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                         N                   2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(6
     F3 0       F              "" /            methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2
                              N                   yl)pyridmn-2-yl)methanone
439                                                  (2-(2H- 1,2,3 -triazol-2
                        N                  yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro
           N    0j                              5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                       O0                  yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
     F3 0       F        N-N
                              N                           yl)methanone
440                                           (3-fluoro-2-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                           N               yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro
             N     0j                           5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                      F 0                  yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
           F3 0            NN         Fyl)methanone
441                                             ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5
                           NF               (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                        N
           N    0                            2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(2
                       0        '                    fluoro-6-(pyrimidin-2
                   l     N  /3 N                      yl)phenyl)methanone
442                                              ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5
                          N           F     (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
            N                                2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(5
             U            N-        /                fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
      F3 C       cq
                            \   N                     yl)phenyl)methanone
                              -553-

 Ex.           Compound                            Compound Name
 No.
443                                         ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5
                     N                 (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
             N  0                       2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(4
                     o       \/                 fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                c       /3 N                    yl)phenyl)methanone
444                                         ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5
                     N                 (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
             N  0                       2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(3
                       0     '            fluoro-2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2
     F3C        CI    N-N        F              yl)phenyl)methanone
                   F
445                                         ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5
                     N                (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                    o                   2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(6
                          N- N        methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3
                 c      /3N                          yl)methanone
446                                         ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5
                     N                 (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
             N  0                     2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(2-(5
                      N-'                         fluoropyrimidin-2
                 c      N           ~           yl)phenyl)methanone
         F3 C
                   F
447                                         ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5
                           NN-        (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                     N                  2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(6
                    0     ~           methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2
                 c      /3N                          yl)methanone
                           - 554  -

 Ex.               Compound                                Compound Name
 No.
448                                                 ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5
                             N                 (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                            O                   2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(5
             F3~ "      l     N-         N    methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-3
                                 /N                          yl)methanone
449                                                 ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5
                                  NN-          (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                     0        ~
                              N                 2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(5
                            0        "        methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin-2
                      c         /3 N                         yl)methanone
450                                                 ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5
                             N                 (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                     Q
                     0                          2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(5
                              N-N        N         methyl-2-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
           F3                     N                  yl)pyridmn-3-yl)methanone
451                                                 ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5
                                  NN-          (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                     0        ~
                              N                 2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(6
          F3         cl                   /-       methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2
                 F 3 c0       N-Nyl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone
452                                                     (2-(2H- 1,2,3 -triazol-2
                             N                yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro
              N      0j                            5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                          6          "        yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
     F3 0      -     ci       N-N
                                           N                 yl)methanone
                                    -555    -

 Ex.       Compound                                Compound Name
 No.
453                                         ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5
                 N                     (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
         N 0~2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(3
     F3                  ""c /-            fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol-2
                          /                     yl)phenyl)methanone
454                                           (2-fluoro-6-(pyrimidin-2
                 NF                        yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
            AN
     NI<                                    methylpyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
                     O   /azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                           ~
                  /N                                yl)methanone
455                                           (5-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
               N             F             yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
     N   0                                  methylpyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
              o  P'                           azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                   /N                               yl)methanone
456                                           (4-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
               N                           yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
        N0                                  methylpyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
                     0                        azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                  /N                                yl)methanone
457                                     (3-fluoro-2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2
               N                           yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
     N   0                                  methylpyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
              0       s                       azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                    NN F                            yl)methanone
             F
                        -556-

 Ex.     Compound                              Compound Name
 No.
458                                      (6-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2
             N                       yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
     N 0                                 methylpyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
             0-         N                 azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                  /N                             yl)methanone
459                                        (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2
             N                          yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
     N 0                                 methylpyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
            o0                            azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                \N                               yl)methanone
           F
460                                      (6-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2
                    NN-yl)pyridin-2-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
             N                           methylpyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
             O0~                          azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                \,N                              yl)methanone
461                                      (5-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2
             N                      yl)pyridin-3-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                         /               methylpyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
                        N                 azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                  /N                             yl)methanone
462                                      (5-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2
                    NN-yl)pyridin-2-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
       0     N~                          methylpyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
                     ~ /azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                         ~
                  /N                             yl)methanone
                      - 557 -

 Ex.          Compound                               Compound Name
 No.
463                                         (5-methyl-2-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                   N                      yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
     N     0                                   methylpyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
                       0     N                  azabicyclo [2.2.2]octan-2
        -~         N-N
                             /   .-   Nyl)methanone
464                                         (6-methyl-3-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                          N               yl)pyridin-2-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                   N        N0                 methylpyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
                -~ N-     ~ /azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                             /    - Nyl)methanone
465                                               (2-(2H- 1,2,3 -triazol-2
                   N                          yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
     N     0j                                  methylpyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
                          o /azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                               ~
        -~         N-N
                     /-N                               yl)methanone
466                                          (3-fluoro-2-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                   N                          yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
     N     0                                   methylpyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
                          ~ /azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                               ~
                               F                       yl)methanone
467                                       ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2
                         NF              yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                     N
       N      0                                yl)(2-fluoro-6-(pyrimidin-2
                     N-'"                          yl)phenyl)methanone
                        \  N
                            - 558-

 Ex.        Compound                          Compound Name
 No.
468                                ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2
                 N           F    yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
        N   0                          yl)(5-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                o0                         yl)phenyl)methanone
     ci
                    \  N
469                                ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2
                 N                yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
        N', 0                          yl)(4-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                 o      \/                 yl)phenyl)methanone
     ci
                     \ N
470                                ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2
                 N                yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
         N,  C                    yl)(3-fluoro-2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2
                 o0                        yl)phenyl)methanone
               F
471                                ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2
                 N                yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
        N   0                           yl)(2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2
     ci          o0
                  N      "                 yl)phenyl)methanone
               F
472                                ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2
                       N PN-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
            0     N~                   yl)(6-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2
                0                       yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone
     ci           N
                     \ N
                        - 559-

 Ex.        Compound                               Compound Name
 No.
473                                      ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2
                  N                      yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                 O                           yl)(5-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2
                             N                yl)pyridin-3-yl)methanone
     ci
                     \ N
474                                      ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2
                       NN-               yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                   N      N0                 yl)(5-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2
                   N-        /yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone
     ci
                     \ N
475                                      ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2
                  N                      yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
              N 0                            yl)(6-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2
               (0           N                 yl)pyridin-3-yl)methanone
        cN
                     \ N
476                                      ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2
                  N                      yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
              N 0                        yl)(5-methyl-2-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                             N                yl)pyridin-3-yl)methanone
        ci         N-N
477                                      ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2
                   t N N-yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                   N      N0             yl)(6-methyl-3-(2H- 1 2,3 -triazol-2
           NO~yii--y~chnn
        cl         N- Nl                          p ri i - - l ~ e h n n
                         -560    -

 Ex.       Compound                         Compound Name
 No.
478                             ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2
                 N             yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
         N 0j                    yl)(3 -fluoro-2-(2H- 1 ,2,3 -triazol-2
                o0~                        lpey~ehnn
                    'N
479                             ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2
              4        F       yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
         N 0                         yl)(2-fluoro-6-(pyrimidin-2
                o0                       yl)phenyl)methanone
     Bru          N
                    \,N
480                             ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2
                 N           F yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
         N 0                         yl)(5-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                o0       '               yl)phenyl)methanone
     Bru          N
                    \ N
481                             ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2
                 N             yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
         N 0j                        yl)(4-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                0                        yl)phenyl)methanone
     Bru          N
                    \,N
482                             ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2
                 N             yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
         N 0                   yl)(3-fluoro-2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2
                0                        yl)phenyl)methanone
     Bru          N         F
               F
                        -561-

 Ex.           Compound                           Compound Name
 No.
483                                    ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2
                    N                  yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
          N    0                            yl)(2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2
                          o /yl)phenyl)methanone
                                ~
     Bru             N
                  F
484                                    ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2
                         NN-           yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
               0     N~                    yl)(6-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2
                   O0      '                yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone
     Br~l   -N
                       \ N
485                                    ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2
                    N                  yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                   O                       yl)(5-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2
                     N        N             yl)pyridin-3-yl)methanone
     Bru
                       \ N
486                                    ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2
                         NN-           yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                     N                     yl)(5-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2
                   O0     '                 yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone
     Bru             N
                       \ N
487                                    ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2
                    N                  yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
          N    0                           yl)(6-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2
                              N             yl)pyridin-3-yl)methanone
     Bru             N
                       \ N
                           _ 562  -

 Ex.              Compound                             Compound Name
 No.
488                                         ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2
                         N                 yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                        o                   yl)(5-methyl-2-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                             0       N           yl)pyridin-3-yl)methanone
     BrU                  N-N
489                                         ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2
                                N          yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                          N         N.z     yl)(6-methyl-3-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                        0N-N:     '              yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone
     Br~u
490                                         ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2
                         N                 yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                N 0jyl)(3-fluoro-2-(H-1                            ,2,3-triazol-2
                        0                           yl)phenyl)methanone
     Brlu                 N-N         F
491                                              (5-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2
                          N                  yl)pyridin-3-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                 N zNH                           (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                                      N    yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                           N /3N                        2-yl)methanone
492                                           (6-methyl-3-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                           6        N-yl)pyridin-2-yl)(( S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                 N     NN                        (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                         0                 yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
          F3C              N-N
           F3 0              .-  N                      2-yl)methanone
                                 -  563 -

 Ex.        Compound                            Compound Name
 No.
493                                   (5-methyl-2-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                  N                  yl)pyridin-3-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
             NH                          (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
       F3          NN          N    yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
      F3 0           ~-N                        2-yl)methanone
494                                        (2-fluoro-6-(pyrimidin-2
                     NF                 yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                  N
        N    NH                          (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                       o     ~/     yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
     F3 C
                  \C1 N                         2-yl)methanone
495                                        (5-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                  N               F     yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
        N    NH                          (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                 o0                 yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
     F 3  C
                      /3CN                      2-yl)methanone
496                                        (4-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                  N                     yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
        N    NH                          (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                 o0                 yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
     F3 C
                      /3-N                      2-yl)methanone
497                                       (6-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2
                         NN-yl)pyridin-2-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
           N    NN                       (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                 0     ~            yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                    N /3 N                      2-yl)methanone
                          -564   -

 Ex.            Compound                                Compound Name
 No.
498                                               (6-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2
                         N                   yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
               N NH                              (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
            F3             -       N        yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                             /N                         2-yl)methanone
499                                                 (2-(2H- 1,2,3 -triazol-2
                         N                      yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
             N    NH                             (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                        o0~                 yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
          F3C             N-N
           F3             /N                            2-yl)methanone
500                                            (3-fluoro-2-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                         N                      yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
             N    NH                             (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                        o0                  yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                F3 0        -N      F2-yl)methanone
501                                                (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                         N                      yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
             N    NH                             (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                        o0                  yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
     F3 C                    N~     F                   2-yl)methanone
502                                               (5-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2
                      N                      yl)pyridin-3-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
          N    NH                /methylpyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
                                N                  azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                     \/    N                             yl)methanone
                              - 565  -

 Ex.       Compound                                 Compound Name
 No.
503                                        (6-methyl-3-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                        N                 yl)pyridin-2-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
       N     N                               mthylpyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
               o0        '                     azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                 N-N
                                 N                   yl)methanone
504                                        (5-methyl-2-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                N                         yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
     N    NH                                 methylpyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
                     0       N                 azabicyclo [2.2.2]octan-2
       -~        N-N
                             /    .-   Nyl)methanone
505                                            (2-fluoro-6-(pyrimidin-2
                   NF                        yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
             AN
     N    NH                                 methylpyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
               o0                              azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                     /N                              yl)methanone
506                                            (5-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                N                F           yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
     N    NH                                 methylpyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
               o0                              azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                      /N                             yl)methanone
507                                            (4-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                N                            yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
       N N                    /H             methylpyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
                                               azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                   \                                 yl)methanone
                           -   566   -

 Ex.      Compound                         Compound Name
 No.
508                                  (6-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2
                     NN-yl)pyridin-2-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
       N    N                      mthylpyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
              o0                      azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                   /N                       yl)methanone
509                                  (6-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2
                 N               yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
        N NH                       methylpyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
                           N          azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                     /N                     yl)methanone
510                                    (2-(2H- 1,2,3 -triazol-2
               N                    yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
     N   NH   0     Qmthylpyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
               o -N                   azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                             N              yl)methanone
511                               (3-fluoro-2-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
               N                    yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
       N NH                        mthylpyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
              o. i   Q                azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                           F                yl)methanone
512                                   (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
               N                    yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
     N   NH                        methylpyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
               N-~                    azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                          F                 yl)methanone
                        -567   -

 Ex.        Compound                      Compound Name
 No.
513                            ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2
                 N            yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
          N NH                    2-yl)(5-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2
       CUN-               N         yl)pyridin-3-yl)methanone
                    \ N
514                            ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2
                      NN-     yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
            NH    N"           2-yl)(6-mthyl-3-(2H-1I2,3-tfiazol
                0                  2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone
     ci -   ~     N-N
515                            ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2
                 N            yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
       N    NH                 2-yl)(5-methyl-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol
       C        0         N        2-yl)pyridin-3 -yl)methanone
      ci            N
516                            ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2
                    NF        yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                 N
       N-   NH                    2-yl)(2-fluoro-6-(pyrimidin-2
                 N-'                   yl)phenyl)methanone
                   \,N
517                            ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2
                 N          F yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
       N    NH                    2-yl)(5-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                  N-"                  yl)phenyl)methanone
                   \  N
                       - 568-

 Ex.               Compound                               Compound Name
 No.
518                                            ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2
                         N                    yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
            N      NH                             2-yl)(4-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                         o- \              F)phenyl)methanone
     ci
                           \ N
519                                            ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2
                              NN-             yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
               N      NN~                         2-yl)(6-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2
                        o0                          yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone
     ci                   N
                           \ N
520                                            ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2
                         N                    yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
               N NH                               2-yl)(6-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2
            C"U0                  N                 yl)pyridin-3-yl)methanone
                           \ N
521                                                   (2-(2H- 1,2,3 -triazol-2
                           N                       yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
               N     NH                            chloropyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
               ,U-                    /              azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
        ci                  N-N
                                         N                 yl)methanone
522                                            ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2
                         N                    yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
            N'     NH                           2-yl)(3-fluoro-2-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol
                      6                               2-yl)phenyl)methanone
     ci    U~             N-N       F
                               -569    -

 Ex.          Compound                          Compound Name
 No.
523                                 ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2
                   N               yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
          N   NH                        2-yl)(3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                  0                          yl)phenyl)methanone
                      \ N
524                                 ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2
                   N               yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
            N NH                       2-yl)(5-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2
                              N           yl)pyridin-3-yl)methanone
     Br~u
                      \  N
525                                 ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2
                    6              yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
            N NH
                  o0       '             2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone
     Br             N-N
526                                 ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2
                    N              yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
          N   NH                    2-yl)(5-methyl-2-(2H-1,2,3-triazol
                        0     N          2-yl)pyridin-3 -yl)methanone
     Bru            N-N
527                                 ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2
                          F        yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                    N
          N   NH                        2-yl)(2-fluoro-6-(pyrimidin-2
                  0        '                 yl)phenyl)methanone
     Bru            N
                      \  N
                           _ 570 -

 Ex.           Compound                         Compound Name
 No.
528                                 ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2
                    N            F yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
          N    NH                       2-yl)(5-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                   o0                        yl)phenyl)methanone
     Bru             N
                       \ N
529                                 ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2
                    N              yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
          N    NH                       2-yl)(4-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
           1       0                         yl)phenyl)methanone
     Bru             N
                       \ N
530                                 ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2
                          NN-      yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
               NH   N                  2-yl)(6-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2
                   o0                     yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone
     Br              N
                       \  N
531                                 ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2
                    N              yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
             N NH                      2-yl)(6-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2
                         0     N          yl)pyridin-3-yl)methanone
                       \ N
532                                         (2-(2H- 1,2,3 -triazol-2
                    N                   yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
          N    NH                       bromopyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
         ,U     6'                         azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
     Br              N-N
                              /                  yl)methanone
                            -571 -

 Ex.            Compound                             Compound Name
 No.
533                                      ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2
                     N                  yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
              N NH                        2-yl)(3-fluoro-2-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol
                    o0       "                   2-yl)phenyl)methanone
     Bru              N-N         F
534                                      ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2
                     N                  yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
            N   NH                           2-yl)(3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                    o0                            yl)phenyl)methanone
     Br               N~          F
                        \ N
535                                           ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5
                       N                       (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
               N NH                /    yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                            N- N            2-yl)(5-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2
                  F       /3N                  yl)pyridm-3-yl)methanone
536                                           ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5
                              N                (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                 NH    N~               yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
          F3     F'                /-    2-yl)(6-methyl-3-(2H-1,2,3-triazol
                               /              2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone
537                                           ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5
                       N                       (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
             N   NH                /    yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                    6N                   2-yl)(5-methyl-2-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol
     F3 0        F     N-N
                                 ~N           2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)methanone
                            -   572   -

 Ex.            Compound                             Compound Name
 No.
538                                           ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-flUOro-5
                          NF                   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                      N
             N   NH                      yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                     o0                      2-yl)(2-fluoro-6-(pyrimidin-2
                  F     N /3N                     yl)phenyl)methanone
539                                             (5-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                      N                F yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro
             N   NH                          5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                      o   -              yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
     F3C         Fq
                        \/ N                          2-yl)methanone
540                                             (4-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                      N                  yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro
             N   NH                   -F     5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                      o        \/        yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
     F3 C        Fq
                            /N                        2-yl)methanone
541                                           ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5
                               N               (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
               N    NN                   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
          F3     F                 /-       2-yl)(6-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2
                            /N                 yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone
                             -  573  -

 Ex.            Compound                              Compound Name
 No.
542                                            ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-flUOro-5
                      N                         (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
               N NH                       yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                           0         N       2-yl)(6-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2
          F3 C   F
                  F       /3N                   yl)pyridin-3-yl)methanone
543                                                (2-(2H- 1,2,3 -triazol-2
                      N                   yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro
            N    NH                            5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
            1     6                       yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
     F3 0        F     N-N
                                   /                   2-yl)methanone
544                                          (3-fluoro-2-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                      N                   yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro
            N    NH                            5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                     0           '        yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
     F3 0        F     N-N             F
                                   /                   2-yl)methanone
545                                              (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                      N                   yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro
            N    NH                            5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                         0     '          yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
     F3 C        F            N        F               2-yl)methanone
546                                            ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5
                      N                         (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
            N    NH                   /   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
           F3 U C       -            N       2-yl)(5-mthiyl-2-(pyrimidin-2
                            /N                  yl)pyridin-3-yl)methanone
                             - 574      -

 Ex.            Compound                                 Compound Name
 No.
547                                               ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5
                                                   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
               N     NN~                     yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
     F3 0        ci      N-N                    yl6-ehl3(H123tizl
                                  I               2-yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone
548                                               ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5
                         N                         (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
               N NH                          yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                      6              N        2-yl)(5-methyl-2-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol
     F3 0        ci       N-N
                                N                 2-yl)pyridin-3-yl)methanone
549                                               ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5
                            NF                     (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                     AN
             N   NH                          yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                        o0                       2-yl)(2-fluoro-6-(pyrimidin-2
                   l       N /3N                      yl)phenyl)methanone
550                                               ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5
                         N               F         (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
             N   NH                          yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                         o   -                   2-yl)(5-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
     F3 C        cq
                               /N                     yl)phenyl)methanone
551                                               ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5
                         N                         (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
             N   NH                        F yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
          F3                      \ /NF          2-yl)(4-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                            \   N                     yl)phenyl)methanone
                                 _ 575 -

 Ex.             Compound                            Compound Name
 No.
552                                           ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5
                               N               (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                N     N                  yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                  C'I/N o3                  2-yl)(6-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2
                            /N                 yl)pyridmn-2-yl)methanone
553                                           ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5
                        N                      (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                N NH                     yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
            F3            -         N       2-yl)(6-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2
                            /N                 yl)pyridin-3-yl)methanone
554                                               (2-(2H- 1,2,3 -triazol-2
                        N                yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro
                   NH                         5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
              N
     F3 0 U       cI     N-N              laio--zbcco2.]ctn
                                  /                   2-yl)methanone
555                                           ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5
                        N                      (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
             N    NH                     yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                            ~ ~/          2-yl)(3-fluoro-2-(2H-1,2,3-tfiazol
     F3 C         CI     N-N          F
                                /                2-yl)phenyl)methanone
556                                           ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5
                        N                      (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
             N    NH                     yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
           F3C           N          /        2-yl)(3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
           F3 CCI                                  yl)phenyl)methanone
                             - 576     -

 Ex.            Compound                                     Compound Name
 No.
557                                                   ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5
                                 N                     (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
               N    N                           yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
         U   -        o3N             /l            2-yl)(5-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2
                               /N                      yl)pyridmn-2-yl)methanone
558                                                   ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-fluoro-5
                                 N                     (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
               N    NN~                         yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                      o0          '                 2-yl)(5-methiyl-3-(pyrimidin-2
     F3C         Fq
                           \,N                         yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone
559                                                    (5-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2
                            NN-yl)pyridin-2-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
            N    N                                  mthylpyridin-2-yl)amino)-2
                   0         '                          azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                         /N                                    yl)methanone
560                                              ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2
                             NN-                yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
              N    N    ~                           2-yl)(5-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2
                      o-            /yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone
     ci
                         \   N
561                                              ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2
                      N                         yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
          N     NH                   /2-yl)(6-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2
           C,0                      N                  yl)pyridin-3-yl)mthanone
                         \   N
                                 _ 577   -

 Ex.             Compound                                     Compound Name
 No.
562                                               ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-bromopyridin-2
                               NN-               yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
               N     N                               2-yl)(5-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2
                       o0                              yl)pyridin-2-yl)methanone
     Bru                 N
                           \ N
563                                                     (5-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2
                                NN-yl)pyridin-2-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                N l~l NH                               (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                        0 N-         /           yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                             /3CN                             2-yl)methanone
564                                                     (5-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2
                                NN-yl)pyridin-2-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                N     NN                               (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
         F3C~          ~         ""0             yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
             NN              /3N                              2-yl)methanone
565                                                     (6-methyl-3-(pyrimidin-2
                                NN-yl)pyridin-2-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                N     N                                (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
         F3 N0~                                  yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
               -N             /3N                             2-yl)methianone
566                                                     (6-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2
                          N                       yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
             N     NH                 /(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
                          NT         N           yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
             NN              /3N                              2-yl)methanone
                                 -578-

 Ex.              Compound                                    Compound Name
 No.
567                                                     (5-methyl-2-(pyrimidin-2
                        N                         yl)pyridin-3-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                N NH                                   (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
     F3C      N          N-          N           yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                             /N                               2-yl)methianone
568                                                (5-methyl-2-(2H-1 ,2,3-triazol-2
                        N                         yl)pyridin-3-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                N NH                  /(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
                         N-          N           yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
            F3NN
              0                                               2-yl)methanone
569                                                   (2-methoxy-6-(pyrimidin-2
                             N OMe                   yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
              N     0                            (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                         N                            2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
     F3 C'             \     N                                 yl)methanone
570                                              ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-chloropyridin-2
                            N~                   yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
             N'   0                                 yl)(2-methoxy-6-(pyrimidin-2
                       N_          /                       yl)phenyl)methanone
                         \N
571                                                   (2-methoxy-6-(pyrimidin-2
                         N OMe                       yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
           N    0                                      methylpyridin-2-yl)oxy)-2
            I         N                                  azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                         /N                                    yl)methanone
                                -579    -

 Ex.             Compound                           Compound Name
 No.
572                                          ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-flUOro-5
                       N       OMe      (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
             N    0                      2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(2
                              x                methoxy-6-(pyrimidin-2
          F3 C    F
                         /3 N                    yl)phenyl)methanone
573                                          ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((3-chloro-5
                       N       OMe      (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
             N    0                      2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2-yl)(2
                             ~  /              methoxy-6-(pyrimidin-2
     F3 C     -   cI   N
                          /N                     yl)phenyl)methanone
574                                          (2-methoxy-6-(pyrimidin-2
                           N OMe            yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
             N    0                     (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2-yl)oxy)
                           T                 2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                            N
                         /3'NN                        yl)methanone
575                                          (2-methoxy-6-(pyrimidin-2
                           N OMe            yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
             N    NH          x(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
          F N/~r       N               yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                         /C N                        2-yl)methanone
576                                          (2-methoxy-6-(pyrimidin-2
                           N OMe            yl)phenyl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
             N <1N H                          (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                              x        yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
     F3 C          q
                        \N                           2-yl)methanone
                            - 580-

 Ex.            Compound                         Compound Name
 No.
577                                         (3-fluoro-2-(pyrimidin-2
                     N                    yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
          N   0                            methylpyrazin-2-yl)oxy)-2
                    o-    P                 azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                        /  N     F                 yl)methanone
578                                  ((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5-methylpyrazmn-2
                     N               yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
          N   0                                 yl)(2-(pyrimidin-2
          N
                    oT
                     NT                       yl)phenyl)methanone
             NN
579                                      (3-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-5
                               N      methylpyridin-2-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6
            N    0j                      ((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                       0             yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
     F3 C                N_/N                      yl)methanone
                     F
580                                      (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-6
                         N            methylpyridin-3-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6
            N    0                       ((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                             0     N yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
     F3 C              \    /N                     yl)methanone
                     F
581                                      (3-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-6
                          ( N         methylpyridin-2-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6
            N    0                       ((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                       0             yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
     F3 C                N_/N                      yl)methanone
                     F
                               -581-

 Ex.        Compound                             Compound Name
 No.
582                                      (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-5
                    N                 methylpyridin-3-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6
          N  0j                          ((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                      0      N'       yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
     F3 C             /N
                     N_                            yl)methanone
                F
583                                      (3-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-4
                         N            methylpyridin-2-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6
          N  0            X              ((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                  o0                  yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
     F3 0         \     N                          yl)methanone
                F
584                                   (3-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin
                          N                  2-yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
          N  0            X(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                  o0                       2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
     F3 0         \     N                          yl)methanone
                F
585                                   (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin
                                             3 -yl((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                    N
          N  0                        (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                      o      /2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                            N
     F3 C         \     N                          yl)methanone
                F
                         -582-

 Ex.         Compound                      Compound Name
 No.
586                                (5'-methyl-[2,3 -bipyridin]-2'
                      4N                yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
           N  0           N    (trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2-yl)oxy)
                      o    4         2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
     F3 C.
                                             yl)methanone
587                                 (6-methyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3
                  4 N                   yl(( S,4R,6R)-6-((5
           N  0                (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                            N        2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
             F3 C                            yl)methanone
588                                (6'-methyl-[2,3 -bipyridin]-2'
                          N             yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
           N  0                (trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2-yl)oxy)
                    oN               2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
             F3 C                            yl)methanone
589                                 (5-methyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3
                          N               )(( S,4R,6R)-6-((5
           N  0                (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                            N        2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
             F3 C                            yl)methanone
590                                (4'-methyl-[2,3 -bipyridin]-2'
                          N             yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
           N  0                (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                        ~    /       2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
             F3 C                            yl)methanone
                        -583-

 Ex.           Compound                              Compound Name
 No.
591                                      [2,3'-bipyridin]-2'-yl((1 S,4R,6R)-6
                            N((5                -(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
            N   0                       yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                             o     ~
                               /yl)methanone
     F3 C
592                                      [2,2'-bipyridin]-3-yl((1 S,4R,6R)-6
                        N                   ((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
            N   0                       yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
          FCN~                 N                       yl)methanone
593                                       (3,5'-dimethyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'
                             N                    yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
            N    0                       (trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2-yl)oxy)
                       oN                     2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
               F   3 C\/yl)methanone
594                                       (3',6-dimethyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3
                        N                         yl(( S,4R,6R)-6-((5
            N    0                       (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                 IIN           N"             2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
               F 3 C\/yl)methanone
595                                       (3,6'-dimethyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'
                             N                    yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
            N   0                        (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                           ~   /              2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
               F  3  C\/yl)methanone
                           -584-

 Ex.       Compound                           Compound Name
 No.
596                                 (3',5-dimethyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3
                            N                 )(( S,4R,6R)-6-((5
      N     0                      (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                              N         2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
           F3 C                                 yl)methanone
597                                 (3,4'-dimethyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'
                            N              yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
      N",.                        (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                     N                  2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
           F3 C                                 yl)methanone
598                                    (3-methyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'
                             N             yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                       N      N
        N      0                  (trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2-yl)oxy)
                       N                2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
            F   3  C  \/yl)methanone
599                                    (3 -methyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3
                     N                     yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
      N     0                     (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                         N    N         2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
           F  3   C \/yl)methanone
600                               (3-fluoro-5'-methyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]
                                          2'-yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
      N     0               N      (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                     N_       /         2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
     F3 CF                                      yl)methanone
                          -585-

 Ex.        Compound                             Compound Name
 No.
601                                  (3'-fluoro-6-methyl-[2,21-bipyridin]
                                             3 -yl((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
               4 N
       N     0                        (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                    _:     N3.             2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
      F3 CF                                        yl)methanone
602                                  (3-fluoro-6'-methyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]
                        N~2'-yl)((l                   S,4R,6R)-6-((5
       N     0                        (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                       o"~ /2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
      F3 CF                                        yl)methanone
603                                  (3'-fluoro-5-methyl-[2,21-bipyridin]
                        N                    3 -yl((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
       N     0                        (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                              N            2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
      F3 CF                                        yl)methanone
604                                  (3-fluoro-4'-methyl-[2,3'-bipyridm]
                        N~2'-yl)((l                   S,4R,6R)-6-((5
       N     0                        (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                 oN_       /               2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
            F3 C \/       Fyl)methanone
605                                       (3-fluoro-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'
                         N                    yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
       N1<                           (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                  N_       /               2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
     F3 C\/               F                        yl)methanone
                       -586-

 Ex.                 Compound                                Compound Name
 No.
606                                                   (3 -fluoro-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3
                            N                             yl(( S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                NIz0                             (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                       1 1  N        N                2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
              3                X    F                          yl)methanone
607                                              (5-methyl-3-(oxazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
                                  N                       yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                NIz                              (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                                o    ~/2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
     F3 0                  N-                                  yl)methanone
608                                              (6-methyl-2-(oxazol-2-yl)pyridin-3
                           N                              yl(( S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                N     0j                         (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
              F3~N                                    2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                           N-
                           \C                                  yl)methianone
609                                              (6-methyl-3-(oxazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
                                   N                      yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                N     0j                         (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                                 o    ~/2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
     F3 0        -          N-                                 yl)methanone
610                                              (5-methyl-2-(oxazol-2-yl)pyridin-3
                            N                             yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                N     0j                         (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
         F3 0      1   q       ~      N               2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                            N-
                           \C                                  yl)methianone
                                 -587-

 Ex.         Compound                               Compound Name
 No.
611                                     (4-methyl-3-(oxazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
                      Cp N Nyl)((l                      S,4,6R)-6-((5
           N  0j                         (trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2-yl)oxy)
                        o    ~/2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
     F3 C'          N-                                yl)methanone
612                                            (3-(oxazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
                          N pN                   yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
           N  0j                         (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                        o    ~/2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
     F3 C           N-                                yl)methanone
613                                            (2-(oxazol-2-yl)pyridin-3
                    N                            yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
           N  0j                         (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
               (' 0       \
     F3 C           N-       N                2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                           \    ~                     yl)methanone
614                                     (5-methyl-3-(thiazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
                         N                       yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
           N  0j                         (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                  oz
                  0                           2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
     F3 0          N-                                 yl)methanone
615                                     (6-methyl-2-(thiazol-2-yl)pyridin-3
                   N                             yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
           N  0j                         (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                  0      \
     F3 0          N-        N                2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                     \                                yl)methanone
                         -588-

 Ex.              Compound                              Compound Name
 No.
616                                         (6-methyl-3-(thiazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
                               N                     yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
              N    0j                        (trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2-yl)oxy)
                             o   ~/2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
     F3 0               N-                                yl)methianone
617                                         (5-methyl-2-(thiazol-2-yl)pyridin-3
                        N                            yl(( S,4R,6R)-6-((5
              N    0j                        (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
             F0N.                N                2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                        N-
                        \C                                yl)methianone
618                                         (4-methyl-3-(thiazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
                               N
                          (' q\Nyl)((l                      S,4,6R)-6-((5
              N    0j                        (trifluoromethyl)pyridmn-2-yl)oxy)
                             o   ~/2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
     F3 C               N-                                yl)methanone
619                                                (3-(thiazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
                               Np
                               N                     yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
              N    0j                        (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                             o   ~/2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
     F3 C'              N-                                yl)methanone
620                                                (2-(thiazol-2-yl)pyridin-3
                        N                            yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
              N    0j                        (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
         F3 Cq             P                      2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-2
                        N-
                        \C                                yl)methianone
                              -589-

 Ex.              Compound                                        Compound Name
 No.
621                                                       (2-(l -methyl- 1H-imidazol-2
                          N                               yl)phenyl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
            N      0    0(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
          F3C-~               ..                            -azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                              "~N-                                  yl)methanone
622                                                       (2-(l -methyl- 1H-imidazol-2
                          N                            yl)pyr1idin-3-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
            N      0    0(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                                 o N       N1             2-azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
     F3C"                 ,P
                          4x                                        yl)methanone
623                                                       (3-(l -methyl- 1H-imidazol-2
                          NN                           yl)pyridin-2yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                N    0                                (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                F3 C   -~2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                          4..     N~                                yl)methanone
624                                                        (5-methyl-3-(1 -methyl- 1H
                         N           N-imidazol-2-yl)pyridin-2
            N      0                                           yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
               F3 C                                   (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                                  N,                      2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                                    yl)methanone
625                                                        (6-methyl-2-(1 -methyl- I1H
                         N                                   imidazol-2-yl)pyridin-3
            N      0    0                    z                 yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                                           N          (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
     F3 0
                          4'v N                   ~       2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                                    yl)methanone
                                  -590-

 Ex.     Compound                                     Compound Name
 No.
626                                             (6-methyl-4-(pyrimidin-2
                        N                  yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
       N  0j                              (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
             C           \" /                  2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                \3C
                 N-                                     yl)methanone
627                                             (2-methyl-4-(pyrimidin-2
                        N    NN            yl)pyridin-3-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
          0.    N                         (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                        ~ ~/2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                \3C
                  N-N                                   yl)methanone
628                                           (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-6
                N                         methylpyridin-3-yl)(( 1S,4S,6R)-6
     ;N>NH                   z               ((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
      F3           -        N                           yl)amino)-2
                \    ,, N                       azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
              F                                         yl)methanone
629                                           (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-5
                 N                        methylpyridin-3-yl)(( 1S,4S,6R)-6
     ;N;NH                    /((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
                   -         N3                         yl)amino)-2
                    \,N                         azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
              F                                         yl)methanone
630                                       (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin
                 N                                3-yl1((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
     ;N>NH                    /(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
      F3           -        N                           yl)amino)-2
                \/   1  N                       azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
              F                                         yl)methanone
                        - 591-

 Ex.             Compound                            Compound Name
 No.
631                                         (5'-methyl- [2,3 '-bipyridin]-2'
                         4 NN-yl)((l                     S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                  NH   o        /             (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
     F3 0   N           N-yl)amino)-2
                             \ /azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                       yl)methanone
632                                          (6-methyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3
                     4 N                          yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
          ;N;NH 0                             (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
                                N                      yl)amino)-2
     F3C    N-N
                             \ /azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                       yl)methanone
633                                          (5-methyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3
                     4 N                          yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5
          ;N>NH 0                             (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
           F3            -      N                      yl)amino)-2
                             \ /azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                       yl)methanone
634                                      [2,2'-bipyridin]-3-yl((1 S,4S,6R)-6
                             N             ((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
            N     NH                                   yl)amino)-2
     F3 C   N
                iJIrN   N?-a                    abicyclo[2.2. I1]heptan-2
                               \ /                     yl)methanone
635                                       (3,5'-dimethyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'
                         4     N
                              N-yl)((l                   S,4S,6R)-6-((5
            N~I   NH         \                (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
     F3 C   N           N-yl)amino)-2
                             \ /azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                       yl)methanone
                            -592-

 Ex.           Compound                                 Compound Name
 No.
636                                          (3',6-dimethyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3
                   4 N                               yl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
         ;N ;NH 0                                (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
           NN                     N3                      yl)amino)-2
                             \    /azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                          yl)methanone
637                                          (3',5 -dimethyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3
                      N                              yl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
                       NH
                   N 0(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
                                 N                        yl)amino)-2
     F3C   N-N
                             \ /azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                          yl)methanone
638                                            (3'-methyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3
                               N                     yl)((1S,4S,6R)-6-((5
         ;N;NH       0                           (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
                                 N                        yl)amino)-2
     F3C   N         TN
                             \    /azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                          yl)methanone
639                                        (3-fluoro-5'-methyl- [2,3'-bipyridin]
                      N      7N-.                  2'-yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
           N    NH   0(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
     F3C   N           N-yl)amino)-2
                           \/ F                  azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                          yl)methanone
640                                        (3'-fluoro-6-methyl- [2,2'-bipyridin]
                      N                            3-yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
         ;N    NH    0                           (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
          F3            -        N                        yl)amino)-2
                           \/    F               azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                          yl)methanone
                            -593-

 Ex.             Compound                        Compound Name
 No.
641                                 (3'-fluoro-5-methyl- [2,2'-bipyridin]
                    (kN                      3-yl)((l S,4S,6R)-6-((5
           ;N;NH 0                        (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
            F3            -       N                 yl)amino)-2
                            \/   F        azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                   yl)methanone
642                                      (3'-fluoro- [2,2'-bipyridin]-3
                               N              yl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6-((5
           ;NjNH 0                        (trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
                                  N                 yl)amino)-2
     F3C     NTN
                            \/   F        azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                                                   yl)methanone
643                                    (3-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-5
                             N       methylpyridin-2-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6
                N   N                  ((5 -(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                      0             yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
     F3 C"            \     N                     2-yl)methanone
                    F
644                                    (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-6
                        N            methylpyridin-3-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6
             N'1NH    0((5                  -(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                            N    N  yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
     F3 0-            \   /                       2-yl)methanone
                    F
                             -594-

 Ex.            Compound                         Compound Name
 No.
645                                     (3-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-6
                              N       methylpyridin-2-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6
            N    NH                     ((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                      0              yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
     F3 C"              N\ N                      2-yl)methanone
                    F
646                                     (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-5
                        N             methylpyridin-3-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6
            N    NH                     ((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                            0        yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
      F3 C"           \     N                     2-yl)methanone
                    F
647                                     (3-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)-4
                              N       methylpyridin-2-yl)(( 1S,4R,6R)-6
            N    NH                     ((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                       0             yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
     F3 C"            \/  /N                      2-yl)methanone
                    F
648                                      (5'-methyl- [2,3 '-bipyridin]-2'
                          4     N             yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
            NIzNH 0(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
             oN         N_           yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
               F3 0                               2-yl)methanone
649                                       (6-methyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3
                    4 N                       yl(( S,4R,6R)-6-((5
            N    NH                        (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                      0        \
                             N- N    yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
     F3 0"                                        2-yl)methanone
                              -595-

 Ex.           Compound                                Compound Name
 No.
650                                            (6'-methyl- [2,3 '-bipyridin]-2'
                           4     NNJyl)((l                 S,4R,6R)-6-((5
             N      N                            (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                  N        _               yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
     F3C"                                               2-yl)methanone
651                                        (3-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin
                                 N                 2-yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
           N     NH                              (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                      0                    yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                              N
                           /3-'N                        2-yl)methanone
                    F
652                                        (2-(5-fluoropyrimidin-2-yl)pyridin
                        N                          3-yl1((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
           N     NH                              (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                             0             yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
     F3 C-            \    /                            2-yl)methanone
                    F
653                                         (3,5'-dimethyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'
                           4     N                  yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
           N     NH                              (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                    N   ~           /      yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
     F3C                                                2-yl)methanone
654                                          (3',6-dimethyl-[2,2'-bipyridin]-3
                    4 N                             yl(( S,4R,6R)-6-((5
           NNZNH 0(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
            F3 C        N...       N       yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                               -596-

 Ex.           Compound                              Compound Name
 No.
655                                        (3,6'-dimethyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]-2'
                        rl   Nyl)((l
                             N7                          S,4R,6R)-6-((5
           N    NH                             (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                      N_       /         yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
     F3 0"                                            2-yl)methanone
656                                           (3-fluoro- [2,3'-bipyridin]-2'
                        4    N                    yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
           N    NH                             (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                     '&        /         yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
     F3C"                     F_                       -yl)methanone
657                                           (3'-fluoro- [2,2'-bipyridin]-3
                   4 N                            yl(( S,4R,6R)-6-((5
           N ;,NH                              (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
            F3C                N         yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                       N2N-yl)methanone
                             F3C
658                                      (3-fluoro-5'-methyl- [2,3'-bipyridin]
                             N_2'-yl)((l
                            7N                            S,4R,6R)-6-((5
              N    N                           (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                Nz   0                   yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
     F3 C'                   F-                        -yl)methanone
659                                      (3'-fluoro-6-methyl- [2,2'-bipyridin]
                   4 N                           3-yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
           N    NH                             (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                               N         yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
     F3C"                    F-                        -yl)methanone
                           -597-

            Ex.                  Compound                             Compound Name
            No.
           660                                             (3-fluoro-6'-methyl-[2,3'-bipyridin]
                                                                  2'-yl)((l S,4R,6R)-6-((5
                                         N     N
                            N      NH                           (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                                        N         /       yl)amino)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan
                    F3                     X    F                      2-yl)methanone
   40. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a
       compound according to any one of the preceding claims and at least one pharmaceutically
       acceptable excipient.
 5 41. A method of treating a subject suffering from or diagnosed with a disease, disorder, or
       medical condition mediated by orexin receptor activity, comprising administering to the
       subject an effective amount of a compound according to any one of claims I to 39.
   42. The method of claim 41, wherein the disease, disorder, or medical condition mediated by
       orexin receptor activity is a disorder of the sleep-wake cycle, insomnia, restless legs
 0     syndrome, jet-lag, disturbed sleep, a sleep disorder secondary to neurological disorders,
       mania, depression, manic depression, schizophrenia, a pain syndromes, fibromyalgia,
       neuropathic pain, catatonia, Parkinson's disease, Tourette's syndrome, anxiety, delirium,
       dementia, overweight, obesity or a condition related to overweight or obesity, insulin
       resistance, type II diabetes, hyperlipidemia, gallstones, angina, hypertension, breathlessness,
15     tachycardia, infertility, sleep apnea, back and joint pain, varicose veins, osteoarthritis,
       hypertension, tachycardia, arrhythmias, angina pectoris, acute heart failure, ulcers, irritable
       bowel syndrome, diarrhea, gastroesophageal reflux, post-traumatic stress disorder, panic
       disorders, attention deficit disorders, cognitive deficiencies, or substance abuse.
   43. The method of claim 42 wherein the disease, disorder, or medical condition is mood
20     disorders, post-traumatic stress disorder, panic disorders, attention deficit disorders,
       cognitive deficiencies, or substance abuse.
                                             -598-

   44. A compound of Formula IA:
                                                        R4      R3
                                                  N         A      R
                                 R5 - Z
                                                      0      R1        IA
       or an enantiomer or diastereomer thereof;
 5     or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof;
       wherein
       ring A is a heteroaryl ring selected from furanyl, thiazolyl,imidazothiazolyl and pyrazinyl;
       Ri is H, alkoxy, halo, triazolyl, thiazolyl, pyridazinyl, pyrimidinyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl,
                oxadiazolyl, pyridyl, phenyl,or pyrazolyl, wherein triazolyl, thiazolyl, pyridazinyl,
 0              pyrimidinyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, oxadiazolyl, pyridyl, phenyl or pyrazolyl is
                optionally substituted with up to two substituents selected from halo and alkyl;
       R2  is H, alkyl, alkoxy, or halo;
       Z is NH, N-CH3, N-CH2CH3, N-CH2-cyclopropyl, N-C(=O)CH3, N-CH2CH20CH3 or 0;
       R3 is H, alkyl, alkoxy, halo, triazolyl, thiazolyl, pyridazinyl, pyrimidinyl, oxazolyl,
 5              isoxazolyl, oxadiazolyl, pyridyl, phenyl,or pyrazolyl, wherein triazolyl, thiazolyl,
                pyridazinyl, pyrimidinyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, oxadiazolyl, pyridyl, phenyl or
                pyrazolyl is optionally substituted with up to two substituents selected from halo and
                alkyl;
       R4 is H or alkyl;
20              or R3 and R4, together with the atoms to which they are attached, form a 6
       membered aryl ring or a 5- or 6-membered heteroaryl ring;
       R5  is pyridyl, pyrazinyl, benzoxazolyl, pyridazinyl, naphthyridinyl or pyrimidinyl, wherein
                the pyridyl, pyrazinyl, benzoxazolyl, pyridazinyl, naphthyridinyl or pyrimidinyl is
                optionally substituted with up to two substituents selected from halo, alkoxy,
25              hydroxymethyl or alkyl; and
       n is 1 or 2.
   45. A compound selected from
                                             -599-

5                       F              (R/S)-(5-(4-fluorophenyl)-2
                                       methylthiazol-4-yl)(6-((5
                               /       (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2-yl)oxy)
                 N 0/            ~     2-azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
                    0     N-           yl)methanone
    F3 0
6                                      (R/S)-(6-methylimidazo[12,1I
                     N                 b]thiazol-5-yl)(6-((5
            N0            //           (trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
                    0     NA
    F3 0                               yl)oxy)-2
                                       azabicyclo [2.2. 1 ]heptan-2
                                       yl)methanone
93                                      (3-phenylpyrazin-2-yl)((1 S,4R,6R)
                     N     N       ~      6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-2
          N   0                         yl)oxy)-2-azabicyclo [2.2.1I ]heptan
                       0      N                     2-yl)methanone
    F3 C
205                                     (3-phenylpyrazin-2-yl)(( 1S,4S,6R)
                  4 NN                    6-((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
            N NH               /yl)amino)-2
          NTN
         FC                                  azabicyclo[2.2. 1]heptan-2
                                                     yl)methanone
207                                     (3 -phenylfuan-2-yl)((1 S,4S,6R)-6
                               7           ((5-(trifluoromethyl)pyrazin-2
            N     N                                   yl)amino)-2
          N-   NH                            azabicyclo[2.2.1I]heptan-2
    F3 C  N                                          yl)methanone
                         -600    -

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 1                         1/2

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 2                         2/2

