   Abstract
         Disclosed is a seawater corrosion-preventing reinforced concrete pile structure
   based on a semipermeable membrane. The pile structure includes: a pile body, along
 5 which main reinforcing steel bars are arranged in the longitudinal direction; a
   semipermeable membrane, which covers the outer surface of the pile body and is used
   for filtering chloride ions in seawater; a protective layer, which covers the outer
   surface of the semipermeable membrane; and end plates, which are arranged at two
   ends of the pile body. The pile structure is simply provided with a semipermeable
10 membrane, and the surface of the semipermeable membrane is covered by a protective
   layer. Thus, the anti-corrosion ability of a concrete pile to chloride ions in the
   seawater environment is improved, and seawater is blocked from reaching the inner
   area of the pile structure via microcracks in concrete, thereby enhancing the oxidation
   resistance and corrosion resistance of the concrete of the pile body and prolonging the
15 service life of the reinforcing steel bars. Hence, the concrete of the pile body can work
   for a long time without damage, thereby improving the durability of a marine
   structure. Besides, it is convenient for construction, and working procedures and
   construction costs are reduced.

           1/1
6 1 2   3
          Fig. 1
      1          2
          Fig. 2

    SEAWATER CORROSION-PREVENTING REINFORCED CONCRETE PILE
              STRUCTURE BASED ON SEMIPERMEABLE MEMBRANE
 5
   Field of the Invention
         The present utility model relates to the technical field of concrete anti-corrosion
   engineering, and in particular, to a seawater corrosion-preventing reinforced concrete
10 pile structure based on a semipermeable membrane.
   Background of the Invention
         Traditional reinforced    concrete piles are widely used in pile foundation
15 engineering, and especially for offshore engineering, a pile is always chosen for
   making a foundation. However, mediums in the seawater environment will corrode
   the traditional reinforced concrete piles. Specifically, corrosion forms include:
   Dissolving and Leaching: solid components in hardened cement slurry dissolve
   gradually, resulting in dissolving-loss damage; Ion Exchange: the ion exchange
20 reaction occurs between corrosive mediums and the components in the hardened
   cement slurry to produce a product that easily dissolves or has no cementing ability,
   thereby destroying the original slurry structure; and Forming of Intumescent
   Components: under the action of the corrosive mediums, the volume of formed salt
   increases as the crystal is growing, thereby producing harmful internal stresses and
25 resulting in intumescent damage. Corrosive mediums in seawater not only have an
   effect on the concrete, but also penetrate into the concrete and act on reinforcing steel
   bars. Thus, once the reinforcing steel bars are corroded, the performance and service
   lives of the reinforcing steel bars are reduced. Since piles in offshore engineering are
   in the sea for during the service life, they suffer stronger corrosion attack than piles in
30 the earth in onshore engineering. Therefore, the service life of the traditional
   reinforced concrete piles in offshore engineering is greatly shortened, which affects
   the normal use of offshore building facilities.

   Summary of the Invention
        The present utility model is to provide a seawater corrosion-preventing
   reinforced concrete pile structure based on a semipermeable membrane, so as to
 5 eliminate defects of a reinforced concrete pile structure in the prior art, i.e.,
   complicated procedures in corrosion protection construction and difficulties in
   ensuring the quality of a project.
        In order to achieve the above objective, the present utility model provides a
10 seawater   corrosion-preventing    reinforced  concrete pile    structure based    on a
   semipermeable membrane. The pile structure comprises a pile body, along which
   main reinforcing steel bars are arranged in the longitudinal direction; a semipermeable
   membrane, which covers the outer surface of the pile body and is used for filtering
   chloride ions in seawater; a protective layer, which covers the outer surface of the
15 semipermeable membrane; and end plates, which are arranged at two ends of the pile
   body.
        Preferably, in the above technical solution, the main reinforcing steel bars are
   wound up by a stirrup.
20
        Preferably, in the above technical solution, the protective layer is made of a
   concrete material.
        Preferably, in the above technical solution, the protective layer has a thickness in
25 a range from 5 cm to 15 cm.
        Preferably, in the above technical solution, the protective layer only allows water
   molecules to pass through, and is made of a special polymer material. A polymer has
   hydrophilicity and only allows water to pass through, thereby having a filtering effect
30 on chloride ions. Thus, chloride ions in seawater are blocked from penetrating into the
   inner area of the pile body via microcracks in concrete.
        Preferably, in the above technical solution, the semipermeable membrane is an
   asymmetric cellulose membrane.
                                               2

         Compared with the prior art, the present utility model has beneficial effects as
   follows. In the seawater corrosion-preventing reinforced concrete pile structure based
   on a semipermeable membrane of the present utility model, the pile structure is
 5 simply provided with a semipermeable membrane which is covered by a protective
   layer made of concrete with a thickness of 10 cm, and then end plates with a certain
   thickness are provided. In this way, an anti-corrosion ability of the concrete pile to
   chloride ions in the seawater environment is improved, and sea water is blocked from
   reaching the inner area of the pile structure via microcracks in concrete, thereby
10 enhancing the oxidation resistance and corrosion resistance of the concrete of the pile
   body and prolonging the service life of reinforcing steel bars. Thus, the concrete of
   the pile body can work for a long time without damage, thereby improving the
   durability of a marine structure. Besides, it is convenient for construction, and
   working procedures and construction costs are reduced.
15
   Brief Description of the Drawings
         Fig. 1 schematically shows the structure of a seawater corrosion-preventing
   reinforced concrete pile structure based on a semipermeable membrane according to
20 the present utility model, and
         Fig. 2 is the cross-section view of the seawater corrosion-preventing reinforced
   concrete pile structure based on a semipermeable membrane according to the present
   utility model.
25
   Detailed Description of the Embodiments
         Embodiments of the present utility model will be explained in detail hereinafter
   with reference to accompanying drawings, but it should be understood that the
30 protection scope of the present utility model is not limited to the embodiments.
         In the whole description and the claims, the term "comprise", or its changing
   form "include", or "contain" will be understood as "all elements or components
   mentioned herein are included, but other elements or components not mentioned are
                                               3

   not excluded", unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
         As shown in Figs. 1 and 2, according to the seawater corrosion-preventing
   reinforced concrete pile structure based on a semipermeable membrane of one
 5 embodiment of the present utility model, the seawater corrosion-preventing reinforced
   concrete pile structure based on a semipermeable membrane is mainly used in the
   seawater environment.
         The seawater corrosion-preventing reinforced concrete pile structure based on a
10 semipermeable membrane comprises a pile body 1, along which main reinforcing
   steel bars 2 are arranged in the longitudinal direction. The main reinforcing steel bars
   2 are wound up by a stirrup 3. The stirrup 3 is used for enhancing the stability of the
   pile body. A semipermeable membrane 4 covers the outer surface of the pile body 1
   and is used for filtering chloride ions in seawater. Preferably, the semipermeable
15 membrane 4 only allows water molecules to pass through, and is used for preventing
   chloride ions in seawater from reaching the inner area of the pile structure via
   microcracks in concrete. A protective layer 5 covers the outer surface of the
   semipermeable membrane 4. The protective layer 5 is made of a concrete material,
   and has a thickness of 10 cm. The protective layer 5 having the thickness of 10 cm is
20 provided around the outer surface of the semipermeable membrane 4, such that the
   semipermeable membrane will not be damaged due to exposure to water for a long
   time. End plates 6 are arranged at two ends of the pile body 1.
         Preferably, the semipermeable membrane is an asymmetric cellulose membrane
25 which is most widely used in reverse osmosis technology at present. The
   semipermeable membrane comprises a compact surface layer (a pore size thereof is
   less than 1 nm) and a porous supporting layer, which form a bell mouth having a
   dense upper part and a sparse lower part. Because it can be regarded that cellulose
   used herein is formed by polycondensation of a lot of glucose molecules, a structure
30 of the cellulose comprises many hydroxyl functional groups. Hydroxyl has very
   strong hydrophilicity and can attract water by hydrogen bonding, which has water
   permeability. At the same time, since a membrane surface contains only bonded water
   which has lost the hydration ability, salt substances of a solution cannot be dissolved
   further. Therefore, separation of salt and water is achieved, and thus isolation of
                                               4

   chloride ions by the semipermeable membrane is achieved. Hence, the semipermeable
   membrane can improve the anti-permeability and crack resistance of reinforced
   concrete in the seawater environment, thereby improving the durability of a structure.
 5       The above description of the specific exemplary embodiments of the present
   utility model is for the purpose of illustration. The purpose of selecting and describing
   the exemplary embodiments is to explain specific principles and practical applications
   of the present utility model, so that those skilled in the art will be able to realize and
   utilize various exemplary embodiments of the present utility model as well as
10 different alternatives and variations. The scope of the present utility model is limited
   by the claims and equivalents thereof.
                                                 5

   Claims
         1. A seawater corrosion-preventing reinforced concrete pile structure based on a
   semipermeable membrane, wherein the pile structure comprises:
 5       a pile body, along which main reinforcing steel bars are arranged in the
   longitudinal direction;
         a semipermeable membrane, which covers the outer surface of the pile body and
   is used for filtering chloride ions in seawater;
         a protective layer, which covers the outer surface of the semipermeable
10 membrane; and
         end plates, which are arranged at two ends of the pile body.
         2. The seawater corrosion-preventing reinforced concrete pile structure based on
   a semipermeable membrane according to claim 1, wherein the main reinforcing steel
15 bars are wound up by a stirrup.
         3. The seawater corrosion-preventing reinforced concrete pile structure based on
   a semipermeable membrane according to claim 1, wherein the protective layer is
   made of a concrete material.
20
         4. The seawater corrosion-preventing reinforced concrete pile structure based on
   a semipermeable membrane according to claim 1, wherein the protective layer has a
   thickness in a range from 5 cm to 15 cm.
25       5. The seawater corrosion-preventing reinforced concrete pile structure based on
   a semipermeable membrane according to claim 1, wherein the semipermeable
   membrane has a filtering action on chloride ions, and only allows water molecules to
   pass through.
30       6. The seawater corrosion-preventing reinforced concrete pile structure based on
   a semipermeable membrane according to claim 1, wherein the semipermeable
   membrane is an asymmetric cellulose membrane.
                                                6

                  <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 2   Fig. 1                          1/1

