                                           ABSTRACT
            A hybrid power plant is characterized by a substantially constant load on generators
regardless of momentary swings in power load. Short changes in power load are accommodated
by DC components such as capacitors, batteries, resistors, or a combination thereof. Resistors
are used to consume power when loads in the power plant are generating excess power.
Capacitors are used to store and deliver power when the loads in the power plant demand
additional power. Reducing rapid changes in power load as seen by the generators allows the
generators to operate at higher efficiencies and with reduced emissions. Additionally, power
plants employing combinations of generators, loads, and energy storage devices have increased
dynamic performance.

            5/10
500
                        512
               r510
502 506
     G             508
               ,,-516
                   518
               ,,,520
                   x   5247=     532
                    M  526   e,,534
      522
          FIG. 5

                         HYBRID POWER PLANT FOR IMPROVED
                      EFFICIENCY AND DYNAMIC PERFORMANCE
                                        TECHNICAL FIELD
             [00011    This disclosure generally relates to power transmission networks. More
specifically, this disclosure relates to operating a DC power system from one or more AC or
DC power generators. Even more specifically, this disclosure relates to improving efficiency
of an AC generators when connected to a DC bus by providing a nearly constant load to the
generators.
                                BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
             [0002]    Power transmissions networks can be made of AC systems, DC systems,
or a combination of the two. AC power networks have conventionally been used throughout
the world. However, DC power networks have certain advantages. DC power networks are
easier to design and implement because they introduce no reactance into the power system.
Higher efficiencies from generators can be achieved in DC systems because only real power is
transmitted.     Additionally, parallelization of power supplies is simple because no
synchronization is required when additional supplies or loads are brought onto the network.
             [0003]    Therefore, in power networks that experience large swings in load on the
generators and require reliable operation, a combination of DC systems and AC systems is
beneficial. One example of such a power network is found on drilling platforms or vessels to
operate onboard thrusters. Drilling vessels are not anchored in the ocean but are dynamically
controlled to maintain a desired position in the ocean. Thrusters are propeller drives that can
have variable rotation speed and azimuthal angle of the blades. They are used to maintain a
position within specified tolerances of a drilling apparatus. These thrusters are operated by a
power supply onboard the drilling vessel.        Any failure of the power supply can lead to
displacement of the vessel out of the tolerances of the drilling apparatus. In such a case, the
drilling apparatus would need to be mechanically decoupled and recoupled after the power
supply is restored and the position of the drilling vessel is corrected.
             [0004]    One method of facilitating a reliable power supply is to utilize a DC bus
for powering thrusters and other components.            Such a power transmission system is
demonstrated in FIGURE 1. In such a system, the power supply is generally made of AC
generators coupled to an AC-to-DC converter, such as AC-to-DC converter 112. The AC-to-

DC converter places power from the AC generators on an intermediate DC bus. Each motor or
thruster, as well as other devices utilizing the intermediate DC bus, on board the drilling vessel
is coupled to the intermediate DC bus through a DC-to-AC converter.
              [0005]   FIGURE 1 is a block diagram illustrating a conventional DC voltage bus
coupling multiple AC voltage generation systems to various loads. Power system 100 includes
generators 102. The generators 102 are coupled to an AC bus 104 through isolators 106. The
isolators 106 allow the generators 102 to be removed from the AC bus 104 when they are not
used or are malfunctioning. The AC bus 104 is coupled to a transformer 108 to condition power
for transmission to a line 110. An AC-to-DC converter 112 is coupled to the line 110 and
converts AC power on the line 110 to DC power for output onto an intermediate DC bus 120.
Coupled to the DC bus 120 are DC-to-AC converters 130. The DC-to-AC converters 130
convert DC power on the DC bus 120 to AC power that most devices are designed to use.
Coupled to the DC-to-AC converters 130 is a line 132 to which loads may be connected. A
power dissipating device 134 is coupled to the line 132, and the power dissipating device 134
may be, for example, a thruster. Additionally, a transformer 135 is coupled to the line 132 to
condition power for a load 136. The load 136 may be, for example, a light bulb.
              [0006]    Another example of the motor 134 may be the draw works onboard a
drilling platform. The draw works is a machine that reels out and reels in the drilling line and
conventionally includes a large-diameter steel spool, brakes, and a power source. Operation of
the draw works to reel in drilling line may require the full capacity of the ship-board generators.
However, there are operations conditions where the draw works may consume zero power. In
reverse operation, the draw works may generate power that is placed back on the line 132 while
gravity assists reeling out of the drilling line.     The power load changes may occur nearly
instantaneously.
              [0007]  Rapid changes in the load on the generator require the generator to increase
power output to generate the power demanded by the load. Diesel generators are designed to
consume fuel at an optimized rate in a small range of the available power output. Diesel fuel
costs are the highest expense incurred by operating a diesel generator over its lifetime.
Therefore, an operator desires to keep the generator operating in the power output range
optimized for fuel consumption.

              [0008]     Turning now to FIGURE 2, a power output curve for a diesel generator
are examined. FIGURE 2 is graph illustrating the operation of a diesel generator. A curve 220
represents fuel consumption in kilograms per kilowatt-hour of the diesel generator at various
engine loads (power output). A range between 0 and 100 percent of rated output demonstrates
a variation in the kg/(kw/hour) ratio, or efficiency of fuel consumption        In order to operate
efficiently a range 230 of power load on the diesel generator should be maintained. If the load
increases or decreases, the engine fuel consumption and efficiency changes.
              [0009]    In addition to fuel consumption issues, scrubbers on diesel generators that
reduce the dangerous exhaust are sensitive to the volume of exhaust. Rapidly varying engine
power changes the rate of flow of exhaust and chemical components of the exhaust. Because
the scrubber is designed to operate optimally on a continuous and stable flow of exhaust,
emissions output may not be minimized if the power load varies rapidly.
              [0010]     Further, dynamic performance of diesel generators is limited. That is,
diesel generators may not increase power output rapidly enough to match an increasing power
load on the diesel generator. Conventionally, additional diesel generators would be brought
online if the rate of increase of power load exceeds the rate of increase of diesel generator power
output.    Neither diesel generator is operating efficiently and results in increased fuel
consumption and express capacity when the power load peaks.
              [0011]    Referring now to FIGURE 3, generators and power loads will be examined
in a conventional power plant. FIGURE 3 is a block diagram illustrating power distribution on
a conventional power plant 300. The power plant 300 includes an AC generator 302 coupled
to a switchboard 308 through an AC line 306. The switchboard 308 is coupled to multiple
loads. For example, typical shipboard and drilling loads are represented by a power dissipating
device 312 coupled to the switchboard 308 by an AC line 310. Additionally, the switchboard
308 is coupled to an AC-to-DC converter 318. The AC-to-DC converter 318 is coupled to an
AC line 316 and a DC line 320. Additional loads may be coupled to the DC line 320. For
example, a light 322 may be coupled to the DC line 320 or a DC-to-AC converter 324. The
DC-to-AC converter 324 couples to additional AC loads such as a power dissipating device
326. The power dissipating device 326 may be a draw works as described above or a motor.
Each of the loads 312, 322, 326 produces different power loads on the AC generator 302. The
effect on the AC generator 302 will now be examined.

              [0012]    FIGURES 4A to 4E are graphs illustrating power consumption in a
conventional power plant such as FIGURE 3. A line 402 in FIGURE 4A indicates power
consumption at the power dissipating device 312.           Shipboard loads such as the power
dissipating device 312 operate as a constant load over long periods of time such as hours on the
AC generator 302. The line 402 is positive indicating consumption of power. A line 404 in
FIGURE 4B indicates power consumption at the power dissipating device 326. Draw works
such as the power dissipating device 326 operate as a varying load, which may change rapidly
such as in milliseconds, on the AC generator 302. The line 404 varies between positive and
negative values indicating the load consumes power at some times and produces power at other
times. A line 406 in FIGURE 4C indicates power consumption at the light 322. The light 322
operates as a constant load over long periods of time such as hours on the AC generator 302.
              [0013]     Total power transferred through the AC-to-DC converter 318 is
represented by adding the line 404 to the line 406 and is shown in a line 408 in FIGURE 4D.
The line 408 is total power consumption with respect to time of the DC line 320. Total power
delivered by the AC generator 302 is shown in a line 410 in FIGURE 4E and is a sum of lines
408, 402. In the conventional power plant 300 power delivered by the AC generator 302 varies
in time. This leads to undesirable qualities exhibited by the AC generator 302 as indicated
above including inefficient fuel consumption and poor exhaust scrubbing.
              [0014]  Thus, there is a need for a power plant design that produces a substantially
constant load on the AC generators and increases dynamic performance..
                              BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
              [0015]  A power plant includes an AC generator, an AC-to-DC converter coupled
to the AC generator and a DC bus, and a switch coupled to the DC bus. The power plant further
includes an active power compensation system coupled to the switch.            The active power
compensation system reduces power load variations in the power plant. The switch may include
a DC-to-DC converter.         The active power compensation system may include power
consumption devices. The power consumption devices may be resistors.           The power plant
may also include power storage devices. The power storage devices comprise ultracapacitors.
The ultracapacitors may be coupled to one or more microcontrollers.            The one or more
microcontrollers may regulate the ultracapacitors.     The power storage devices may include
batteries or rotating machines.
                                                  A

             [0016]   A method of reducing variations in a power load on a generator includes
routing power between the generator and a power consuming device during a time when the
power load on the generator is lower than a first level. The power consuming device may
include a resistive element. The first level may be based, in part, on a fuel efficiency of the
generator.
             [0017]   A method of reducing variations in a power load on a power plant having
a generator includes routing power between the generator and a energy storage device during a
time when the power load on the power plant is lower than a first level. The energy storage
device stores energy provided by the generator. The energy storage device may include at least
one ultracapacitor. The energy storage device may include at least one battery. The first level
may be based, in part, on a fuel efficiency of the generator. The method may also include
routing power between the generator and the power storage device during a time when the
power load on the power plant is higher than a second level. The second level may be higher
than the first level. The energy storage device may deliver power to the power plant. The
second level may be chosen, in part, based on a fuel efficiency of the generator. The method
further includes routing power between the generator and a power consuming device during a
time when the power load on the power plant is lower than a third level. The third level may
be lower than the first level. The third level may be chosen based, in part, on a capacity of the
energy storage device.
             [0018]   A power plant includes means for generating power to meet a power load
of the power plant. The power plant also includes means for reducing variation in the power
load of the power plant. The means for reducing variation may include means for consuming
energy. The variation reducing means may include means for storing energy.
             [0019]     The foregoing has outlined rather broadly the features and technical
advantages of the present disclosure in order that the detailed description that follows may be
better understood. Additional features and advantages will be described hereinafter which form
the subject of the claims of the disclosure. It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art
that the conception and specific embodiments disclosed may be readily utilized as a basis for
modifying or designing other structures for carrying out the same purposes of the present
disclosure.    It should also be realized by those skilled in the art that such equivalent
constructions do not depart from the technology of the disclosure as set forth in the appended
claims. The novel features which are believed to be characteristic of the disclosure, both as to

its organization and method of operation, together with further objects and advantages will be
better understood from the following description when considered in connection with the
accompanying figures. It is to be expressly understood, however, that each of the figures is
provided for the purpose of illustration and description only and is not intended as a definition
of the limits of the present disclosure.
                             BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
             [00201    For a more complete understanding of the present invention, reference is
now made to the following descriptions taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.
             [0021]    FIGURE 1 is a block diagram illustrating a conventional DC voltage bus
coupling multiple AC voltage generation systems to various loads.
             [0022]    FIGURE 2 is a graph illustrating the operation of a diesel power generator.
             [0023]       FIGURE 3 is a block diagram illustrating power distribution on a
conventional power plant.
             [0024]      FIGURES 4A to 4E are graphs illustrating power consumption in a
conventional power plant such as FIGURE 3.
             [0025]      FIGURE 5 is a block diagram illustrating power distribution on an
exemplary power plant with power dissipating devices to consume regenerated energy
according to one embodiment.
             [0026]      FIGURES 6A to 6F are graphs illustrating power consumption in an
exemplary power plant with resistors to consume regenerated energy according to one
embodiment.
             [0027]      FIGURE 7 is a block diagram illustrating power distribution on an
exemplary power plant with active power compensation according to one embodiment.
             [0028]     FIGURES 8A to 8G are graphs illustrating power consumption in an
exemplary power plant with active power compensation according to one embodiment.
             [0029]     FIGURES 9A to 9G are graphs illustrating power consumption in an
exemplary power plant with active power compensation and a capacity limited energy storage
device according to one embodiment.

              [0030]    FIGURE 10 is a block diagram illustrating an exemplary active power
compensation system according to one embodiment.
                          DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
              [0031]    Reducing variation of the load on a generator in a power plant may be
accomplished by adding devices that dissipate power during short times when power loads are
volatile. In this arrangement, the generator may be able to continue operation at a higher output
while the power dissipating devices remove power generated by some loads. Without the power
dissipating devices to remove energy generated by the loads, the generators would reduce power
output and allow other loads to absorb the regenerated power.
              [0032]     FIGURE 5 is a block diagram illustrating power distribution on an
exemplary power plant with power dissipating devices to consume regenerated energy
according to one embodiment. A hybrid power plant 500 includes an AC generator 502 coupled
to a switchboard 508 through an AC line 506. The switchboard 508 is coupled to the AC line
506 and an AC line 510. A power dissipating device 512 is coupled to the AC line 510. The
power dissipating device 512 may represent, for example, shipboard loads. The switchboard
508 is also coupled to an AC-to-DC converter 518 through an AC line 516. The AC-to-DC
converter 518 provides power to a DC line 520. A light 522 couples to the DC line 520.
Additionally, a DC-to-AC converter 524 is coupled to a power dissipating device 526 and the
DC line 520. The power dissipating device 526 may be a draw works as described above.
Additionally, a DC-to-DC converter 532 couples a power dissipating device 534 to the DC line
520. The power dissipating device 534 may be any device capable of consuming energy. For
example, the power dissipating device 534 may be a resistor, variable resistor, water brake, or
a combination of the aforementioned devices. The power demand on the AC generator 502
from the loads 512, 522, 526, 534 will now be examined.
              [0033]   Referring to FIGURE 6 the loads at various locations on the hybrid power
plant 500 are examined. FIGURES 6A to 6F are graphs illustrating power consumption in an
exemplary power plant with resistors to consume regenerated energy according to one
embodiment. A line 602 in FIGURE 6A indicates power consumption at the power dissipating
device 512. Shipboard loads such as the power dissipating device 512 operate as a constant
load over extended periods of time on the power plant. A line 606 in FIGURE 6C indicates
power consumption at the light 522. The light 522 operates as a constant load over extended
periods of time on the hybrid power plant 500. A line 604 in FIGURE 6B indicates power

consumption at the power dissipating device 526. Draw works such as the power dissipating
device 526 have a power load that varies rapidly with time in as small as millisecond intervals.
In the case of power dissipating device 526, the power load is positive at some times and
negative at other times. During the positive portion of the line 604 the power dissipating device
526 consumes power; during the negative portion of the line 604 the power dissipating device
526 delivers power to the power plant.
             [00341   During a time when the power dissipating device 526 is delivering power
to the hybrid power plant 500 the AC generator 502 will reduce power output to accommodate
the regenerated power. As described above, the AC generator 502 loses efficiency when its
power output is reduced or changes rapidly. Therefore, the power dissipating device 534 may
be switched on by the DC-to-DC converter 532 to consume excess power on the DC line 520.
This allows the AC generator 502 to continue operating at a nearly constant power output. A
line 608 in FIGURE 6D indicates power consumption by the power dissipating device 534. The
line 608 is positive because the power dissipating device 534 is only capable of consuming
power. The DC-to-DC converter 532 is switched on at times that it would be advantageous to
add additional power consumption to the hybrid power plant 500.              According to one
embodiment, the line 608 represents power consumption substantially equal in magnitude to
the line 604 during the period of time that the line 604 is negative. Therefore, the power
dissipating device 534 consumes power generated by the power dissipating device 526. The
DC-to-DC converter 532 may be switched on for a longer time or shorter time depending on
the condition of other loads on the hybrid power plant 500.
             [0035]   Total power transferred through the AC-to-DC converter 518 is indicated
by a line 610 in FIGURE 6E. The line 610 is a summation of the lines 604, 606, 608. Total
power delivered by the AC generator 502 is indicated by a line 612 in FIGURE 6F. The line
612 is a summation of the lines 610, 602. The line 612 indicates the load on the hybrid power
plant 500 is confined to a more narrow range than that of the line 410 in FIGURE 4E in which
no power dissipating device is implemented. For example, the line 612 has a minimum of 1
MW whereas the line 410 has a minimum of 0 MW The addition of the power dissipating
device 534 and the DC-to-DC converter 532 limits power output reduction of the AC generator
502 when one of the loads in the hybrid power plant 500 generates power. The most inefficient
operating range of the AC generator 502 is at low power output, therefore, efficiency of the AC
generator 502 in the hybrid power plant 500 is improved by not operating the AC generator 502
at low power loads.

             [0036] The power plant may be further adapted to increase efficiency if the energy
generated by loads may, instead of being dissipated, be stored and used at a later time when
power demand increases. As a result, an increase in load on the power plant would result in a
discharge of the stored energy allowing the AC generator to continue operating at a nearly
constant engine power load. A system for storing energy and delivering energy depending on
conditions in the power plant is referred to as an active power compensation system.
             [00371     FIGURE 7 is a block diagram illustrating power distribution on an
exemplary power plant with active power compensation according to one embodiment. A
hybrid power plant 700 includes a energy storage device 744 coupled to the DC line 520 through
a DC-to-DC converter 742. The energy storage device 744 may be switched on by the DC-to
DC converter 742 when additional power should be delivered to the DC line 520. The energy
storage device 744 may also be switched on at times when excess power is delivered to the DC
line 520 such that the energy may be stored by the energy storage device 744. The energy
storage device 744 may be any energy storing device including, but not limited to, spring
tension, fuel cells, flywheels, capacitors, variable capacitor, ultracapacitors, batteries, or a
combination of the aforementioned devices. In addition to energy storage device 744, the
hybrid power plant 700 may, in one embodiment, also include the power dissipating device 534
coupled to the DC-to-DC converter 532.
             [0038]    Turning now to FIGURE 8, the load on the hybrid power plant 700 at
various locations will be examined.       FIGURES 8A to 8G are graphs illustrating power
consumption in an exemplary power plant with active power compensation according to one
embodiment. The lines 602, 604, 606 of FIGURES 8A, 8B, and 8C, respectively, are identical
to those in FIGURE 6. A line 809 in FIGURE 8E indicates power load of the energy storage
device 744. The line 809 has substantially the same magnitude as the line 604, but of opposite
polarity. The line 809 is a mirror image of the line 604. The energy storage device 744 stores
energy during periods of excess power generation and delivers energy during periods of power
generation shortage. As a result, variations in power load on the AC generator 502 are reduced.
The reduction is a result of the energy storage device 744 consuming power during time that
the power dissipating device 526 and delivering that power back to the hybrid power plant 700.
A line 808 in FIGURE 8D indicates the power load on the power dissipating device 534. Power
load at the AC-to-DC converter 518 in the hybrid power plant 700 is indicated by a line 810 in
FIGURE 8F. The line 810 is a summation of the lines 808, 809, 606, 604 and is a substantially

constant value. A line 812 in FIGURE 8G indicates total power load on the AC generator 502
and is a summation of lines 810, 602 and is also a nearly constant value.
             [00391      Thus, the use of the energy storage device 744 reduces the effects of a
varying power load on the AC generator 502. The energy storage device 744 may adapt to
changes in the power load of the power dissipating device 526 and other loads in the hybrid
power plant 700.       The nearly constant power load on the AC generator 502 allows for
continuous operation in the most efficient operating region of the AC generator 502.
Additionally, the energy storage device 744 increases dynamic performance of the hybrid
power plant 700. The AC generator 502 in response to an increasing power load may not be
capable of increasing output quickly enough to match the increasing power load. The energy
storage device 744 may have a shorter response time to the increasing power load and deliver
additional power while the AC generator increases output to match the power load on hybrid
power plant 700. According to one embodiment, the improved dynamic performance of the
hybrid power plant 700 having the energy storage device 744 allows the AC generator to remain
at a substantially constant power output.
             [0040] The power dissipating device 534, in one embodiment, is used to consume
power when power generation by the power dissipating device 526 exceeds a capacity of the
energy storage device 744. FIGURES 9A to 9G are graphs illustrating power consumption in
an exemplary power plant with active power compensation and a capacity limited energy
storage device according to one embodiment. The line 909 in FIGURE 9E represents power at
the energy storage device 744. According to one embodiment, the energy storage device 744
has an energy capacity of 1 megaJoule. During power consumption of line 604, the line 909 is
negative indicating the energy storage device 744 is providing power. During power generation
of the line 604, the line 909 is positive indicating the energy storage device 944 is storing power.
As the energy storage device 744 reaches a maximum energy capacity at time t 2, the power
dissipating device 534 will engage to absorb regenerated power from the load 526 in order to
maintain a substantially constant load on the AC generator 502. The actual energy capacity of
the energy storage device 744 may vary from the embodiment demonstrated. The line 908 in
FIGURE 9D illustrates that during the portion of time that the the energy storage device 744 is
near capacity, the power dissipating device 534 consumes power. As a result, the summation
of the switchboard 508 yields the same power load as in FIGURE 8.

              [0041]   FIGURE 10 is a block diagram illustrating an exemplary active power
compensation system according to one embodiment. An active power compensation system
1000 may be employed to store and deliver energy to the hybrid power plant 700. An input
line 1012 is used to connect the active power compensation system to a power plant. The active
power compensation system 1000 includes several columns 1034 of power storage devices.
Each column 1034 includes energy storage devices 1042. The energy storage devices 1042
may be, for example, ultracapacitors, capacitors, batteries, or fly wheels. The energy storage
devices 1042 are stacked in series to obtain a desired voltage and in columns 1034 to obtain a
desired current or optimal energy density. The energy storage devices 1042 are controlled by
microcontrollers 1044 to regulate charging and discharging activities.         For example, the
microcontrollers 1044 may disconnect defective or damaged power storage devices 1042 from
the columns 1034.
              [0042]   Examples of hybrid power plants for drilling vessels including shipboard
loads have been shown in the above embodiments. However, the power plants as disclosed
may be adapted for use in a number of other applications. Additionally, the power plants may
include AC or DC generators and loads. AC-to-DC, DC-to-AC, and DC-to-DC converters as
shown in the figures above may be unidirectional or bidirectional. One of ordinary skill in the
art would be capable of substitution, e.g., an AC-to-DC for a DC-to-AC converter, depending
upon load configuration and characteristics (i.e., DC load or AC load) of a particular power
plant.
              [0043]  Although the present disclosure and its advantages have been described in
detail, it should be understood that various changes, substitutions and alterations can be made
herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended
claims. Moreover, the scope of the present application is not intended to be limited to the
particular embodiments of the process, machine, manufacture, composition of matter, means,
methods and steps described in the specification. As one of ordinary skill in the art will readily
appreciate from the present invention, disclosure, machines, manufacture, compositions of
matter, means, methods, or steps, presently existing or later to be developed that perform
substantially the same function or achieve substantially the same result as the corresponding
embodiments described herein may be utilized according to the present disclosure.
Accordingly, the appended claims are intended to include within their scope such processes,
machines, manufacture, compositions of matter, means, methods, or steps.

        [0044]     Comprises/comprising and grammatical variations thereof when used in this
specification are to be taken to specify the presence of stated features, integers, steps or
components or groups thereof, but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more
other features, integers, steps, components or groups thereof.

                                         CLAIMS
1. A method of reducing variations in a power load on an AC generator in a power plant,
   comprising:
       delivering power to an AC load from an AC generator through an AC bus;
       delivering power to a DC load from a DC bus;
       activating, by an active power compensation system coupled to the DC bus, an AC
            to-DC converter to deliver power from the AC load to the DC bus when the AC
            load enters a power generation state; and
       activating, by the active power compensation system, a DC-to-DC converter to
            deliver power from the DC bus to a power consuming device to reduce load
            variation on the AC generator.
2. The method of claim 1, in which the step of activating the DC-to-DC converter
   comprises routing power from the AC load to a DC energy storage device.
3. The method of claim 2, in which the DC energy storage device provides a power draw,
   that when summed with a draw of the DC load and an output of the AC load, maintains
   a substantially constant power demand at the AC generator.
4. The method of claim 2, in which the DC energy storage device comprises at least one
   of an ultracapacitor, a capacitor, a battery, and a fly wheel.
5. The method of claim 1, in which the step of activating the DC-to-DC converter
   comprises routing power from the AC load to a power dissipation device.
6. The method of claim 5, in which the power dissipation device comprises at least one of
   a resistive element, a variable resistive element, and a water break.
7. The method of claim 1, in which the AC load comprises a draw works.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising routing power from the AC generator,
   through the AC-to-DC converter, the DC bus, and the DC-to-DC converter to the power

    consuming device when a load on the AC generator is lower than the power output of
    the AC generator.
9.  The method of claim 8, further comprising dissipating the routed power in a power
    dissipation device of the active power compensation system.
10. The method of claim 9, in which the step of dissipating the power comprises dissipating
    the power in at least one of a resistive element, a variable resistive element, and a water
    break.
11. A power plant, comprising:
        an AC generator coupled to an AC bus;
        an AC-to-DC converter coupled to the AC bus and a DC bus;
        an AC load coupled to the AC bus; and
        means for reducing variation in the power load of the power plant, the power load
            variation reducing means coupled to the AC-to-DC converter and to the DC bus,
            in which the power load variation reducing means is configured to absorb power
            from the AC load through the AC bus, the AC-to-DC converter, and the DC bus,
            when the AC load enters a power generation state.
12. The power plant of claim 11, in which the AC load comprises a draw works.
13. The power plant of claim 11, in which the means for reducing variation in the power
    load of the power plant comprises means for consuming power, the means for reducing
    variation in the power load of the power plant configured to consume power when a
    load on the AC generator is lower than the sum of a power output of the AC generator
    and a power output of the AC load.
14. A power plant, comprising:
    an AC generator coupled to an AC bus;
    an AC load coupled to the AC bus;

        an AC-to-DC converter coupled to the AC bus and a DC bus and configured to deliver
        power from the AC bus to the DC bus when the AC load enters a power generation
        state; and
        a DC-to-DC converter coupled to the DC bus and configured to deliver power from the
        DC bus to a power consuming device to reduce load variation on the AC generator.
15.     The power plant of claim 14, in which the AC load comprises a draw works.
16.     The power plant of claim 14, in which the power consuming device comprises at least
        one of a DC energy storage device and a power dissipation device.
17.     The power plant of claim 16, in which the DC energy storage device comprises at least
        one of an ultracapacitor, a capacitor, a battery, and a fly wheel.
18.     The power plant of claim 16, in which the power dissipation device comprises at least
        one of a resistive element, a variable resistive element, and a water break.
19.     An apparatus, comprising:
        an AC power source coupled to an AC bus;
        a bidirectional AC-to-DC converter coupled to the AC bus and a DC bus and configured
to exchange energy from the AC bus to the DC bus and from the DC bus to the AC bus;
        a first AC load coupled to the AC bus;
        an active power compensation system coupled to the DC bus, wherein the active power
compensation system comprises an energy storage device coupled to the DC bus through a
switch, and wherein the active power compensation system is configured to:
        control the switch to deliver power to the first AC load through the DC bus, through the
bidirectional AC-to-DC converter, and through the AC bus during a time when a power output
of the AC generator is lower than a power demand of the AC load; and
        control the switch to deliver power to the energy storage device through the AC bus,
through the bidirectional AC-to-DC converter, and through the DC bus during a time when a
power output of the AC power source is higher than a power demand of the AC load.

20.     The apparatus of claim 19, further comprising a summation block on the AC bus
coupled to the AC power source, the AC load, and the bidirectional AC-to-DC converter,
wherein the active power compensation system is further configured to maintain an
approximately constant load on the AC power source through the summation block.
21.     The apparatus of claim 19, further comprising:
            a DC-to-AC converter coupled to the DC bus; and
            a second AC load coupled to the DC bus through the DC-to-AC converter.
22.     The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the DC-to-AC converter is bidirectional to allow
power regeneration of the motor to provide power to the DC bus.
23.     The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the switch comprises a DC-to-DC converter.
24.     The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the energy storage device comprises at least one of
an ultracapacitor, a capacitor, a battery, and a fly wheel.
25.     The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the active power compensation system further
comprises a power consumption device coupled to the DC bus through a second switch, and
wherein the active power compensation system is configured to control the second switch to
consume power through the power consumption device during a time when a power output of
the AC power source is higher than a power demand on the AC power source.
26.     The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the power consumption device comprises at least
one of a resistive element, a variable resistive element, and a water brake.
27.     The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the AC power source comprises one or more AC
generators.
28.     The apparatus of claim 19, further comprising a DC load coupled to the DC bus.

29.     A method of reducing variations in a power load on an AC power source in a power
plant, comprising:
        energizing an AC bus from an AC power source;
        powering an AC load with the AC bus;
        transferring energy from the AC bus to a DC bus through a bidirectional AC-to-DC
converter;
        storing energy in a power storage device from the DC bus by transferring energy through
a switch;
        routing power from the power storage device through the DC bus, through the
bidirectional AC-to-DC converter, and through the AC bus to the AC load during a time when
a power output of the AC power source is lower than a power demand on the AC power source;
and
        routing power from the AC power source through the AC bus, through the bidirectional
AC-to-DC converter, and through the DC bus to the power storage device during a time when
a power output of the AC power source is higher than a power demand on the AC power source.
30.     The method of claim 29, further comprising maintaining an approximately constant load
on the AC power source by routing power between the AC power source, the AC load, and the
power storage device through a summation block.
31.     The method of claim 29, further comprising powering a second AC load from the DC
bus through a DC-to-AC converter.
32.     The method of claim 31, further comprising providing power to the DC bus from the
second AC load through the DC-to-AC converter.
33.     The method of claim 29, wherein the step of routing power to the power storage device
comprises routing power through a DC-to-DC converter.
34.     The method of claim 29, wherein the step of routing power to the power storage device
comprises routing power to at least one of an ultracapacitor, a capacitor, a battery, and a fly
wheel.

35.     The method of claim 29, further comprising routing power from the AC power source
through the AC bus, through the bidirectional AC-to-DC converter, and through the DC bus to
a power consumption device during a time when a power output of the AC power source is
higher than a power demand on the AC power source.
36.     The method of claim 35, wherein the step of routing power to a power consumption
device comprises routing power to at least one of a resistive element, a variable resistive
element, and a water brake.
37.     The method of claim 29, further comprising power a DC load from the DC bus.
38.     The method of claim 29, wherein the step of energizing an AC bus from an AC power
source comprises energizing an AC bus from one or more AC generators.

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 1                          1/10

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 1                          2/10

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 1                          3/10

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 1                          4/10

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 1                          5/10

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 1                          6/10

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 1                          7/10

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 1                          8/10

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 1                          9/10

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 1                          10/10

