      Systems and Methods for OFDM with Flexible Frequency-Time Sub
                          Carrier Spacing and Symbol Duration
  ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
5         Embodiments are provided for supporting variable sub-carrier spacing and symbol
  duration for transmitting OFDM or other waveform symbols and associated cyclic prefixes.
  The symbol duration includes the useful symbol length and its associated cyclic prefix length.
  The variable sub-carrier spacing and symbol duration is determined via parameters indicating
  the sub-carrier spacing, useful symbol length, and cyclic prefix length. An embodiment
0 method, by a network or a network controller, includes establishing a plurality of multiple
  access block, MAB, types defining different combinations of sub-carrier spacing and symbol
  duration for waveform transmissions. The method further includes partitioning a frequency
  and time plane of a carrier spectrum band into a plurality of MAB regions comprising
  frequency-time slots for the waveform transmissions. The MAB types are then selected for
5 the MAB regions, wherein one MAB type is assigned to one corresponding MAB region.

     Systems and Methods for OFDM with Flexible Sub-Carrier Spacing and
                                          Symbol Duration
   CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
 5 [0001] The present application is a divisional application from Australian Patent Application
   No. 2015226638, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
   TECHNICAL FIELD
   [0002] The present invention relates to wireless communications,             and, in particular
 0 embodiments, to systems and methods for transmitting different waveforms using flexible
   sub-carrier spacing and symbol duration. In some particular embodiments, the waveforms are
   orthogonal frequency division multiplexed (OFDM) waveforms having different parameters.
   BACKGROUND
 5 [0003] In existing wireless standards, including those for fourth generation (4G) and earlier
   wireless networks, a standardized waveform has been selected based on its suitability for
   general use. There are a variety of situations in which a different waveform may provide
   better performance, but to address overall performance and implementation limitations, only
   the standardized waveform is available. By using a single waveform, both transmitter and
20 receiver designs can be simplified and added computations complexity can be avoided.
   However, to provide improved performance in an ever increasing number of deployment
   scenarios, the use of a single waveform is an obstacle that can impede performance. 4G
   networks make use of an orthogonal frequency division multiplexed (OFDM) waveform due
   to a number of characteristics. In many scenarios, it may be beneficial to allow for different
25 OFDM      waveform     configurations    for different   channel  conditions   and/or  different
   deployment/application scenarios. Consequently, next generation wireless communication
   protocols will likely include air interfaces that support waveform adaptation to allow the most
   suitable waveform to be dynamically selected based on various criteria, such as channel
   conditions, traffic types, transmission mode, user equipment (UE) capabilities, or other
                                                    -1-

   factors. As such, techniques and/or mechanisms for providing flexible air interfaces that are
   capable of being seamlessly adapted for diverse waveforms are desired, e.g., to offer resilient
   radio performance efficiently under various channel conditions.
 5 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   [0004] In accordance with a first aspect of the present invention, a method by a network
   controller supporting wireless communications includes establishing a plurality of multiple
   access block (MAB) types defining different combinations of sub-carrier spacing and symbol
   duration for waveform transmissions. The method further includes partitioning a frequency
 0 and time plane of a carrier spectrum band into a plurality of MAB regions comprising
   frequency-time slots for the waveform transmissions. At least two different MAB types from
   the established plurality of MAB types are then selected for the MAB regions.
   [0005] In accordance with a second aspect of the present invention, a method by a network
   component supporting wireless communications includes selecting a MAB region of a
 5 plurality of predetermined MAB regions partitioning a frequency and time plane of a carrier
   spectrum band, and transmitting a signal on frequency-time slots in the MAB region in
   accordance with a MAB type selected for the MAB region. The MAB type is from a plurality
   of predetermined MAB types. The method further includes reducing a bandwidth of the
   transmitted signal using a spectrum filter in accordance with a bandwidth of the MAB type.
20 [0006] In accordance with a third aspect of the present invention, a method by a network
   device supporting wireless communications includes receiving a signal on frequency-time
   slots in a MAB region of a plurality of MAB regions partitioning a frequency and time plane
   of a carrier spectrum band, and identifying a MAB type selected for the MAB region and
   defining a sub-carrier spacing and a symbol duration for the frequency-time slots of the MAB
25 region. The method further includes establishing a spectrum filter with bandwidth in
   accordance with the MAB type, and detecting the signal using the spectrum filter.
   [0007] In accordance with a fourth aspect of the present invention, a network controller
   supporting wireless communications comprises at least one processor and a non-transitory
   computer readable storage medium storing programming for execution by the at least one
                                                   -2-

   processor. The programming includes instructions to establish a plurality of MAB types
   defining different combinations of sub-carrier spacing and symbol duration for waveform
   transmissions, and partition a frequency and time plane of a carrier spectrum band into a
   plurality of MAB regions comprising frequency-time slots for the waveform transmissions.
 5 The network controller also selects, for the MAB regions, at least two different MAB types
   form the established MAB types.
   [0008] In accordance with a fifth aspect of the present invention, a network component
   supporting wireless communications comprises at least one processor and a non-transitory
   computer readable storage medium storing programming for execution by the at least one
 0 processor. The programming includes instructions to select a MAB region of a plurality of
   predetermined MAB regions partitioning a frequency and time plane of a carrier spectrum
   band, and transmit a signal on frequency-time slots in the MAB region in accordance with a
   MAB type selected for the MAB region. The MAB type is from a plurality of predetermined
   MAB types. The network component is further configured to reduce a bandwidth of the
 5 transmitted signal using a spectrum filter in accordance with a bandwidth of the MAB type.
   [0009] In accordance with a sixth aspect of the present invention , a network device
   supporting wireless communications comprises at least one processor and a non-transitory
   computer readable storage medium storing programming for execution by the at least one
   processor. The programming includes instructions to obtain a signal on frequency-time slots
20 in a MAB region of a plurality of MAB regions partitioning a frequency and time plane of a
   carrier spectrum band, and identify a MAB type selected for the MAB region and defining a
   sub-carrier spacing and a symbol duration for the frequency-time slots of the MAB region.
   The network device is further configured to establish a spectrum filter with a bandwidth in
   accordance with the MAB type, and detect the signal using the spectrum filter.
25 [0010] The foregoing has outlined rather broadly the features of an embodiment of the
   present invention in order that the detailed description of the invention that follows may be
   better understood. Additional features and advantages of embodiments of the invention will
   be described hereinafter, which form the subject of the claims of the invention. It should be
   appreciated by those skilled in the art that the conception and specific embodiments disclosed
                                                    -3-

   may be readily utilized as a basis for modifying or designing other structures or processes for
   carrying out the same purposes of the present invention. It should also be realized by those
   skilled in the art that such equivalent constructions do not depart from the spirit and scope of
   the invention as set forth in the appended claims.
 5
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   [0011] For a more complete understanding of the present invention, and the advantages
   thereof, reference is now made to the following descriptions taken in conjunction with the
   accompanying drawing, in which:
 0 [0012] FIG. 1 illustrates a diagram of an embodiment wireless communications network;
   [0013] FIG. 2 illustrates a diagram of a conventional OFDM waveform having a fixed sub
   carrier spacing;
   [0014] FIG. 3 illustrates a diagram of an OFDM waveform having a fixed symbol duration;
   [0015] FIG. 4 illustrates diagrams of embodiment multiple access block (MAB) types;
 5 [0016] FIG. 5 illustrates a diagram of an embodiment of flexible sub-carrier spacing and
   symbol duration allocation;
   [0017] FIG. 6 illustrates a diagram of an embodiment of flexible sub-carrier spacing and
   symbol duration allocation;
   [0018] FIG. 7 illustrates a flow diagram of an embodiment method for providing flexible
20 sub-carrier spacing and symbol duration according to different MAB types;
   [0019] FIG. 8 illustrates a flow diagram of an embodiment method for accessing variable
   sub-carrier spacing and symbol duration according to different MAB types; and
   [0020] FIG. 9 is a diagram of a processing system that can be used to implement various
   embodiments.
25 [0021] Corresponding numerals and symbols in the different figures generally refer to
   corresponding parts unless otherwise indicated. The figures are drawn to clearly illustrate the
   relevant aspects of the embodiments and are not necessarily drawn to scale.
                                                   -4-

   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF ILLUSTRATIVE EMBODIMENTS
   [0022] The making and using of the presently preferred embodiments are discussed in detail
   below.     It should be appreciated, however, that the present invention provides many
   applicable inventive concepts that can be embodied in a wide variety of specific contexts.
 5 The specific embodiments discussed are merely illustrative of specific ways to make and use
   the invention, and do not limit the scope of the invention.
   [0023] Conventional OFDM systems use a fixed frequency (sub-carrier) spacing and symbol
   duration for transmitting each OFDM symbol and associated cyclic prefix. The sub-carrier
   spacing is fixed for the entire spectrum of a component carrier or a number of component
 0 carriers, e.g., based on the highest degree of user equipment (UE) mobility to be supported. A
   sub-carrier spacing represents a spacing for each sub-carrier which is an individual detectable
   frequency band within a carrier (a frequency band for transmission). Each sub-carrier can be
   assigned to one or more clients for communications. Further, an OFDM symbol length is an
   individual detectable time duration for transporting information or data. The symbol length is
 5 the time it takes to transmit a symbol and its associated CP. The portion of the symbol length
   used for transmitting the symbol, and excluding the CP length, is referred to herein as the
   useful symbol length. The fixed sub-carrier spacing and fixed symbol duration in
   conventional OFDM schemes also serve to limit cyclic prefix options. A cyclic prefix is
   added to transmitted symbol (e.g., bits of information) and serves as a guard interval to
20 eliminate the inter-symbol interference. The length of the cyclic prefix is usually determined
   by the channel delay spread. Due to the fixed sub-carrier spacing and fixed OFDM symbol
   duration, conventional OFDM schemes may be unable to satisfy the spectrum efficiency and
   Quality of Service (QoS) requirements of next-generation networks, which will likely need to
   support much higher mobility, lower latency and overhead, more channel types, more
25 deployment environments, and more transmission schemes. Thus, new OFDM schemes
   capable of supporting more flexible air interfaces are desired.
   [0024]         Embodiments of this disclosure provide methods for supporting variable sub
   carrier spacing and symbol duration for transmitting OFDM symbols and associated cyclic
   prefixes. The symbol duration includes the useful OFDM symbol length and its associated
                                                   -5-

   cyclic prefix length. The variable sub-carrier spacing and symbol duration is determined via
   parameters indicating the sub-carrier spacing, useful symbol length, and cyclic prefix length.
   The parameters are referred to herein as frequency-time primitives. The embodiments also
   allow variable sub-carrier spacing and symbol duration granularities within the spectrum
 5 band of the same carrier. A carrier is a spectrum allocation available for communications in a
   system and includes a plurality of sub-carriers (which are typically frequency sub-bands)
   separated by defined spacing. In long term evolution (LTE) for example, a carrier
   corresponds to a spectrum of certain bandwidth, such as 5, 10 and 20 Gigahertz. In an
   embodiment of the disclosure, a basic multiple access block (MAB) is defined as a transport
 0 unit that occupies a specified bandwidth and lasts for specified duration, for the carrier of the
   system. The variable sub-carrier spacing and symbol duration allocation can include MAB
   regions with different sub-carrier spacing and/or symbol time duration, as described below.
   The variable frequency-time primitives can correspond to various MAB regions based on
   Filtered OFDM (F-OFDM) transmissions. As used herein, the term basic MAB, or MAB for
 5 short, represents the minimal sub-carrier spacing and symbol duration for resource allocation.
   Each MAB region comprises of a number of basic MABs, and different sub-carrier spacing
   and symbol duration (useful symbol length and cyclic length) can be supported in different
   MAB regions. Aspects provided herein include variable OFDM frequency-time primitives
   that are dynamically selected to meet performance and efficiency demands.
20 [0025]       FIG. 1 illustrates a network 100 for communicating data. The network 100
   comprises a base station or an access point (AP) 110 having a coverage area 101, a plurality
   of client mobile devices 120, and a backhaul network 130. The AP 110 may comprise any
   component capable of providing wireless access by establishing uplink (dashed line) and/or
   downlink (dotted line) connections with the mobile devices 120. Examples of the AP 110
25 include a base station, a NodeB, an enhanced NodeB (eNB), a picocell, a femtocell, a WiFi
   access point and other wirelessly enabled devices. The mobile devices 120 may comprise any
   component capable of establishing a wireless connection with the AP 110, such as a user
   equipment (UE) or other wirelessly enabled devices. The backhaul network 130 may be any
   component or collection of components that allow data to be exchanged between the AP 110
                                                  -6-

   and a remote end (not shown). In embodiments, the network 100 may comprise various other
   wireless devices, such as relays, low power nodes, and other user or client devices with
   wireless communications capability.
   [0026] FIG. 2 illustrates a diagram of a conventional OFDM waveform having a fixed sub
 5 carrier spacing, as may be common in conventional LTE and LTE advanced (LTE-A)
   networks. As shown, the orthogonality in the frequency domain is maintained by using a
   uniform sub-carrier spacing of 15 kilohertz (KHz) over all the frequency-time plane of the
   spectrum band of the carrier.
   [0027] FIG. 3 is a diagram illustrating a conventional OFDM waveform having a fixed
 0 symbol duration (a sum of useful symbol length and cyclic prefix length), as may be common
   in conventional LTE and LTE-A networks. As shown, the length of useful OFDM symbols is
   fixed based on the common sampling frequency and sub-carrier spacing. Thus, only a limited
   number of cyclic prefix configurations are supported. In one configuration, a normal cyclic
   prefix length is supported for a frame of 10 millisecond (ms) duration. The frame is divided
 5 into 10 transmission time intervals (TTIs), each having a 1 ms duration. The TTI is further
   divided into two slots, each of 0.5 ms. Each slot is divided into 7 OFDM symbols, which is
   the minimum non-divisible transmission unit. Each symbol has a length of 66.7 microsecond
   (ps) and is preceded by a normal cyclic prefix length of 5.2 or 4.7 ps. In another
   configuration, an extended cyclic prefix length is supported for the frame. In this
20 configuration, the cyclic prefix length is 16.7 pLs.
   [0028] The embodiment methods below support variable sub-carrier spacing and symbol
   duration granularities in the same carrier spectrum band. This may aid in mitigating problems
   associated with fixed sub-carrier spacing and fixed symbol duration. In one embodiment, a
   basic multiple access block (MAB) is defined as a transport unit that occupies a specified
25 bandwidth and lasts for specified time duration. Different MAB sizes can be defined. For
   example, a smaller MAB can be used for common channels (e.g., synchronization channel,
   common broadcast channel), while larger MAB can be used by individual channels (e.g., UE
   specific data channels). A number of MAB types can be defined. For instance, waveforms
   associated with different MAB types may have different sub-carrier spacing, different useful
                                                   -7-

   OFDM symbol length, and/or different cyclic prefix length. Examples of MAB types are
   described further below. In embodiments, the time and frequency plane of spectrum resources
   may be partitioned into different MAB regions, with each MAB region consisting of basic
   frequency-time slots having predefined sub-carrier spacing and symbol duration, also referred
 5 to herein as basic multiple access blocks, of same MAB type.
   [0029] In further embodiments,           filtered OFDM waveforms      can be used to control
   interference between adjacent multiple access blocks (frequency-time slots with different
   sub-carrier spacing and symbol duration). Due to having different sub-carrier spacing and
   symbol duration, orthogonality may no longer be maintained in the frequency-time plane. In
 0 this case, a suitable digital filter is applied to frequency bands occupied by a MAB region to
   control the out-of-band emission so that the interference between different MABs does not
   cause performance loss. Additionally, guard tones may be used (between the sub-carriers) to
   roll off the digital filter edges. In the same or other embodiments, filter bank multi-carrier
   (FBMC) waveforms may be used to maintain orthogonality between different multiple access
 5 blocks. FBMC waveforms are described in U.S. Non-Provisional Patent Application
   14/035,161, filed on September 9, 2013 and entitled "System and Method for Weighted
   Circularly Convolved Filtering in OFDM-OQAM,"                 and U.S. Non-Provisional Patent
   Application 14/184,078, filed on February 19, 2014 and entitled "Frame Structure for Filter
   Bank Multi-Carrier (FBMC) Waveforms," both of which are incorporated by reference herein
20 as if reproduced in their entireties.
   [0030] In an embodiment OFDM waveform configuration, four MAB types are defined,
   including a special MAB type, a MAB type-1, a MAB type-2, and a MAB type-3. As used
   herein, the term special MAB type refers to a MAB type that has, among the defined MAB
   types, a predetermined sub-carrier spacing and cyclic prefix applied to regional common
25 transmission channels, such as synchronization channel and broadcast channel, which require
   larger sub-carrier spacing and cyclic prefix. For instance, the special MAB type can have the
   largest sub-carrier spacing and longest cyclic prefix among the defined MAB types. In one
   embodiment, the special MAB type is broadcast by multiple transmitters in a certain region,
   for example in a region configured for radio access virtualization. The special MAB type has
                                                     -8-

   relatively high tolerance for synchronization error, and thus is suitable to support high
   mobility and low complexity devices, e.g., devices incapable of achieving high degrees of
   synchronization accuracy. The special MAB type may also be applied to control and data
   transmission of ultra-high mobility devices and devices receiving and/or sending coordinated
 5 multipoint (CoMP) transmissions. The MAB type-i has the smallest sub-carrier spacing and
   longest symbol duration (e.g., longest cyclic prefix length), and is suitable for low-mobility
   devices and for supporting large scale CoMP transmissions or broadcast service. The MAB
   type-2 has a medium sub-carrier spacing and medium cyclic prefix length, and is suitable for
   medium-mobility devices and for supporting small scale CoMP transmissions or non-CoMP
 0 transmission. The MAB type-3 has the largest sub-carrier spacing and shortest cyclic prefix
   length, and is suitable for the highest mobility devices, for non-CoMP transmission, and for
   communications requiring very low latency. In other embodiment, more or fewer MAB types
   can be defined and used. The MAB types may have varying sizes of sub-carrier spacing,
   useful symbol length, cyclic prefix length, or combinations thereof. For example, two
 5 different MAB types may have same sub-carrier spacing but different useful symbol length or
   cyclic prefix length or may have same symbol or cyclic prefix length but different sub-carrier
   spacing. The sizes of sub-carrier spacing, symbol or cyclic prefix length are defined for each
   MAB type to meet desired system criteria, conditions, or requirements (e.g., QoS).
   [0031] The flexible sub-carrier spacing and symbol duration allocation (e.g., corresponding
20 to various MAB types) may be defined by various OFDM parameters (or frequency-time
   primitives), such as sub-carrier spacing, useful symbol length, cyclic prefix length, or
   combinations thereof. In one embodiment, a plurality of available sub-carrier spacing
   parameters (e.g., Af, 2Af , and 4Af), a plurality of useful symbol length parameters (e.g., T,
   T/2, and T/4), and a plurality of cyclic prefix length parameters (e.g., CP, CP/2, CP/4,
25 CP/2+T/4). In this case, it is sufficient to define 3 basic parameter values (Af, T, and CP) to
   establish all the parameters. Other configurations may also be used in other embodiments.
   [0032] FIG. 4      illustrates embodiment     MAB     types  that may be     used in    OFDM
   communications, as described above. The MAB types includes the MAB type-i with sub
   carrier spacing Af and a symbol duration CP+T. For example, Af can be defined as 15KHz,
                                                   -9-

   CP can be defined as 4.7, 5.2, or 16.7 pts, and T can be defined as 66.7 pIs. Alternatively,
   other suitable values for Af, CP, and T can be defined. The MAB types also include the MAB
   type-2 with sub-carrier spacing 2Af and symbol duration CP/2+T/2, the MAB type-3 with
   sub-carrier spacing 4Af and symbol duration CP/4+T/4, and the special MAB type or region
 5 with sub-carrier spacing 4Af and symbol duration (CP/2+T/4)+T/4.
   [0033] FIG. 5 illustrates an embodiment of flexible sub-carrier spacing and symbol duration
   allocation that may be used in OFDM schemes provided herein. The flexible sub-carrier
   spacing and symbol duration allocation is established by defining MAB regions, where basic
   multiple access bocks are defined in each region according to a MAB type. The MAB types
 0 are predefined, as described above, with corresponding sub-carrier spacing and symbol
   duration.   In this embodiment, a first MAB region comprises basic multiple access blocks
   according to the MAB type-i (basic MAB). A second MAB region comprises basic multiple
   access blocks according to the MAB type-2 and further basic multiple access blocks
   according to the special MAB type. A third MAB region comprises basic multiple access
 5 blocks according to the MAB type-3. The sizes of the blocks within each region can be
   defined such as the regions are divisible to the basic slots without waste of time/frequency
   resources. The clients receive the corresponding MABs in the corresponding regions using F
   OFDM, which allows the detection of sub-carriers with variable spacing for different MAB
   types.
20 [0034] FIG. 6 illustrates another embodiment of flexible sub-carrier spacing and symbol
   duration allocation that may be used in OFDM schemes provided herein. In this embodiment,
   the frequency-time plane associated with the spectrum band of a carrier is divided into MAB
   regions with replication of at least one of the regions in different areas of the plane. For
   instance, a first MAB region (e.g., of MAB type-1) is defined in two areas of the plane, at the
25 top-left corner and the bottom-right comer of the frequency-time plane. A second MAB
   region (e.g., of MAB type-2) is further defined in two other areas of the plane, as shown. The
   plane also comprises a MAB type-3 region and a special MAB region. The clients can access
   the corresponding regions and blocks using F-OFDM. The flexible sub-carrier spacing and
   symbol    duration   allocation   embodiments     above  are  merely    examples,    and other
                                                 -10-

   configurations of MAB types, regions, and/or flexible sub-carrier spacing and symbol
   duration allocation configurations are possible using the embodiment schemes herein.
   [0035] In an embodiment, a signaling mechanism is used for supporting the flexible sub
   carrier spacing and symbol duration formats described above. The signaling mechanism
 5 allows UEs to access the network through a special MAB, e.g., as described above, with the
   locations of synchronization channel and broadcast channels being fixed and pre-defined.
   Network broadcasts may carry a MAB region configuration using the special MAB. MAB
   region assignments may be semi-statically configured via signaling and carried by the special
   MAB. Alternatively, MAB region assignments may be dynamically configured with
 0 signaling carried in a pre-defined MAB type, e.g., the MAB type-2 above. In embodiments, a
   mapping between one or more types of traffic/transmissions and one or more corresponding
   MAB regions is pre-defined. For example, certain applications (e.g., machine-to-machine
   (M2M)) may be mapped to one MAB type (e.g., MAB type -1), while certain access
   configurations (e.g., contention based or grant-free access) can be mapped to another MAB
 5 type (e.g., MAB type-2). Certain types of devices and/or network configurations can also be
   served by certain MAB types. For example, a high speed train may be served by a special
   MAB type.
   [0036] The schemes above provide flexible sub-carrier spacing and symbol duration
   allocation and MAB region based transmissions. Variable waveform parameters                 for
20 configuring the multiple access blocks and the MAB regions can also be dynamically
   selected to meet performance and efficiency demands. The regions can be partitioned to adapt
   to network characteristics, e.g., traffic load, traffic type, or others. The schemes provide
   efficient multiple access schemes to meet variable QoS requirements, support different
   transmission schemes, and support UEs with different levels of mobility and complexities.
25 The schemes also provide higher spectral efficiency, greater flexibility, and shorter latencies
   than is otherwise provided by static sub-carrier spacing and symbol duration allocation of
   conventional OFDM schemes.
   [0037] FIG. 7 illustrates an embodiment method 700 for providing flexible sub-carrier
   spacing and symbol duration allocation according to different MAB types. The method can
                                                 -11-

   be implemented by a network component, such as a base station. At step 710, a plurality of
   MAB types are defined having frequency-time slots with at least one of the MAB types
   having at least one of a different sub-carrier spacing, a different useful symbol length and a
   different cyclic prefix length. For example, the MAB types include the special MAB type and
 5 at least one of MAB type-1, MAB type-2, and MAB type 3 described above. At step 720, a
   plurality of MAB regions are defined in a frequency-time plane of the spectrum band of the
   carrier allocated for transmissions in a wireless network, wherein each one of the MAB
   regions comprises frequency-time slots or blocks of at least one of the MAB types. Examples
   of the MAB regions are shown in FIG. 5 and FIG. 6, as described above. At step 730,
 0 parameters of at least one of the MAB types are signaled to a network device (e.g., UE). The
   parameters indicate a sub-carrier spacing, a useful symbol length, and a cyclic prefix length
   of the at least one of the MAB types. The parameters include the sub-carrier spacing, the
   useful symbol length, and/or the cyclic prefix length of the one or more MAB types.
   [0038] FIG. 8 illustrates an embodiment method 800 for accessing variable flexible sub
 5 carrier spacing and symbol duration according to different MAB types. The method 800 can
   be implemented by a network device, which can be a transmitter or a receiver. Both the
   transmitter and the receiver need to transmit and receive the signal according to the waveform
   corresponding to the selected MAB type. The transmitter can be base station (BS), a radio
   access point or node, or a UE. Similarly, the receiver also be a BS or a UE. At step 810,
20 information is received in frequency-time slots of a MAB region predefined in a frequency
   time plane of carrier spectrum band allocated for transmissions in the wireless network. The
   MAB region is one of a plurality of MAB regions in the frequency-time plane having a
   plurality of predefined MAB types. The frequency-time multiple-access blocks have a sub
   carrier spacing, a useful symbol length, and a cyclic prefix length according to a predefined
25 MAB type associated with the MAB region or dynamically defined MAB types (e.g., via
   signaling of parameters). At step 820, the device detects OFDM or other waveform (e.g.,
   FBMC) symbols within the information by applying a frequency filter according to the sub
   carrier spacing. This is achieved by implementing a F-OFDM scheme in accordance with the
   sub-carrier spacing of the MAB type.
                                                  -12-

   [0039] FIG. 9 is a block diagram of a processing system 900 that can be used to implement
   various embodiments.      The processing system 900 can be part of a BS, a UE, or other
   network devices. Specific devices may utilize all of the components shown, or only a subset
   of the components, and levels of integration may vary from device to device. Furthermore, a
 5 device may contain multiple instances of a component, such as multiple processing units,
   processors, memories, transmitters, receivers, etc. The processing system 900 may comprise
   a processing unit 901 equipped with one or more input/output devices, such as a speaker,
   microphone, mouse, touchscreen, keypad, keyboard, printer, display, and the like.         The
   processing unit 901 may include a central processing unit (CPU) 910, a memory 920, a mass
 0 storage device 930, a video adapter 940, and an I/O interface 960 connected to a bus. The bus
   may be one or more of any type of several bus architectures including a memory bus or
   memory controller, a peripheral bus, a video bus, or the like.
   [0040] The CPU 910 may comprise any type of electronic data processor. The memory 920
   may comprise any type of system memory such as static random access memory (SRAM),
 5 dynamic random access memory (DRAM), synchronous DRAM (SDRAM), read-only
   memory (ROM), a combination thereof, or the like. In an embodiment, the memory 920 may
   include ROM for use at boot-up, and DRAM for program and data storage for use while
   executing programs. In embodiments, the memory 920 is non-transitory. The mass storage
   device 930 may comprise any type of storage device configured to store data, programs, and
20 other information and to make the data, programs, and other information accessible via the
   bus. The mass storage device 930 may comprise, for example, one or more of a solid state
   drive, hard disk drive, a magnetic disk drive, an optical disk drive, or the like.
   [0041] The video adapter 940 and the I/O interface 960 provide interfaces to couple external
   input and output devices to the processing unit. As illustrated, examples of input and output
25 devices include a display 990 coupled to the video adapter 940 and any combination of
   mouse/keyboard/printer 970 coupled to the 1/0 interface 960. Other devices may be coupled
   to the processing unit 901, and additional or fewer interface cards may be utilized.      For
   example, a serial interface card (not shown) may be used to provide a serial interface for a
   printer.
                                                  -13-

   [0042] The processing unit 901 also includes one or more network interfaces 950, which may
   comprise wired links, such as an Ethernet cable or the like, and/or wireless links to access
   nodes or one or more networks 980. The network interface 950 allows the processing unit
   901 to communicate with remote units via the networks 980.           For example, the network
 5 interface 950 may provide wireless communication via one or more transmitters/transmit
   antennas and one or more receivers/receive antennas. In an embodiment, the processing unit
   901 is coupled to a local-area network or a wide-area network for data processing and
   communications with remote devices, such as other processing units, the Internet, remote
   storage facilities, or the like.
 0 [0043] While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure, it should be
   understood that the disclosed systems and methods might be embodied in many other specific
   forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure.         The present
   examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive, and the intention is not to be
   limited to the details given herein. For example, the various elements or components may be
 5 combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted, or not
   implemented.
   [0044] In embodiments of the invention there is provided a method by a network component
   supporting wireless communications, the method comprising:
                selecting a multiple access block, MAB, region of a plurality of predetermined
20 MAB regions partitioning a frequency and time plane of a carrier spectrum band;
                transmitting a signal on frequency-time slots in the selected MAB region in
   accordance with a MAB type selected for the MAB region, wherein the MAB type is from a
   plurality of predetermined MAB types; and
                reducing a bandwidth of the transmitted signal using a spectrum filter selected in
25 accordance with a bandwidth of the MAB type.
   [0045] The method can further comprise:
              selecting a second MAB region of the plurality of predetermined MAB regions;
                                                 -14-

               transmitting a second signal on frequency-time slots in the second MAB region in
   accordance with a MAB type selected for the second MAB region, wherein the MAB type of
   the second MAB region is from the predetermined MAB types; and
               reducing a bandwidth of the transmitted second signal using a second spectrum
 5 filter in accordance with a bandwidth of the second MAB type.
   [0046] In another embodiment, the MAB type is a MAB type of frequency-time slots having
   a largest sub-carrier spacing and a longest cyclic prefix length among the MAB types, and
   wherein the method further comprises transmitting, on the frequency-time slots of the MAB
   type, information associated with at least one of a regional               common channel, a
 0 synchronization channel, a broadcast channel, a channel for ultra-high mobility devices, and a
   channel for coordinated multipoint, CoMP, transmissions.
   [0047] In a further embodiment, the MAB type is a first MAB type of frequency-time slots
   having a smallest sub-carrier spacing and a longest cyclic prefix length among the MAB
   types, and wherein the method further comprises transmitting, on the frequency-time slots of
 5 the first MAB type, information associated with at least one of a channel for low mobility
   devices, a channel supporting large scale coordinated multipoint, CoMP, transmissions and a
   channel providing broadcasting service from more than one transmitters. Optionally, in this
   embodiment, the MAB types include a second MAB type of frequency-time slots having a
   larger sub-carrier spacing and a larger cyclic prefix length than the first MAB type, and
20 wherein the method further comprises transmitting, on the frequency-time slots of the second
   MAB type, information associated with at least one of a channel for medium mobility devices
   and a channel supporting small scale coordinated multipoint, CoMP, transmissions. In a
   further embodiment, the MAB types include a third MAB type of frequency-time slots having
   a larger sub-carrier spacing and a smaller cyclic prefix length than the first MAB type and the
25 second MAB type, and wherein the method further comprises comprising transmitting, on the
   frequency-time slots of the third MAB type, information associated with at least one of a
   channel for highest mobility devices, a channel supporting non-coordinated multipoint,
   CoMP, transmissions, and a channel requiring low latency.
                                                  -15-

   [0048] In another embodiment of the invention, there is provided a method (800) by a
   network device supporting wireless communications, the method comprising:
                 receiving (810) a signal on frequency-time slots in a multiple access block, MAB,
   region of a plurality of MAB regions partitioning a frequency and time plane of a carrier
 5 spectrum band;
                 identifying, from a plurality of defined MAB types, a MAB type selected for the
   MAB region and defining a sub-carrier spacing and a symbol duration for the frequency-time
   slots of the MAB region;
                 establishing a spectrum filter with bandwidth in accordance with the MAB type;
 o and
                 detecting (820) the signal using the spectrum filter.
   [0049] In an embodiment, the method further comprises:
                 receiving a second signal on second frequency-time slots in a second MAB
   region of the MAB regions;
 5               identifying a second MAB type selected for the second MAB region and defining
   at least one of a second sub-carrier spacing and a second symbol duration for the second
   frequency-time slots;
                 establishing a second spectrum filter with a sub-carrier spacing in accordance
   with the second MAB type; and
20               detecting the second signal using the second spectrum filter.
   [0050] In another embodiment, the method further comprises receiving a signaling of
   parameters indicating at least one of the MAB types and the MAB regions, wherein the
   parameters indicate a sub-carrier spacing, a useful symbol length, and a cyclic prefix length
   of the at least one of the MAB types.
25 [0051] In another embodiment, the method further comprises receiving a mapping of at least
   one of a MAB region of the MAB regions to at least one of a MAB type selected for the
   MAB region.
   [0052] In a further embodiment, the MAB types include a special MAB type of frequency
   time slots having a largest sub-carrier spacing and a longest cyclic prefix length among the
                                                   -16-

   MAB types, and wherein the method further comprises receiving, on the frequency-time slots
   of the special MAB type, information associated with at least one of a regional common
   channel, a synchronization channel, a broadcast channel, a channel for ultra-high mobility
   devices, and a channel for coordinated multipoint, CoMP, transmissions.
 5 [0053] In another embodiment of the invention there is, a network device supporting wireless
   communications, the network device comprising:
              at least one processor;
              a non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing programming for
   execution by the at least one processor, the programming including instructions to:
 0            obtain a signal on frequency-time slots in a multiple access block, MAB, region of
   a plurality of MAB regions partitioning a frequency and time plane of a carrier spectrum
   band;
              identify, from a plurality of defined MAB types, a MAB type selected for the MAB
   region and defining a sub-carrier spacing and a symbol duration for the frequency-time slots
 5 of the MAB region;
              establish a spectrum filter with a bandwidth in accordance with the MAB type; and
              detect the signal using the spectrum filter.
   [0054] In a further embodiment, the programming includes further instructions to obtain a
   signaling of parameters indicating at least one of the MAB types and the MAB regions,
20 wherein the parameters indicate a sub-carrier spacing, a useful symbol length, and a cyclic
   prefix length of the at least one of the MAB types.
   [0055] In another embodiment, the network device is a user equipment, UE, capable of
   communications with a wireless network.
   [0056] In a further embodiment, the network device is a base station or a radio access point
25 of a wireless network.
   [0057] In another embodiment of the invention, there may be a network component
   supporting wireless communications, the network component comprising:
                at least one processor; and
                                                   -17-

                 a non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing programming for
   execution by the at least one processor, the programming including instructions to:
                 select a multiple access block, MAB, region of a plurality of predetermined MAB
   regions partitioning a frequency and time plane of a carrier spectrum band;
 5               transmit a signal on frequency-time slots in the MAB region in accordance with a
   MAB type selected for the MAB region, wherein the MAB type is from a plurality of
   predetermined MAB types; and
                 reduce a bandwidth of the transmitted signal using a spectrum filter in accordance
   with a bandwidth of the MAB type.
 0 [0058] In an embodiment, the programming includes further instructions to: select a second
   MAB region of the MAB regions;
                transmit a second signal on second frequency-time slots in the second MAB
   region in accordance with a second MAB type selected for the second MAB region, wherein
   the second MAB type is from the predetermined MAB types; and
 5              reduce a bandwidth of the transmitted second signal using a second spectrum
   filter in accordance with a bandwidth of the second MAB type.
   [0059] In another embodiment, the network component is a base station or a radio access
   point of a wireless network.
   [0060] In a further embodiment, the network component is a user equipment, UE, capable of
20 communications with a wireless network.
   [0061] In one embodiment, a method by a network controller supporting wireless
   communications, the method comprising:
                 establishing a plurality of multiple access block (MAB) types defining different
   combinations of sub-carrier spacing and symbol duration for waveform transmissions;
25              partitioning a frequency and time plane of a carrier spectrum band into a plurality
   of MAB regions comprising frequency-time slots for the waveform transmissions; and
                 selecting, for the MAB regions, at least two different MAB types from the
   established plurality of MAB types.
                                                   -18-

   [0062] In another embodiment, further comprising arranging, at a transmitter of the network
   controller, the frequency-time slots in the MAB regions in accordance with the sub-carrier
   spacing and the symbol duration of the at least two different MAB types selected for the
   MAB regions.
 5 [0063] In another embodiment wherein the MAB types are selected for the MAB regions
   according to at least one of a channel type, a transmission mode, a propagation channel
   condition and a quality of service (QoS) requirement associated with the MAB regions.
   [0064] In another embodiment, further comprising signaling, to one or more network devices,
   parameters indicating a sub-carrier spacing, a useful symbol length, and a cyclic prefix length
 0 of at least one of the MAB types.
   [0065] In another embodiment, further comprising signaling, to one or more network devices,
   a mapping one of the MAB regions to at least one of a MAB type selected for the MAB
   region, a corresponding type of traffic or transmission channel, and a corresponding
   communications channel.
 5 [0066] In another embodiment, wherein the MAB types include a MAB type of frequency
   time slots having a largest sub-carrier spacing and a longest cyclic prefix length among the
   MAB types.
   [0067] In another embodiment, wherein the MAB types include a first MAB type of
   frequency-time slots having a smallest sub-carrier spacing and a longest cyclic prefix length
20 among the MAB types.
   [0068] In another embodiment, wherein the MAB types include a second MAB type of
   frequency-time slots having a larger sub-carrier spacing and a larger cyclic prefix length than
   the first MAB type.
   [0069] In another embodiment, wherein the MAB types include a third MAB type of
25 frequency-time slots having a larger sub-carrier spacing and a smaller cyclic prefix length
   than the first MAB type and the second MAB type.
   [0070] In another embodiment, wherein the waveform transmissions is one of OFDM
   transmissions, Filtered OFDM (F-OFDM) transmissions, and Filter Bank Multi-Carrier
   (FBMC) transmissions.
                                                 -19-

   [0071] In another embodiment, a network controller supporting wireless communications, the
   network controller comprising:
               at least one processor; and
               a non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing programming for
 5         execution by the at least one processor, the programming including instructions to:
                establish a plurality of multiple access block (MAB) types defining different
   combinations of sub-carrier spacing and symbol duration for waveform transmissions;
                partition a frequency and time plane of a carrier spectrum band into a plurality of
   MAB regions comprising frequency-time slots for the waveform transmissions; and
 0              select, for the MAB regions, at least two different MAB types from the
   established plurality of MAB types.
   [0072] In another embodiment, wherein the instructions to arrange, at a transmitter of the
   network controller, the frequency-time slots in the MAB regions in accordance with the sub
   carrier spacing and the symbol duration of the at least two different MAB types selected for
 5 the MAB regions.
   [0073] In another embodiment, wherein the programming includes further instructions to
   signal, to one or more network devices, parameters indicating a sub-carrier spacing, a useful
   symbol length, and a cyclic prefix length of at least one of the MAB types.
   [0074] In addition, techniques, systems, subsystems, and methods described and illustrated in
20 the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other
   systems, modules, techniques, or methods without departing from the scope of the present
   disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as coupled or directly coupled or communicating
   with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface, device,
   or intermediate component whether electrically, mechanically, or otherwise. Other examples
25 of changes, substitutions, and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could
   be made without departing from the scope disclosed herein.
                                                  -20-

   WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
          1     A method comprising:
                communicating, by an access point (AP), a first signal to a first user equipment
 5 (UE) in a first frequency partition of a carrier, according to a first sub-carrier spacing
   parameter and a first symbol duration parameter; and
                communicating, by the AP, a second signal to a second UE in a second frequency
   partition of the carrier, according to a second sub-carrier spacing parameter and a second
   symbol duration parameter, wherein the second sub-carrier spacing is a 2*Af or a 4*Af
 0 multiple of the first sub-carrier spacing denoted as Af, the first sub-carrier spacing and the
   first symbol duration being associated with the first frequency partition, the second sub
   carrier spacing and the second symbol duration being associated with the second frequency
   partition, and the first frequency partition being different than the second frequency partition.
 5        2.    The method of claim 1, wherein the first symbol duration or the second symbol
   duration comprises at least one of a useful symbol length and a cyclic prefix (CP) length.
          3.    The method of claim 1, wherein the second symbol duration is a two or four
   multiple of the first symbol duration.
20
          4.    The method of claim 1, further comprising:
                communicating, by the AP, the first signal or the second signal with one of an
   OFDM waveform, a filtered OFDM waveform, or a filter bank multi-carrier (FBMC)
   waveform.
25
          5.    The method of claim 1, wherein a filter is applied in accordance with the first
   frequency partition and the second frequency partition to communicate the first signal and the
   second signal, respectively.
                                                   -21-

           6.    An apparatus, comprising:
                    at least one processor configured to:
                    communicate a first signal to a first user equipment (UE) in a first frequency
   partition of a carrier, according to a first sub-carrier spacing parameter and a first symbol
 5 duration parameter and
                    communicate a second signal to a second UE in a second frequency partition
   of the carrier, according to a second sub-carrier spacing parameter and a second symbol
   duration parameter, wherein the second sub-carrier spacing is a 2*Af or a 4*Af multiple of
   the first sub-carrier spacing denoted as Af, the first sub-carrier spacing and the first symbol
 0 duration being associated with the first frequency partition, the second sub-carrier spacing
   and the second symbol duration being associated with the second frequency partition, and the
   first frequency partition being different than the second frequency partition, and
                 a memory coupled to the at least one processor.
 5         7.    The AP of claim 6, wherein the first symbol duration or the second symbol
   duration comprises at least one of a useful symbol length and a cyclic prefix (CP) length.
           8.    The AP of claim 6, wherein the second symbol duration is a two or four multiple
   of the first symbol duration.
20
           9.    The AP of claim 6, wherein the programming further includes instructions to
   communicate the first signal or the second signal with one of an OFDM waveform, a filtered
   OFDM waveform, or a filter bank multi-carrier (FBMC) waveform.
25         10.   The AP of claim 6, wherein a filter is applied in accordance with the first
   frequency partition and the second frequency partition to communicate the first signal and the
   second signal, respectively.
           11.   A method comprising:
                                                   -22-

                communicating, by a user equipment (UE), a first signal in a first frequency
   partition of a carrier, according to a first sub-carrier spacing parameter and a first symbol
   duration parameter;
                wherein the first sub-carrier spacing and symbol duration parameters are from a
 5 plurality of parameters, the plurality of waveform parameters further including a second sub
   carrier spacing parameter and a second symbol duration, wherein the second sub-carrier
   spacing is a 2*Af or a 4*Af multiple of the first sub-carrier spacing denoted as Af, the first
   sub-carrier spacing and the first symbol duration being associated with the first frequency
   partition, the second sub-carrier spacing and the second symbol duration being associated
 0 with the second frequency partition, and the first frequency partition being different than the
   second frequency partition.
          12.   The method of claim 11, wherein the first symbol duration or the second symbol
   duration comprises at least one of a useful symbol length and a cyclic prefix (CP) length.
 5
          13.   The method of claim 11, wherein the second symbol duration is a two or four
   multiple of the first symbol duration.
          14.   The method of claim 11, further comprising:
20              communicating, by the UE, the first signal according to one of an OFDM
   waveform, a filtered OFDM waveform, or a filter bank multi-carrier (FBMC) waveform.
          15.   The method of claim 11, wherein a second signal is communicated by a second
   UE according to the second waveform parameter in the second frequency partition of the
25 carrier.
          16.   An apparatus comprising:
                   at least one processor configured to:
                                                  -23-

                    communicate a first signal in a first frequency partition of a carrier, according
   to a first sub-carrier spacing parameter and a first symbol duration parameter;
                    wherein the first sub-carrier spacing and symbol duration parameters are from
   a plurality of parameters,
 5                  the plurality of waveform parameters further including a second sub-carrier
   spacing parameter and a second symbol duration,
                    wherein the second sub-carrier spacing is a 2*Af or a 4*Af multiple of the first
   sub-carrier spacing denoted as Af, the first sub-carrier spacing and the first symbol duration
   being associated with the first frequency partition, the second sub-carrier spacing and the
 0 second symbol duration being associated with the second frequency partition, and the first
   frequency partition being different than the second frequency partition, and
                 a memory coupled to the at least one processor.
           17.   The UE of claim 16, wherein the first symbol duration or the second symbol
 5 duration comprises at least one of a useful symbol length and a cyclic prefix (CP) length.
           18.   The UE of claim 16, wherein the second symbol duration is a two or four multiple
   of the first symbol duration.
20         19.   The UE of claim 16, wherein the programming further includes instructions to
   communicate the first signal according to one of an OFDM waveform, a filtered OFDM
   waveform, or a filter bank multi-carrier (FBMC) waveform.
          20.    The UE of claim 16, wherein a second signal is communicated by a second UE
25 according to the second waveform parameter in the second frequency partition of the carrier.
          21.    A   non-transitory   computer-readable     medium    storing   computer     readable
   instructions that when executed cause one or more processors of a processing system to
   execute a method comprising:
                                                   -24-

                communicating a first signal to a first user equipment (UE) in a first frequency
   partition of a carrier, according to a first sub-carrier spacing parameter and a first symbol
   duration parameter; and
                communicating a second signal to a second UE in a second frequency partition of
 5 the carrier, according to a second sub-carrier spacing parameter and a second symbol duration
   parameter, wherein the second sub-carrier spacing is a 2*Af or a 4*Af multiple of the first
   sub-carrier spacing denoted as Af, the first sub-carrier spacing and the first symbol duration
   being associated with the first frequency partition, the second sub-carrier spacing and the
   second symbol duration being associated with the second frequency partition, and the first
 0 frequency partition being different than the second frequency partition.
          22.   The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 21, wherein the first
   symbol duration or the second symbol duration comprises at least one of a useful symbol
   length and a cyclic prefix (CP) length.
 5
          23.   The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 21, wherein the second
   symbol duration is a two or four multiple of the first symbol duration.
          24.   The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 21, method further
20 comprising:
                communicating the first signal or the second signal with one of an OFDM
   waveform, a filtered OFDM waveform, or a filter bank multi-carrier (FBMC) waveform.
                                                  -25-

<removed-date>
                                          1/9
              100
                                          110
<removed-apn>
                            120                          Backhaul Network
                                                                       130
                     101
                                    120
                    Uplink Connection
                    Downlink Connection         FIG. 1

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                              2/9
Fig. 2

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                              3/9
Fig. 3

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                              4/9
Fig. 4

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                              5/9
Fig. 5

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                              6/9
Fig. 6

<removed-date>
                                                       7/9
                                                                                 700
                                                                              710
<removed-apn>
                Define a plurality of multiple access blocks (MAB) types of frequency-time slots
               having at least one of different sub-carrier spacing and different cyclic prefix length
                                                                           720
               Define a plurality of MAB regions in a frequency-time plane of a carrier spectrum
              band allocated for transmissions in a wireless network, wherein each one of the MAB
                        regions comprises frequency-time slots of one of the MAB types
                                                                                 730
               Signal, to a network device, parameters of at least one of the MAB types, wherein the
              parameters indicate a sub-carrier spacing, a symbol duration, and a cyclic prefix length
                                       of the at least one of the MAB types
                                                      FIG. 7
                                                  FIG. 7

<removed-date>
                                                                              800
                                                      8/9
                                                                          810
<removed-apn>
              Receive information in frequency-time slots of a multiple access block (MAB) region
                   predefined in a frequency-time plane of a carrier spectrum band allocated for
               transmissions in the wireless network, wherein the MAB region is one of a plurality
                of MAB regions in the frequency-time grid having a plurality of predefined MAB
                 types, and wherein the frequency-time slots have a sub-carrier spacing, a symbol
               duration, and a cyclic prefix length according to a predefined MAB type associated
                                               with the MAB region
                                                                        820
              Detect OFDM (or other suitable waveform) symbols in the information by applying a
                            frequency filter according to the sub-carrier spacing
                                                   FIG. 8
                                                 FIG. 8

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
