ROTARY ELECTRIC-MACHINE ROTOR
ABSTRACT
      A rotary electric-machine rotor (10) includes: a rotor core (12) made of magnetic material,
the rotor core (12) having magnet holes (14); magnets (16) disposed in the magnet holes (14);
resin portions (18a, 18b) disposed in at least part of gaps between the magnet holes (14) and the
magnets (16), the resin portions (18a, 18b) extending in the axial direction; and end plates (30)
disposed adjacent to end surfaces in an axial direction of the rotor core (12).   The end plates
(30) are members made of magnetic material.         The end plates (30) cover end surfaces of the
magnets (16) in the axial direction and end surfaces of the resin portions (18a, 18b) in the axial
direction, and each of the end plates (30) having at least one hole disposed in a position that
faces at least one part of the end surfaces of the magnets (16).

               1/5
       CC
U-
          CCt)
   T-)                 C'
          CNN
                   COY

                                                   1
ROTARY ELECTRIC-MACHINE ROTOR
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
1. Field of the Invention
      [0001]      The present invention relates to a rotary electric-machine rotor including a rotor
core, magnets inserted in magnet holes of the rotor core, and end plates.
2. Description of Related Art
      [0002]      Conventionally, in rotary electric-machine rotors included in rotary electric
machines, there has been known a configuration that magnets are inserted in magnet holes of
rotor cores so as to fix the magnets to the rotor cores.
      [0003]      Japanese Patent Application Publication No. 2013-55775 (JP 2013-55775 A)
discloses a configuration that multiple electromagnetic steel plates are stacked so as to form a
rotor core, and magnets that are permanent magnets are inserted in holes (magnet holes) in the
axial direction formed at multiple positions of the rotor core.       In the above configuration, end
plates are disposed at both axial ends of the rotor core.         The end plates have a function to
prevent the magnets from coming out in the axial direction from the rotor core.       The end plates
are formed by non-magnetic material, such as aluminum and an aluminum alloy.                       JP
2013-55775 A describes that the end plates are formed by non-magnetic material, to thereby
effectively suppress magnetic-flux leakage at the axial end portions of the magnets.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
      [0004]      As the configuration described in JP 2013-55775 A, when non-magnetic
material is used for the end plates, increase in cost is likely to be caused, compared with the case
in which the end plates are formed by magnetic mineral.            On the other hand, when the end
plates are formed simply by magnetic material, magnetic-flux leakage, as a phenomenon that

                                                  2
magnetic-flux coming from the magnets does not flow toward the stator, but toward the end
plates, is likely to occur.   This magnetic-flux leakage might cause magnetic-flux short-circuit
that magnetic-flux coming out from the magnets is short-circuited through the end plates.
Occurrence of the magnetic-flux leakage and the magnetic-flux short-circuit is not preferable
because the magnetic-flux contributing to torque of the rotary electric machine is reduced, and
increase in loss of the torque might be caused.    If the magnets are fixed in the holes of the rotor
core by resin portions, it is necessary to suppress coming out of the magnets and coming out of
the resin due to cracking of the resin portions by the end plates.
      [0005]      A rotary electric-machine rotor of the present invention, in a configuration that
magnets are inserted in magnet holes of a rotor core, eliminates necessity to use non-magnetic
material for end plates, while coping with both suppression of magnetic-flux leakage of the
magnets and suppression of coming out of the magnets and resin.
      [0006]      As one aspect of the present invention is a rotary electric-machine rotor. The
rotary electric-machine rotor includes: a rotor core made of magnetic material, the rotor core
having magnet holes extending in an axial direction of the rotary electric-machine rotor;
magnets disposed in the magnet holes; resin portions disposed in at least part of gaps between
the magnet holes and the magnets, the resin portions extending in the axial direction; and end
plates disposed adjacent to end surfaces in an axial direction of the rotor core.    The end plates
are members made of magnetic material.        The end plates cover end surfaces of the magnets in
the axial direction and end surfaces of the resin portions in the axial direction, and each of the
end plates having at least one holes disposed in a position that faces at least one part of the end
surfaces of the magnets.
      [0007]      According to the above configuration, the hole is formed in each end plate
made of magnetic material, to thereby suppress magnetic-flux leakage of the magnets.               In
addition, the end plates cover the axial end surfaces of the magnets and the axial end surfaces of
the resin portions.    Through this, it becomes unnecessary to use non-magnetic material for the
end plates, and it is possible to cope with both suppression of the magnetic-flux leakages of the

                                                   3
magnets and suppression of coming out of the magnets and the resin.
       [0008]     In the rotary electric-machine rotor of the present invention, each of the end
plates and the rotor core may be made of the same kind of magnetic material, and have the same
thickness.
       [0009]     According to the above configuration, both the end plates and the first steel
plates of the rotor core can be formed by punching a steel sheet material of the same material
and having the same thickness.        Through this, by reducing material cost and the number of
process, it is possible to promote reduction of manufacturing cost of the rotary electric-machine
rotor.
       [0010]     In the rotary electric-machine rotor of the present invention, at least one of the
holes may be a plurality of holes, each of the end plates may have the plurality of holes disposed
in an end surface of each of the end plates facing the end surface of the magnets.
       [0011]     According to the above configuration, it is possible to increase a proportion of
the holes per unit area of the end plates, and reduce the size of each hole, to thereby increase a
total number of the holes.        Accordingly, it is possible to cope with both suppression of
magnetic-flux leakage and suppression of coming out of the magnets at a higher degree.
       [0012]     In the rotary electric-machine rotor of the present invention, each end plate may
have a plurality of second holes disposed in the end surface of each of the end plates facing an
end surface of the resin portions in the axial direction.
       [0013]     According to the above configuration, it is possible to increase a proportion of
the second holes per unit area of the end plates, and reduce the size of each second hole, to
thereby increase a total number of the second holes.       Accordingly, it is possible to cope with
both suppression of leakage magnetic-flux flowing through the portions of each end plate facing
the resin portions and suppression of coming out of the resin due to cracking of the resin
portions.

                                                  4
      [0014]     In the rotary electric-machine rotor of the present invention, a maximum inner
length of each of the plurality of second holes may be smaller than a maximum inner length of
each of the plurality of holes.
      [0015]     According to the above configuration, it is possible to suppress coming out of
the resin due to cracking of the resin portions, suppress the number of hole-punches for the
leakage magnetic-flux suppressing holes, and also suppress magnetic-flux leakage.
      [0016]     In the rotary electric-machine rotor of the present invention, a distance between
the holes adjacent to each other may be greater than a distance between the second holes
adjacent to each other.
      [0017]     According to the above configuration, it is possible to increase strength in the
portions of each end plate that face the magnets, the portions being likely to be pushed by the
magnets, and also to enhance effect to suppress magnetic-flux leakage in the portions that face
the resin portions, the portions being not required to have a high strength.
       [0018]    In the rotary electric-machine rotor of the present invention, the plurality of
holes may be a plurality of pin-holes, each of the plurality of pin-holes may have a round shape,
each the end plates may have a plurality of pin-hole sets provided in a rectangular region facing
the end surfaces of the magnets, each of the pin-hole sets may include the plurality of the
pin-holes arranged on a straight line in a longitudinal direction of the rectangular region, and
positions of the pin holes in any one of the pin-hole sets may be offset in the longitudinal
direction from positions of the pin-holes in an adjacent one of the pin-hole sets.
      [0019]     According to the above configuration, it is possible to easily reduce the size of
each pin-hole, and reduce the distance between the two adjacent pin-hole sets.        Hence, when
the pin-holes are formed by punching, the magnetic characteristic between the pin-holes can
easily be deteriorated.    In addition, in each end plate, the paths of the magnetic-flux leakage
passing through between the multiple pin-holes are formed in a non-straight linear state, to
thereby increase the path lengths.      Accordingly, it is possible to suppress occurrence of the

                                                   5
magnetic-flux short-circuit via the end plates, and thus it is possible to suppress decrease of
torque and increase in loss of the torque of the rotary electric machine.
        [0020]   In the rotary electric-machine rotor of the present invention, two magnet holes
adjacent to each other a circumferential direction may be arranged in a V-shape such that a
distance between the two magnet holes in the circumferential direction increases outward in a
radial direction, the rotor core may include an intermediate bridge between end portions in a
circumferential direction of the two magnet holes corresponding to each set of magnets, and two
outer circumferential bridges between respective radially outer end portions of the two magnet
holes corresponding to each set of magnets, and an outer circumferential surface of the rotor
core, and each end plate may have third holes disposed in portions of each end plate that face at
least one bridge of the intermediate bridge and the two outer circumferential bridges.
       [0021]    According to the above configuration, in the configuration of forming a single
magnetic pole by the two magnets arranged in a V-shape, it is possible to efficiently suppress
magnetic-flux short-circuit, in combination with the end plates provided with the two magnet
holes.
       [0022]    In the rotary electric-machine rotor of the present invention, each end plates
may have the third holes disposed in respective portions that face the intermediate bridge and
the two outer circumferential bridges.
       [0023]    According to the above configuration, it is possible to further suppress
magnetic-flux short-circuit.
       [0024]    In the rotary electric-machine rotor of the present invention, the plurality of
holes may be a plurality of slits, each of the plurality of slits has a long thin shape, each of the
end plates may have a plurality of slit sets provided in the end surface of the each of the end
plates facing the end surfaces of the magnets, each of the slit sets may include a plurality of the
slits arranged on a straight line in a longitudinal direction of the slits, and positions of the slits in
any one of the slit sets may be offset in the longitudinal direction from positions of the slits in an

                                                 6
adjacent one of the slit sets.
      [0025]      According to the above configuration, when leakage magnetic-flux passes
between the multiple slits, the path length of this magnetic-flux becomes longer, so that it is
possible to more efficiently suppress the magnetic-flux short-circuit.
      [0026]      According to the rotary electric-machine rotor of the present invention, in the
configuration that the magnets are inserted in the magnet holes of the rotor core, it is possible to
eliminate necessity to use non-magnetic material for the end plates, while coping with both
suppression of magnetic-flux leakage of the magnets and suppression of coming out of the
magnets and the resin.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
      [0027]      Features, advantages, and technical and industrial significance of exemplary
embodiments of the invention will be described below with reference to the accompanying
drawings, in which like numerals denote like elements, and wherein:
      FIG. 1 is a half sectional view of a rotary electric machine including a rotary
electric-machine rotor of an embodiment according to the present invention, and an enlarged
view of a part A thereof;
      FIG. 2 is a view showing part of a rotor core and some of multiple magnets as viewed from
one side of an axial direction, while an end plate is removed from the rotary electric-machine
rotor of FIG. 1;
      FIG. 3 is a view showing part of the end plate included in the rotary electric-machine rotor
of FIG. 1, as viewed from one side of the axial direction;
      FIG. 4 is an enlarged view of a part B of FIG. 3;
      FIG. 5 is a perspective view showing part of the rotary electric-machine rotor of the

                                                   7
embodiment according to the present invention, as viewed from one side of the axial direction;
      FIG. 6 is a drawing showing a B-H characteristic of a conventional electromagnetic steel
plate, and a B-H characteristic of an electromagnetic steel plate in an inter-hole magnetic-flux
path when a pin-hole distance is restricted to a predetermined range in the embodiment;
      FIG. 7 is a view corresponding to FIG. 5, in another example of the embodiment according
to the present invention;
      FIG. 8 is a view corresponding to FIG. 5, in another example of the embodiment according
to the present invention;
      FIG. 9 is a view showing part of the rotary electric-machine rotor as viewed from one side
of the axial direction, in another example of the embodiment according to the present invention;
      FIG. 10 is a view corresponding to FIG. 5, and an enlarged view of a part C, in another
example of the embodiment according to the present invention; and
      FIG. 11 is a view corresponding to FIG. 5, in another example of the embodiment
according to the present invention.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
      [0028]      Hereinafter, an embodiment of the present invention will be described with
reference to drawings.      Shapes, materials, and numbers described below are illustrative for the
description, and they can be changed as appropriate depending on the specifications of a rotary
electric-machine rotor.     Equivalent elements will be denoted by the same reference numerals in
all the following drawings.     Furthermore, in the description in the text, it is assumed to use
reference numerals mentioned earlier as needed.
      [0029]      A right drawing in FIG. 1 is a half sectional view of a rotary electric machine
100 including a rotary electric-machine rotor 10 of the embodiment, and a left drawing in FIG. 1

                                                    8
is an enlarged view of a part A of the right drawing of FIG. 1. FIG. 2 is a view of part of a
rotor core 12 and some of multiple magnets 16 as viewed from one side in the axial direction,
while an end plate 30 is removed from the rotary electric-machine rotor 10.            Hereinafter, the
rotary electric-machine rotor 10 might be referred to as a rotor 10.
       [0030]     The rotor 10 is used for forming the rotary electric machine 100.         The rotary
electric machine 100 will be described with reference to FIG. 1. The rotary electric machine
100 is a permanent-magnet synchronous motor driven by three-phase alternating current.              For
example, the rotary electric machine 100 is used as a motor for driving a hybrid vehicle, as an
electric power generator, or as a motor generator having the both functions.
       [0031]     The rotary electric machine 100 includes a stator 110, the rotor 10 disposed
radially inward of the stator 110, and a rotary shaft 115.     The stator 110 includes a substantially
cylindrical stator core 111, and a stator coil 114 wound around multiple teeth 112 projecting
from an inner circumferential surface of the stator core 111.      The stator 110 is fixed to an inner
side of a case (not illustrated).
       [0032]     The rotor 10 is a cylindrical member, and the rotor 10 in use is fixed while the
rotary shaft 115 is inserted in the inside of the rotor 10.     The rotor 10 in use is disposed inside
the case.    Inside the case, the rotor 10 is disposed radially inward of the stator 110 so as to face
the stator 110.    In this state, both end portions of the rotary shaft 115 are rotatably supported to
the case through bearings (not illustrated).      A gap in the radial direction is formed between an
outer circumferential surface of the rotor 10 and an inner circumferential surface of the stator
110.     With this configuration, the rotary electric machine is formed.             In the following
description, a "radial direction" denotes a direction of radiation from rotor 10, that is a radial
direction of the rotor 10, and a "circumferential direction" denotes a direction along a circular
shape defined around a central axis of the rotor 10.        An "axial direction" denotes a direction
along the central axis of the rotor 10.
       [0033]     The rotor 10 includes a rotor core 12, magnets 16 that are permanent magnets
embedded at multiple positions in the circumferential direction of the rotor core 12, and two end

                                                   9
plates 30.   Specifically, the rotor core 12 is formed by stacking multiple first steel plates 13
made of magnetic material and having a circular plate-like shape in the axial direction.            An
axial hole 12a is formed at a center portion of the rotor core 12, and multiple magnet holes 14
are formed around the axial hole 12a.      The rotary shaft 115 is fixed to the inner side of the axial
hole 12a.    The multiple magnet holes 14 are so formed as to extend in the axial direction at
multiple positions located in the circumferential direction of the rotor core 12.     A magnet 16 is
inserted in each magnet hole 14 and is then fixed thereto.      The two end plates 30 are placed at
both sides of the rotor core 12 in such a manner that each end plate 30 faces the magnets 16 and
resin portions 18a, 18b (FIG. 2) used for fixing the magnets 16.         This configuration prevents
the magnets 16 and the resin portions 18a, 18b from coming out in the axial direction.        Portions
of each end plate 30 that face the magnets 16 are formed with first pin-holes 32 (FIG. 3)
described later.   This configuration eliminates necessity of using non-magnetic material for the
end plates 30, and also can cope with both suppression of magnetic flux leakage of the magnets
16 and suppression of coming out of the magnets 16 and the resin.         This will be described later
in detail.
      [0034]      Each of the first steel plates 13 included in the rotor core 12 has a disk shape,
and is made of a silicon electromagnetic steel plate, for example.        Each first steel plate 13 is
formed by punching a thin steel sheet material having a thickness of 0.5 mm or less, for example,
into an annular shape.    Through this punching, each first steel plate 13 is formed with a shaft
hole element 13a at a center portion thereof and multiple magnet hole elements 13b around this
shaft hole element 13a.
      [0035]      The shaft hole elements 13a of the multiple first steel plates 13 are connected in
the axial direction so as to form the axial hole 12a of the rotor core 12.       The multiple magnet
hole elements 13b of the multiple first steel plates 13 are connected in the axial direction so as to
form the multiple magnet holes 14 extending in the axial direction in the rotor core 12.
      [0036]      As shown in FIG. 2, the multiple magnet holes 14 of the rotor core 12 are
arranged such that each set includes two magnet holes 14, and the two magnet holes 14 of each

                                                 10
set are combined into a V-shape opening toward the radially outward direction (upward
direction in FIG. 2).   The magnet 16 is inserted in each magnet hole 14.        Each magnet 16 has
a rectangular shape as viewed from one side of the axial direction, and is formed into a
rectangular parallelepiped shape long in the axial direction.   A rectangular parallelepiped space
located in a circumferential middle portion of each magnet hole 14 and extending long in the
axial direction is a magnet-insertion portion into which each magnet is inserted.             In each
magnet hole 14, the resin portions 18a, 18b spreading in the axial direction are disposed in at
least part of gaps between the magnet hole 14 and the magnet 16.           Specifically, immediately
after the magnet 16 is inserted into the magnet-insertion portion of each magnet hole 14, gaps
are formed at both ends of the magnet hole 14.       These gaps are filled with resin as a magnet
fixing material in a melted state, and the resin comes hardened, to thereby provide the resin
portions 18a, 18b spreading in the axial direction.     The magnets 16 are fixed relative to the
rotor core 12 with these resin portions 18a, 18b.    These resin portions 18a, 18b are hatched by
dots in FIG. 2.
      [0037]     The magnetizing direction of each magnet 16 is a direction orthogonal to the
outer circumferential surface and the inner circumferential surface.     In the rotor 10, in a portion
thereof shown in FIG. 2, each magnet 16 is magnetized such that part of each magnet 16 on the
outer circumferential surface has an N-pole, and part of each magnet 16 on the inner
circumferential surface has an S-pole.     The resin with which the gaps of each magnet hole 14
are charged is heated, for example, to thereby fix the magnet 16 to the inside of the magnet hole
14.   At this time, the rotor core 12 is heated by a heating unit (not illustrated).   After the resin
in a melted state is subjected to heating and hardening, the resin is cooled down to a normal
temperature so as to be formed into the resin portions 18a, 18b.
      [0038]     The multiple magnets 16 are arranged such that each set includes two adjacent
magnets 16, and each set of magnets 16 forms a single magnetic pole 17.                  Specifically,
corresponding to the arrangement of the multiple magnet holes 14, the two magnets 16 in each
set are arranged to face each other in a substantially V-shape having a wider distance
therebetween toward the radially outward direction of the rotor core 12.           In this manner, a

                                                   11
single magnetic pole 17 is formed.
       [0039]     In addition, the rotor core 12 is formed with a single intermediate bridge BI and
two outer circumferential bridges B2, corresponding to each single set of magnets 16.             The
intermediate   bridge B1      is a narrow-width       magnetic flux path formed between both
circumferential end portions of each two magnet holes 14 facing each other, corresponding to
each set of magnets 16.     The two outer circumferential bridges B2 are narrow-width magnetic
flux paths formed between respective radially outer end portions of the two magnet holes 14 and
the outer circumferential surface of the rotor core 12, corresponding to each set of magnets 16.
       [0040]     With reference to FIG. 1 again, the two end plates 30 are stacked on the both
axial end surfaces of the rotor core 12, and the rotor core 12 is held between the two end plates
30.    The end plates 30 may be fixed to the rotor core by providing the rotary shaft 115 with
interferences and fixing the end plates 30 to the rotary shaft 115, or by pressing the both axial
end surfaces of the end plates, while the end plates are stacked on the rotor core 12, by a
swaging tool in the axial direction so as to form swaged portions to the end plates 30.      Through
this, the two end plates 30 are disposed at the both axial end surfaces of the rotor core 12 while
the end plates 30 oppose each other.
       [0041]     FIG. 3 is a view showing part of each end plate 30 as viewed from one side of
the axial direction.   FIG. 4 is an enlarged view of a part B of FIG. 3.      FIG. 5 is a perspective
view showing part of the rotor 10 as viewed from one side of the axial direction.         Each arrow
in the drawings indicates leakage magnetic-flux leaking out to each end plate 30 side.
       [0042]     The end plates 30 are members of magnetic material.           Specifically, the end
plates 30 are formed by second steel plates 31 in a disk shape.        Each second steel plate 31 is
formed by the same material and has the same thickness as those of the first steel plates 13
included in the rotor core 12.     Through this configuration, the end plates 30 and the first steel
plates 13 of the rotor core 12 can be formed by punching a steel sheet material of the same
material with the same thickness.      Accordingly, it is possible to reduce the manufacturing cost
of the rotor 10 by reduction of material cost and the number of process.          For example, it is

                                                  12
possible to reduce the manufacturing cost by forming the first steel plates 13 and the second
steel plates 31 at the same time by punching a single steel sheet material.
      [0043]      Each end plate 30 is formed with at least one leakage magnetic-flux suppressing
hole (hole) in portions of each end plate 30 that face the magnets 16.              In the present
embodiment, each end plate 30 is formed with multiple first pin-holes 32, as at least one leakage
magnetic-flux suppressing hole, in the portions of each end plate 30 that face the magnets 16.
      [0044]      Specifically, each end plate 30 is formed with V-shaped hole groups 34 at
multiple positions in the circumferential direction of the end plate 30.      Each V-shaped hole
group 34 is formed by arranging two pin-hole groups 35 in a V-shape, corresponding to the
arrangement positions of the magnet holes 14 (FIG. 2) in a V-shape of the rotor core 12.       Each
pin-hole group 35 is formed by aligning pin-holes that are multiple fine circular holes in a
rectangular region.     Specifically, each pin-hole group 35 includes multiple first pin-holes 32,
multiple second pin-holes 36, and multiple third pin-holes 38.      The multiple first pin-holes 32
are formed in an intermediate portion in the longitudinal direction of each pin-hole group 35, the
intermediate portion being a portion of the end plate 30 (each part surrounded by a one-dot
chain line a in FIG. 3) facing the magnets 16 (FIG. 2).      The multiple second pin-holes 36 are
formed in both end portions in the longitudinal direction of each pin-hole group 35, which are
portions of the end plate 30 (each part surrounded by a two-dot chain line   p in FIG. 3) that face
the resin portions 18a, 18b (FIG. 2).      The multiple third pin-holes 38 are formed in the both
end portions in the longitudinal direction of each pin-hole group 35, and in a portion of the end
plate 30 facing none of the magnets 16 and the resin portions 18a, 18b.             In the present
embodiment, the first pin-holes 32 are equivalent to the leakage magnetic-flux suppressing holes,
and the second pin-holes 36 are equivalent to second leakage magnetic-flux suppressing holes
(second holes).
      [0045]      The multiple pin-holes 32, 36, 38 included in each pin-hole group 35 are
arranged such that the multiple pin-holes are aligned in the longitudinal direction of the pin-hole
group 35 and also in a width direction orthogonal to the longitudinal direction.        Each of the

                                                 13
pin-holes 32, 36, 38 extends through the end plate 30 in the axial direction, and all of the
pin-holes 32, 36, 38 have the same diameters.      Through this configuration, portions of the end
plates 30 where the pin-holes 32, 36, 38 are formed are mesh-patterned.      The pin-holes 32, 36,
38 are formed by punching the end plate 30 in the axial direction at multiple positions using
multiple hole-punches (not illustrated).
      [0046]     Portions of each end plate 30 where no pin-holes 32, 36, 38 are formed cover
the axial end surfaces of the magnets 16 and the axial end surfaces of the resin portions 18a, 18b.
Hereinafter, the resin portions 18a, 18b are appropriately referred to collectively as the "resin
portions 18".
      [0047]     As shown in FIG. 4, in each pin-hole group 35, inter-hole magnetic-flux paths
40 are formed between respective adjacent pin-holes 32, 36, 38.        When using, the inter-hole
magnetic-flux paths 40 are paths through which leakage magnetic-flux leaking out from the
magnets 16 to each end plate 30 might pass.     An arrow indicates leakage magnetic-flux.
      [0048]     According to the above rotor 10, since the first pin-holes 32 are formed in the
end plates 30 made of magnetic material in a manner as to face the magnets 16, a space having a
great magnetic resistance is formed inside each first pin-hole 32 of each end plate 30, to thus
hinder the magnetic flux from flowing through the end plates 30.     Accordingly, it is possible to
suppress both magnetic-flux leakage leaking out from the magnets 16 to the end plates 30 and
magnetic-flux short-circuit of the magnets 16 through the end plates 30.        The end plates 30
cover the axial end surfaces of the magnets 16 and the axial end surfaces of the resin portions 18.
Through this, it becomes unnecessary to use non-magnetic material for the end plates 30, and it
is also possible to cope with both suppression of the magnetic-flux leakage of the magnets 16
and suppression of coming out of the magnets 16 and the resin.     If the end plates 30 do not face
the resin portions 18, part of the resin portions 18 might come out to the outside if cracking is
caused to the resin portions 18.    In the present embodiment, it is possible to suppress coming
out of the resin even when resin cracking occurs.        Because magnetic-flux leakage can be
suppressed without using non-magnetic material for the end plates 30, it becomes easier to

                                                  14
promote cost reduction of the end plates 30.             In addition, it is possible to suppress
magnetic-flux leakage and magnetic-flux short-circuit, to thus allow more magnetic-flux coming
out from the magnets 16 to flow toward the stator.          Accordingly, it is possible to suppress
decrease of torque and increase in loss of the torque in the rotary electric machine 100.
      [0049]      The multiple first pin-holes 32 are formed in the portions of the end plates 30
that face the magnets 16.       Through this, it is possible to increase a proportion of the first
pin-holes 32 per unit area of the end plates 30, and reduce the size of each first pin-hole 32, to
thereby increase a total number of the first pin-holes 32.    Hence, it is possible to cope with both
suppression of magnetic-flux leakage and suppression of coming out of the magnets 16 at a high
degree because more spaces can be secured in the portions facing the magnets.             In addition,
each first pin-hole 32 is a circular hole, and thus the size of each first pin-hole 32 can be easily
smaller.
      [0050]      In addition, the multiple second pin-holes 36 are formed in the portions of the
end plates 30 that face the resin portions 18.        Through this, the proportion of the second
pin-holes 36 per unit area of the end plates 30 can be increased, and the size of each second
pin-hole 36 can be smaller, to thus increase the total number of the second pin-holes 36.
Accordingly, it is possible to cope with both suppression of leakage magnetic-flux flowing
through the portions of the end plates 30 facing the resin portions 18 and suppression of coming
out of the resin due to cracking of the resin portions 18.
      [0051]      In the above description, the case of forming each of the pin-holes 32, 36, 38 to
be a circular hole has been described, but each pin-hole may be formed to be a non-circular hole
such as a rectangular shape.
      [0052]      In the embodiment, the multiple pin-holes 32, 36, 38 are formed, each pin-hole
distance d (FIG. 4) equivalent to a width of each inter-hole magnetic-flux path 40 is reduced, to
thereby suppress magnetic-flux leakage, and also suppress magnetic-flux short-circuit caused by
short-circuit caused by magnetic-flux flowing through the inter-hole magnetic-flux paths 40
without passing through the stator 110 (FIG. 1).           Preferably, each pin-hole distance d is

                                                  15
restricted to a predetermined range, that is, to a range of twice to six times as great as the
thickness of each second steel plate 31 included in each end plate 30.            By restricting the
pin-hole distance d to not more than six times as great as the thickness of each second steel plate
31, when the pin-holes 32, 36, 38 are formed through punching, it is possible to greatly
deteriorate the magnetic characteristic of the end plates 30 in the inter-hole magnetic-flux paths
40.    Accordingly, leakage magnetic-flux becomes more difficult to pass through the inter-hole
magnetic-flux paths 40; thus it is possible to enhance effect to suppress magnetic-flux
short-circuit.
       [0053]     FIG. 6 is a drawing showing a B-H characteristic representing a relation
between a magnetic field H and a magnetic-flux density B of a conventional electromagnetic
steel plate, and a B-H characteristic of the second steel plate 31, which is an electromagnetic
steel plate in the inter-hole magnetic-flux paths 40 when the pin-hole distance d is restricted to
the above predetermined range in the embodiment.        As shown in FIG. 6, a B-H characteristic is
represented by a relation between a magnetic field H and a magnetic-flux density B of a steel
plate magnetized by this magnetic field H.         Compared with the B-H characteristic in the
conventional electromagnetic steel plate, in the B-H characteristic of the embodiment in which
the pin-hole distance d is restricted within the predetermined range, increase of the
magnetic-flux density B relative to increase of the magnetic field H becomes more moderate,
particularly in a region of a smaller magnetic field, and magnetic permeability becomes smaller.
Accordingly, it is seen that by restricting the pin-hole distance d to the predetermined range, it is
possible to promote the effect to suppress the magnetic-flux short-circuit.
       [0054]     In addition, by defining the pin-hole distance d to be not less than twice as great
as the thickness of each second steel plate 31, it is possible to sufficiently enhance accuracy of
the shape of each of the pin-holes 32, 36, 38.
       [0055]     FIG. 7 is a view corresponding to FIG. 5, in another example of the
embodiment.      In the configuration of this example, compared with the configuration shown in
FIG. 1 to FIG. 5, a diameter that is a maximum inner length of each first pin-hole 32a formed in

                                                   16
each end plate 30 is set to be greater.       A diameter that is a maximum inner length of each
second pin-hole 36 is set to be smaller than the diameter of each first pin-hole 32a.          In the
configuration of FIG. 7, illustration of the third pin-holes 38 (see FIG. 5) is omitted, but the
third pin-holes may be formed.
       [0056]      In each end plate 30, a distance dl between each two adjacent first pin-holes
32a in the longitudinal direction of each pin-hole group 35 is greater than a distance d2 between
each two adjacent second pin-holes 36 in the longitudinal direction of each pin-hole group 35.
       [0057]      According to the above configuration, it is possible to suppress coming out of
the resin due to cracking of the resin portions 18, suppress the number of hole-punches for the
first pin-holes 32a, and also suppress magnetic-flux leakage.        To the contrary, different from
the embodiment, in the configuration that each end plate 30 does not face the resin portions 18,
if resin cracking occurs, small pieces of the resin might come out from the magnet holes 14.
Hence, it is preferable to form the second pin-holes 36 to be as small as possible in the portions
of the end plates 30 facing the resin portions 18, for the purpose of suppressing coming out of
the resin.    In the meantime, possibility of coming out of the magnets 16 due to magnet cracking
is much smaller than that in the case of the resin portions 18.       Hence, in light of suppressing
coming out of the magnets 16, the size of each of the first pin-holes 32a facing the magnets 16
may be relatively large based on the assumption that the shape of each first pin-hole 32a facing
each magnet 16 is formed to be smaller than the shape of the axial end surface of the magnet 16.
Since each first pin-hole 32a can be relatively large, it is possible to suppress the total number of
hole-punches for the first pin-holes 32a, while securing the proportion of the first pin-holes 32a
per unit area that is necessary for suppressing magnetic-flux leakage.      Accordingly, it becomes
easier to reduce machining cost of the end plates 30.
       [0058]      In each end plate 30, the distance dl between each two adjacent first pin-holes
32a in the longitudinal direction of each pin-hole group 35 is greater than the distance d2
between each two adjacent second pin-holes 36 in the longitudinal direction of each pin-hole
group 35.      Accordingly, it is possible to increase strength in the portions of each end plate 30

                                                  17
that face the magnets 16 and might be pushed by the magnets 16, and also to enhance effect to
suppress magnetic-flux leakage in the portions facing the resin portions 18, which are not
required to have a high strength.     The other configurations and operation are the same as the
configuration of FIG. I to FIG. 5.    Instead of restricting the relations of the distances dl and d2,
or in combination with this, relations of distances between the adjacent pin-holes in other
directions may be restricted.    For example, in each end plate 30, a distance between each two
adjacent first pin-holes 32a in a direction orthogonal to the longitudinal direction of each
pin-hole group 35 may be greater than a distance between each two adjacent second pin-holes
36 in the direction orthogonal to the longitudinal direction of each pin-hole group 35.         In the
configuration of FIG. 7, there may be provided either a configuration that the diameter of each
second pin-hole is smaller than the diameter of each first pin-hole or a configuration that the
distance dl between the first pin-holes may be greater than the distance d2 between the second
pin-holes.
      [0059]      FIG. 8 is a view corresponding to FIG. 5, in another example of the
embodiment.      In the configuration of the present example, different from the configuration
shown in FIG. 7, the multiple first pin-holes 32b are arranged in a so-called alternating pattern.
Specifically, the multiple first pin-holes 32b are arranged such that the first pin-holes 32b face
the axial end surfaces of the magnets 16 faced by the first pin-holes 32b, and are aligned on a
straight line in a longitudinal direction LI so as to form each single pin-hole set Ci, C2, C3 in
each rectangular region (each part indicated by inclined grids in FIG. 8) that corresponds to the
shape of the axial end surface of each magnet 16.        The multiple pin-hole sets Ci, C2, C3 are
arranged in multiple rows in a direction orthogonal to the longitudinal direction.            In each
pin-hole set CI, C2, C3, the multiple first pin-holes 32b are arranged with almost equal intervals.
In addition, in the multiple pin-hole sets Ci, C2, C3, the positions in the longitudinal direction
LI of the first pin-holes 32b deviate from each other between the adjacent pin-hole sets Ci, C2,
C3.    Consequently, the multiple first pin-holes 32b are arranged in the alternating pattern.
      [0060]      The multiple second pin-holes 36a located at the radially outer end portions of
each pin-hole group 35a are arranged in multiple pin-hole sets DI, D2, D3 along the directions

                                                  18
of the multiple pin-hole sets C1, C2, C3.     The positions in the longitudinal direction LI of the
second pin-holes 36a deviate from each other between the adjacent pin-hole sets D1, D2, D3.
      [0061]     According to the above configuration, the distance between the adjacent first
pin-holes 32b can be reduced among the adjacent pin-hole sets Cl, C2, C3.         Accordingly, the
pin-hole distance between the first pin-holes 32b can easily be restricted to the range of twice to
six times as great as the thickness of each second steel plate 31.     Consequently, when the first
pin-holes 32b are formed by punching, the magnetic characteristic between the first pin-holes
32b can easily be deteriorated.    In addition, in each end plate 30 as indicated by an arrow y in
FIG. 8, each path of magnetic-flux leakage passing through between the multiple first pin-holes
32b becomes a path in a non-linear state that is bent at multiple bent portions.    Hence, in each
end plate 30, it is possible to increase each path length of the leakage magnetic-flux passing
through between the multiple first pin-holes 32b.          Accordingly, it is possible to further
suppress occurrence of magnetic-flux short-circuit via the end plates 30, to thus further suppress
decrease of torque and increase in loss of the torque of the rotary electric machine.
      [0062]     In addition, in the multiple second pin-holes 36a disposed in the radially outer
end portions of each pin-hole group 35a, it is also possible to reduce the distance between each
two adjacent second pin-holes 36a, as with the case of the first pin-holes 32b.         Hence, the
magnetic characteristic between the second pin-holes 36a can easily be deteriorated, and each
path length of the leakage magnetic-flux can be increased; therefore, it is possible to further
suppress occurrence of magnetic-flux short-circuit via the end plates 30.                The other
configuration and operation are the same as the configuration shown in FIG. 7.              As the
configuration shown in FIG. 1 to FIG. 5, the configuration of the present example may be
combined with the configuration that the first pin-holes and the second pin-holes are set to have
the same sizes.
      [0063]     FIG. 9 is a view showing part of the rotor 10 as viewed from one side of the
axial direction, in another example of the embodiment.         In the configuration of the present
example, each end plate 30 in the configuration shown in FIG. 8 is further formed with multiple

                                                   19
fourth pin-holes 41a, 41b, 41c.     Specifically, in each end plate 30, corresponding to each set of
multiple sets of the magnet holes 14 of the rotor core 12 (FIG. 2), portions of the end plate 30
that face the one intermediate bridge B1 and the two outer circumferential bridges B2 are
respectively formed with one or more fourth pin-holes 41a, 41b, 41c.        The fourth pin-holes 41a,
41b, 41c are equivalent to third leakage magnetic-flux suppressing holes (third holes).          For
example, two or more fourth pin-holes 41a are aligned in the radial direction in the portion of
each end plate 30 that faces the intermediate bridge BI, and one or more fourth pin-holes 41b,
41c are arranged in the portions of each end plate 30 that face the outer circumferential bridges
B2.
      [0064]      According to the above configuration, in the configuration that each single
magnetic pole is formed by the two magnets 16 arranged in a V-shape, it is possible to
efficiently suppress magnetic-flux short-circuit, in combination with the configuration that the
end plates have the first pin-holes 32b and the second pin-holes 36a.            Only single fourth
pin-hole 41a, 41b, 41c may be formed in the respective portions facing one intermediate bridge
B 1 and two outer circumferential bridges B2 that correspond to each set.       The fourth pin-holes
may be formed only in portions of each end plate 30 that face any one or two bridges of one
intermediate bridge B1 and two outer circumferential bridges B2 that correspond to each set.
In this case, compared with the configuration of FIG. 8, it is possible to more efficiently
suppress magnetic-flux short-circuit.      In the meantime, as the configuration of FIG. 9, it is
more preferable to form the fourth pin-holes 41a, 41b, 41c in respective portions of each end
plate 30 that face one intermediate bridge BI and two outer circumferential bridges B2.       In this
more preferable configuration, leakage magnetic-flux leaking out to a portion of each end plate
30 that faces the radially outer sides of the two magnets 16 in each set of the rotor core (e.g.,
portion indicated by a point P in FIG. 9) becomes difficult to flow to a portion of each end plate
30 that faces the radially inner sides of these two magnets 16 (e.g., portion indicate by a point  Q
in FIG. 9).    Through this, it is possible to further suppress magnetic-flux short-circuit.     The
other configuration and operation are the same as the configuration shown in FIG. 8. The
configuration of the present example may be combined with the configuration shown in FIG. 1
to FIG. 5, or the configuration shown in FIG. 7.

                                                  20
      [0065]      An upper drawing of FIG. 10 is a view corresponding to FIG. 5 in another
example of the embodiment, and a lower drawing of FIG. 10 is an enlarged view of a part C of
the upper drawing of FIG. 10.      In the configuration of the present example, different from the
respective configurations of the above examples, the end plates 30 are formed with slits 44 that
are multiple long thin holes as multiple leakage magnetic-flux suppressing holes.        Specifically,
V-shaped hole groups 42 are formed at multiple positions in the circumferential direction of
each end plate 30.      In each V-shaped hole group 42, two slit groups 43 are arranged in a
V-shape corresponding to the arrangement positions of the magnet holes 14 arranged in a
V-shape of the rotor core 12 (FIG. 2).      Each slit group 43 includes multiple slits 44, and the
respective slits 44 are formed in portions of each end plate 30 that face the magnets 16.
      [0066]      In each slit group 43, the multiple slits 44 are aligned on a straight line in a
longitudinal direction L2 so as to constitute respective single slit sets El, E2 to E6.           The
multiple slit sets El, E2 to E5 are arranged in multiple rows in a direction orthogonal to the
longitudinal direction L2, and respective positions in the longitudinal direction of the slits 44
between adjacent slit sets El, E2 to E6 deviate from each other.        Accordingly, magnetic-flux
paths T formed between the adjacent slits 44 in the longitudinal direction of the respective slit
sets El, E2 to E6 are arranged at different positions in a direction parallel to the straight lines on
which the slits 44 are located, between the adjacent slits sets El, E2 to E6.     Respective lengths
along the straight lines of the multiple slits 44 are substantially the same.   Some slits 44 of the
multiple slits 44 are disposed in portions of each end plate 30 that face the resin portions 18.
The slits 44 are formed by punching using hole-punches, as with the case of the pin-holes in the
respective configuration of the above examples.
      [0067]      According to the above configuration, as with the respective configurations of
the above examples, the slits 44 are formed in the end plates 30 made of magnetic material, to
thereby suppress magnetic-flux leakage leaking out from the magnets 16 to the end plates 30 as
well as magnetic-flux short-circuit.    In addition, the end plates 30 cover the axial end surfaces
of the magnets 16 and the axial end surfaces of the resin portions 18.     Through this, it becomes
unnecessary to use non-magnetic material for the end plates 30, and it is also possible to cope

                                                    21
with both suppression of the magnetic-flux leakage of the magnets 16 and suppression of
coming out of the magnets 16 and the resin.
       [0068]      Further, as indicated by broken lines in FIG. 10, when leakage magnetic-flux
flows through between the multiple slits 44, the paths of the magnetic-flux are interrupted and
bent by the slits 44 located ahead of the flowing direction of this magnetic-flux.      Accordingly,
since the path length of the leakage magnetic-flux becomes longer, it is possible to more
efficiently suppress magnetic-flux short-circuit.      The other configurations and operation are the
same as the configuration of FIG. 1 to FIG. 5.
       [0069]      In FIG. 11, in the configuration shown in FIG. 10, as with the configuration of
FIG. 8, the portions of the end plates 30 that face the resin portions 18 are formed with multiple
second pin-holes 36a.      In addition, a length in a longitudinal direction L3, which is a maximum
length of each slit 44 is greater than a diameter of each second pin-hole 36a.          The multiple
second pin-holes 36a face the resin portions 18.        Hence, it becomes easier to suppress coming
out of the resin due to resin cracking of the resin portions 18.    As with the configuration of FIG.
7, it is possible to promote suppression of coming out of the resin, and reduction of the number
of hole-punches for the slits 44, as well as suppression of magnetic-flux leakage.          The other
configuration and operation are the same as the configuration of FIG. 8 and the configuration of
FIG. 10.
       [0070]      In the respective configurations of the above examples, there has been
described the case in which the portions of the end plates 30 that face the magnets 16 are formed
with the multiple first pin-holes or the multiple slits, but only one first pin-hole or only one slit
may be formed in a portion of each end plate 30 that faces one magnet 16.          In addition, in the
respective configuration of the above examples, as the end plates 30, it may not be always
necessary to use the second steel plate made of the same material and having the same thickness
as those of the first steel plates 13 of the rotor core 12.   For example, as the second steel plates,
there may be used plates whose magnetic characteristic is inferior to that of the first steel plates
13, or plates each having a greater thickness than that of each first steel plate 13, or plates

                                                  22
formed by metallic magnetic material other than steel.
       [0071]      In addition, in the respective configurations of the above examples, there has
been described the case in which the rotor core 12 is configured by stacking the multiple first
steel plates 13, but the rotor core is not limited to this configuration.   For example, the rotor
core may be formed by pressure-molding both resin binder and magnetic powder.               In the
meantime, in light of cost reduction, as with the above respective examples, it is preferable that
the rotor core 12 is formed by a stacked body of the first steel plates 13, and the end plates 30
are formed by the second steel plates whose material and thickness are the same as those of the
first steel plates 13.
       [0072]      In addition, in the respective configurations of the above examples, there has
been described the case in which the two magnets 16 are arranged in a V-shape, but there may
be employed such a configuration that the respective magnets are arranged in a linear direction
along the circumferential direction.

                                                    23
CLAIMS
1.    A rotary electric-machine rotor comprising:
       a rotor core made of magnetic material, the rotor core having magnet holes extending in an
axial direction of the rotary electric-machine rotor;
      magnets disposed in the magnet holes;
      resin portions disposed in at least part of gaps between the magnet holes and the magnets,
the resin portions extending in the axial direction; and
       end plates disposed adjacent to end surfaces in an axial direction of the rotor core, wherein
      the end plates are members made of magnetic material, the end plates cover end surfaces
of the magnets in the axial direction and end surfaces of the resin portions in the axial direction,
and
       each of the end plates having at least one holes disposed in a position that faces at least
one part of the end surfaces of the magnets.
2.     The rotary electric-machine rotor according to claim 1, wherein
each of the end plates and the rotor core are made of the same kind of magnetic material, and
have the same thickness.
3.     The rotary electric-machine rotor according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein
       at least one of the holes is a plurality of holes, each of the end plates has the plurality of
holes disposed in an end surface of each of the end plates facing the end surface of the magnets.
4.     The rotary electric-machine rotor according to claim 3, wherein
       each end plate has a plurality of second holes disposed in the end surface of each of the
end plates facing an end surface of the resin portions in the axial direction.
5.     The rotary electric-machine rotor according to claim 4, wherein
       a maximum inner length of each of the plurality of second holes is smaller than a

                                                    24
maximum inner length of each of the plurality of holes.
6.     The rotary electric-machine rotor according to claim 4 or claim 5, wherein
       a distance between the holes adjacent to each other is greater than a distance between the
second holes adjacent to each other.
7.     The rotary electric-machine rotor according to claim 3, wherein
       the plurality of holes are a plurality of pin-holes, each of the plurality of pin-holes has a
round shape,
       each the end plates has a plurality of pin-hole sets provided in a rectangular region facing
the end surfaces of the magnets,
       each of the pin-hole sets includes the plurality of the pin-holes arranged on a straight line
in a longitudinal direction of the rectangular region, and
       positions of the pin holes in any one of the pin-hole sets are offset in the longitudinal
direction from positions of the pin-holes in an adjacent one of the pin-hole sets.
8.     The rotary electric-machine rotor according to any one of claims 4 to claim 6, wherein
       two magnet holes adjacent to each other a circumferential direction are arranged in a
V-shape such that a distance between the two magnet holes in the circumferential direction
increases outward in a radial direction,
       the rotor core includes an intermediate bridge between end portions in a circumferential
direction of the two magnet holes corresponding to each set of magnets, and two outer
circumferential bridges between respective radially outer end portions of the two magnet holes
corresponding to each set of magnets, and an outer circumferential surface of the rotor core, and
       each end plate has third holes disposed in portions of each end plate that face at least one
bridge of the intermediate bridge and the two outer circumferential bridges.

                                                    25
9.     The rotary electric-machine rotor according to claim 8, wherein
       each end plates has the third holes disposed in respective portions that face the
intermediate bridge and the two outer circumferential bridges.
10.    The rotary electric-machine rotor according to claim 3, wherein
      the plurality of holes are a plurality of slits, each of the plurality of slits has a long thin
shape,
       each of the end plates has a plurality of slit sets provided in the end surface of the each of
the end plates facing the end surfaces of the magnets,
       each of the slit sets includes a plurality of the slits arranged on a straight line in a
longitudinal direction of the slits, and
      positions of the slits in any one of the slit sets are offset in the longitudinal direction from
positions of the slits in an adjacent one of the slit sets.
                                Toyota Jidosha Kabushiki Kaisha
                   Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                     SPRUSON & FERGUSON

                                                       <removed-apn>         <removed-date>
                              FIG. 1
                                                               100
                                                      14 110
                        13     13b         111   16
                                                                 114
           112
     32   16                                                         10
32                                                                                      <U+2701><U+2702>
                                                                12
               A
                                                                 30
     30
          30
                                     12a
                        13a                      115
                   13

                                                  <U+2702><U+2701><U+2702>
                                                 FIG. 2
<removed-date>
                                                           13                   12
              B2    18b                                                               B2
                                                  17                                    18b
                                  N         16          16             N
<removed-apn>
                             S                                                        13b
                                                                           S
                                      14        18a     18a                     14
                                                      B1
                                                 FIG. 3
                                                                           30
                                                                                     31
                   38 36
                                           32                         32
                                                 36 36                                         36
                   38                                                                     38
                             35                                                 35
                        34        B    <U+2701>                               <U+2701>
                                                            38
                                                 FIG. 4
                                                             d
                                      32                         35
                                       40                             30
                                                                 32

                                             <U+2701><U+2702>
                                         FIG. 5
<removed-date>
                    38
              18b        36
                                                                         36
                                 32
                                        16           32
                                             36 36                             31
<removed-apn>
               38                                                    38        30
                          34      35                      35
                                             18a   38
                                         FIG. 6
                                  B-H CHARACTERISTIC OF CONVENTIONAL
                                      ELECTROMAGNETIC STEEL PLATE
                    B
                                                  B-H CHARACTERISTIC OF
                                             ELECTROMAGNETIC STEEL PLATE IN
                                              INTER-HOLE MAGNETIC-FLUX PATH
                                                               H
                                         FIG. 7
                      32a
               18b 36                                               36
                                   d1                   32a
                                        16
                                             36                               31
                d2                                                            30
                          14                                   35
                               34 35         18a

                                                 <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702>
                                                FIG. 8
<removed-date>            18b
                             36a 32b                                               36a
                    D2    D1
                                 C1                            32b
                                                16
<removed-apn>
                                                     36
                                                                                              31
                    D3
                          C2                                                             30
                               C3                                            35a
                                34        35a        18a
                               L1                                       L1
                                                FIG. 9
                                                                       10
                    B2 36a                           P
                                                                              B2 41c
              41b
                                    32b    16
                                                                 32b
                                                          B1
                                                36
                                                                                          31
                    18b
                           14                                                  36a       30
                                                41a                  16 14
                                          18a
                                                         Q

                                             <U+2702><U+2701><U+2702>
                                         FIG. 10
<removed-date>
                         E1 E2
              18b                                                44
                                    44 44               C
                                                  18a
                                             E4
                                                                                        31
<removed-apn>
              E3
               E5                                                                       30
                         44                                              44
                              14 42     E6 16           43
                                      43                                 L2
                               L2
                                                                               44
                                                                 T                  T
                                         T                                44
                                                                     T
                                                        44
                                         FIG. 11
                   18b     36a                                           36a
                                    44                      44
                                         36
                                                18a
                                                                                        31
                                                                                        30
                              44
                                    42 43                   43
                              L3                                 L3

