                ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
           A pressure gauge structure contains: a body in which a
   bow-shaped frame and a holder mounted under the bow-shaped
 5 frame, a contact film defined between the bow-shaped frame and
   the holder. A connector is connected on a bottom of the holder, and
   a test conduit passes through the holder and the connector and
   accommodates a tested object, wherein the contact film contacts
   with a separation washer corresponding to the contact film.
10
                                    12

         1/9
             'I
       CN~
   CN1
'I

Our Ref: 79451nno
                                                                 P/00/009
                                                            Regulation 3.2
                                AUSTRALIA
                               Patents Act 1990
         INNOVATION SPECIFICATION FOR AN INVENTION ENTITLED
Name of Applicant:   Chin Ray Industrial Ltd.
Invention title:     Pressure Gauge Structure
Address for Service  A.P.T. Patent and Trade Mark Attorneys
                     PO Box 833
                     Blackwood, S.A. 5051
The invention is described in the following statement:
                                       1

                  PRESSURE GAUGE STRUCTURE
               BACKGROUND OF THE INNOVATION
   Field of the Innovation
 5          The present innovation relates to a pressure gauge
   structure which is configured to separate a tested object from a
   contact film so as to avoid reduction of measurement accuracy
   resulting from chemical corrosion, oxidation, and rust, hence the
   pressure gauge structure is applicable for food and chemical fields
10 widely.
    Description of the Prior Art
            A conventional pressure gauge structure is employed to
   measure a pressure value of gases or fluids so as to provide
15 pressure parameters in production.
            With reference to FIG. 9, the conventional pressure gauge
   structure contains a holder 10 having a connector 101 mounted on
   a central position of the holder 10, a supporter 102 extending on a
   peripheral side of the holder 10 so as to contact with a metal film 20
20 on which multiple annular wrinkles are formed. The conventional
   pressure gauge structure further contains the holder 10, a fixing
   member 30, a middle assembly, a casing 40 covered the holder 10,
                                     2

   and a transparent lid 401. A washer 202 is defined between the
   supporter 102 of the holder 10 and the metal film 20, the fixing
   member 30 covers the supporter 102 of the holder 10, and a
   concaved sheet 301 is connected with a bottom of the fixing
 5 member 30, hence the washer 202 is defined between the
   supporter 102 of the holder 10 and the concaved sheet 301 of the
   fixing member 30, the metal film 20 limits the holder 10 with the
   supporter 102, and an air chamber 103 communicates with an
   exterior via the connector 101.
10          The    conventional  pressure    gauge    structure sustains
   pressures sufficiently but contacts with the tested object, thus
   causing chemical corrosion, oxidation, and rust to influence
   accuracy of the conventional pressure gauge structure.
            The present innovation has arisen to mitigate and/or
15 obviate the afore-described disadvantages.
                  SUMMARY OF THE INNOVATION
            The primary objective of the present innovation is to
   provide a pressure gauge structure which is configured to separate
20 a tested object from a contact film so as to avoid chemical corrosion,
   oxidation, and rust.
            Further primary objective of the present innovation is to
   provide a pressure gauge structure in which a protective sheet
                                      3

   stops a tested object being off the charts because a distance
   produces between the protective sheet and the contact film, thus
   avoiding damage of a body.
           Another primary objective of the present innovation is to
 5 provide a pressure gauge structure in which a holder and a
   connector are one-piece formed so as to reduce manufacture
   process, assembly, and production cost.
            To obtain above-mentioned objectives, a pressure gauge
   structure provided by the present innovation contains: a body in
10 which a bow-shaped frame and a holder mounted under the
   bow-shaped frame, a contact film defined between the bow-shaped
   frame and the holder, wherein a connector is connected on a
   bottom of the holder, and a test conduit passes through the holder
   and the connector and accommodates a tested object, wherein the
15 contact film contacts with a separation washer corresponding to the
   contact film.
            In another embodiment, a pressure gauge structure
   provided by the present innovation contains: a body in which a
   bow-shaped frame and a holder mounted under the bow-shaped
20 frame, a contact film defined between the bow-shaped frame and
   the holder, wherein a connector is connected on a bottom of the
   holder, and a test conduit passes through the holder and the
   connector and accommodates a tested object, wherein a protective
                                     4

   sheet is defined between the bow-shaped frame and the contact
   film.
            In another embodiment, a pressure gauge structure
   provided by the present innovation contains: a body in which a
 5 bow-shaped frame and a holder mounted under the bow-shaped
   frame, a contact film defined between the bow-shaped frame and
   the holder, wherein a connector is connected on a bottom of the
   holder, and a test conduit passes through the holder and the
   connector and accommodates a tested object, wherein the holder
10 and the connector are one-piece formed.
             BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
            FIG. 1 is a cross sectional view showing the assembly of a
   pressure gauge structure according a preferred embodiment of the
15 present innovation.
            FIG. 2 is a cross sectional view showing the assembly of a
   part of the pressure gauge structure according the preferred
   embodiment of the present innovation.
            FIG. 3 is a cross sectional view showing the assembly of a
20 pressure gauge structure according another preferred embodiment
   of the present innovation.
            FIG. 4 is an amplified cross sectional view of FIG. 1.
            FIG. 5 is a cross sectional view showing the assembly of a
                                      5

   pressure gauge structure according another preferred embodiment
   of the present innovation.
            FIG. 6 is a cross sectional view showing the operation of
   the   pressure   gauge    structure   according  another  preferred
 5 embodiment of the present innovation.
            FIG. 7 is a cross-sectional perspective view showing the
   assembly of a part of the pressure gauge structure according the
   preferred embodiment of the present innovation.
            FIG. 8 is a cross-sectional perspective view showing the
10 assembly of a part of the pressure gauge structure according
   another preferred embodiment of the present innovation.
            FIG. 9 is a cross sectional of a conventional pressure
   gauge structure.
15       DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED
                            EMBODIMENTS
            The present innovation will be clearer from the following
   description when viewed together with the accompanying drawings,
   which show, for purpose         of illustrations only, a  preferred
20 embodiment in accordance with the present innovation.
            With reference to FIGS. 1-2, a pressure gauge structure in
   accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present innovation
   comprises: a body 1 in which a bow-shaped frame 11 and a holder
                                      6

   12 mounted under the bow-shaped frame 11, a contact film 2
   defined between the bow-shaped frame 11 and the holder 12,
   wherein a connector 13 is connected on a bottom of the holder 12,
   and a test conduit 14 passes through the holder 12 and the
 5 connector 13 and accommodates a tested object.
             The contact film 2 contacts with a separation washer 3
   corresponding to the contact film 2, wherein when the tested object
   sends pressure to the separation washer 3 via the test conduit 14,
   the separation washer 3 pushes the contact film 2 upward so as to
10 measure pressure parameter(s) of the contact film 2 and to avoid
   the tested object contacting with the contact film 2, thus maintaining
   accuracy of the body 1 resulting from rust and prolonging service
   life of the body 1.
             A contact surface of the separation washer 3 and the
15 contact film 2 is irregularly wavy.
             A contact surface of the separation washer 3 and the
   contact film 2 is flat, as shown in FIG. 3.
             The separation washer 3 includes multiple protrusions 31
   arranged around a peripheral side thereof and configured to contact
20 with the contact film 2 and the holder 12, such that the separation
   washer 3 offsets unequal action force resulting from the pressure
   so as to enhance closing effect, as illustrated in FIG. 4.
             The separation washer 3 is made of flexible material, such
                                       7

   as rubber or silicone.
            The contact film 2 includes a protective sheet 4 mounted
   above the contact film 2 and defined between the bow-shaped
   frame 11 and the contact film 2.
 5          The holder 12 and the connector 13 are one-piece formed
   so as to reduce manufacture process, assembly, and production
   cost.
            The connector 13 is longitudinal or lateral, as shown in FIG.
   5.
10          In operation, as illustrated in FIGS. 6-8, the tested object is
   connected on the connector 13 so as to enter into the test conduit
   14, and the tested object pushes the separation washer 3 and
   drives the contact film 2 to move upward, hence an air chamber 5
   forms between the separation washer 3 and the holder 12, and the
15 separation washer 3 and the holder 12 push the contact film 2
   directly or indirectly. Preferably, the multiple protrusions 31 of the
   separation washer 3 offset the unequal pressure sent by the tested
   object and enhance the closing effect so that a display unit displays
   accurate measured data. When the tested object does not contact
20 with the contact film 2 completely, the pressure gauge structure is
   not eroded by the tested object so as to keep measurement
   accuracy, hence the pressure gauge structure is applicable for
   industrial, food, and chemical fields widely.
                                       8

            When the tested object enters into the test conduit 14 at a
   high pressure quickly, the separation washer 3 and the contact film
   2 are driven to move upward, wherein when the pressure is more
   than a measurement range, the protective sheet 4 stops the contact
 5 film 2 being off the charts, thus avoiding damage of the body 1.
            Thereby, the separation washer separates from and
   protects the contact film so as to avoid rust and to expand using
   field. Preferably, the protective sheet stops the contact film being off
   the charts, thus decreasing failure rate. The holder and the
10 connector are one-piece formed so as to lower production cost.
            While various embodiments in accordance with the present
   innovation have been shown and described, it is clear to those
   skilled in the art that further embodiments may be made without
   departing from the scope of the present innovation.
                                       9

                          WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
              1. A pressure gauge structure comprising: a body in which
   a bow-shaped frame and a holder mounted under the bow-shaped
 5 frame, a contact film defined between the bow-shaped frame and
   the holder, wherein a connector is connected on a bottom of the
   holder, and a test conduit passes through the holder and the
   connector and accommodates a tested object, wherein the contact
   film contacts with a separation washer corresponding to the contact
10 film.
              2. The pressure gauge structure as claimed in claim 1,
   wherein a contact surface of the separation washer and the contact
   film is flat.
              3. The pressure gauge structure as claimed in claim 1,
15 wherein a contact surface of the separation washer and the contact
   film is irregularly wavy.
              4. The pressure gauge structure as claimed in claim 1,
   wherein the separation washer includes multiple protrusions
   arranged around a peripheral side thereof.
20            5. The pressure gauge structure as claimed in claim 1,
   wherein the separation washer is made of flexible material, and
   flexible material is rubber.
              6. The pressure gauge structure as claimed in claim 1,
                                      10

   wherein the separation washer is made of flexible material, and
   flexible material is silicone.
            7. A pressure gauge structure comprising: a body in which
   a bow-shaped frame and a holder mounted under the bow-shaped
 5 frame, a contact film defined between the bow-shaped frame and
   the holder, wherein a connector is connected on a bottom of the
   holder, and a test conduit passes through the holder and the
   connector and accommodates a tested object, wherein a protective
   sheet is defined between the bow-shaped frame and the contact
10 film.
            8. A pressure gauge structure comprising: a body in which
   a bow-shaped frame and a holder mounted under the bow-shaped
   frame, a contact film defined between the bow-shaped frame and
   the holder, wherein a connector is connected on a bottom of the
15 holder, and a test conduit passes through the holder and the
   connector and accommodates a tested object, wherein the holder
   and the connector are one-piece formed.
            9. The pressure gauge structure as claimed in claim 8,
   wherein the connector is longitudinal.
20          10. The pressure gauge structure as claimed in claim 8,
   wherein the connector is lateral.
                                     11

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           7/9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           8/9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           9/9

