                                                ABSTRACT
The present invention provides a method of converting still images (corresponding to places/tourist
destinations in which audience may be interested) into a video clip assembled with corresponding
music relevant to the country under original copy right licencing regulations to promote the cultural
diversities or specialities of said places (or countries) on electronic advertising platform such as
television, websites or social media network platforms.

    Editorial Note
      <removed-apn>
There is one page of description only

whats up ? is the sole invention of yoshi mcmahon with the intent on advertising
destinations around the world with individual music accommodating the different
countries and places.
The innovative technical approach through still imagery videos or videos advertising
specialities of the regions cultural experiences and unique places or things to do in
this area married to music that is original and legal to highlight the places of interest
for the promotion of travel in this large area of business.
The clips can either be bought by that country or a business to promote the uniquely
different cultures experiences food fashion industry climate things to do and all trades
or cultural diversity associated with all the areas of destinations in the world.
The music is then attatched and uploaded and individual piece to each and every clip
making the video as authentic as possible.
whats up ? is diverse cultural and unique representing every region and country in the
world and the manner in which it is advertising can be used on social media to
promote the individualism of each separate country and region.
As i have stated before it can be used in travel agents throughout the world to promote
destinations or sold to the heads of country to be used to promote there own regions.

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

specification claim of whats up ?
the specifications are original footage of still images of all destinations in the world
turned into a video clip with music applicable to the country and original licensing
laws applied.
The video clips contain images of destinations of all the world with specific
businesses wares cultural diversity and things to do all authentic to the destination
being taken.
They are uploaded as a short video to be viewed by clients on all sources of media
including television websites facebook instagram apps social platforms for media to
be viewed by clients.
the clips are sold to individual travel agencies at a cost which will then allow the
client to peruse the authentic places of interest to them without the need for paper
phamplets eleviating paper.

