                                       ABSTRACT
   The present invention relates to an aqueous composition comprising a pesticide
   and a certain carboxylic acid amide. The invention further relates to a method for
 5 controlling phytopathogenic fungi     and/or undesirable     plant growth   and/or
   undesirable insect or mite infestation and/or for regulating the growth of plants,
   wherein the composition is allowed to act on the respective pests, the habitat
   thereof or the plants to be protected from the respective pest, on the soil and/or
   on undesirable plants and/or the crop plants and/or the habitat thereof.
10 Furthermore, the invention relates to the use of the carboxylic acid amide as
   solvent for pesticides with no or low phytotoxicity. The present invention
   comprises combinations of preferred features with other preferred features.

   Composition comprising a pesticide and arnide
   The present invention relates to an aqueous composition comprising a pesticide and a
   certain carboxytlc acid aide. The invention further relates to a method for controlling
 5 phytopathogenic fungi and/or undesirable plant growth and/or undesirable insect or
   mite infestation and/or for regulating the growth of plants, wherein the composition is
   allowed to act on the respective pests, the habitat thereof or the plants to be protected
   from the respective pest, on the soil and/or on undesirable plants and/or the crop plants
   and/or the habitat thereof. Furthermore, the invention relates to the use of the
10 carboxylic acid aide as solvent for pesticides with no or low phytotoxicity.
   The present invention comprises combinations of preferred features with other
   preferred features.
   A large number of liquid concentrates are available to the agricultural markets, and
15 each type of product has its advantages and disadvantages. For example,
   agrochemical pesticides have the advantages of containing a high concentration of
   active ingredients, and the ability to incorporate various ingredients into the
   composition to increase the efficacy of the composition. However, many
   agrochemicals, in particular pesticide technical grades, have a disadvantage in that
20 they must be dissolved before use, which can be hazardous because of low flash
   points, environmental toxicity of the solvents, and require substantial mixing and bong
   dissolving times.
   There exists in the pesticide industry a great desire to find alternatives to currently used
25 solvents such as isophorone, MBK, NMP, etc. which may be expensive, difficult to
   source and/or are environmentally unattractive due to their inherent phylotoxicity,
   toxicity e.g. teratogenicity or regulatory status.
   Field tests have shown that certain environmentally favorable solvents may show a
   negative crop response with excess phytotoxicity.
30
   Hence, there is a need in the agricuItural industry for solvents that are capable of
   maintaining a wide variety of pesticides in solution and that have a reduced toxic
   response both to the environment and to the crop that is sprayed.
35 Amides and their use in agrochemical formulations as solvents for inhibiting crystal
   formation are generally known:
   EP 0 044 955 described the use of amides as solvent for liquid herbicide compositions
   comprising a pyridazorie-derivative and a bis-carbamate.
40

                                            2
DE 43 41 986 describes the use of amides for the inhibition of crystal formation of
agricultural compositions comprising azole-derivatives.
WO 2008/101629 describes biocide compositions comprising at least one
dialkylamide based on oleic or linoleic acid, and at least one biocide wherein said
dialkylamides reduce the tendency to form crystals.
WO 2010/009829 describes that agricultural compositions comprising biocides
and C8-C12 fatty acid dialkyl amides wherein said C8-C12 fatty acid dialkyl amides
are said to be excellent solvents for a wide range of different herbicides,
insecticides and fungicides.
The amides disclosed in the prior art are said to have good solvent properties and
that they are capable of inhibiting crystal formation. However, the present
inventors have found that certain carboxylic acid amides known in the art have a
phytotoxic effect on the plants.
The present invention is directed to identifying a carboxylic acid amide which is
well suited to solve pesticides while being less phytotoxic to plants. Furthermore,
the carboxylic acid amide should make possible a storage-stable formulation of
the pesticides.
In particular, the invention is directed to an aqueous composition having improved
solvent properties and low phytotoxicity towards desirable plant growth
comprising a pesticide and a carboxylic acid amide according to formula (A)
            0
      Ri         N   R3
                 R2
                              (A)
    where
     R1 is C2-C8 alkyl, and

                                          2a
   R2 and R3, independently of one another, are C1-C6 alkyl, under the proviso
   that R2 is not Ci-alkyl when R3 is Ci-alkyl,
   under the proviso that, if R2 and R3 are C4-alkyl and R1 is C2-alkyl or if R2
   and R3 are C2-alkyl and R1 is C3-alkyl or if R2 and R3 are C3-alkyl and R1 is
 5 C3-alkyl, the pesticide is not chloridazon, brompyrazon or carbamate, and
   under the proviso that, if R2 and R3 are C2-alkyl and R1 is C7-C8-alkyl or if R2
   and R3 are C3-alkyl and R1 is C3-C5-alkyl or C7-C8-alkyl or if R2 and R3 are
   C4-alkyl and R1 is C2-C5-alkyl or C7-C8-alkyl, the pesticide is not an azole
   derivative according to formula (B)
10

                                            3
             R
       R-C--R
            CH 2
            N
         N-           (B)
   wherein
   R6 is
 5
           -CH2-CH 2       /       Cl
   R7 is tert.-butyl and R8 is hydroxyl, or
   R6 is 4-fluorphenyl, R7 is 2-fluorphenyl and R8 is hydroxyl, or
10 R6 is 2,4-dichlorphenyl, R7 is n-butyl and R8 is hydroxyl, or
   R6 is
   -CH2-CH      2    /&      CI
   R7 is phenyl and R8 is cyano, or
15 R6 is 2-chlor-benzyl, R7 is 1-chlor-cycloprop-1-yl and R8 is hydroxyl, or
   R 6 is 4-chlorphenyl
   R7 is
      -CH
         CHa
   and R 8 is hydroxyl;
20 and/or an azole-derivative according to formula (C)
    R --             O-CH-Y-C(C          3
                         N'N
                       N   J
                                            (C)
   wherein
   Y is -CH(OH) and R9 is chlor or phenyl, or
25 Y is CO and R9 is chlor
   and/or an azole-derivative according to formula (D)

                                               4
                      W            OH
           Cj-6          CH=1C-CH-C(CHgA
                               r'N
                             IN 1(D)
        wherein R10 is hydrogen or chlor,
        and/or 1-([bis-(4-fluorphenyl)-methyl-silyl]-methyl)-1 H-(1,2,4-triazol) according
        to formula (E)
                         CHa
                           I3
           IF -&           IF
                         CH2
                        (N'N
                       Nd
 5                    N- 1 1            (E)
        and/or 1-[3-(2-chlorphenyl)-2-(4-fluorphenyl)-oxiran-2-yl-methyl]-1 H-(1,2,4
        triazol according to formula (F)
                           0       C1
          F                 CH
                         C"  2
                         N
                                          (F).
   More particularly, the invention is directed to an aqueous composition comprising
10 a pesticide and a carboxylic acid amide according to formula (A)
            0
    R1)         N I-'R3
                R2
                            (A)
   where

                                             4a
           R1 is C7 alkyl, and
           R2 and R3 are C4-alkyl
   with the proviso that, the pesticide is not an azole-derivative according to formula
   (B)
       R
   R-C--R
       CH2
       N
 5  N(B)
   wherein
   R6 is
   -CHr-CH 2       /    ~Ci
   R7 is tert.-butyl and R8 is hydroxyl, or
10 R6 is 4-fluorphenyl, R7 is 2-fluorphenyl and R8 is hydroxyl, or
   R6 is 2,4-dichlorphenyl, R7 is n-butyl and R8 is hydroxyl, or
   R6 is
   -CHy---CH 2     /       Ci
   R7 is phenyl and R8 is cyano, or

                                              4b
   R6  is 2-chlor-benzyl, R7 is 1-chlor-cycloprop-1 -yl and R8 is hydroxyl, or
   R6  is 4-chlorphenyl
   R7 is
     -CH-
        CH3
 5 and R8 is hydroxyl;
   and/or an azole-derivative according to formula (C)
    Re             O-CH-Y-C(CH        3
                      N,
                                         (C)
   wherein
   Y is -CH(OH) and R9 is chlor or phenyl, or
10 Y is CO and R9 is chlor
   and/or an azole-derivative according to formula (D)
                RO           OH
     CI-Rj         CHH=C-CH-C(CH3
                         N,
                      N-  11
                                             (D)
   wherein R10 is hydrogen or chlor,

                                             4c
   and/or 1-([bis-(4-fIuorphenyl)-methyl-silyl]-methyl)-1 H-(1 ,2,4-triazol) according to
   formula (E)
                   CH3
     F                          F
                   OH2
                  (N'N
                 Nd
                N    J             (E)
   and/or   1-[3-(2-chlorphenyl)-2-(4-fluorphenyl)-oxiran-2-yl-methyl]-1 H-(1 ,2,4-triazol
 5 according to formula (F)
                     0      C
                   CH2
                   N
                N    1               (F).
   The present inventors have surprisingly found that certain amides have no or only
   a minimal phytotoxic effect on plants while maintaining their property of solving a
10 wide range of pesticides.
   In a preferred embodiment, R2 and R3 are C2-C4 alkyl and R1 is C2-C8 alkyl.
   More preferably, R2 and R3 are C2-C4 alkyl and R1 is C2-C7 alkyl. In an even
   more preferred embodiment, R2 and R3 are C2-C4-alkyl and R1 is C2-alkyl, in
15 particular R2 and R3 are C4-alkyl and R1 is C2-alkyl. In a further preferred
   embodiment, R2 and R3 are C4-alkyl and R1 is C7-alkyl.
   The term "alkyl" as used herein denotes in each case a straight-chain or
   branched alkyl group. In the context of the present invention, "straight-chain alkly"

                                        4d
shall also mean linear alkyl. Examples of an alkyl group are methyl, ethyl, n
propyl, iso-propyl, n-butyl,

                                                   5
   2-butyl, iso-butyl, tert-butyl, n-pentyl, 1-methybuty, 2-methylbutyi, 3-methylbutyl, 2,2
   di
   methylpropyl, 1-ethylpropyl, n-hexyl, 1, 1-dirnethyJpropy, 1 ,2-dimethylpropyl, 1
   methylpentyl, 2-methylpentyli, 3-methylpentyl, 4-rnethylpentyl, 1,1-dimethylbutyl, 1,2
 5 dimethylbuty, 1 3-dimethylbutyl, 2,2-dimethytbuty, 2,3-dimethylbutyl, 3,3
   dimethylbutyl, 1-ethylbutyl, 2-ethylbutyl, 1,1,2- trimethyipropyl, 1 2,2-trinethylpropyl, I
   ethyl-i -rnethylpropyl, and 1-ethyl-2-rnethylpropyl, etc.
   In another preferred embodiment, the present invention pertains to an aqueous
10 composition comprising a pesticide and a carboxylic acid amide according to formula
   (A)
                 0
              RR3
                      R2
                                    (A)
   wherein R2 and R3 are straight-chain Cralky and RI is straight-chain C?-alkyl. Such a
15 carboxylic acid aides are also known as N,N-D-n-buty-n-Octanamid or N,N-Di-n
   butyi caprylamide.
   The term pesticide refers to at least one active substance selected from the group of
   the fungicides, insecticides, nematicides, herbicides, safeners, molluscicides,
20 rodenticides and/or growth regulators. Preferred pesticides are fungicides, insecticides,
   herbicides and growth regulators. Especially preferred pesticides are herbicides,
   fungicides and insecticides. Mixtures of pesticides from two or more of the
   abovementioned classes may also be used. The skilled person is familiar with such
   pesticides, which can be found, for example, in Pesticide Manual, 14th Ed. (2006), The
25 British Crop Protection Council, London. The above disclosed pesticides can be
   combined with any carboxylic acid amide of the present invention. Suitable pesticides
   that can be combined with the carboxylic acid amides of the present invention are:
   A) strobilurins:
30     azoxystrobin, dimoxystrobin, coumoxystrobin, coumethoxystrobin, enestroburin,
       fluoxastrobin, kresoxirn-methyl, metominostrobin, orysastrobin, picoxystrobin,
       pyraclostrobin, pyrametostrobin, pyraoxystrobin, pyribencarb, trifloxystrobin, methyl
       2-[2-(2,5-d imethylphenyloxymethyl)phenyl]-3-methoxyacrylate, 2-(2-(3-(2,6-di
       chiorophenyl)- 1-methylal !yldeneam inooxymethyl)phenyl)-2-methoxyimi no-N
35     methylacetamide;
   B) carboxamides:
   - carboxanilides: benalaxyl, benalaxyl-M, benodand, bixafen, boscalid, carboxin,
       fenfurarn, fenhexamid, flutolanil, furametpyr, isopyrazam, isotianil, kiralaxyl,
       mepronil, metalaxyl, metalaxyl-M (mefenoxam), ofurace, oxadixyl, oxycarboxin,

                                                  6
      penflufen (N-(2-(1,3-dimethylbuty)p henyl)- 1,3-d imethyl-5-fl uoro-1 H-pyrazoie-4
      carboxamide), penthiopyrad, sedaxane, tecioftalam, thifluzamide, tiadinil, 2-amino
      4-methylthiazoe-5-carboxanilide, N-(3',4',5'-trifluorobiphenyl-2-yl)-3-difluoromethy
       1-methyl-1 H-pyrazole-4-ca rboxamide, N-(4'-trifluoromethytthiobiphenyE-2-yl)-3
 5    difluoromethyl-I -methyl-1 H-pyrazole-4-carboxamide, N-(2-(1,3,3-trimethylbutyi)
      phenyl)-1, 3-dimethyl-5-fluaro-1 H-pyrazole-4-carboxamide;
   - carboxylic acid morpholides: dimethomorph, flumorph, pyrimorph;
   - benzamides: flumetover, fluopicolide, fluopyram, zoxamid;
   - other carboxamides: carpropamid, diclocymet, mandipropamid. oxytetracyclin,
10    silthiofam, N-(6-methoxypyridin-3-yl)cyclopropanecarboxamide;
   C) azoles:
   - triazoles: azaconazole, bitertanol, bromuconazole, cyproconazole, difenoconazoie,
      diniconazole, diniconazole-M, epoxiconazole, fenbuconazoe, fluquinconazole,
      flusilazole, flutriafol, hexaconazole, imibenconazole, ipoonazole, metconazole,
15    myclobutanil, oxpoconazole, paclobutrazoe, periconazole, propiconazoie,
      prothioconazoae, simeconazole, tebuconazole, tetraconazole, triadimefon,
      triadimenol, triticonazole, uniconazole;
   - imidazoles: cyazofamid, imazalil, imazalil sulfate, pefurazoate, prochloraz,
      trifiunizole;
20 - benzimidazoles: benomyl, carbendazim, fuberidazole, thiabendazole;
   - others: ethaboxam, etridiazoie, hymexazole, 2-(4-chloropheny)-N-[4-(3,4
      dimethoxyphenyi)isoxazol-5-yl-2-prop-2-ynyloxyacetamide;
   D) nitrgenous heterocycyl compounds
   - pyridines: fluazinam, pyrifenox, 3-[5-(4-chloropheny)-2,3-dimethyisoxazoi[din-3-y]
25    pyridine, 3-[5-(4-methylphenyl)-2,3-dimethylisoxazolidi n-3-yljpyridine;
   - pyrimidines: bupirimate, cyprodinil, diflurnetorim, fenarimo, ferirnzone,
      mepanipyrim, nrtrapyri,      nufrimol, pyrimethanil;
   -  piperazines: triforine;
   -  pyrroles: fludioxonil, fenpicloni;
30 -  morpholines: aldimorph, dodemorph, dodemorph acetate, fenpropimorph,
      tridemorph;
   -  piperidines: fenpropidin;
   -  dicarboximides: fluorimid, iprodione, procymidone, vinclozolin;
   -  nonaromatic 5-membered heterocyclic rings: famoxadon, fenamidon, flutianil,
35    octhilinone, probenazole, S-allyl 5-amino-2-isopropy-3-oxo-4-orthotoly-2,3-dihydro
      pyrazole-1 -thiocarboxylate;
   -  others: acibenzolar-S-methyl, amisuibrom, anjiazin, blasticidin-S, captafol, captain,
      quinomethionate, dazomet, debacarb, dicomezine, difenzoquat, dffenzoquat
      methylsulfate, fenoxanil, folpet, oxotinic acid, piperaHn, proquinazid, pyroquilon,
40    quinoxyfen, triazoxide, tricycLazoie, 2-butoxy-6-iodo-3-propyichromen-4-one,
      5-chloro-1-(4,6-dimethoxypyrimidin-2-yl)-2-methyl-IH-benzimidazole, 5-chioro-7-(4-

                                                   7
       methyl piperidin-1 -yI)-6-(2,4,6-trifluorophenyl)-[1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-a]pyr[midins,
       5-ethyl-6-octyl-f 1,2,4]triazolo[ 1,5-apyrim idi n-7-ylami ne:
   E) carbamates and dithiocarbamates
   - thin- and dthiocarbamates: ferbam, mancozeb, maneb, metarn, methasulphocarb,
 5     metiram, propineb, thiram, zineb, ziram;
   -   carbamates: diethofencarb, benthiavalicarb, iprovalicarb, proparnocarb,
       propamocarb hydrochloride, valiphenal, (4-fluorophenyl) N-(1-(1-(4
       cyanophenyl)ethanesulfonyl)-but-2-yl)carbamate;
   F) other fungicides
10 - guanidines: dodine, dodine free base, guazatine, guazatine acetate, iminoctadine,
       iminoctadine triacetate, iminactadine tris(albesilate);
   - antibiotics: kasugamycin, kasugamycin hydrochloride hydrate, polyoxins,
       streptomycin, validamycin A;
   -   nitrophenyl derivatives: binapacryl, dicloran, dinobuton, dinocap, nitrothal-isopropyl,
15     tecnazene;
   -   organometallic compounds: fentin salts such as, for example, fentin acetate, fentin
       chloride, fentin hydroxide;
   -   sulfurous heterocycyl compounds: dithianon, isoprothiolans;
   -   organophosphorus compounds: edifenphos, fosety, fosetyl-aluminum, iprobenfos,
20     phosphorous acid and its salts, pyrazophos, toiclofos-methyl;
   -   organoch orine compounds: chlorthalonil, dichlofluanid, dichlorphen, flusu famide,
       hexachlorobenzens, pencycuron, pentachlorophenol and its salts, phthalide,
       quintozene, thiophanate-methyl, tolylfluanid, N-(4-chloro-2-nitropheny)-N-ethyl-4
       methylbenzenesulfonamide;
25 -   inorganic active substances: phosphorous acid and its salts, Bordeaux mixture,
       copper salts such as, for example, copper acetate, copper hydroxide, copper
       oxychloride, basic copper sulfate, sulfur;
   -   biological products for controlling fungi, plant strengthening products: Badllus
       subtis strain NRRL No. B-21661 (for example the products RHAPSODYo,
30     SERENADE MAX and SERENADE ASO from AgraQuest, Inc., USA.), Bacllus
       pumilus strain NRRL No. B-30087 (for example SONATA® and BALLAD® Pius from
       AgraQuest, Inc., USA), U/oc/adium oudemans#/(for example BOTRY-ZEN from
       BotriZen Ltd., New Zealand), chitosan (for example ARMOUR-ZEN from BotriZen
       Ltd., New Zealand).
35 -   others: biphenyl, branopol, cyflufenamid, cymoxanil, diphenytamine, metrafenon,
       mildiomycin, oxine-copper, prohexadione-calcium, spiroxamin, tolyfluanid, N
       (cyclopropymethoxyim ino-(6-difluoromethoxy-2,3-difluorophenyl)methyl)-2-phenyl
       acetamide, N'-(4-{4-chlo-3-trifluoromethylphenoxy)-2,5-dimethylphenyl)-N-ethyl
       N-methylformamidine, N'-(4-(4-fluoro-3-trifluoromethytphenoxy)-2,5
40     dimethylphenyl)-N-ethyl-N-methylformam idine, N'-(2-methy-5-trfiuoromethyl-4-(3
       tri methylsilanylpropoxy)phenyl)-N-ethyl-N-methylformamid ine, N'-(5-difluoromethyl
       2-methyl-4-(3-trimsthylsilanyipropoxy)phenyl)-N-ethyl-N-methylformamidins, N-

                                                     8
      methy-(1,2,3,4-tetrahydmnaphthalen-1 -yl)-2-{1-[2-(5-methyl-3
      triflucromethylpyrazo-1-yl)acetyljptperidin-4-yl)thiazole-4-carboxylate, N-methy-(R)
      1,2,3, 4-tetrahydronaphthalen-1-yI 2-1 -[2-(S-methyl-3-trifluoromethylpyrazok1
      yl)acetyl]piperidin-4-yl)thiazole-4-carboxylate, 6-tert-buty-8-fluoro-2,3
 5    dimethylquinolin-4-yl acetate, 6-tert-buty-8-fluoro-2,3-dimethylquinolin-4-yt
      methoxyacetate, Mmnethyi2-{1-[2-(5-methy[-3-trifljoromethy-1H-pyrazol-1
      yk)a cetylpi peridi n-4-yl)- Mf(l R)- 1,2,3,4-tetrahyd ronaphthalen- 1 -y] 4
      thiazoecarboxamide;
   G) growth regulators
10    abscisic acid, arnidochlor, ancymidole, 6-benzylaminopurine, brassinoide, butralin,
      chlormequat (chiormequat chloride), choline chloride, cyclanilid, daminozide,
      dikeguia, dimethipin, 2,6-dimethylpuridine, ethephon, flumetralin, flurprimidol,
      fluthiacet, forchlorfenuron, gibberellic acid, inabenfid, indote-3-acetic acid, maleic
      hydrazide, meftuidid, mepiquat (mepiquat chloride), metconazole,
15    naphthaleneacetic acid, N-6-benzyladenine, padobutrazole, prohexadione
      (prohexadione-calcium), prohydrojasmone, th[diazuron, triapentheni,
      tributylphosphorotrithioate, 2,3,5-triodobenzoic acid, trinexapac-ethyt and
      unicknazole;
   H) herbicides
20 -  acetamide: acetochlor, alachlor, butachlor, dimethachlor, dimethenamid, flufenacet
      mefenacet, metolachtor, metazachlor, napropamid, naproanilid, pethoxamid,
      pretlachlor, propachior, thenykhlor;
   -  amino acid analogs: bilanafos, glyphosate, glufosinate, sulfosate;
   -  aryloxyphenoxypropionates: ciodinafop, cyhalofop-buty, fenoxaprop, fiuazifop,
25    haloxyfop, metamifop, pmpaquizafop, quizalofop, quizalofop-P-tefuryl;
   -  bipyridyls: diquat, paraquat;
   -  carbamates and thiocarbamates: asulam, butylate, carbetamide, desmedipham,
      dimepiperat, eptarn (EPTC), esprocarb, molinate, orbencarb, phenmedipham,
      prosulfocarb, pyributicarb, thiobencarb, trialLate;
30 -  cyclohexanedioriest butroxydim, c6ethodim, cycloxydim, profoxydim, sethoxydim,
      tepraloxydim, tralkoxydi m;
   -  dinitroanilines: benfluralin, ethamfluralin, oryzalin, pendimethatin, prodiamine,
      trifluralin;
   -  diphenyl ethers: acifluorfen, aclonifen, bifenox, diclofop, ethoxyfen, fomesafen,
35    lactofen, oxyfluorfen;
   -  hydroxybenzonitriles: bromoxynil, dichlobenil, ioxynil;
   -  imidazolinones: imazarnethabenz, irnazamox, imazapic, irnazapyr, imazaquin,
      irazethapyr;
   -  phenoxyacetic acids: clorneprop, 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), 2,4-DB,
40    dichlorprop, MCPA, MCPA-thioethyl, MCPB, mecoprop;
   -  pyrazines: chloridazon, flufenpyr-ethy, fluthiacet, norflurazon, pyridate;

                                                     9
   -   pyridines.: aminopyralid, clopyralid, fiuferiican, dithiopyr, fluridorie, fluroxypyr,
       picIoratr, picolinafen, tbiazopyr;,
   -   s ukHnylureas: amidosulfu ron, azimsufHuron, bensulfu ron, chiorirrutron-ethyl,
       chlorsuffuron, cinosuiluron, cyocosuffamuron, ethoxysuffuron, ffazasulfuron, fluceto
 5     sutfur, flupyrsulluron, foramsullurori, halosulfurn, imazosulfu ron, lod osulfu ron,
       mesosuffuron, meteuffuron-methyl, nicos uffuron. oxasuffuronh primisu Ifuron, pro
       suluon, pyrazosulfuron, rimsulfuron, sulforneturon, sulfosulfuron, thifensufuron,
       triasulfu ron, triber irn, trifloxysulfu ron, trill usuit iiron, tritosulfu ron, I -( (2-chloro-6
       propylirn idazo[ 1,2-b]pyridazn-3-y )sulfonyl)-3-(4, 6-dim ethoxypyr ridinr-2-yI)urea;
10 - triazInes: ametryne. strazine, cyanazine, d&methamnetryne, ethiozine, hexazlnone,
      rnetamnitron, rnetribuzine, prornetryne, simazine, terbuthylazine, tetutryne,
      trianfinrn;
   -  ureas: chiortoluron, daimurn, diuran, fluometuron, isopmoturon, linuron, methabenz
      thiazu ron, tebuthiu ron;
15 - other acetolactate synthase inhibitors: bispyribac-sodlum, cloransulam-niethy,
      diclosulam, florasula m, 11  ucarbazone, flumretsu ham, rnetos u am, orthosulfa rruron,
      penoxsula m, pro poxycarbarone, pyd bambenz-propyl, pyri benroxim, pyriftlide,
      pyrim~nohac-methyl, pyrfrisufWan, pyrithiobac., pyroxasulfon, pyroxsulam;,
   - others: amicarbazone, amirtotriazole, anilofos, beflubutarn~d, benaroln,
20    bencarbazone, benfluresate, benzofenap, bentazone, berizbicyclon, bromaik,
      bromobutide, butaferiacil, butamifos, cafenstrohe, carfentrazone, cinidon-ethlyl,
      chiorthal, cinmethylin, domazone, cumyluron, cyprosulfamid, dicamba, diferizquat,
      diflufenropyr, Dreths/era monoceras, endothal, ethofumesate, etobenranid,
      fentrazamide, flurniclorc-pentyl, fkimtoxazin, flupoxam, fluorochiorkion, fturtamon,
25    indanofan, Isoxaben, isoxaflutol, LenadIl, propanil, propyzamide, quinclorac,
      quinmerac, rnesotrone, methylarsenic acid, naptalarn, oxadiargyl, oxadiazone,
      oxaziomefon, pentoxazone, pinoxaden, pyracboniI, pyraflufen-ethyl, pyrasulfotol,
      pyrazoxyfen, pyrazolynate, qu nocdamin, sefi ufenaclh, su Icotrione, sulfentrazone,
      tetaci, tefuryltrione, ternbotrione, thiencarbazone, top ramezone, 4-hydroxy-3-2-{2
30    mnethoxcyethoxyrnethyl )-6-trrnluororn ethyl pyrid in-3-carhonyqbicyclo[3.2.1 J] ct-3-en-2
      one,
      ethyl (3-[2-chloro-4-fluoro-S-(3-methy1-2,6-dioxo-4-trnluoromthy-3, 6.dihydro-2H
      pyridinr-i -yI)phenoxyj pyridi n-2-yloxy~acetate, methyl 6-amnino-5-chloro-2-cyclo
      propy~pyrieniine-4-.carboxylate, 6-chloro-3-(2-cyclopropyl-6-methylphenoxy)
35    pyridazin-4-ol, 4-ami no-3-cbhloro-6-(4-chlorophenyl)-5-fluoropyridi n-2-carboxylic add,
      methyl 4-am Fno-3-ch loro-6-(4-chloro-2-fluoro-3-methoxyphenyl) pyidin-2-caitoxylate
      and methyl 4-amino-43-chloro--4-chloro-3-dimethykamino-2-fluorophenyl)pyridin-2
      carboxylate;
   1)insectIcides
40 -   orgario(thio)phosphates: ecephate, azamethiphos, azinphos-mehy, chlorpyrifos,
       chlorpy4'ifos-methyl, chlorfenvinphos, diazinon, dichiorvos, dicrotophos, dimethoat,
       disulfotori, ethion, fenitrothion, fenthion, isoxathbon, malathion, methamidophos,

                                                 10
     methdathion, methyl-parathion, mevinphos, monocrotophos, oxydemetor-methyl,
     paraoxon, parathion, phenthoate, phosalone, phosmet, phospharnidon, phorate,
     phoxim, pirimiphos-methyl, profenofos, prothiofos, sulprophos, tetrachlorvinphos,
     terbufos, triazophos, trichlorfon;
 5 - carbamates: alanycarb, alicarb, bendiocarb, benfuracarb, carbaryl, carbofuran,
     carbosulfan, fenoxycarb, furathiocarb, methiocarb, methomyl, oxamyl, pirimicarb,
     propoxur, thiodicarb, triazamate;
   - pyrethroids: allethrin, bifenthrin, cyfluthrin, cyhalothrin, cyphenothrin, cypermethrin,
     alpha-cypermethrin, beta-cypermethrin, zeta-cyperrnethrin, deltamethrin,
10   esfenvalerate, etofenprox, fenpropathrin, fenvalerate, imiprothrin, lambda-cyhao
     thrin, permethrin, prallethrin, pyrethrin I and II, resmethrin, silafluofen., tau
     fluvalinate, tefluthrin, tetramethrin, tralomethrin, transfluthrin, profluthrin,
     dimefluthrin,
   - insect growth inhibitors: a) chitin synthesis inhibitors: benzoylureas: chlorfluazurnn,
15   cyrarnazi n, diflubenzuron, flucycaxuron, flufenoxuron, hexaflumuron, lufenuron,
     novaluron, teflubenzuron, triflumuron; buprofezin, diofenolan, hexythiazox,
     etoxazole, clofentazin; b) ecdysone antagonists: hakfenozide, methoxyfenozide,
     tebufenozida, azadirachtin; c) juvenoids: pyriproxyfen, methoprene, fenoxycarb;
     d) lipid biosynthesis inhibitors: spirodickofen, spiromesifen, spirotetrarnate;
20 - nicotine receptor agonists/antagonists: clothianidin, dinotefuran, imidacloprid,
     thiamethoxam, nitenpyram, acetamiprid, thiacloprid, 1-(2-chlorothiazol-5-ylmethyl)
     2-nitrimino-3,5-dimethyl-[1,3,5]triazinane;
   - GABA antagonists: endosulfan, ethiprole, fipronil, vaniliprole, pyrafluprole, pyriprole,
     N-5-amino-1-(2,6-dichioro-4-methylphenyl)-4-sulfinarmoyi-1H-pyrazole-3-th iocarbox
25   amide;
   - macrocyclic lactones: abamectin, emamectin, milbemectin, lepirnectin, spinosad,
     spi netoram;
   - mitochondrial electron transport chain inhibitor (METI) I acaricides: fenazaquin,
     pyridaben, tebufenpyrad, tolfenpyrad, flufenerim;
30 - METI 11 and IlI substances: acequinocyl, fluacyprim, hydrarnethynone;
   - decouplers: chiorfenapyr;
   - inhibitors of oxidative phosphorykition: cyhexatin, diafenthiuron, fenbutatin oxide,
     propargite;
   - insect ecdysis inhibitors: cryomazin;
35 - "mixed function oxidase' inhibitors: piperonyl butoxide;
   - sodium channel blockers: indoxacarb, metaflumizon;
   - others: benclothiaz, bifenazate, cartap, flonicamid, pyridalyi, pymetrozin, sulfur,
     thiocyclam, flubendiamid, chlorantraniiprole, cyazypyr (HGW86); cyanopyrafen,
     flupyrazofos, cyflumetofen, amidoflumet, imicyafos, bistrifluron and
40   pyrifluquinazons.

                                                11
   In a preferred embodiment, the composition comprises a carboxylic acid amide as
   defined above and a pesticide selected from the group consisting of anilide,
   nitrophenylether, pyridine, triazole, methoxycarbamate, strobilurine, pyrazole. In a
   further preferred embodiment, the composition comprLses a carboxylic acid amide as
 5 defined above and a pesticide selected from the group consisting of tebuconazole,
   pyraclostrobin and fluxapyroxad.
   In another preferred embodiment, the present invention pertains to an aqueous
10 composition comprising a pesticide and a carboxylic acid amide according to formula
   (A)
                0
              RR3
                     R2
                                  (A)
   wherein R2 and R3 are straight-chain Cralky and RI is straight-chain C?-alkyl and
15 wherein the pesticide is selected from fungicides, herbicides and insecticides,
   preferably from the group consisting of anitide, nitrophenylether, pyrkdine, triazole,
   methoxycarbamate, strobhiurine and pyrazole, even more preferably from the group
   consisting of tebuconazole, pyraclostrobin and fluxapyroxad.
20 The compositions according to the invention can furthermore also comprise adjuvants
   conventionally used for agrochernical formulations, the choice of the adjuvants
   depending on the specific use form, the type of formulation or the active substance.
   Examples of suitable adjuvants are solvents, solid carriers, surface-active substances
   (such as surfactants, solubilizers, protective colloids, wetters and tackifiers), organic
25 and inorganic thickeners, bactericides, antifreeze agents, antifoams, optionally
   colorants and adhesives (for example for the treatment of seed) or conventional
   adjuvants for bait formulations (for exampte attractants, feedants, bittering substances).
   The compositions according to the present invention can also comprise further oil
   components and/or co-solvents other than carboxylic acid am ides as defined above.
30 Suitable oil components and co-solvents are water or organic solvents such as mineral
   oil fractions of medium to high boxing point such as kerosene and diesel oil,
   furthermore coaI tar oils and oils of vegetable or animal origin, aliphatic, cyclic and
   aromatic hydrocarbons, for example paraffins, tetrahydronaphthalene, alkylated
   naphthalenes and their derivatives, alkylated benzenes and their derivatives, alcohols
35 such as methanol, ethanol, propanol, butanol and cyciohexanol, glycols, ketones such
   as cyclohexanone, gamma-butyrolactone, fatty acids and fatty acid esters, and strongly
   polar solvents, for example amines such as N-methylpyrroldone. In principle, it is also

                                                 12
   possible to use solvent mixtures and mixtures of the abovementioned solvents and
   water.
   The compositions of the present invention can also comprise solid carriers. Solid
 5 carrers are mineral earths such as silicas, silica gels, silicates, talc, kaolin, limestone,
   lime, chalk, bole, Joess, clay, dolomite, diatomaceous earth, calcium and magnesium
   sulfate, magnesium oxide, ground synthetic materials, fertilizers such as ammonium
   sulfate, ammonium phosphate, ammonium nitrate, ureas and vegetable products such
   as cereal meal, tree bark meal, wood meal and nutshell meal, cellulose powders or
10 other solid carriers.
   The compositions of the present invention can additionally comprise surface-active
   substances. Surface-active substances (adjuvants, wetters, tackifiers, dispersants or
   emulsifiers) which are suitable to be used in combination with the compositions of the
15 present invention are the alkali metal, alkaline-earth metal, ammonium salts of aromatic
   sulfonic acids, for example of lignosulfonic acid (Borresperses types, Borregaard,
   Norway), phenolsulfonic acid, naphthalenesulfonc acid (MorwetO types, Akzo Nobel,
   USA) and dibutylnaphthalenesulfonic acid (NekalO types, BASF, Germany), and of fatty
   acids, alky- and alkylarylsulfonates, alkyl ether, lauryl ether and fatty alcohol sulfates,
20 and salts of sulfated hexa-, hepta- and octadecanols and of fatty alcohol grycoA ethers,
   condensates of sulfonated naphthalene and its derivatives with formaldehyde,
   condensates of naphthalene or of the naphthalenesulfonic acids with phenol and
   formaldehyde, polyoxyethylene octyiphenol ether, ethoxylated isooctyl-, octyl- or
   nonylphenol, alkylphenyl polyglycol ethers, tributylphenyl polyglycol ether, alkylaryl
25 polyether alcohols, isotridecyl alcohol, fatty alcohol/ethylene oxide condensates,
   ethoxylated castor oil, polyoxyethylene or polyoxypropylene alkyl ethers, lauryl alcohol
   polyglycol ether acetate, sorbitol esters, ignin-sulfite liquors and proteins, denatured
   proteins, polysaccharides (for example methylcellulose), hydrophobe-modified
   starches, polyvinyl alcohol (MowioP types, Clariant, Switzerland), polycarboxylates
30 (SokalanO types, BASF, Germany), polyalkoxylates, polyvinylamine (LupaminO types,
   BASF, Germany), polyethyleneimine (LupasolO types, BASF, Germany), polyvinyl
   pyrrolidone and their copolymers.
   The composition according to the invention may comprise from 0.1 to 40% by weight,
35 preferably from 1 to 30 and in particular from 2 to 20% by weight of surface-active
   substances (as disclosed above), the amount of the carboxylic acid amide not being
   taken into consideration.
   Suitable thickeners that can be used in a composition of the present invention are
40 compounds which impart to the formulation a modified flow behavior, i.e. hrgh viscosity
   at rest and low viscosity in the agitated state. Examples are polysaccharides, proteins
   (such as casein or gelatins), synthetic polymers, or inorganic layered minerals. Such

                                                13
   thickeners are commercially available, for example Xanthan Gum (Kelzar®, CP Kelco,
   USA), Rhodopo* 23 (Rhodia, France) or Veegum (R.T. Vanderbit, USA) or Attaclay*
   (Engelhard Corp., NJ, USA). The thickener content in the formulation depends on the
   efficacy of the thickener. The skilled person will choose an amount suitable to obtain
 5 the desired viscosity of the formulation. The content will amount to from 0.01 to 10% by
   weight in most cases.
   Bactericides may be added in order to stabilize the composition of the present
   invention. Examples of bactericides are those based on diciorophene and benzyl
10 alcohol hemiformal and also isothilazolinone derivatives such as alkylisothiazolinones
   and benznisothiazolinones (Acticide* MBS from Thor Che mie). Examples of suitable
   antifreeze agents are ethylene glyco, propylene glycol, urea and glycerol. Examples of
   antifoams are silicone emulsions (such as, for example, Silikon* SRE, Wacker,
   Germany or RhodorsilO, Rhodia, France), long-chain alcohols, fatty acids, salts of fatty
15 acids, organofluorine compounds and mixtures of these.
   The composition according to the invention can preferably be present in the form of an
   agrochemical formulation. Examples of such formulations and their preparation are:
   i) Water-soluble concentrates (SL, LS): 10 parts by weight of the active substances
20      are dissolved using 90 parts by weight of water or a water-soluble solvent.
        Alternatively, wetters or other adjuvants are added. Upon dilution in water, the
        active substance dissolves. This gives a composition with an active substance
        content of 10% by weight.
   ii) Dispersible concentrates (DC): 20 parts by weight of the active substances are
25      dissoved in 70 parts by weight of NMP with addition of 10 parts by weight of a
        dispersant, for example polyvinylpyrrolidone. Upon dilution in water, a dispersion is
        obtained. The active substance content amounts to 20% by weight.
   iii) Emuisifiable concentrates (EC): 15 parts by weight of the active substances are
        dissolved in 75 parts by weight of solvent naphta with addition of calcium
30      dodecylbenzenesuffonate and castor oil ethoxylate (in each case 5 parts by
        weight). Upon dilution in water, an emulsion is obtained. The composition has an
        active substance content of 15% by weight.
   iv) Emuisions (EW, EO, ES): 25 parts by weight of the active substances are
        dissolved in 35 parts by weight of xylene with addition of calcium dodecylbenzene
35      sulfonate and castor oil ethoxylate (in each case 5 parts by weight). Using an
        emulsifier (for example Ultra-Turrax), this mixture is placed into 30 parts by weight
        of water and made into a homogeneous emulsion. Upon dilution in water, an
        emulsion is obtained. The composition has an active substance content of 25% by
        weight.
40 v) Suspensions (SC, OD, FS): 20 parts by weight of the active substances are
        comminuted with addition of 10 parts by weight of dispersants and wetters and 70
        parts by weight of water or an organic solvent in a stirred-balI milI to give a finely

                                                 14
         divided active substance suspension. Upon dilution in water, a stable suspension
         of the active substance is obtained. The active substance content in the
         composition amounts to 20% by weight.
   vi) Water-dispersible and water-soluble granules (WG, SG): 50 parts by weight of the
 5       active substances are ground finely with addition of 50 parts by weight of
         dispersants and wetters and formu ated as water-dispersible or water-soluble
         granules by means of technical apparatuses (for example extrusion, spray tower,
         fluidized bed). Upon dilution in water, a stable dispersion or solution of the active
         substance is obtained. The composition has an active substance content of 50%
10       by weight.
   vii) Water-dispersible and water-soluble powders (WP, SP, SS, WS): 75 parts by
         weight of the active substances are ground in a rotor-stator mill with addition of 25
         parts by weight of dispersants and wetters and also silica gel. Upon dilution in
         water, a stable dispersion or solution of the active substance is obtained. The
15       active substance content of the composition amounts to 75% by weight.
   viii) Gels (GF): in a bal6 mil, 20 parts by weight of the active substances, 10 parts by
         weight of dispersant, I part by weight of geling agent and 70 parts by weight of
         water or an organic solvent are ground to give a fine suspension. Upon dilution
         with water, a stable suspension with an active substance content of 20% by weight
20       is obtained.
   ix) Dusts (DP, DS): 5 parts by weight of the active substances are ground finely and
         mixed intimately with 95 parts by weight of finely divided kaolin. This gives a dust
         with an active substance content of 5% by weight.
   x)    Granules (GR, FG, GG, MG): 0.5 part by weight of the active substances is ground
25       finely and associated with 99.5 parts by weight of carriers. Conventional methods
         to this end are extrusion, spray-drying or the fluidized bed. This gives granules for
         direct application with an active substance content of 0.5% by weight.
   xi) ULV solutions (UtL): 10 parts by weight of the active substances are dissolved in 90
         parts by weight of an organic solvent, for example xylene. This gives a composition
30       to be applied directly with an active substance content of 10% by weight.
   In a preferred embodiment, the compositions of the present invention are emulsifiable
   concentrates (EC).
35 In general, the compositions of the present invention comprise from 0.01 to 95% by
   weight, preferably from 0.1 to 90% by weight, of the pesticides.
   In most cases, the composition according to the invention comprises from 0.1 to 90%
   by weight of the carboxylic acid amide as defined above, preferably from 10 to 80% by
40 weight and in particu Ear from 20 to 70% by weight.
   In a preferred embodiment, the composition according to the invention comprises

                                                  15
   5 to 60% by weight of pesticide as defined above,
   1 to 30% by weight of surface-active substances as defined above,
   0 to 50% by weight of oJ1 components and/or co-solvents, and
   0.1 to 90% by weight of carboxylic acid amide as defined above,
 5 on the condition that the amounts add with water to 100% by weight.
   The user will generally use the composition according to the invention in a premetering
   device, in a knapsack sprayer, in a spray tank or in a spraying aircraft. Here, said
   composition is brought to the desired use concentration with water and/or buffer,
10 optionally with addition of further auxiliaries, whereby the ready-to-use spray mixture
   (known as a tank mix) is obtained. Usually, 50 to 500 liters of the ready-to-use spray
   mixture are applied per hectare of utilizable agricultural area, preferably from 100 to
   400 liters. In specific segments the amounts may also be above (e.g., fruit growing) or
   below (e.g., aircraft application) these amounts. The active substance concentrations in
15 the ready-to-use preparations may be varied within substantial ranges. In general, they
   are between 0.0001 and 10%, preferably between 0.01 and 1%.
   Oils of various types, wetters, drift reduction agents, stickers, spreaders, adjuvants,
   fertilizers, plant-strengthening products, trace elements, herbicides, bactericides,
20 fungicides and/or pesticides may be added to the active substances or to the
   preparations comprising them, optionally also to the tank mix, immediately prior to use.
   These products can be admixed to the compositions according to the invention in the
   weight ratio 1:100 to 100:1, preferably 1:10 to 10:1. Adjuvants which are suitable within
   this context are in particular: organic-modified polysiloxanes, for example Break Thru S
25 240*; alcohol alkoxylates, for example Atpluse 245, AtplusP MBA 1303, Pluraface LF
   300 and Lutensol ON 30; EO/PO block polymers, for example Pluronice RPE 2035
   and GenapoP B; alcohol ethoxylates, for example Lutensoo XP 80; and sodium dioctyl
   sulfosuccinate, for example Leopheno RA.
30 Depending on the nature of the desired effect, the application rates of the active
   substance when used in plant protection are between 0.001 and 2.0 kg of active
   substance per ha, preferably between 0.005 and 2 kg per ha, especially preferably
   between 0.05 and 0.9 kg per ha, in particular between 0.1 and 0.75 kg per ha.
35 The present invention furthermore relates to a method for controlling phytopathogenic
   fungi and/or undesirable plant growth and/or undesirable insect or mite infestation
   and/or for regulating the growth of plants, wherein the composition according to the
   present invention as defined above isa0owed to act on the respective pests, the habit
   thereof or the plants to be protected from the respective pest, on the soil and/or on
40 undesirable plants and/or the crop plants and/or the habitat thereof.

                                                 16
    Examples of suitable crop plants are cereals, for example wheat, rye, barley, triticale,
   oats or rice; beet, for exam pte sugar or fodder beet; pome fruit, stone fruit and soft fruit,
   for example apples, pears, plums, peaches, almonds, cherries, strawberries,
    raspberries, currants or gooseberries; legumes, for example beans, lentils, peas,
 5  lucerne or soybeans; oil crops, for example oilseed rape, mustard, olives, sunflowers,
    coconut, cacao, castor beans, oil palm, peanuts or soybeans; cucurbits, for example
    pumpkins/squash, cucumbers or melons: fiber crops, for example cotton, flax, hemp or
   jute; citrus fruit, for example oranges, lemons, grapefruit or tangerines; vegetable
    plants, for example spinach. lettuce, asparagus, cabbages, carrots, onions, tomatoes,
10  potatoes, pumpkin/squash or capsicums; plants of the laurel family, for example
    avocados, cinnamon or camphor; energy crops and industrial feedstock crops, for
    example maize, soybeans, wheat, oilseed rape, sugar cane or oil palm; tobacco; nuts;
    coffee; tea; bananas; wine (dessert grapes and grapes for vinification); hops; grass, for
    example turf; sweetleaf (Stevia rebaudania); rubber plants and forest plants, for
15  example flowers, shrubs, deciduous trees and coniferous trees, and propagation
    material, for example seeds, and harvested products of these plants.
   The term crop plants also includes those plants which have been modified by breeding,
    mutagenesis or recombinant methods, including the biotechnological agricultural
20  products which are on the market or in the process of being developed. Genetically
    modified plants are plants whose genetic material has been modified in a manner
   which does not occur under natural conditions by hybridizing, mutations or natural
    recombination (i.e. recombination of the genetic material). Here, one or more genes
   will, as a rule, be integrated into the genetic material of the plant in order to improve the
25  plant's properties. Such recombinant modifications also comprise posttranslational
    modifications of proteins, oligo- or polypeptides, for example by means of glycosylation
    or binding of polymers such as, for example, prenylated, acetylated or famesyiated
    residues or PEG residues.
30  Examples which may be mentioned are plants which, as the result of plant-breeding
   and recombinant measures, have acquired a tolerance for certain classes of
    herbicides, such as hydroxyphenylpyruvate dioxygenase (HPPD) inhibitors,
    acetolactate synthase (ALS) inhibitors such as, for example, sulfonylureas (EP-A 257
    993, US 5,013,659) or imidazolinones (for example US 6,222,100, WO 01/82685,
35 WO 00/26390, WO 97/41218, WO 98/02526, WO 98102527, WO 04/106529,
   WO 05/20673, WO 03114357, WO 03/13225, WO 03/14356, WO 04116073),
    enolpyruvylshikimate 3-phosphate synthase (EPSPS) inhibitors such as, for example,
    glyphosate (see, for example, WO 92/00377), glutamine synthetase (GS) inhibitors
    such as, for example, glufosinate (see, for example, EP-A 242 236, EP-A 242 246) or
40  oxynil herbicides (see, for example, US 5,559,024). For example, breeding and
    mutagenesis have given rise to Clearfield* cilseed rape (BASF SE, Germany), which
   features tolerance for imidazolinones, for example imazarnox. With the aid of

                                                 17
   recombinant methods, crop plants such as soybeans, cotton, maize, beat and oilseed
   rape have been generated which are resistant to glyphosate or glufosinate, and these
   are available by the brand names RoundupReady* (glyphosate-resistant, Monsanto,
   U.S.A.) and Liberty LinkO (glufosinate-resistant, Bayer CropScience, Germany).
 5 Also comprised are plants which, with the aid of recombinant measures, produce one
   or more toxins, for example those from the bacterial strain Bacillus. Toxins whkih are
   produced by such genetically modified plants comprise, for example, insecticidal
   proteins of Bacl/us spp., in particular from B. thurfing/ensis, such as the endotoxins
   CrylAb, CrylAc, Cryl F, Cryl Fa2, Cry2Ab, Cry3A, Cry3Bbl, Cry9c, Cry34Abi or
10 Cry35AbI- or vegetable insecticidaI proteins (VIPs), for example VIP1, VIP2, VIP3, or
   VIP3A; insecticidal proteins from nematode-colonizing bacteria, for example
   Photorhabdus spp. or Xenorhabdus spp toxins from animal org anisms, for exam pie
   wasp, spider or scorpion toxins; fungal toxins, for example from Streptomycetes; plant
   lectins, for example from pea or barley; agglutinins; proteinase inhibitors, for example
15 trypsin inhibitors, serene protease inhibitors, patatin, cystatin or papain inhibitors;
   ribosome-inactivating proteins (RIPs), for example ricin, maize RIP, abrin, luffin,
   saporin or bryodin; steroid-metabolizing enzymes, for example 3-hydroxysteroid
   oxidase, ecdysteroid IDP glycosyl transferase, cholesterol oxidase, ecdysone inhibitors
   or HMG CoA-reductase; ion channel blockers, for example inhibitors of sodium or
20 calcium channels; juvenile hormone esterase; receptors for the diuretic hormone
   (helicokinin receptors); stilbene synthase, bibenzyl synthase, chitinases and
   glucanases. These toxins can aiso be produced, in the plants, in the form of pretoxins,
   hybrid proteins, truncated or otherwise modified proteins. Hybrid proteins are
   distinguished by a novel combination of different protein domains (see, for example,
25 WO 2002/015701). Further examples of such toxins or genetically modified plants
   which produce these toxins are disclosed in EP-A 374 753, WO 93/07278, WO
   95/34656, EP-A 427 529, EP-A 451 878, WO 03/18810 and WO 03/52073. The
   methods for generating these genetically modified plants are known to the skilled
   person and explained, for example, in the abovementioned publications. A large
30 number of the abovementioned toxins impart to the plants which produce them a
   tolerance for pests from all taxonomic classes of the arthropods, in particular beetles
   (Coelerpta), dipterans (Diptera) and lepidopterans (Lepidoptera) and nematodes
   (Nernatoda). Genetically modified plants having one or more genes which code for
   insecticidal toxins are described for example in the abovementioned publications and
35 are in some cases commercially available such as, for example, YieldGard* (maize
   varieties which produce the toxin CrylAb), YieldGardg Plus (maize varieties which
   produce the toxins Cry1Ab and Cry3Bbi), Starink' (maize varieties which produce the
   toxin Cry9c), HerculexO RW (maize varieties which produce the toxins Cry34Abl,
   Cry35Abl and the enzyme phosphinothricin N-acetyltransferase [PAT]); NuCOTN*
40 338 (cotton varieties which produce the toxin Cry1Ac), Bollgard* I (cotton varieties
   which produce the toxin CrylAc), BoligareI I (cotton varieties which produce the toxins
   CrylAc and Cry2Ab2); VIPCOT® (cotton varieties which produce a VIP toxin);

                                                18
   NewLeaf" (potato varieties which produce the toxin Cry3A); Bt-Xtrag, NatureGardo,
   KnockOut* BiteGard, Protecta*, BtIl (for example Agrisure* CB) and Btl 76 from
   Syngenta Seeds SAS, France, (maize varieties which produce the toxin CrylAb and
   the PAT enzyme), MIR604 from Syngenta Seeds SAS, France (maize varieties which
 5 produce a modified version of the toxin Cry3A, see in this context WO 03/018810),
   MON 863 from Monsanto Europe S.A., Belgium (maize varieties which produce the
   toxin Cry3Bbl), IPC 531 from Monsanto Europe SA, Belgium (cotton varieties which
   produce a modified version of the toxin Cry1Ac) and 1507 from Pioneer Overseas
   Corporation, Belgium (maize varieties which produce the toxin Cryl F and the PAT
10 enzyme).
   Also comprised are plants which, with the aid of recombinant measures, produce one
   or more proteins which bring about an increased resistance to, or ability to withstand,
   bacterial, viral or fungal pathogens such as, for example, so-called pathogenesis
15 related proteins (PR proteins, see EP-A 0 392 225), resistance proteins (for example
   potato varieties which produce two resistance genes against Phytophtiora infestans
   from the Mexican wild potato So/anum bu/bocastanum) or T4 Fysozyme (for example
   potato varieties which, as the result of the production of this protein, are resistant to
   bacteria such as Erwnia smy/vor).
20
   Also comprised are plants whose productivity has been improved with the aid of
   recombinant methods, for example by increasing the yield potential (for example
   biomass, grain yield, starch content, oil content or protein content), the tolerance for
   drought, salt or other irmNitng environmental factors, or the resistance to pests and
25 funga, bacteria] and viral pathogens.
   Also comprised are plants whose constituents, in particular for improving human or
   animal nutrition, have been modified with the aid of recombinant methods, for example
   by oil plants producing health-promoting long-chain omega-3-fatty acids or
   monounsaturated omega-9-fatty acids (for example NexeraP oilseed rape, DOW Agro
30 Sciences, Canada).
   The present invention also relates to the use of a carboxylic acid aide according to
   formula (A)
                          R3
          R1          NAR
                      R2
                                   (A)
35
   where
   R1 is CrCe alkyl, and
   R2 and R3, independently of one another, are C1-Ce alkyl, under the proviso that R2 is

                                                 19
   not Ci-alkyl when R3 is C1-alky, as solvent for pesticides with no or ow phytotoxicity.
   In a preferred embodiment, a carboxylic acid aide where R2 and R3 are CrC alkyl
   and RI is CrCs alkyl is used as solvent with no or low phytotoxidty for pesticides.
   More preferably, a carboxylic acid amide is used where R2 and R3 are 02 -C 4 alkyl and
 5 R1 is C-C7 alkyl as solvent with no or low phytotoxicity for pesticides. In an even more
   preferred embodiment, a carboxylic add amide where R2 and R3 are CrC4 -alkyl and
   R1 is C2-alkyl, in particular R2 and R3 are C4-alkyl and RI is C2-alkyl is used as solvent
   with no or low phytotoxicity for pesticides. In a further preferred embodiment, a
   carboxylic acid am ide where R2 arnd R3 are C4-alkyl and R1 is C7-alkyl is used as
10 solvent with no or low phytotoxicity for pesticides. In a more preferred embodiment, a
   carboxylic acid aide where R2 and R3 are straight-chain Cealkyl and RI is straight
   chain C7-alkyt is used as solvent with no or Fow phytotoxicity for pesticides.
15 In a preferred embodiment, no phytotoxicity means 0% of the treated plants have plant
   injury as compared to untreated plants when determined with the phytotoxicity method
   as described in the description below.
   In a preferred embodiment, low phytotoxicity means 1 to 10% of the treated plants
20 have plant injury as compared to untreated plants when determined with the
   phytotoxicity method as described in the description below.
   Phytotoxicity in accordance with the present invention is determined by an assay where
   a spray comprising water (aqua dest) and carboxylic acid amide (200 I/ha comprising
25 1500 ml carboxylic acid amide/ha) is prepared and applied on plants of barley (cuItivar
   Lawina) being in 3-4 leaf stage at a water application rate of 1 5 1/ha. The experimental
   period lasts for 10 days. During this time, the experimental plants receive optimum
   watering, with nutrients being supplied via the water used for watering.
30 The phytotoxicity is evaluated by awarding scores to the treated plants in comparison
   to untreated plants, i.e. treated with water only. The evaluation scale ranges from 0% to
   100% phytotoxicity. The evaluation is done by visual examination. 0% phytotoxicity
   means that there are no differences between treated and untreated plants. Thus, no
   phytotoxicity in accordance with the present invention means that the treated plants to
35 not have plant injury and there is no difference between treated and untreated plants.
   Low phytotoxicity in accordance with the present invention means that ony I to 10% of
   the treated plants have plant injury as compared to untreated plants.
   The present invention also relates to a method for treating plants, thereby maintaining
40 plant health comprising the step of mixing a carboxylic acid amide as defined above,
   with one or more pesticides described in the present disclosure.
   In a preferred embodiment, the method comprises mixing a carboxylic acid amide

                                                20
   where R2 and R3 are C2-C alkyl and R1 is 02-C 8 alkyl with one or more pesticides.
   More preferably, the method comprises mxing a carboxylic acid amide where R2 and
   R3 are C2-C alkyl and R1 is Cr 0 7 alkyl with one or more pesticides. In an even more
   preferred embodiment, the method comprises mixing a carboxylic acid amide where R2
 5 and R3 are CrC-alkyl and RI is C2-alkyl, in particular R2 and R3 are C-alky and R1
   is Cralkyl with one or more pesticides. In a further preferred embodiment, the method
   comprises mixing a carboxylic acid amide where R2 and R3 are C4-alkyl and R1 is C7
   alkyl with one or more pesticides. In a further preferred embodiment, the method
   comprises mixing a carboxylic acid amide where R2 and R3 are straight-chain Q-alkyl
10 and RI is straight-chain Cralkyl with one or more pesticides.
   Preferable, the carboxylic acid amide as defined above in an amount of from 10% by
   weight to 90% by weight, preferably from 30% by weight to 80% by weight is mixed
   with one or more pesticides.
15
   Final y, the present invention further relates to a method for producing the composition
   of the present invention comprising the step of mixing a carboxylic acid amide as
   defined above, with one or more pesticides.
   More preferably, the method comprises mixing a carboxylic acid amid where R2 and
20 R3 are C2-C4 alkyl and R1 is C2-C7 alkyl with one or more pesticides. In an even more
   preferred embodiment, the method comprises mixing a carboxylic acid amide where R2
   and R3 are C2-C-alkyl and R1 is C2-alkyl, in particular R2 and R3 are Crakyl and Ri
   is C2-alkyl with one or more pesticides. In a further preferred embodiment, the method
   comprises mixing a carboxylic acid amide where R2 and R3 are C4-alkyl and R1 is C7
25 alkyl with one or more pesticides. In a further preferred embodiment, the method
   comprises mixing a carboxylic acid amide where R2 and R3 are straight-chain C-alkyl
   and RI is straight-chain C7-alkyl with one or more pesticides.
   Preferable, the carboxylic acid aide as defined above in an amount of from 10% by
   weight to 90% by weight, preferably from 30% by weight to 80% by weight is mixed
30 with one or more pesticides.
   The preparation of carboxylic acid amides as defined above is generally known in the
   art, for example by reacting an amine with a carboxylic acid , an ester or an acid
   chloride as described for example in Mitchell, JA; Reid, EE, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1931,
35 1879; US 2472900; DE19650107; King, JF.; Rathore, R., J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1992.
   3028.
   The examples which follow illustrate the invention without imposing any limitation.

                                                 21
   Examples
   Example I - Synthesis of carboxylic acid amides
 5 N,N-dibutyl-propionam[de (hereinafter dibutylpropio namide) was synthesized in a two
   phase system composed of 25 wt% NaOH aqueous solution (625 g), toluene (160 ml)
   and dibutylami ne (342 g). To that ice-cooled mixture, propion ic acid chloride (189 g)
   was added drop wise. After the addition, the reaction mixture was stirred 30 minutes at
   room temperature. The two phases were separated. The organic phase was fractional
10 distillated under vaccum to obtain the purified product (335 g, 90% yield).
   N,N-dibutyl-octanamide (hereinafter C8 -dibutylamide) was synthesized in a Dean-Stark
   apparatus using dibutylamine (194 g) and octanoic acid (147 g). The reaction mixture is
   heated to 160 'C for 65 h. A following vacuum distillation afforded the desired product
15 (212 g, 83 % yield).
   N,N-dirnethyl-propionamide (hereinafter dimethylpropionamide) was purchased from
   Sigma Aldrich and N,N-diethyl-propionamide (hereinafter diethylpropionamide) was
   purchased from TGI Europe.
20 Example 2 - Phytotoxicity
   For the greenhouse tests, barley cultivarr Lawina) was sown and cultivated in standard
   soiL (type P, fine) for 3 weeks. The spray mixtures were applied with a minicompressor
   (4 times) in a laboratory fume hood on plants being in 3-4 leaf stage.
25
   A spray comprising water (aqua dest.) and dibutylpropionamide from Example 1 (200
   I/ha comprising 1500 ml dibutylpropionamide/ha) was prepared and applied at a water
   application rate of 1.5 I/ha. The experimental period lasted for 10 days. During this
   time, the experimental plants received optimum watering, with nutrients being supplied
30 via the water used for watering.
   The phytotoxicity was evaluated by assessing scores to the treated plants in
   comparison to untreated plants, i.e. treated with water only (see Table 1). The
   evaluation scale ranges from 0% to 100% phytotoxicity. The evaluation was done by
35 visual examination. Thus, 0% phytotoxicity means that there were no differences
   between treated and untreated plants. The results in Table 1 demonstrate the
   phytotoxicity of the solvent, i.e. carboxylic acid amide, as a result of addition of the
   solvent. A rating of 0% phytotoxicity means no crop injury. A rating of 1 to 10%
   phytotoxicity, indicating that the plants were not significantly adversely affected and
40 rapidly and completely recovered, is the limit of injury considered acceptable by
   farmers. A rating of 100% means the complete destruction of all plants. The inventive
   carboxyfic acid amides in accordance of the present invention show a phytotoxicity of

                                            22
   below 10% meaning that less than 10% of the plants showed necrotic damage.
   Thus, less than 10% of the plants were affected when said carboxylic acid amides
   were applied on the plants in a dose of 1500 ml/ha. However, by applying
   dimethylpropionamide, a non-inventive carboxylic acid amide, onto the plants, up
 5 to 43% of the plants showed necrotic damage. Thus, carboxylic acid amides
   wherein the N,N-alkyl groups are having more than two carbon atoms seem to
   have no or almost no phytotoxic effect on the plants and can therefore be used in
   agricultural compositions for reducing the phytotoxicity in such compositions.
10 Table 1: Phytotoxicty [%] 10 days after treatment
       Carboxylic acid amide          Phytotoxicity [%]
       -a)                                    0
       Dimethylpropionamide    b)            43
       Diethylpropionamide                    6
       Dibutylpropionamide                    0
       C8-dibutylamide                        5
   a) Control experiment, not inventive, without carboxylic acid amide.
   b) Comparative experiment, not inventive.
15 Example 3 - Determination of the max. solubilitiy
   The respective fungicide was dissolved in the solvent of interest so that a
   supersaturated solution was obtained. The deposit was filtered off. The
   concentration of the fungicide in the supernatant was determined via quantitative
20 1H-NMR spectroscopy.

                                               22a
   Table 2: Solubility [%] of different fungicides in carboxylic acid amides
       Carboxylic acid amide        Solubility [%]   Solubility [%]  Solubility [%]
                                   Tebuconazole     Pyraclostrobin   Fluxapyroxad
        Dimethylpropionamide             54               70              53
        Diethylpropionamide              49               62              13
        Dibutylpropionamide              38               42              28
       C8-dibutylamide                   27               24              13
   Comprises/comprising and grammatical variations thereof when used in this
   specification are to be taken to specify the presence of stated features, integers,
 5 steps or components or groups thereof, but do not preclude the presence or
   addition of one or more other features, integers, steps, components or groups
   thereof.
10

                                          23
CLAIMS:
1.      An aqueous composition having improved solvent properties and low
phytotoxicity towards desirable plant growth comprising a pesticide and a
carboxylic acid amide according to formula (A)
       0
 R1)        NI-'R3
            R2
                       (A)
where
        R1 is C7 alkyl, and
        R2 and R3 are C4-alkyl
with the proviso that, the pesticide is not an azole-derivative according to formula
(B)
     R8
    61  -  7
R-C--R
     CH2
     N
 N-          (B)
wherein
R6 is
-CH2-CH 2        /  ~Ci

                                           24
R7 is tert.-butyl and R8 is hydroxyl, or
R6  is 4-fluorphenyl, R7 is 2-fluorphenyl and R8 is hydroxyl, or
R6  is 2,4-dichlorphenyl, R7 is n-butyl and R8 is hydroxyl, or
R6 is
-CH2-CH     2   /      Cl
R7 is phenyl and R8 is cyano, or
R6  is 2-chlor-benzyl, R7 is 1-chlor-cycloprop-1 -yl and R8 is hydroxyl, or
R6  is 4-chlorphenyl
R7 is
  -CH--<
     CH3
and R8 is hydroxyl;
and/or an azole-derivative according to formula (C)
 R'               O--CH-Y-C(CH)    3
                    N,
                                      (C)
wherein
Y is -CH(OH) and R9 is chlor or phenyl, or

                                          25
Y is CO and R9 is chlor
and/or an azole-derivative according to formula (D)
            R0            OH
  Cj--         CH[=C-CH-C(CHgA
                    (N'N
                     N,
                   N-  11
                                         (D)
wherein R1 0 is hydrogen or chlor,
and/or 1-([bis-(4-fluorphenyl)-methyl-silyl]-methyl)-1H-(1,2,4-triazol) according to
formula (E)
               CH3
  F
            SI       0       F
               OH2
              (N'N
              Nd
             N -                (E)
and/or   1-[3-(2-chlorphenyl)-2-(4-fluorphenyl)-oxiran-2-yl-methyl]-1 H-(1 ,2,4-triazol
according to formula (F)
                 0        CI
  F -(-COH
               CH2
               N'%N
            N     N               (F).

                                         26
2.     The composition according to claim 1, wherein R2 and R3 are straight
chain C4-alkyl and R1 is straight-chain C7-alkyl.
3.     The composition according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the pesticide is
selected from fungicides, herbicides and insecticides.
4.     The composition according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the
composition comprises of from 0.1% by weight to 90% by weight of the carboxylic
acid amide.
5.     The composition according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the
composition comprises
       5   to 60% by weight of pesticide,
       1 to 30% by weight of surface-active substances,
       0 to 50% by weight of oil components and/or co-solvents, and
       0.1 to 90% by weight of carboxylic acid amide,
       on the condition that the amounts add with water to 100% by weight.
6.     A method for controlling phytopathogenic fungi and/or undesirable plant
growth and/or undesirable insect or mite infestation and/or for regulating the
growth of plants, wherein the composition as defined in any one of claims 1 to 5 is
allowed to act on the respective pests, the habit thereof or the plants to be
protected from the respective pest, on the soil and/or on undesirable plants
and/or the crop plants and/or the habitat thereof.
7.     Use of a carboxylic acid amide according to formula (A)

                                         27
       0
  R1)      N"-,R3
           R2
                     (A)
where
R1 is C7 alkyl, and
R2 and R3 are C4
alkyl as solvent for pesticides as defined in claim 1 or 2 with no or low
phytotoxicity towards desirable plant growth.
8.     A method for treating plants, thereby maintaining plant health comprising
the step of mixing a carboxylic acid amide as defined in claim 1 or 2 with one or
more pesticides as defined in claim 1 or 2 and applying the resultant mixture to
said plants.
9. A method for producing the composition according to any one of claims 1 to 5
comprising the step of mixing a carboxylic acid amide as defined in claim 1 or 2
with one or more pesticides.
                                     BASF SE
WATERMARK INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY PTY LTD
P41725AU01

