                                       ABSTRACT
         A control system for controlling a machine in the case of an emergency, the
  control system including a shutdown controller for equipping to the machine, the
5 shutdown controller having a wireless communication module for receiving wireless
  shutdown command signals, the shutdown controller being configured such that it is
  capable of shutting down at least part of the machine in response to receiving an
  associated wireless command signal from a wireless remote controller, and at least
  one wireless remote controller that is configured to transmit wireless shutdown
0 command signals to the shutdown controller.

                                               -1
     A CONTROL SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL AND
                                      HEAVY MACINERY
                                    FIELD OF INVENTION
 5        The present invention relates to controlling of heavy and industrial machines.
   In particular, the invention relates to a remote control system for controlling dozers,
   excavators and trucks. The present invention will be described with reference to
   excavators but this is by way of example only and the invention is not limited to this
   example.
 0
                             BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
           Excavators used in mining operations are controlled by operators working in
   the cabin of the vehicle. Where an action associated with the excavator occurs that
   the operator is not aware of or something happens to the operator themselves so
 5 that they are no longer in control, for example the operator suffers a heart attack, the
   excavator continues and the vehicle cannot be shut down.
          This situation can lead to life endangering circumstances where others are
   placed at risk by the presence of an uncontrolled vehicle, the operator themselves
   can need urgent emergency help where they have suffered a medical incident like a
 o heart attack, and the business has suffered financially while the vehicle has not been
   engaged in industrial operations.
                                 OBJECT OF THE INVENTION
           It is an object of the present invention to provide a solution to the control of
25 industrial and heavy machinery that overcomes at least in part one or more of the
   abovementioned problems and/or provide the consumer with a useful or commercial
   choice.
                                SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
30         In one aspect, the present invention broadly resides in a control system for
   controlling a machine in the case of an emergency, the control system including:
           a shutdown controller for equipping to the machine, the shutdown controller
   having a wireless communication module for receiving wireless shutdown command
   signals, the shutdown controller being configured such that it is capable of shutting

   down at least part of the machine in response to receiving an associated wireless
   command signal from a wireless remote controller; and
           at least one wireless remote controller that is configured to transmit wireless
   shutdown command signals to the shutdown controller.
 5         Preferably the machine is a heavy or industrial machine.
           The shutdown controller preferably includes an emergency stop button.
   Preferably the emergency stop button is configured such that it is capable of shutting
   down at least part of the machine when activated. Preferably the emergency stop
   button is activated by pushing the emergency stop button.
 o         The shutdown controller preferably includes a battery. In one embodiment,
   the shutdown controller is connectable to mains supply electricity.              In the
   embodiment where the shutdown controller is connectable to mains supply
   electricity, the shutdown controller preferably includes a toroidal transformer to
   transform AC electricity to DC electricity.    Preferably in use when activated, the
 5 shutdown controller interrupts one or more circuits to shut down at least part of the
   machine.     Preferably if power is lost to the shutdown controller the one or more
   circuits are interrupted. Preferably the one or more circuits remain interrupted until
   the shutdown controller is reset.
           The shutdown controller preferably includes a transmitter to transmit signals
 0 to each of the wireless remote controller wireless remote controller.           In one
   embodiment, the shutdown controller is configured to evaluate signals sent by the at
   least one wireless remote controller. Preferably if the shutdown controller detects a
   weak signal (i.e. a signal below a predetermined power) sent by the at least one
   wireless remote controller, the shutdown controller sends a 'low power' signal to the
25 at least one wireless remote controller. Preferably if the shutdown controller detects
   an erroneous signal sent by the at least one wireless remote controller, the shutdown
   controller sends an 'error' signal to the at least one wireless remote controller.
   Preferably when the shutdown controller has shut down at least part of the machine,
   the shutdown controller sends a 'stopped' signal to the at least one wireless remote
30 controller.
           The shutdown controller preferably includes one or more relays to interface
   with the machines electrical system(s).       Preferably the one or more relays are
   capable of switching up to 16 Amps of resistive load.      Preferably the one or more
   relays are capable of switching up to 8 Amps of inductive load.

                                              -3
           The shutdown controller preferably includes a display.          The shutdown
   controller display preferably displays the status of the shutdown controller.       The
   shutdown controller display preferably displays the power of signals from the at least
   one wireless remote controller.
 5         The shutdown controller preferably includes a Bluetooth module such that the
   status of the shutdown controller can be displayed on a Bluetooth enabled device.
           The shutdown controller preferably includes a USB module such that the
   shutdown controller can be connected to a computing device to display the status of
   the shutdown controller via the computing device.
 o         The shutdown controller preferably includes a CAN bus module such that the
   shutdown controller can be connected to a computing device to display the status of
   the shutdown controller via the computing device.
           The shutdown controller preferably includes one or more internal antenna.
   Alternatively, the shutdown controller can include one or more external antenna for
 5 longer range communication (e.g. up to 5km) between the shutdown controller and
   the at least one wireless remote controller.
           Each of the at least one wireless remote controller preferably includes a
   transmitter to transmit the wireless shutdown command signals.           Preferably the
   transmitter has a power of between 70mW and 130mW.                More preferably the
 0 transmitter has a power of substantially 100mW. Each of the at least one wireless
   remote controller is preferably powered by a battery. In one embodiment, each of
   the at least one wireless remote controller includes a receiver to receive signals from
   the shutdown controller.
           Each of the at least one wireless remote controller preferably includes a
25 display to display the status of the wireless remote controller and/or the status of the
   shutdown controller.
           Each of the at least one wireless remote controller preferably includes a
   Bluetooth module such that the status of the shutdown controller can be displayed
   on a Bluetooth enabled device.
30         Each of the at least one wireless remote controller is preferably configured to
   transmit on a plurality of channels such that a corresponding plurality of parts of the
   machine or parts of a plurality of machines can be shut down by the wireless remote
   controller.

                                             -4
           Each of the at least one wireless remote controller is preferably configured to
   send a unique identification code to the shutdown controller.           Preferably the
   shutdown controller includes a module which authenticates the unique identification
   code.
 5         In one embodiment, at least one wireless remote controller and the shutdown
   controller are configured to communicate at predetermined time intervals. Preferably
   the at least one wireless remote controller is configured to send a handshake signal
   to the shutdown controller at predetermined time intervals. Preferably, in use, if no
   handshake signal is received by the shutdown controller from each of the at least
 0 one wireless remote controller within the predetermined time, the shutdown
   controller shuts down at least part of the machine. The predetermined time interval
   is preferably between 1 second and 60 seconds.               In one embodiment the
   predetermined time interval is approximately 3 seconds.
           In one embodiment, the signals transmitted between the at least one wireless
 5 remote controller and the shutdown controller are encrypted.
           In one embodiment, the control system utilizes frequency hopping, where the
   signals transmitted between the at least one wireless remote controller and the
   shutdown controller are sent using multiple different frequencies.         The use of
   frequency hopping reduces interference by noise on one or more frequencies.
 0        The control system preferably complies with the AS/NZS4268 standard. The
   control system is preferably CE and FCC compliant. The control system preferably
   complies with the AS/4024 1-2006 standard.
          The control system preferably operates on one or more frequencies in the
   range of 433MHz to 435MHz. In one embodiment, the control system operates on
25 one or more frequencies in the range of 150MHz to 153MHz.
           In one embodiment, the control system is for controlling a plurality of
   machines. Preferably there are a plurality of shutdown controllers for equipping to
   the plurality of machines or for equipping to multiple parts of a single machine.
   Preferably the at least one wireless remote controller is configured to transmit
30 wireless shutdown command signals to the plurality of shutdown controllers.
           In one embodiment, each of the at least one wireless remote controller is
   configured to transmit wireless shutdown command signals to the shutdown
   controller via a cellular network.

            In another aspect the present invention broadly resides in a method of
   controlling a heavy or industrial machine in the case of an emergency, the method
   including:
           equipping the machine with a shutdown controller having a wireless
 5 communication module for receiving wireless shutdown command signals, and
           configuring the shutdown controller such that it is capable of shutting down at
   least part of the machine in response to receiving an associated wireless command
   signal from a wireless remote controller.
           The machine can be a vehicle of the type having an engine and an ignition for
 0 starting or shutting down the engine, in which case, the method can include
   interfacing the shutdown controller with the ignition of the vehicle.
           The machine can be of the type having a driven moving tool and a tool control
   for maneuvering the moving tool, in which case, the method can include interfacing
   the shutdown controller with the tool control.
 5         The method can include configuring the shutdown controller so that it is
   capable of selectively shutting down parts of the machine in response to receiving
   associated wireless command signals respectively from the wireless remote
   controller.
           The wireless remote controller can be configured selectively to send wireless
 o command signals to the shutdown controller that are uniquely addressed, so as
   selectively to shut down associated parts of the machine.
           The method can include configuring the shutdown controller so that it is
   capable of selectively shutting down parts of the machine in response to an
   associated emergency stop button being activated.
25          In a further aspect the present invention broadly resides in a shutdown
   controller that is configured to perform the method as herein defined, described and
   illustrated.
            Preferably the shutdown controller includes an emergency stop button.
            In another aspect the present invention broadly resides in a control system for
30 controlling at least one heavy or industrial machine in the case of an emergency, the
   control system including:
            at least one shutdown controller for equipping the at least one machine, the
   shutdown controller having a wireless communication module for receiving wireless
   shutdown command signals, the shutdown controller being configured such that it is

                                               -6
   capable of shutting down at least part of the machine in response to receiving an
   associated wireless command signal from a wireless remote controller; and
          at least one wireless remote controller that is configured to send wireless
   shutdown command signals to the shutdown controller.
 5        The shutdown controller and the wireless remote controller can include any
   one or more of the features as herein defined, described and illustrated.
           Preferably the shutdown controller includes an emergency stop button.
          The current invention can be applied to any machine, vehicle or apparatus
   that can be controlled remotely including but not limited to cars, trucks, boats, jet
 0 skis, motor bikes, tractors, graders, dozers, conveyors, lifting apparatus, hoists,
   presses, pumps, turbines, cranes, forklifts and similar machines, vehicles and
   apparatus.     The current invention can be applied to any machine, vehicle or
   apparatus that is operatively linked to a motor or pump.
          The features described with respect to one aspect also apply where
 5 applicable to all other aspects of the invention. Furthermore, different combinations
   of described features are herein described even when not expressly stated.
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           In order that the present invention can be more readily understood reference
 0 will now be made to the accompanying drawings which illustrate a preferred
   embodiment of the invention and wherein:
           Figure 1 shows a functional block diagram of a control system, in accordance
   with the invention, for controlling at least part of a heavy or industrial machine in the
   case of an emergency;
25         Figure 2 shows a functional block diagram of another embodiment of a control
   system for controlling more than one part of a heavy or industrial machine in the
   case of an emergency;
           Figure 3 shows a functional block diagram of another embodiment of a
   controls system for controlling more than one heavy or industrial machine in the case
30 of an emergency;
           Figure 4 shows a functional flow diagram of a shutdown controller, in
   accordance with a method of the invention, which forms part of a control system for
   controlling a heavy or industrial machine in the case of an emergency;

                                             -7
           Figure 5 shows a schematic diagram of a wireless remote controller that
   forms part of the control system in Figure 1;
           Figure 6 shows a schematic diagram of a shutdown controller that includes a
   wireless communication module that forms part of the control system in Figure 1;
 5 and
           Figure 7 shows a schematic diagram of a SIM module and SIM controller that
   forms part of another embodiment of a shutdown controller.
              DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT
 0         In the figures, reference numeral 10 refers generally to a control system for
   controlling at least one heavy or industrial machine (not shown) in the case of an
   emergency. The control system 10 includes at least one shutdown controller 12 for
   equipping the at least one machine, and at least one wireless remote controller 14
   that is configured to send wireless shutdown command signals to the shutdown
 5 controller 12.
           The embodiments described below, for purpose of explanation, involves the
   equipping of a machine in the form of an industrial earth moving machine, such as a
   bulldozer, backhoe, front end loader, excavator or the like, that includes an engine
   and an ignition for starting or shutting down the engine. The earthmoving machine
 0 also includes a driven moving tool, such as, front end loading scoop or arm and
   bucket, as the case can be.
           By way of background, heavy or industrial machinery such as earthmoving
   machines can pose danger to people and infrastructure if the machine malfunctions,
   or if an operator loses control of the machine, or the like.     In such cases, it is
25 desirable that the machine is shut down as soon as possible to avoid, or at least
   alleviate, the imminent danger. The embodiments herein described, in accordance
   with the invention, finds particular application in such situations.      It is to be
   appreciated that application of the present embodiment is not limited to earthmoving
   machines, and can equally be applied in other applications for example to shut down
30 stationery plants, such as pumping stations or generation plants, or marine crafts,
   hobby vehicles, conveyer systems, vacuum systems, chemical handling systems,
   and many more.
           The shutdown controller 12 includes a wireless communications module 18
   that is interfaced with inputs of a microprocessor 20. The shutdown controller 12

                                               -8
   further includes a machine interface module 22 that interfaces outputs of the
   microprocessor 20 with relevant parts of the earthmoving machine, in this case with
   an ignition of the engine of the machine. The microprocessor 20 is also interfaced
   with an audible alarm 24, such as a siren, and a visual alarm, such as an emergency
 5 light 26 either directly or indirectly.
           The remote controller 14 includes a transmitter and is able to be coded
   uniquely with a code 14.1 that correspond with a code 18.1 of the receiver of the
   wireless communication module 18 of the shutdown controller 12, thereby uniquely
   to address the receiver of the shutdown controller 12.         In one embodiment the
 0 transmitter and receiver can be of the kind that is hard coded, for example with a set
   of dipswitches, to enable the remote controller 14 uniquely to address the shutdown
   controller 12. In another embodiment, the transmitter and receiver are able to be
   soft coded, for example with encrypted codes, to enable the remote controller 14
   uniquely to address the shutdown controller 12.
 5         The transmitter and receiver of the remote controller 14 and the shutdown
   controller 12 can make use of any of several wireless communication protocols. In
   one embodiment the transmitter and receiver can be configured to use a license free
   frequency bands for example around the 433 MHz frequency range in some
   countries or the 915MHz range in some other countries, and they can be configured
 0 to make use of fixed frequency (FF) techniques or frequency hopping spread
   spectrum techniques (FHSS).          Moreover, the receiver can be of the type that has
   more than one antenna so as to make use of antenna diversity techniques.
           Referring to Figure 4, in use, and in accordance with a method 30 of the
   invention, at 32, the ignition of the engine of the earthmoving machine is active and
25 energized, and at 34, the shutdown controller 12 is armed into a ready state. When
   the shutdown controller is armed, the shutdown controller time stamps the time, at
   36, and store the time stamp and an ambient temperature, at 38.
           In the case of an emergency, for example when a site supervisor remote from
   the earthmoving machine notices an imminent danger, the site supervisor presses a
30 button on the remote controller 14 which sends a wireless shutdown command
   signal to the shutdown controller 12. The wireless shut down command signal is
   received, at 40, and the shutdown controller 12 interacts with the ignition, at 42, in a
   manner that causes the engine to be shut down.           The time of shutdown is time

                                                -9
   stamped, at 44, and the ambient temperature and the time stamp is stored in flash
   memory, at 46.
          At 48, the visual alarm 26 is triggered, and, at 58, the audible alarm 24 is
   triggered. At 52, an emergency notification is send to a relevant recipient, such as a
 5 central office or location.
          After the danger has been eliminated, then the ignition can be re-energized, at
   54, and the shutdown controller is reset, at 56.
           Figure 2 shows another embodiment of a control system 60 that is in part
   similar to the embodiment 10, and in Figure 2 like parts to that of Figure 1 are
 0 indicated with like reference numerals.         The control system 60 also includes a
   shutdown controller 62 and a remote controller 66.          The shutdown controller 62
   includes a microcontroller 64 and a machine interface module 70.           The machine
   interface module 70 includes, by way of example, two interface modules 70.1 and
   70.2, one being for interfacing with the ignition of the engine and the other being for
 5 interfacing with a control of a driven moving tool of the machine, such as a control of
   an arm and bucket of a backhoe, or the like.
          The wireless receiver 68 and the microcontroller 64 are configured to include
   two codes or addresses 68.1 and 68.2 respectively associated with the interface
 0 modules 70.1 and 70.2. The remote controller 66 and its transmitter are configured
   to include two corresponding codes 66.1 and 66.2.                It follows that in this
   embodiment, a user such as the site supervisor can use the control system 66
   selectively to shutdown either the engine or the arm and bucket movement of the
   earthmoving machine.
25         Referring to Figure 3, another embodiment of a control system 80 is shown
   particularly for controlling a plurality of machines on a work site. The control system
   80 includes a plurality of shutdown controllers 80.1 to 80.2 each for equipping an
   associated earthmoving machine, or other machines on a work site. The shutdown
   controllers 80.1 to 80.2 are substantially similar to the embodiment described with
30 reference to Figure 2 and like reference numerals indicate like parts.
          The microcontrollers 64 and receivers 68 of the shutdown controllers 80.1 to
   80.2 are configured so that their respective machine interface modules 70.1 to 70.4
   are uniquely addressable with codes 68.1 to 68.4. The remote controller 66 and its
   transmitter are configured with corresponding codes 66.1 to 66.4 so that each

                                              -10
  shutdown controller and their machine interface modules are uniquely addressable
  with the remote controller 66. That way, a user or site supervisor can selectively
  shut down an engine of an earthmoving vehicle or a driven moving tool, such as an
  arm and bucket of the earthmoving machine.
5        In one embodiment, the remote controller 66 can include a user interface or
  console that permits the input of a code to identify a specific machine for sending
  wireless shutdown command signals to that machine. The user interface or console
  can include a combination of a keypad to input a code and hard buttons for sending
  the signals.
0        In one embodiment, the remote controller 66 can be configured so that it
  includes the functionality to send wireless shutdown signals to a plurality of
  machines, or earthmoving machines, for example to shutdown several of the
  machine that are in the vicinity of the machine that is posing an imminent danger. In
  one embodiment, the remote controller and transmitter can be configured to shut
5 down all the machines, in a radius around the machine poses a danger, for example,
  a radius of 100 meters.
         In some embodiments, the shutdown controllers and remote controllers
  include some features that are listed in the table below.
  Supply Voltage                    10.0 to 28.0 Volts AC 11 .0 to 36.0 Volts DC
  Standby Current                   21 mA Standby at 24VDC
  Current Consumption               42mA with relay "On"
  Frequencies                       433.100 to 434.700MHz
  Receiver Sensitivity              Better than 0.316uV (-1 17dBm)
  Operating Temperature Range       -5 to 50 deg C
  Receiver Memory Storage           Unlimited remotes
  Decoding System                   Encrypted 17 billion code combinations
  Outputs                           One change over relay output rated 8Amps at 240VAC
  Relay Contacts                    Common (C) Normally Open (NO) Normally Closed (NC)
  Connections                       Screw terminals for supply and relay outputs
  Antenna 1                         WESANT433 antenna for short range applications
  Antenna 2                         ANT433 series for long range applications
  Dimensions                        70mm x 55mm x 25mm

                                               - 11
    Weight                             70grams
    Usable Transmitters                WES433 series
            Figure 5 shows a schematic diagram of an embodiment of a remote controller
    that forms part of a control system in accordance with the invention, and Figure 6
  5 shows a schematic diagram of one embodiment of a shutdown controller that forms
    part of the controls system.
            Figure 7 shows a SIM controller and SIM module that can be used in another
    embodiment of a shutdown controller.
  0                                      ADVANTAGES
            Advantageously, the embodiments described are capable of remotely shutting
    down heavy or industrial machines that pose an imminent danger to people or
    infrastructure which improves the safety of work sites, and reduces downtime that
    could have resulted.
  5         The embodiment can make use of frequency hopping and antenna diversity
    that increases the efficiency of the control systems.
            Some of the embodiments are capable of being programmed to cater for a
    large number of shutdown controllers and remote controllers without interfering with
    one another, for example a 12-way encryption coding can be used.
,-0         The control systems also have the advantage that they can be configured
    either to be used in a momentary- or latching mode.
            Usefully, the shutdown controllers include on board diagnostic LED's for
    indication of correct reception and relay activation.
            Is is also useful, and advantageous, that the control systems can activate
25  audible and visual alerts, such as beacon lights and sirens.
            The control system can also be used, advantageously, to send back-to-base
    notifications.
            Using programmable microcontrollers enable diverse applications that can be
    customized to specific needs.
30

                                               -12
                                          VARIATIONS
          While the foregoing has been given by way of illustrative example of this
  invention, all such and other modifications and variations thereto as would be
  apparent to persons skilled in the art are deemed to fall within the broad scope and
5 ambit of this invention as is herein set forth.
          In the specification, where the context permits, the term "comprising" and
  variants thereof such as "comprise" or "comprises" are to be interpreted as including
  the stated integer or integers without necessarily excluding any other integers.
          It is to be understood that the terminology employed above is for the purpose
0 of description and should not be regarded as limiting. The described embodiments
  are intended to be illustrative of the invention, without limiting the scope thereof. The
  invention is capable of being practiced with various modifications and additions as
  will readily occur to those skilled in the art.
          Moreover, every combination of the above described elements, activities, and
5 all possible variations thereof are encompassed by the claimed subject matter unless
  otherwise clearly indicated herein, clearly and specifically disclaimed, or otherwise
  clearly contradicted by context.
          The use of the terms "a", "an", "said", "the", and/or similar referents in the
  context of describing various embodiments are to be construed to cover both the
0 singular and the plural, unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by
  context.

                                              - 13
                                           CLAIMS:
   1.      A control system for controlling a machine in the case of an emergency, the
   control system including:
 5         a shutdown controller for equipping to the machine, the shutdown controller
   having a wireless communication module for receiving wireless shutdown command
   signals, the shutdown controller being configured such that it is capable of shutting
   down at least part of the machine in response to receiving an associated wireless
   command signal from a wireless remote controller; and
 0         at least one wireless remote controller that is configured to transmit wireless
   shutdown command signals to the shutdown controller.
   2.      A control system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the system utilizes frequency
   hopping, where the signals transmitted between the at least one wireless remote
 5 controller and the shutdown controller are sent using multiple different frequencies.
   3.      A control system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
   at least one wireless remote controller is configured to send a handshake signal to
   the shutdown controller at predetermined time intervals, and wherein in use, if no
 0 handshake signal is received by the shutdown controller from each of the at least
   one wireless remote controller within the predetermined time intervals, the shutdown
   controller shuts down at least part of the machine.
   4.      A control system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
25 control system is for controlling a plurality of machines, and wherein there are a
   plurality of shutdown controllers for equipping to the plurality of machines, and
   wherein the at least one wireless remote controller is configured to transmit wireless
   shutdown command signals to the plurality of shutdown controllers.
30 5.      A method of controlling a machine in the case of an emergency, the method
   including:
           equipping the machine with a shutdown controller having a wireless
   communication module for receiving wireless shutdown command signals, and

                                          - 14
       configuring the shutdown controller such that it is capable of shutting down at
least part of the machine in response to receiving an associated wireless command
signal from a wireless remote controller.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
