                                         12
                                     ABSTRACT
                      Energy Efficient Performance Drivetrain
Compressed Air Regenerative Braking System
1  Compressor
2   Metal Air Receiver
3   Pneumatic Release Valve
4   Pneumatic Motor
5   Metal Tubing directing Air into intake manifold
6   Belts and pulleys
Electricity Producing Cylinder Block
7   Copper Coiling
8   Magnetic Piston
9   Crankshaft
                                                                           PM 7
                                                               S>  RECEIVED
                                                              a,  1 <removed-date>
                                                               1P ALstalan Uovemnnt
                                                                        Sec4creied
                                                                  L>I

                                       13
                                  ABSTRACT
                  Energy Efficient Performance Drivetrain
Triple Bearing Camshaft and Rocker Assembly
10 External Camshaft Lobe
11 Internal Camshaft Lobe
12 Spline Shaft Hole
13 Rocker Body
14 Valve
15 Pivot Bearing
16 Central Bearing
17 Side Bearing
                                                             RECEIVED
                                                          00  6 JANZI
                                                                                 .
                                                                                .0ycr~
                                                             Sew flOovrr eTlfft
                                                                                I
                                                                    vv

                        AUSTRALIA
                       Patents Act 1990
                COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                  INNOVATION PATENT
         Energy Efficient Performance Drivetrain
The following statement is a full description of this invention
Including the best method of performing it known to me:
                                                                o> 4

                                                        11
                                DESCRIPTION
                  Energy Efficient Performance Drivetrain
There has been many advancements to automobiles over the recent decades
leading to improved handling, fuel economy, safety and engine power.
These advancements have improved the driving experience and made transportation
more available for more people.
My invention uses a number of technologies to further advance the automobile
and continue to increase the automobile's performance , fuel economy, and handling
These combined technologies are aimed at improving the overall performance of
vehicles in the All-Wheel Drive Sports Car market.
There are four main new systems used in The Energy Efficient Performance Drivetrain
These include a Compressed Air Regenerative Braking System, an Electricity Producing
Engine Cylinder Block, a Triple Roller Bearing Camshaft and Roller Rocker assembly and an
Outside Drive high speed cornering transmission.
The Compressed Air Regenerative Braking System uses a belt driven air compressor
to inflate air into a metal bottle or receiver where the air is stored until needed.
The air compressor is mounted on the engine and is activated when the brake pedal is
Depressed via an electric clutch much in the same way an Air Conditioning compressor
Is activated when the Air Conditioning button is pressed inside the cabin.
When the brake pedal is depressed a Green light appears on the dash board letting the
driver know the regenerative braking system is working.
This causes braking through the drivetrain and the storage of compressed air in a high
Pressure vessel until a usable amount of pressure is obtained.
                                                                                   0)0
                                                                              C"
                                                                               n
                                                                                 C e-1

                                        2
                                   DESCRIPTION
                      Energy Efficient Performance Drivetrain
Once a usable amount of pressure is obtained a Blue light appears on the dashboard.
When the Blue light appears on the dashboard the driver can use the compressed air
stored in the metal bottle to increase the engines power at their discretion.
When the driver wants to use the stored compressed air they can press a button inside
the cabin that activates an electronic pneumatic valve releasing the air into a pneumatic
motor mounted on the engine using a belt and pulley system to supply mechanical power
to the engines harmonic balancer pulley.
This will increase the engines power.
The compressor that inflates air into the metal bottle has an air filter fitted so that the
Air used in the regenerative braking system is clean and free of dirt particles.
The expelled air from the pneumatic motor is mildly pressurized and is then directed
into the engines intake manifold creating boost, further increasing the engine's power.
Also the great part about the system is that the air expelled from the pneumatic motor
is cold because when air is released into a vacuum from the pressurized metal bottle it is
chilled like the way an Air Conditioner or Refrigerator works.
Cold air is valuable commodity when it comes to increasing an engine's power.
Other devices that have been invented to cool the air entering the engine's intake
Manifold include The Intercooler, for Turbo Charged engines and The Cold Air Intake,
For Naturally Aspirated Engines.
                                                                                     Q7

                                         3
                                   DESCRIPTION
                     Energy Efficient Performance Drivetrain
The Regenerative Braking System is an initial step to slowing down the Sports car
And will not bring the Vehicle to a complete stop. Because of this a Disc Brake
System must also be used on the Sports car.
Brake pedal control skill will be needed by the driver to use the Regenerative Braking
System.
When the Driver wants to slow down they can slightly push down on the brake pedal
Activating the electronic clutch on the air compressor and slowing down the Vehicle
Through the Drivetrain. When this happens the Green light will appear on the dashboard.
If the stopping power of the Regenerative Braking System isn't adequate the driver can fully
Push down on the brake pedal activating Both the Regenerative Braking System and the
Disc Brake System to slow down or stop the sports car. When the disc brake system is
Activated a Red light will appear on the Dashboard.
Because the Compressed Air Regenerative Braking System uses the Drive Train to slow down
The vehicle, the system can only be used on All Wheel Drive vehicles. This will ensure that
Stopping power is provided to all four wheels.
Also a large amount of energy can be safely stored in metal compressed air bottles or
Receivers, metal bottles used in the Welding industry can safely store welding gases
holding Pressures of 200 bar that roughly equates to 7000psi.
To ensure that compressed air bottle doesn't become overly pressurized an emergency
Relief valve would be fitted to the pneumatic fittings of the system.
                                                                            1b2
                                                                         C,

                                           4
                                     DESCRIPTION
                       Energy Efficient Performance Drivetrain
The second system in the Energy Efficient Performance Drivetrain or EEPD is
is the Electricity Producing Cylinder Block.
This system works by using mineral based magnets in the Pistons and Insulated
Copper Coiling in the Cylinder Block.
Conventional Generators such as the ones used in Wind Turbines use magnets
and Copper coiling in a rotary format to produce electricity.
So when the wind causes the Turbine to spin the magnets attached to the
Shaft inside the Generator rotate and as they pass near the fixed Copper Coiling
inside The Generator, electricity is produced.
This proven method of producing electricity has been used for many decades
The Electricity Producing Cylinder Block uses the same technology, but instead
Of a rotary format, the system uses a Reciprocating format.
The system uses magnets built into the pistons and as the pistons move
Up and Down in a Reciprocating motion they cause a magnetic field to pass
Through an electronic circuit and electricity is produced.
The Electricity Producing Cylinder Block uses replaceable bronze sleeves in
The cylinder block with a thin wall thickness to maximize the magnetic field
Produced by the magnetic pistons.
                                                                                  A<
                                                                               12
                                                                                  44f
                                                                                    29n
                                                                                    ~Co

                                        5
                                  DESCRIPTION
                    Energy Efficient Performance Drivetrain
The copper coiling that wraps around each cylinder is insulated with thin
Ceramic material to ensure the electricity produced doesn't dissipate into the
metal Construction of the Cylinder Block.
The electricity produced from each cylinder is then conducted through wiring
to the vehicle's battery where the varying current is stored.
This electricity can then be used to power the vehicle's electrical components.
And any surplus electricity can power an electric motor connected to the engines
Harmonic balancer through a belt and pulley system.
The Magnetic Pistons used in the system are bolted together with a flat stainless
Steel top cap at the top of the Piston and bronze rings to provide compression.
The round magnet is placed between the bronze compression rings with a small
Amount of clearance to avoid rubbing against the bronze cylinder sleeve.
The use of bronze for the engine's cylinder sleeves and piston rings would be
Ideal because bronze is non-magnetic, to allow the magnetic field to pass through it.
Bronze is a good material for the use in bearings because it has low friction
And long wearing properties.
Also the use of replaceable bronze cylinder sleeves and piston rings would make
engine rebuilds simpler and less time consuming.
The used bronze cylinder sleeves and piston rings could be collected and recycled
by the local scrap metal merchant.
                                                                                 12
                                                                               ks'    '
                                                                         N
                                                                            LO   -14*   L

                                      6
                                  DESCRIPTION
                   Energy Efficient Performance Drivetrain
The third system in the Energy Efficient Performance Drivetrain is
The Triple Bearing Camshaft and Rocker Assembly that uses inner and outer
bearing races machined into the Camshaft Lobes to provide a high revving
and low resistance valve and rocker operation.
The normal valve springs are not used in the system because
the Rocker movement is fully obtained through mechanical force.
The inner and outer bearing races that are machined into the
camshaft lobes would be difficult to machine and grind smooth so the
camshaft would need to be assembled with three main parts and could
not be a solid one piece camshaft.
The three main parts of the camshaft are the Lobes, the Spacers and
the Spline Shaft.
The Lobes are the most unique part of the system and have
Cam shaped inner bearing races machined into the sides of the lobes
As well as the traditional outer Cam shaped Lobes
The individual Lobes would need to have a spline in the centre lower
Part of the lobe to allow it to be mounted to the spline shaft.
The spacers would be mounted between each of the lobes on the Spline shaft.
Different materials could be used in the construction of the three main components
of the camshaft to improve the overall dynamics of the new camshaft.
                                                                         6j  204
                                                                       enen

                                    7
                              DESCRIPTION
               Energy Efficient Performance Drivetrain
The ideal materials used in the construction of the Triple Bearing Camshaft
And Rocker Assembly should be as follows.
Chrome Steel for the Cam lobes for it's low friction and long wearing properties.
Aluminium for the Camshaft spacers for it's light weight.
And Titanium for the Spline Shaft for it's strong torsion strength.
The Second unique component of The Triple Bearing Camshaft and Rocker
Assembly Is the Triple Roller Rocker.
The Triple Roller Rockers purpose is to use the up and down movement of
Camshaft lobes and transfer that movement to the up and down movement of
The intake and exhaust Valves.
The unique part of the Rocker is that it uses three bearings to make a
Rolling surface contact with the camshaft lobes.
The centre Bearing of The Rocker makes contact with the outside lobe
Of The camshaft, while the two outside bearings of the rocker make
Contact with the inside bearing races of the cam lobe.
The inside eccentric bearing races are machined into the sides of the cam lobes.
Because of the design of the camshaft and rocker, constant rolling bearing contact
Is maintained between the camshaft and the triple bearing rocker.
                                                                -0)
                                                                    Z1

                                    8
                              DESCRIPTION
                Energy Efficient Performance Drivetrain
This causes a constant rolling contact with the camshaft and the rocker
Without the need of usual valve springs.
The Triple Bearing Camshaft and Rocker Assembly does use springs to
Function correctly however these springs only create a minor amount of
resistance on the function of the valves, rocker and camshaft.
There are two springs built into the rocker on the bearing end and the
Purpose of these springs is to create pressure between the rollers and
The camshaft.
In between these two springs are three chrome steel pins.
The purpose of these pins is to make the Bearing end of the rocker rigid.
There is also one spring located at end of the valve stem to create a
Cushioning effect between the valve and the valve seat.
The amount of movement of the spring on the valve stem side would be
very small only about 2mm.
                                                                  PM 7
                                                       a     RECEVED        CP
                                                        >    1 <removed-date>
                                                                   Screened
                                                              eI

                                         9
                                   DESCRIPTION
                     Energy Efficient Performance Drivetrain
The forth system in The Energy Efficient Performance Drivetrain is the
Outside Drive high speed cornering transmission.
This system uses electric clutches located between the transaxles and
The drive shafts of the vehicle to disengage drive to the inside wheels during
High speed cornering.
The purpose of this system isto reduce the amount of steering angle needed
when cornering and this will reduce the amount of resistance on the vehicle.
Also more power can be delivered to the outside wheels resulting in higher
cornering speeds.
The system is similar to how a Skid Steer steering system works.
Skid Steer steering systems are used on many vehicles and do not need
the front wheels to change angles to corner.
The Outside Drive high speed cornering Transmission would have a
Button or switch located inside the drivers cabin to activate or deactivate
The system depending on road conditions.
The system would be most beneficial on long high speed bends like those
Found on freeways and racetracks.
                                                                        SPM      7
                                                               4    RECEIVED
                                                              co   16 JAN2018
                                                                 S AMstraanu(ovemrent ~ (-0
                                                                     &Qi-screo

                                          10
                                       CLAIMS
                      Energy Efficient Performance Drivetrain
1 The use of metal tubing between the pneumatic motor and the intake manifold
   On the Compressed Air Regenerative Braking System. This innovative step will provide
   Cold and pressurized air from the pneumatic motor and direct the air into the Engine
   Through the intake manifold to increase the amount of power the Engine Generates.
2 The use of Magnets built into the Pistons and Copper coiling built into the Electronic
   Cylinder Block to produce electricity during the normal up and down operation of
   The Pistons.
3 The use of inner camshaft lobes machined into the sides of the Camshaft to produce
   An Internal Camshaft Lobe. On the Triple Bearing Camshaft and Rocker Assembly.
4 The use of three Roller Bearings on the Camshaft Side of the Roller Rocker. The Two side
  Roller Bearings will have a lower centre than the central roller Bearing and will locate into
  The sides of the Internal Camshaft Lobe. The central Roller Bearing on the Roller Rocker
  Assembly will locate on to the centre part of the Camshaft Lobe.
  The use of three bearings on the Camshaft side of the Roller Rocker and the Combined
  Use of internal and external camshaft lobes. This System will reduce the amount of
  Resistance on the Engine and Increase the amount of power the Engine Generates.
                                                                              PM
                                                                ,p      RECEIVED
                                                                c       1 <removed-date>
                                                                                  e AN
                                                                   10 Aut~anafl overnment
                                                                                        ZQSe
                                                                     6' e>        -.

                                    11
                                 CLAIMS
                 Energy Efficient Performance Drivetrain
5 The use of electronic clutches on The Outside Drive High Speed Cornering
  Transmission.
  The electronic clutches will engage and disengage during high speed cornering
  And reduce the amount of resistance on the vehicle and increase the vehicle's
   Performance during high speed cornering.
                                                                sp    RECEIVED
                                                                     1 <removed-date>
                                                                   S Austalan Uovemnaiit
                                                                       SecmScr.,ed       'N
                                                                                           L*
                                                                          iV

   Editorial Note
    <removed-apn>
There are 4 pages of drawings only

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
