      NEUROSTIMULATION SYSTEM HAVING INCREASED FLEXIBILITY FOR
                           CREATING COMPLEX PULSE TRAINS
                                               ABSTRACT
        A neuromodulation system comprises electrical terminals configured for being
respectively coupled to electrodes. The system further comprises modulation output circuitry
configured for respectively outputting individual electrical pulse trains in timing channels to the
electrical terminals, wherein each of the pulse trains has a modulation pulse, and at least one of
the pulse trains has a charge recovery pulse associated with the modulation pulse of the
respective pulse train. The neuromodulation system further comprises control circuitry
configured for controlling the modulation output circuitry in a manner that sequentially outputs
the modulation pulses of the respective pulse trains to a common set of the electrical terminals
without an intervening charge recovery pulse, and outputting the charge recovery pulse(s) to the
common set of the electrical terminals subsequent to the sequential modulation pulses, thereby
creating a combined electrical pulse train at the common set of electrical terminals.

                                                   1
      NEUROSTIMULATION SYSTEM HAVING INCREASED FLEXIBILITY FOR
                            CREATING COMPLEX PULSE TRAINS
                                     RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]       This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
2014218716, a National Phase Entry of International Patent Application No.
PCT/US2014/017789, filed on 21 February 2014. International Patent Application No.
PCT/US2014/017789 claims priority from US Provisional Patent Application No. 61/768305
filed on 22 February 2013. Australian Patent Application No. 2014218716 is incorporated
herein by reference in its entirety.
                                    FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001 a]     The present invention relates to tissue stimulation systems, and more particularly, to
a system and method for delivering complex electrical pulse trains using multi-channel
neurostimulation systems.
                              BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]       Implantable neuromodulation systems have proven therapeutic in a wide variety of
diseases and disorders. Pacemakers and Implantable Cardiac Defibrillators (ICDs) have proven
highly effective in the treatment of a number of cardiac conditions (e.g., arrhythmias). Spinal
Cord Stimulation (SCS) systems have long been accepted as a therapeutic modality for the
treatment of chronic pain syndromes, and the application of tissue stimulation has begun to
expand to additional applications such as angina pectoralis and incontinence. Deep Brain
Stimulation (DBS) has also been applied therapeutically for well over a decade for the treatment
of refractory chronic pain syndromes, and DBS has also recently been applied in additional areas
such as movement disorders and epilepsy. Further, in recent investigations, Peripheral Nerve
Stimulation (PNS) systems have demonstrated efficacy in the treatment of chronic pain
syndromes and incontinence, and a number of additional applications are currently under
investigation. Furthermore, Functional Electrical Stimulation (FES) systems, such as the
Freehand system by NeuroControl (Cleveland, Ohio), have been applied to restore some
functionality to paralyzed extremities in spinal cord injury patients.
[0003]       These implantable neuromodulation systems typically include one or more electrode
carrying modulation leads, which are implanted at the desired stimulation site, and a
neuromodulator (e.g., an implantable pulse generator (IPG)) implanted remotely from the
stimulation site, but coupled either directly to the modulation lead(s) or indirectly to the
modulation lead(s) via a lead extension. The neuromodulation system may further comprise an

                                                 la
external control device to remotely instruct the neuromodulator to generate electrical modulation
pulses in accordance with selected modulation parameters.

[0004] Electrical modulation energy may be delivered from the neuromodulator to
the electrodes in the form of a pulsed electrical waveform. Thus, modulation energy
may be controllably delivered to the electrodes to stimulate neural tissue. The
combination of electrodes used to deliver electrical pulses to the targeted tissue
constitutes an electrode combination, with the electrodes capable of being
selectively programmed to act as anodes (positive), cathodes (negative), or left off
(zero). In other words, an electrode combination represents the polarity being
positive, negative, or zero. Other parameters that may be controlled or varied
include the amplitude, duration, and rate of the electrical pulses provided through the
electrode array. Each electrode combination, along with the electrical pulse
parameters, can be referred to as a "modulation parameter set."
[0005] With some neuromodulation systems, and in particular, those with
independently controlled current or voltage sources, the distribution of the current to
the electrodes (including the case of the neuromodulator, which may act as an
electrode) may be varied such that the current is supplied via numerous different
electrode configurations. In different configurations, the electrodes may provide
current or voltage in different relative percentages of positive and negative current or
voltage to create different electrical current distributions (i.e., fractionalized electrode
configurations).
[0006] As briefly discussed above, an external control device can be used to instruct
the neuromodulator to generate electrical modulation pulses in accordance with the
selected modulation parameters. Typically, the modulation parameters programmed
into the neuromodulator can be adjusted by manipulating controls on the external
control device to modify the electrical stimulation provided by the neuromodulator
system to the patient. However, the number of electrodes available combined with
the ability to generate a variety of complex modulation pulses, presents a vast
selection of modulation parameter sets to the clinician or patient.
[0007] To facilitate such selection, the clinician generally programs the
neuromodulator through a computerized programming system. This programming
system can be a self-contained hardware/software system, or can be defined
predominantly by software running on a standard personal computer (PC). The PC
or custom hardware may actively control the characteristics of the electrical
stimulation generated by the neuromodulator to allow the optimum modulation
                                             2

parameters to be determined based on patient feedback or other means and to
subsequently program the neuromodulator with the optimum modulation parameter
set or sets, which will typically be those that stimulate all of the target tissue in order
to provide the therapeutic benefit, yet minimizes the volume of non-target tissue that
is stimulated. The computerized programming system may be operated by a
clinician attending the patient in several scenarios.
[0008] Often, multiple timing channels are used when applying electrical stimulation
to target different tissue regions in a patient. For example, in the context of SCS, the
patient may simultaneously experience pain in different regions (such as the lower
back, left arm, and right leg) that would require the electrical stimulation of different
spinal cord tissue regions. In the context of DBS, a multitude of brain structures may
need to be electrically stimulated in order to simultaneously treat ailments associated
with these brain structures. Each timing channel identifies the combination of
electrodes used to deliver electrical pulses to the targeted tissue, as well as the
characteristics of the current (pulse amplitude, pulse duration, pulse frequency, etc.)
flowing through the electrodes.
[0009] The electrical modulation energy may be delivered between electrodes as
monophasic electrical energy or multiphasic electrical energy. Monophasic electrical
energy includes a series of pulses that are either all positive (anodic) or all negative
(cathodic). Multiphasic electrical energy includes a series of pulses that alternate
between positive and negative. For example, multiphasic electrical energy may
include a series of biphasic pulses, with each biphasic pulse including a cathodic
(negative) stimulation phase and an anodic (positive) charge recovery phase that is
generated after the stimulation phase to prevent direct current charge transfer
through the tissue, thereby avoiding cell trauma and electrode degradation via
corrosion. That is, charge is conveyed through the electrode-tissue interface via
current at an electrode during a stimulation period (the length of the modulation
pulse), and then pulled back off the electrode-tissue interface via an oppositely
polarized current at the same electrode during a recharge period (the length of the
recharge pulse). Each biphasic pulse has an interphase that defined the time period
between the stimulation phase and the charge recovery phase.
[0010] In the context of an SCS procedure, one or more leads are introduced
through the patient's back into the epidural space, such that the electrodes carried by
                                             3

the leads are arranged in a desired pattern and spacing to create an electrode array.
After proper placement of the leads at the target area of the spinal cord, the leads
are anchored in place at an exit site to prevent movement of the leads. To facilitate
the location of the neuromodulator away from the exit point of the leads, lead
extensions are sometimes used. The leads, or the lead extensions, are then
connected to the IPG, which can then be operated to generate electrical pulses that
are delivered, through the electrodes, to the targeted spinal cord tissue. The
modulation, and in the conventional case, the stimulation, creates the sensation
known as paresthesia, which can be characterized as an alternative sensation that
replaces the pain signals sensed by the patient. The efficacy of SCS is related to the
ability to modulate the spinal cord tissue corresponding to evoked paresthesia in the
region of the body where the patient experiences pain. Thus, the working clinical
paradigm is that achievement of an effective result from SCS depends on the
modulation lead or leads being placed in a location (both longitudinal and lateral)
relative to the spinal tissue such that the electrical modulation will induce paresthesia
located in approximately the same place in the patient's body as the pain (i.e., the
target of treatment).
[0011] Although alternative or artifactual sensations are usually tolerated relative to
the sensation of pain, patients sometimes report these sensations to be
uncomfortable, and therefore, they can be considered an adverse side-effect to
neuromodulation therapy in some cases. It has been shown that high-frequency
pulsed electrical energy can be effective in providing neuromodulation therapy for
chronic pain without causing paresthesia.      In contrast to conventional
neuromodulation therapies, which employ low- to mid-frequencies to efficiently
induce desired firing rate of action potentials from electrical pulses (e.g., one pulse
can induce a burst of action potentials, or multiple pulses may be temporally
integrated to induce on action potential), high frequency modulation (e.g., 1 KHz
50KHz) can be employed to block or otherwise disrupt naturally occurring action
potentials within neural fibers or otherwise disrupt the action potentials within the
neural fibers. Although high-frequency modulation therapies have shown good
efficacy in early studies, it would be desirable to provide high-frequency modulation
therapy.
                                             4

[0012] Once programmed, current neuromodulation systems are designed to
deliver tonic modulation pulse trains in each timing channel (i.e., the pulse amplitude,
pulse rate, pulse width, and interphase) are fixed. As a result, current
neuromodulation systems are only capable of generating a simple pulse train for
each of the timing channels. However, in some cases, it may be desirable to
generate more complex pulse trains, which may be useful in controlling the response
in neurons. For example, neuron response is a dynamic time course that can vary
with sequential modulation. It is hypothesized that there is a temporal integration of
the modulation effects induced from multiple pulses if the train of pulses is
programmed within the responsive time frame of neuron. It would, thus, be desirable
to provide therapy using complex pulse trains.
[0013] While neuromodulation systems can be designed with hardware capable of
generating complex and/or high frequency pulse trains, redesigning the hardware on
presently existing neuromodulation designs to accommodate these pulse trains may
be a monumental task. Furthermore, neuromodulation systems that are currently
used in the field may not be easily updated to generate these pulse trains.
[0014] There, thus, remains a need to provide an improved technique for more easily
enabling presently existing neuromodulation systems to generate more complex
and/or higher frequency pulse trains.
                             SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0015] In accordance with the present inventions, a neuromodulation system
comprises a plurality of electrical terminals configured for being respectively coupled
to a plurality of electrodes, and modulation output circuitry configured for respectively
outputting a plurality of individual electrical pulse trains in a plurality of timing
channels to the plurality of electrical terminals. Each of the pulse trains has a
modulation pulse, and at least one of the pulse trains has a charge recovery pulse
associated with the modulation pulse of the at least one respective pulse train. In
one embodiment, the modulation pulses have the same pulse amplitude and the
same pulse width. In another embodiment, at least two of the modulation pulses
have at least one of a different pulse amplitude and a different pulse width. The
charge recovery pulse may be either passive or active.
                                              5

[0016] The neuromodulation system further comprises control circuitry configured for
controlling the modulation output circuitry in a manner that sequentially outputs the
modulation pulses of the respective pulse trains to a common set of the electrical
terminals (which may include only one electrical terminal or more than one electrical
terminal) without an intervening charge recovery pulse, and outputting the charge
recovery pulse of the at least one pulse train to the common set of the electrical
terminals subsequent to the sequential modulation pulses, thereby creating a
combined electrical pulse train at the common set of electrical terminals.
[0017] The sequential modulation pulses may be temporarily spaced apart relative to
each other, which may be uniform. The sequential modulation pulses may be
temporarily spaced apart relative to each other by a time period less than 1 ms to
facilitate temporal integration of the pulses. The sequential modulation pulses may
alternatively be temporarily contiguous relative to each other. Only one of the pulse
trains may have a charge recovery pulse, in which case, the charge recovery pulse
preferably has a charge approximately equal to a combined charge of the modulation
pulses. In one embodiment, the plurality of pulse trains may have charge recovery
pulses respectively associated with the modulation pulses, in which case, the control
circuitry may be configured for controlling the modulation output circuitry in a manner
that sequentially outputs the charge recovery pulses of the respective pulse trains to
the common set of the electrical terminals without an intervening modulation pulse.
The sequential charge recovery pulses may be temporarily spaced relative to each
other, temporarily contiguous relative to each other, temporarily overlap relative to
each other. In any case, the charge recovery pulses preferably have a combined
charge approximately equal to a combined charge of the modulation pulses.
[0018] In one embodiment, each of the pulse trains has a fixed pulse rate less than
1.2 KHz, and the combined pulse train has an average pulse rate greater than 1.2
KHz. In another embodiment, each of the pulse trains has the same pulse rate, and
the combined pulse train has a uniform pulse rate greater than the pulse rate of each
of the pulse trains. An optional embodiment further comprises a user interface
configured for receiving an input from a user defining a characteristic of the
sequential modulation pulses, in which case, the control circuitry is configured for
controlling the modulation output circuitry in a manner that sequentially outputs the
modulation pulses of the respective pulse trains to the common set of the electrical
                                             6

terminals in accordance with the user-defined characteristic. The user interface may
further be configured for receiving an input from a user specifying a set of electrodes
corresponding to the common set of electrical terminal, in which case, the control
circuitry is configured for selecting the common set of electrical terminals in
accordance with the user-specified common set of electrodes. The neurostimulation
system may further comprise a casing containing the plurality of electrical terminals,
the modulation output circuitry, and the control circuitry.
[0019] Other and further aspects and features of the invention will be evident from
reading the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments, which are
intended to illustrate, not limit, the invention.
                       BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0020] The drawings illustrate the design and utility of preferred embodiments of the
present invention, in which similar elements are referred to by common reference
numerals. In order to better appreciate how the above-recited and other advantages
and objects of the present inventions are obtained, a more particular description of
the present inventions briefly described above will be rendered by reference to
specific embodiments thereof, which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings.
Understanding that these drawings depict only typical embodiments of the invention
and are not therefore to be considered limiting of its scope, the invention will be
described and explained with additional specificity and detail through the use of the
accompanying drawings in which:
[0021] Fig. 1 is a plan view of an embodiment of a spinal cord modulation (SCM)
system arranged in accordance with the present inventions;
[0022] Fig. 2 is a plan view of the SCM system of Fig. 1 in use with a patient;
[0023] Fig. 3 is a profile view of an implantable pulse generator (IPG) and
percutaneous leads used in the SCM system of Fig. 1;
[0024] Fig. 4 is a plot of monophasic cathodic electrical modulation energy;
[0025] Fig. 5a is a plot of biphasic electrical modulation energy having a cathodic
modulation pulse and an active charge recovery pulse;
[0026] Fig. 5b is a plot of biphasic electrical modulation energy having a cathodic
modulation pulse and a passive charge recovery pulse;
                                               7

[0027] Fig. 6a is timing diagram of an electrical pulse train delivered within a single
timing channel of the IPG of Fig. 3 between two electrodes, wherein the interphase
between biphasic pulses is relatively short;
[0028] Fig. 6b is timing diagram of an electrical pulse train delivered within a single
timing channel of the IPG of Fig. 3 between two electrodes, wherein the interphase
between biphasic pulses is relatively long;
[0029] Fig. 7 is a timing diagram illustrating a first technique for combining pulsed
electrical waveforms delivered within four respective timing channels of the IPG of
Fig. 3, wherein a combined electrical pulse train is created at a common set of
electrodes;
[0030] Fig. 8 is a timing diagram illustrating a second technique for combining
pulsed electrical waveforms delivered within four respective timing channels of the
IPG of Fig. 3, wherein a combined electrical pulse train is created at a common set
of electrodes;
[0031] Fig. 9 is a timing diagram illustrating a third technique for combining pulsed
electrical waveforms delivered within four respective timing channels of the IPG of
Fig. 3, wherein a combined electrical pulse train is created at a common set of
electrodes;
[0032] Fig. 10 is a timing diagram illustrating a fourth technique for combining pulsed
electrical waveforms delivered within four respective timing channels of the IPG of
Fig. 3, wherein a combined electrical pulse train is created at a common set of
electrodes;
[0033] Fig. 11 is a timing diagram illustrating a fifth technique for combining pulsed
electrical waveforms delivered within four respective timing channels of the IPG of
Fig. 3, wherein a combined electrical pulse train is created at a common set of
electrodes; and
[0034] Fig. 12 is a block diagram of the internal components of the IPG of Fig. 3.
                 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENTS
[0035] The description that follows relates to a spinal cord modulation (SCM)
system. However, it is to be understood that while the invention lends itself well to
applications in spinal cord modulation, the invention, in its broadest aspects, may not
be so limited. Rather, the invention may be used with any type of implantable
                                             8

electrical circuitry used to stimulate tissue. For example, the present invention may
be used as part of a pacemaker, a defibrillator, a cochlear stimulator, a retinal
stimulator, a stimulator configured to produce coordinated limb movement, a cortical
stimulator, a deep brain stimulator, peripheral nerve stimulator, microstimulator, or in
any other neurostimulator configured to treat urinary incontinence, sleep apnea,
shoulder sublaxation, headache, etc.
[0036] Turning first to Fig. 1, an exemplary SCM neuromodulation system 10
generally includes one or more (in this case, two) implantable modulation leads 12,
an implantable pulse generator (IPG) 14, an external remote controller RC 16, a
clinician's programmer (CP) 18, an External Trial Modulator (ETM) 20, and an
external charger 22.
[0037] The IPG 14 is physically connected via one or more percutaneous lead
extensions 24 to the modulation leads 12, which carry a plurality of electrodes 26
arranged in an array. In the illustrated embodiment, the modulation leads 12 are
percutaneous leads, and to this end, the electrodes 26 may be arranged in-line along
the modulation leads 12. In alternative embodiments, the electrodes 26 may be
arranged in a two-dimensional pattern on a single paddle lead. As will be described
in further detail below, the IPG 14 includes pulse generation circuitry that delivers
electrical modulation energy in the form of a pulsed electrical waveform (i.e., a
temporal series of electrical pulses) to the electrode array 26 in accordance with a
set of modulation parameters.
[0038] The ETM 20 may also be physically connected via the percutaneous lead
extensions 28 and external cable 30 to the modulation leads 12. The ETM 20, which
has similar pulse generation circuitry as the IPG 14, also delivers electrical
modulation energy in the form of a pulse electrical waveform to the electrode array
26 accordance with a set of modulation parameters. The major difference between
the ETM 20 and the IPG 14 is that the ETM 20 is a non-implantable device that is
used on a trial basis after the modulation leads 12 have been implanted and prior to
implantation of the IPG 14, to test the responsiveness of the stimulation that is to be
provided. Thus, any functions described herein with respect to the IPG 14 can
likewise be performed with respect to the ETM 20.
[0039] The RC 16 may be used to telemetrically control the ETM 20 via a bi
directional RF communications link 32. Once the IPG 14 and modulation leads 12
                                              9

are implanted, the RC 16 may be used to telemetrically control the IPG 14 via a bi
directional RF communications link 34. Such control allows the IPG 14 to be turned
on or off and to be programmed with different modulation parameter sets. The IPG
14 may also be operated to modify the programmed modulation parameters to
actively control the characteristics of the electrical modulation energy output by the
IPG 14. As will be described in further detail below, the CP 18 provides clinician
detailed modulation parameters for programming the IPG 14 and ETM 20 in the
operating room and in follow-up sessions.
[0040] The CP 18 may perform this function by indirectly communicating with the
IPG 14 or ETM 20, through the RC 16, via an IR communications link 36.
Alternatively, the CP 18 may directly communicate with the IPG 14 or ETM 20 via an
RF communications link (not shown). The clinician detailed modulation parameters
provided by the CP 18 are also used to program the RC 16, so that the modulation
parameters can be subsequently modified by operation of the RC 16 in a stand
alone mode (i.e., without the assistance of the CP 18).
[0041] The external charger 22 is a portable device used to transcutaneously charge
the IPG 14 via an inductive link 38. For purposes of brevity, the details of the
external charger 22 will not be described herein. Once the IPG 14 has been
programmed, and its power source has been charged by the external charger 22 or
otherwise replenished, the IPG 14 may function as programmed without the RC 16
or CP 18 being present.
[0042] For purposes of brevity, the details of the RC 16, CP 18, ETM 20, and
external charger 22 will not be described herein. Details of exemplary embodiments
of these devices are disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 6,895,280.
[0043] As shown in Fig. 2, the modulation leads (or lead) 12 are implanted within the
spinal column 42 of a patient 40. The preferred placement of the modulation leads
12 is adjacent, i.e., resting near, or upon the dura, adjacent to the spinal cord area to
be stimulated. The neuromodulation leads 12 will be located in a vertebral position
that depends upon the location and distribution of the chronic pain. For example, if
the chronic pain is in the lower back or legs, the modulation leads 12 may be located
in the mid- to low-thoracic region (e.g., at the T9-12 vertebral levels). Due to the lack
of space near the location where the modulation leads 12 exit the spinal column 42,
the IPG 14 is generally implanted in a surgically-made pocket either in the abdomen
                                             10

or above the buttocks. The IPG 14 may, of course, also be implanted in other
locations of the patient's body. The lead extensions 24 facilitate locating the IPG 14
away from the exit point of the electrode leads 12. As there shown, the CP 18
communicates with the IPG 14 via the RC 16.
[0044] Referring now to Fig. 3, the features of the modulation leads 12 and the IPG
14 will be briefly described. One of the modulation leads 12(1) has eight electrodes
26 (labeled E1-E8), and the other modulation lead 12(2) has eight electrodes 26
(labeled E9-E16). The actual number and shape of leads and electrodes will, of
course, vary according to the intended application. The IPG 14 comprises an outer
case 44 for housing the electronic and other components (described in further detail
below), and a connector 46 to which the proximal ends of the modulation leads 12
mates in a manner that electrically couples the electrodes 26 to the electronics within
the outer case 40. The outer case 44 is composed of an electrically conductive,
biocompatible material, such as titanium, and forms a hermetically sealed
compartment wherein the internal electronics are protected from the body tissue and
fluids. In some cases, the outer case 40 may serve as an electrode.
[0045] As will be described in further detail below, the IPG 14 includes a battery and
pulse generation circuitry that delivers the electrical modulation energy in the form of
one or more electrical pulse trains to the electrode array 26 in accordance with a set
of modulation parameters programmed into the IPG 14. Such modulation
parameters may comprise electrode combinations, which define the electrodes that
are activated as anodes (positive), cathodes (negative), and turned off (zero),
percentage of modulation energy assigned to each electrode (fractionalized
electrode configurations), and electrical pulse parameters, which define the pulse
amplitude (measured in milliamps or volts depending on whether the IPG 14 supplies
constant current or constant voltage to the electrode array 26), pulse duration
(measured in microseconds), pulse rate (measured in pulses per second), and burst
rate (measured as the modulation on duration X and modulation off duration Y).
[0046] Electrical modulation will occur between two (or more) activated electrodes,
one of which may be the IPG case 44. Modulation energy may be transmitted to the
tissue in a monopolar or multipolar (e.g., bipolar, tripolar, etc.) fashion. Monopolar
modulation occurs when a selected one of the lead electrodes 26 is activated along
with the case of the IPG 14, so that modulation energy is transmitted between the
                                            11

selected electrode 26 and case. Bipolar modulation occurs when two of the lead
electrodes 26 are activated as anode and cathode, so that modulation energy is
transmitted between the selected electrodes 26. For example, electrode E3 on the
first lead 12(1) may be activated as an anode at the same time that electrode El1 on
the second lead 12(1) is activated as a cathode. Tripolar modulation occurs when
three of the lead electrodes 26 are activated, two as anodes and the remaining one
as a cathode, or two as cathodes and the remaining one as an anode. For example,
electrodes E4 and E5 on the first lead 12 may be activated as anodes at the same
time that electrode E12 on the second lead 12 is activated as a cathode
[0047] The modulation energy may be delivered between a specified group of
electrodes as monophasic electrical energy or multiphasic electrical energy. As
illustrated in Fig. 4, monophasic electrical energy takes the form of an electrical
pulse train that includes either all negative pulses (cathodic), or alternatively all
positive pulses (anodic).
[0048] Multiphasic electrical energy includes a series of pulses that alternate
between positive and negative. For example, as illustrated in Fig. 5a and 5b,
multiphasic electrical energy may include a series of biphasic pulses, with each
biphasic pulse including a cathodic (negative) modulation pulse (during a first phase)
and an anodic (positive) charge recovery pulse (during a second phase) that is
generated after the modulation pulse to prevent direct current charge transfer
through the tissue, thereby avoiding electrode degradation and cell trauma. That is,
charge is conveyed through the electrode-tissue interface via current at an electrode
during a modulation period (the length of the modulation pulse), and then pulled back
off the electrode-tissue interface via an oppositely polarized current at the same
electrode during a recharge period (the length of the charge recovery pulse).
[0049] The second phase may have an active charge recovery pulse (Fig. 5a),
wherein electrical current is actively conveyed through the electrode via current or
voltage sources, and a passive charge recovery pulse, or the second phase may
have a passive charge recovery pulse (Fig. 5b), wherein electrical current is
passively conveyed through the electrode via redistribution of the charge flowing
from coupling capacitances present in the circuit. Using active recharge, as opposed
to passive recharge, allows faster recharge, while avoiding the charge imbalance
that could otherwise occur. Another electrical pulse parameter in the form of an
                                             12

interphase can define the time period between the pulses of the biphasic pulse
(measured in microseconds).
[0050] The SCM system 10 is capable of varying the interphase of multiphasic
pulses to provide different therapeutic results. For example, as illustrated in Figs. 6a
and 6b, multiphasic electrical energy takes the form an electrical pulse train 50
consisting of a plurality of biphasic pulses 52, which is delivered in a single timing
channel T to a set of electrodes, and in this case, to electrode El. As is
conventional, each of the biphasic pulses 52 includes a cathodic (negative)
modulation pulse (during a first phase) 54, an anodic (positive) charge recovery
pulse (during a second phase) 56, and an interphase 58 between the modulation
pulse 54 and charge recovery pulse 56. In the illustrated embodiment, the charge
recovery pulse 56 is active. The multiphasic electrical energy is conveyed from
another set of electrodes, and in this case, from electrode E2, and thus, the electrical
pulse train is mirrored onto electrode E2.
[0051] As shown in Fig. 6a, the interphase 58 of each of the biphasic pulses 52 is
relatively short to facilitate temporal integration between the two phases of each
biphasic pulse 52. As shown in Fig. 6b, the interphase 58 of each of the biphasic
pulses 52 is relatively long, so that there is minimal or no temporal integration effect
between the two phases of each biphasic pulse 52.
[0052] Significant to the present inventions, the SCM system 10 is capable of
concurrently delivering a plurality of individual electrical pulse trains through a
respective plurality of timing channels to a common set of electrode, thereby creating
a combined electrical pulse train at the common electrode set. For the purposes of
this specification, electrical pulse trains are concurrently conveyed if any of their
pulses overlap or are interleaved relative to each other. In a preferred method, the
individual pulse trains are respectively conveyed from the plurality of electrodes to
the common electrode (or electrodes) via tissue of the patient. Preferably, the tissue
adjacent the common electrode (or electrodes) is therapeutically modulated (e.g.,
stimulated) by the combined electrical pulse train to provide the therapy.
Advantageously, using multiple timing channels to combine electrical pulse trains
into a single electrical pulse train at a common set of electrodes enables the SCM
system 10 to create an electrical pulse train that may not otherwise be able to be
                                              13

created using a single timing channel due to hardware limitations in the SCM system
10.
[0053] To facilitate the combining of the individual electrical pulse trains into a single
electrical pulse train at a common set of electrodes, the SCM system 10 is capable
of adjusting the interphase of the multiphasic pulses in at least one of the individual
electrical pulse trains. In one advantageous technique, individual electrical pulse
trains are combined to create an electrical pulse train consisting of composite
modulation pulses and/or composite charge recovery pulses.
[0054] For example, as shown in Fig. 7, four individual electrical pulse trains 60a
60d are respectively delivered in four timing channels T1 -T4 to a common electrode
set (e.g., electrode El) to create a single combined electrical pulse train 60 at the
common electrode set. In the illustrated embodiment, the single combined electrical
pulse train 60 includes a series of composite modulation pulses 62, each of which is
created by sequentially delivering modulation pulses 62a-62d of the respective
individual electrical pulse trains 60a-60d to the common electrode set without any
intervening charge recovery pulse. In the embodiment illustrated in Fig. 7, the
modulation pulses 62a-62d are temporarily spaced apart from each other, such that
there is a temporal integration of the modulation effects induced by the modulation
pulses 62a-62d within the neural tissue's responsive time frame. To this end, each
spacing between adjacent ones of the modulation pulses 62a-62d is preferably less
than 1 ms. In the illustrated embodiment, the amplitude and/or width of the
modulation pulses 62a-62d differ from each other. In particular, the amplitudes of
the modulation pulses 62a-62d gradually increase, with the width of the modulation
pulse 62a being greater than the widths of the remaining modulation pulses 62b-62d.
Thus, these characteristics are reflected in the pulses 62a-62d of the resulting
composite pulse 62. The amplitude and pulse width can be variable for any timing
channel in order to create any desired pulse shape.
[0055] One of the electrical pulse trains 60a-60d, and in the illustrated embodiment,
the electrical pulse train 60a associated within timing channel T1 is used to deliver a
charge recovery pulse 64 after the delivery of sequential modulation pulses 62a-62d.
Alternatively, any one of the other electrical pulse trains 60b-60d respectively
associated with the timing channels T2-T4 can be selected to include the charge
recovery pulse 64. In any event, the resulting electrical pulse train 60 includes this
                                            14

charge recovery pulse 64, which is disposed between adjacent composite
modulation pulses 62. The charge recovery pulse 64 preferably includes a charge
having a magnitude approximately equal to the magnitude of the combined charge of
the four preceding modulation pulses 62a-62d. In effect, the composite pulse 62 and
associated charge recovery pulse 64 of the combined electrical pulse train 60 form a
biphasic pulse.
[0056] Although the charge recovery pulse 64 illustrated in Fig. 7 is passive, active
charge recovery pulse may alternatively be used. For example, as illustrated in Fig.
8, the individual electrical pulse trains 60a-60d associated with the timing channels
T1-T4 respectively include active charge recovery pulses 64a-64d that are
concurrently delivered to the common electrode set subsequent to the modulation
pulses 62a-62d. As a result, the combined electrical pulse train 60 at the common
electrode set includes a composite charge recovery pulse 64. The magnitude of the
charge of the charge recovery pulse 64 will therefore be equal to the combined
charge of the four preceding modulation pulses 62a-62d. In effect, the modulation
pulses 62a-62d and associated charge recovery pulse 64a-64d for the individual
electrical pulse trains 60a-60d constitute symmetrical bi-phasic pulses, while the
composite modulation pulse 62 and composite charge recovery pulse 64 of the
composite electrical pulse train 60 constitute an asymmetrical bi-phasic pulse.
[0057] Like the modulation pulses 62a-62d, the amplitudes of the charge recovery
pulses 64a-64d gradually increase, with the width of the charge recovery pulse 62a
being greater than the widths of the remaining charge recovery pulses 64b-64d.
Because the modulation pulses 62a-62d are sequentially delivered to the common
electrode set, while the charge recovery pulses 64a-64d are concurrently delivered
to the common electrode set, interphases 66a-66d respectively between the
modulation pulses 62a-62d and charge recovery pulses 64a-64d gradually
decreases.
[0058] Although the charge recovery pulses 64a-64d illustrated in Fig. 8 are
concurrently delivered to the common electrode set, the charge recovery pulses 64a
64d may be sequentially delivered to the common electrode set much like the
modulation pulses 62a-62d are sequentially delivered to the common electrode set,
as illustrated in Fig. 9. As a result, the composite charge recovery pulse 64 of the
combined electrical pulse train 60 at the common electrode set has spaced apart
                                             15

pulses 64a-64d. In effect, the composite modulation pulse 62 and composite charge
recovery pulse 64 of the combined electrical pulse train 60 constitute a symmetrical
or mirrored bi-phasic pulse. It should be noted that the individual charge recovery
pulses of all four channels can be reorganized, so that the composite modulation
pulses and composite charge recovery pulses both have increasing amplitude or
decreasing amplitude. Although the individual timing channel may not be charge
balanced in these cases, the composite pulses will be charge balanced, since they
are delivered to the common electrode set.
[0059] Although the modulation pulses 62a-64d and charge recovery pulses 64a-64d
in the embodiment of Fig. 9 are delivered in a manner, such that the pulses of the
composite modulation pulse 62 and charge recovery pulse 64 are spaced apart
relative to each other, the modulation pulses 62a-64d and charge recovery pulses
64a-64d can be delivered in a manner, such that the pulses of the composite
modulation pulse 62 and charge recovery pulse 64 are contiguous relative to each
other, as shown in Fig. 10.
[0060] In another advantageous technique, individual electrical pulse trains having
fixed pulse rates are combined to create an electrical pulse train having an average
pulse rate greater than any of the fixed pulse rates of the individual electrical pulse
trains. For example, as shown in Fig. 11, the four individual electrical pulse trains
60a-60d are respectively delivered in four timing channels T1-T4 to a common
electrode set (e.g., electrode El) to create a single combined electrical pulse train 60
at the common electrode set. Like the embodiments in Figs. 7-10, the single
combined electrical pulse train 60 includes a series of composite modulation pulses
62, each of which is created by sequentially delivering modulation pulses 62a-62d of
the respective individual electrical pulse trains 60a-60d to the common electrode set
without any intervening charge recovery pulse. However, the modulation pulses
62a-62d are delivered in such a manner that the spacings of the modulation pulses
62 throughout the combined electrical pulse train 60 are uniform. In the illustrated
embodiment, the pulse rates of the individual electrical pulse trains 60a-60d are
uniform and equal to each other, and the pulse rate of the single combined electrical
pulse train 60 has a pulse rate that is four times as great as the pulse rate of any of
the individual pulse trains 60a-60d.
                                             16

[0061] In effect, an electrical pulse train can be designed to have a pulse rate
equivalent to N x the pulse rate of each individual pulse train, where N is the number
of timing channels. Preferably, the pulse rates of the individual pulse trains 60a-60d
are less than 1.2 KHz (e.g., 500Hz), whereas the pulse rate of the combined pulse
train 60 is greater than 1.2 KHz (e.g., 2KHz). In the illustrated embodiment, the
spacings between the modulation pulses 62 are small enough, such that there is a
temporal integration of the stimulation effects induced from the modulation pulses 62
within the neural tissue's responsive time frame, in effect, blocking or otherwise
disrupting action potentials from being conducted within the neural tissue. In the
illustrated embodiment, the size (amplitude and width) of the modulation pulses 62a
62d are uniform, although such size may differ.
[0062] Like the embodiment illustrated in Fig. 8, the individual electrical pulse trains
60a-60d associated with the timing channels T1-T4 respectively include active
charge recovery pulses 64a-64d that are concurrently delivered to the common
electrode set subsequent to the modulation pulses 62a-62d. As a result, the
combined electrical pulse train 60 at the common electrode set includes a composite
charge recovery pulse 64. The magnitude of the charge of the charge recovery
pulse 64 will therefore be equal to the combined charge of the four preceding
modulation pulses 62a-62d.
[0063] Turning next to Fig. 12, the main internal components of the IPG 14 will now
be described. The IPG 14 includes modulation output circuitry 100 configured for
generating electrical modulation energy in accordance with a defined pulsed
waveform having a specified pulse amplitude, pulse rate, pulse width, pulse shape,
and burst rate under control of control logic 102 over data bus 104. Control of the
pulse rate and pulse width of the electrical waveform is facilitated by timer logic
circuitry 106, which may have a suitable resolution, e.g., 1Ops. The modulation
energy generated by the modulation output circuitry 100 is output via capacitors C1
C16 to electrical terminals 108 corresponding to the electrodes 26. The analog
output circuitry 100 may either comprise independently controlled current sources for
providing modulation pulses of a specified and known amperage to or from the
electrodes 26, or independently controlled voltage sources for providing modulation
pulses of a specified and known voltage at the electrodes 26.
                                             17

[0064] Any of the N electrodes may be assigned to up to k possible groups or timing
"channels." In one embodiment, k may equal four. The timing channel identifies
which electrodes are selected to synchronously source or sink current to create an
electric field in the tissue to be stimulated. Amplitudes and polarities of electrodes
on a channel may vary, e.g., as controlled by the RC 16. External programming
software in the CP 18 is typically used to set modulation parameters including
electrode polarity, amplitude, pulse rate and pulse duration for the electrodes of a
given channel, among other possible programmable features.
[0065] The N programmable electrodes can be programmed to have a positive
(sourcing current), negative (sinking current), or off (no current) polarity in any of the
k channels. Moreover, each of the N electrodes can operate in a multipolar (e.g.,
bipolar) mode, e.g., where two or more electrode contacts are grouped to
source/sink current at the same time. Alternatively, each of the N electrodes can
operate in a monopolar mode where, e.g., the electrode contacts associated with a
channel are configured as cathodes (negative), and the case electrode (i.e., the IPG
case) is configured as an anode (positive).
[0066] Further, the amplitude of the current pulse being sourced or sunk to or from a
given electrode may be programmed to one of several discrete current levels, e.g.,
between 0 to 10 mA in steps of 0.1 mA. Also, the pulse duration of the current
pulses is preferably adjustable in convenient increments, e.g., from 0 to 1
milliseconds (ms) in increments of 10 microseconds (ps). Similarly, the pulse rate is
preferably adjustable within acceptable limits, e.g., from 0 to 1000 pulses per second
(pps). Other programmable features can include slow start/end ramping, burst
modulation cycling (on for X time, off for Y time), interphase, and open or closed loop
sensing modes.
[0067] The operation of this analog output circuitry 100, including alternative
embodiments of suitable output circuitry for performing the same function of
generating modulation pulses of a prescribed amplitude and duration, is described
more fully in U.S. Patent Nos. 6,516,227 and 6,993,384.
[0068] The IPG 14 further comprises monitoring circuitry 110 for monitoring the
status of various nodes or other points 112 throughout the IPG 14, e.g., power
supply voltages, temperature, battery voltage, and the like. The IPG 14 further
comprises processing circuitry in the form of a microcontroller (pC) 114 that controls
                                              18

the control logic over data bus 116, and obtains status data from the monitoring
circuitry 110 via data bus 118. The IPG 14 additionally controls the timer logic 108.
The IPG 14 further comprises memory 120 and oscillator and clock circuitry 122
coupled to the microcontroller 114. The microcontroller 114, in combination with the
memory 120 and oscillator and clock circuitry 122, thus comprise a microprocessor
system that carries out a program function in accordance with a suitable program
stored in the memory 118. Alternatively, for some applications, the function provided
by the microprocessor system may be carried out by a suitable state machine.
[0069] Thus, the microcontroller 114 generates the necessary control and status
signals, which allow the microcontroller 114 to control the operation of the IPG 14 in
accordance with a selected operating program and modulation parameters stored in
the memory 120. In controlling the operation of the IPG 14, the microcontroller 114
is able to individually generate an electrical pulse train at the electrodes 26 using the
modulation output circuitry 100, in combination with the control logic 102 and timer
logic 106, thereby allowing each electrode 26 to be paired or grouped with other
electrodes 26, including the monopolar case electrode. In accordance with
modulation parameters stored within the memory 118, the microcontroller 114 may
control the polarity, amplitude, rate, pulse duration and timing channel through which
the modulation pulses are provided.
[0070] Thus, it can be appreciated that, under control of the microcontroller 114, the
modulation output circuitry 100 is configured for outputting a k number of individual
electrical pulse trains respectively in a k number of timing channels to the electrical
terminals 106, with each electrical pulse train including bi-phasic pulses as shown in
Figs. 5a and 5b. In the IPG 14, up to four stimulation programs may be stored in
the memory 120, with each stimulation program having four timing channels. Thus,
each modulation program defines four sets of modulation parameters for four
respective timing channels. Of course, the IPG 14 may have less or more than four
modulation programs, and less or more than four timing channels for each
modulation program. Significantly, the microcontroller 114 may control the
modulation output circuitry 100 in a manner that delivers multiple electrical pulse
trains to a common set of the electrical terminals 108 (and thus, a common set of
electrodes 26) to create a single electrical pulse train at the common set of electrical
terminals 108; for example, in the manner described in the techniques illustrated in
                                             19

Figs. 6-11. Because the functions of the microcontroller 114 can be implemented in
software, these techniques can be more easily implemented within the IPG 14
without modifying pre-existing hardware designs.
[0071] The IPG 14 further comprises an alternating current (AC) receiving coil 124
for receiving programming data (e.g., the operating program and/or modulation
parameters) from the RC 16 (shown in Fig. 2) in an appropriate modulated carrier
signal, and charging and forward telemetry circuitry 126 for demodulating the carrier
signal it receives through the AC receiving coil 124 to recover the programming data,
which programming data is then stored within the memory 120, or within other
memory elements (not shown) distributed throughout the IPG 14.
[0072] The IPG 14 further comprises back telemetry circuitry 128 and an alternating
current (AC) transmission coil 130 for sending informational data sensed through the
monitoring circuitry 110 to the RC 16. The back telemetry features of the IPG 14
also allow its status to be checked. For example, when the RC 16 initiates a
programming session with the IPG 14, the capacity of the battery is telemetered, so
that the external programmer can calculate the estimated time to recharge. Any
changes made to the current stimulus parameters are confirmed through back
telemetry, thereby assuring that such changes have been correctly received and
implemented within the implant system. Moreover, upon interrogation by the RC 16,
all programmable settings stored within the IPG 14 may be uploaded to the RC 16.
Significantly, the back telemetry features allow raw or processed electrical parameter
data (or other parameter data) previously stored in the memory 120 to be
downloaded from the IPG 14 to the RC 16, which information can be used to track
the physical activity of the patient.
[0073] The IPG 14 further comprises a rechargeable power source 132 and power
circuits 134 for providing the operating power to the IPG 14. The rechargeable
power source 132 may, e.g., comprise a lithium-ion or lithium-ion polymer battery.
The rechargeable battery 132 provides an unregulated voltage to the power circuits
134. The power circuits 134, in turn, generate the various voltages 136, some of
which are regulated and some of which are not, as needed by the various circuits
located within the IPG 14. The rechargeable power source 132 is recharged using
rectified AC power (or DC power converted from AC power through other means,
e.g., efficient AC-to-DC converter circuits, also known as "inverter circuits") received
                                            20

by the AC receiving coil 134. To recharge the power source 132, an external
charger (not shown), which generates the AC magnetic field, is placed against, or
otherwise adjacent, to the patient's skin over the implanted IPG 14. The AC
magnetic field emitted by the external charger induces AC currents in the AC
receiving coil 134. The charging and forward telemetry circuitry 136 rectifies the AC
current to produce DC current, which is used to charge the power source 132. While
the AC receiving coil 134 is described as being used for both wirelessly receiving
communications (e.g., programming and control data) and charging energy from the
external device, it should be appreciated that the AC receiving coil 134 can be
arranged as a dedicated charging coil, while another coil, such as coil 130, can be
used for bi-directional telemetry.
[0074] It should be noted that the diagram of Fig. 12 is functional only, and is not
intended to be limiting. Those of skill in the art, given the descriptions presented
herein, should be able to readily fashion numerous types of IPG circuits, or
equivalent circuits, that carry out the functions indicated and described, which
functions include not only producing a stimulus current or voltage on selected groups
of electrodes, but also the ability to measure electrical parameter data at an
activated or non-activated electrode.
[0075] Additional details concerning the above-described and other IPGs may be
found in U.S. Patent No. 6,516,227, U.S. Patent Publication Nos. 2003/0139781, and
2005/0267546. It should be noted that rather than an IPG, the SCM system 10 may
alternatively utilize an implantable receiver-stimulator (not shown) connected to the
modulation leads 12. In this case, the power source, e.g., a battery, for powering the
implanted receiver, as well as control circuitry to command the receiver-stimulator,
will be contained in an external controller inductively coupled to the receiver
stimulator via an electromagnetic link. Data/power signals are transcutaneously
coupled from a cable-connected transmission coil placed over the implanted
receiver-stimulator. The implanted receiver-stimulator receives the signal and
generates the modulation in accordance with the control signals.
[0076] As briefly discussed above, the RC 16 and/or CP 18 includes a user interface
configured for receiving input from a user to specify the modulation parameters,
including the particular electrodes 26 between which the electrical pulse trains are to
be delivered. In one embodiment, composite pulses, such as those described with
                                             21

respect to Figs. 7-10, can be specified by the user. For example, the user interface
may present different composite pulses to the user from which to select one, after
which the microcontroller 114 will automatically vary the interphases (if necessary) of
the individual pulse trains, and deliver them through the timing channels in a manner
that creates a combined pulse train that includes the selected complex pulse.
Alternatively or optionally, the user interface allows the user to specifically define the
interphases of the individual pulse trains, and combine them to create a pulse train
with a user-defined complex pulse.
[0077] Although particular embodiments of the present inventions have been shown
and described, it will be understood that it is not intended to limit the present
inventions to the preferred embodiments, and it will be obvious to those skilled in the
art that various changes and modifications may be made without departing from the
spirit and scope of the present inventions. Thus, the present inventions are intended
to cover alternatives, modifications, and equivalents, which may be included
withinthe spirit and scope of the present inventions as defined by the claims.
                                             22

CLAIMS
        1. A neuromodulation system, comprising:
        a plurality of electrical terminals configured for being respectively coupled to a
plurality of electrodes;
        modulation output circuitry configured for respectively outputting a plurality of
individual electrical pulse trains in a plurality of timing channels to the plurality of
electrical terminals, wherein each of the pulse trains has a modulation pulse, and at
least one of the pulse trains has a charge recovery pulse associated with the
modulation pulse of the at least one respective pulse train; and
        control circuitry configured for controlling the modulation output circuitry in a
manner that sequentially outputs the modulation pulses of the respective pulse trains
to a common set of the electrical terminals without an intervening charge recovery
pulse, and outputting the charge recovery pulse of the at least one pulse train to the
common set of the electrical terminals subsequent to the sequential modulation
pulses, thereby creating a combined electrical pulse train at the common set of
electrical terminals.
        2. The neuromodulation system of claim 1, wherein the sequential modulation
pulses are temporarily spaced apart relative to each other.
        3. The neuromodulation system of claim 2, wherein the sequential modulation
pulses are uniformly spaced apart relative to each other.
        4. The neuromodulation system of claim 2, wherein the sequential modulation
pulses are temporarily spaced apart relative to each other by a time period less than
1 ms.
        5. The neuromodulation system of claim 1, wherein the sequential modulation
pulses are temporarily contiguous relative to each other.
        6. The neuromodulation system of claim 1, wherein only one of the pulse
trains has the charge recovery pulse, and the charge recovery pulse has a charge
approximately equal to a combined charge of the sequential modulation pulses.
        7. The neuromodulation system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of pulse
trains have charge recovery pulses respectively associated with the modulation
pulses, and the control circuitry is configured for controlling the modulation output
circuitry in a manner that sequentially outputs the charge recovery pulses of the
                                              23

respective pulse trains to the common set of the electrical terminals without an
intervening modulation pulse.
        8. The neuromodulation system of claim 7, wherein the sequential charge
recovery pulses are temporarily spaced relative to each other.
        9. The neuromodulation system of claim 7, wherein the sequential charge
recovery pulses are temporarily contiguous relative to each other.
        10. The neuromodulation system of claim 7, wherein the sequential charge
recovery pulses temporarily overlap relative to each other.
        11. The neuromodulation system of claim 7, wherein the charge recovery
pulses have a combined charge approximately equal to a combined charge of the
modulation pulses.
        12. The neuromodulation system of claim 1, wherein each of the pulse trains
has a fixed pulse rate less than 1.2 KHz, and the combined pulse train has an
average pulse rate greater than 1.2 KHz.
        13. The neuromodulation system of claim 1, wherein each of the pulse trains
has the same pulse rate, and the combined pulse train has a uniform pulse rate
greater than the pulse rate of each of the pulse trains.
        14. The neuromodulation system of claim 1, wherein the modulation pulses
have the same pulse amplitude and the same pulse width.
        15. The neuromodulation system of claim 1, wherein at least two of the
modulation pulses have at least one of a different pulse amplitude and a different
pulse width.
        16. The neuromodulation system of claim 1, wherein the charge recovery
pulse is passive.
        17. The neuromodulation system of claim 1, wherein the charge recovery
pulse is active.
        18. The neuromodulation system of claim 1, wherein the common set of
electrical terminals includes only one electrical terminal.
        19. The neuromodulation system of claim 1, wherein the common set of
electrical terminals includes more than one electrical terminal.
        20. The neuromodulation system of claim 1, further comprising a user
interface configured for receiving an input from a user defining a characteristic of the
sequential modulation pulses, wherein the control circuitry is configured for
                                           24

controlling the modulation output circuitry in a manner that sequentially outputs the
modulation pulses of the respective pulse trains to the common set of the electrical
terminals in accordance with the user-defined characteristic.
        21. The neuromodulation system of claim 1, further comprising a user
interface configured for receiving an input from a user specifying a set of electrodes
corresponding to the common set of electrical terminal, wherein the control circuitry
is configured for selecting the common set of electrical terminals in accordance with
the user-specified common set of electrodes.
        22. The neuromodulation system of claim 1, further comprising a casing
containing the plurality of electrical terminals, the modulation output circuitry, and the
control circuitry.
                 Boston Scientific Neuromodulation Corporation
                          Patent Attorneys for the Applicant
                              SPRUSON & FERGUSON
                                             25

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
