   ABSTRACT
   The present invention provides a search capability to allow a user to easily locate a
   preference control, file, folder, control, or other system resource or data item associated
 5 with a search result. In one embodiment, a user enters a search term (or a portion thereof)
   in a search field associated with one or more resource types that may be searched. The
   user may be presented with a pop-up menu containing a list of likely matches. The user
   selects the desired preference control from the pop-up menu, and the corresponding
   preference pane, or other container, containing the selected data item, control, or other
10 resource is displayed. In one aspect, as the user enters the search term (or portion
   thereof), certain icons are highlighted. Specifically, those icons that represent containers
   containing matching data items (such as preference panes having controls that match the
   search term) are highlighted. Different types of highlighting can be used depending on
   the degree of certainty as to which container is likely to contain the correct match.

                       HIGHLIGHTING ITEMS FOR SEARCH RESULTS
   [0001] This application is related to U.S. Utility Application No. 10/985,630, for
   "Highlighting Icons For Search Results" filed November 10, 2004, the disclosure of which
   is incorporated herein by reference.
 5                                     Field of the Invention
   [0002] The present invention relates generally to user interfaces for presenting search
   results, and more particularly to techniques for highlighting associated with search results.
                                   Background of the Invention
   [0003] Most computer operating systems provide controls that allow the user to specify
10 settings for various preferences. These controls include text fields, sliders, radio buttons,
   check boxes, and the like. For example, a typical operating system such as MacOS X
   contains controls for specifying such preferences as: the length of time before a screen saver
   is activated; the speed with which the onscreen cursor moves in response to mouse input; the
   current date and time; the volume of the external speakers; and the like.
15 [0004] Typically, these controls are organized in a series of preference panes, which are
   collectively grouped under a title such as "System Preferences" or "Control Panels". A user
   can access a control by clicking on an or menu command to activate System Preferences. In
   response, the system displays a window containing a number of, where each represents a
   preference pane that contains a set of controls related to a particular component or feature of
20 the system.
   [0005] For example, if a user wishes to change a network password, the user would
   generally perform the following steps:
   [0006]           Activate a System Preferences or menu command, to bring up the System
   Preferences window including various preference ;
25 [0007]           Click on a Network, to bring up the corresponding preference pane, which
   includes controls related to network passwords;
   [0008]           Enter the new password;
   [0009]           Click on the OK button to save the new password and dismiss the preference
   pane; and
30 [0010]           Click on the close button to dismiss the System Preferences window.
   [0011] As computers and operating systems become increasingly complex, the number of
   preference controls grows, as does the number of preference panes. As a result, users
   (particularly novice users) have a difficult time finding the particular control they are
   looking for. A user may know the general nature of the control he is looking for, but may
                                                    1

   not know which preference pane contains that control. For instance, continuing the above
   example, if the user is unfamiliar with the organizational scheme of the preference panes, he
   or she may not know where to look for the network password entry control. Searching
   among various preference panes and/ or consulting printed or electronic documentation can
 5 be frustrating and time consuming.
   [0012] In particular, when a new version of the operating system is released, it is common
   for controls to be moved from one pane to another; users who are used to the previous
   version of the operation system may be unfamiliar with the new locations of controls.
   [0013] Once a user has become familiar with the organizational scheme for the preference
10 panes, he or she can more easily find a particular control when it is needed. Accordingly, it
   is beneficial to have some mechanism for training the user as to the locations of various
   controls, without forcing the user to consult manuals or other documentation.
   [0014] In this context, what is needed is a system and method for assisting a user in locating
   and accessing preference controls, even when the user is unfamiliar with the organizational
15 scheme for the preference panes. What is further needed is a system and method for training
   the user so that, over time, he or she becomes more familiar with the locations of various
   preference controls. What is further needed is a system and method for assisting a user in
   locating other types of system resources, data, or the like.
   [0014a]          Reference to any prior art in the specification is not, and should not be
20 taken as, an acknowledgment, or any form of suggestion, that this prior art forms part of
   the common general knowledge in Australia or any other jurisdiction or that this prior art
   could reasonably be expected to be ascertained, understood and regarded as relevant by a
   person skilled in the art.
                                     Summary of the Invention
25 [0015] In one aspect, the present invention provides, a method for highlighting operating
   system preference items corresponding to search results. The method comprises, responsive
   to user input representing at least a portion of a search term, highlighting at least a subset of
   operating system preference items; wherein each highlighted item represents at least one
   operating system preference control having metadata that at least partly matches the at least
30 a portion of a search term.
   [0015a]          The illustrative embodiments described herein provide a search capability to
   allow a user to easily locate an item in a computer system, including for example a data
   item, preference control, file, folder, control, or other system resource associated with a
   search result. In one embodiment, a user enters a search term (or a portion thereof) in a
                                                     2

   search field associated with one or more resource types that may be searched. The user may
   be presented with a pop-up menu containing a list of likely matches. The user selects the
   desired data item, preference control, or other resource from the pop-up menu, and the
   corresponding document, preference pane, or other resource or container containing the
 5 selected item is displayed.
   [0016] In one aspect, as the user enters the search term (or portion thereof), certain within a
   preferences window or other set of container items are highlighted automatically.
   Specifically, those that represent containers containing items that match the search term
   (such as files containing the term, or preference panes having controls that match the search
10 term) are highlighted. These results may be updated dynamically as the user continues to
   enter his search criteria.
   [0017] In one aspect, different types of highlighting are used depending on the degree of
   certainty as to which preference pane, or container, is likely to contain the correct match.
   When there is relative uncertainty as to which data item, control, or resource is being sought,
15 for preference panes, or containers, containing the search term are highlighted using a first
   type of highlighting. When sufficient search term input has been provided that yields greater
   certainty as to which item is being sought (for example, if only one preference pane, or
   container, contains a matching control), a second, more prominent type of highlighting is
   used.
20 [0018] By highlighting and items in this manner, this aspect of the present invention
   provides a training mechanism that allows a user to learn, over time, where to find various
   data items, preference controls, and/ or other resources. In one embodiment, this training
   mechanism is implemented in a manner that is relatively innocuous, in that it does not
   interfere with the user's normal operation of the system; the user is free to ignore the
25 highlighting if he or she wishes, and simply to enter search terms (or portions thereof) and
   select from the pop-up menu that appears.
   [0019] In one aspect, the pop-up menu results are updated, and highlights appear and
   disappear, automatically as the user types in the search field. Thus, the user need not hit
   Enter, or any other key, to activate the search and highlight functionality.
30 [0020] The functionality of the embodiments described herein is not limited to preference
   controls. As described in more detail below, embodiments can be implemented in any
   context where it is desirable to dynamically highlight or locations in response to a search
   term, while the search term is being entered. For example, an embodiment of the present
   invention can be implemented in a file manager, where folders or directory are dynamically
                                                   3

   highlighted based on whether they contain files that match the search term (or portion
   thereof). Alternatively, the highlighting techniques described herein can be used in any
   application, situation, or context, regardless of whether the highlighting is performed in
   response to entry of a search term.
 5 [0021] In some implementations, the present invention searches for alternative terms as well
   as literal matches. Common misspellings, descriptive text, and/ or alternative terminologies
   are associated with controls, so that if the user enters a search term that is misspelled or that
   uses alternative terminology, a match is still indicated.
   [0021a]         As used herein, except where the context requires otherwise, the term
10 "comprise" and variations of the term, such as "comprising", "comprises" and
   "comprised", are not intended to exclude other additives, components, integers or steps.
                                Brief Description of the Drawings
   [0022] The accompanying drawings illustrate several embodiments of the invention and,
   together with the description, serve to explain the principles of the invention.
15 [0023] Fig. 1 is a screen shot depicting an example of a system preferences window
   according to one embodiment of the present invention
   [0024] Fig. 2 is a screen shot depicting a first type of highlighting of after the user has
   entered a twocharacter query string, according to one embodiment of the present invention.
   [0025] Fig. 3 is a screen shot depicting a first type of highlighting of after the user has
20 entered a threecharacter query string, according to one embodiment of the present invention.
   [0026] Fig. 4 is a screen shot depicting two types of highlighting of, according to one
   embodiment of the present invention.
   [0027]          Fig. 5 is a screen shot depicting a preference pane after user selection of an
   item from a pop-up menu, according to one embodiment of the present invention.
25 [0028]          Fig. 6 is a block diagram depicting a functional architecture for
   implementing the invention according to one embodiment.
   [0029]          One skilled in the art will recognize that these Figures are merely
   examples of the operation of the invention according to one embodiment, and that other
   user interface arrangements and modes of operation can be used without departing from
30 the essential characteristics of the invention.
                           Detailed Description of the Embodiments
   [0030]          The present invention is now described more fully with reference to the
   accompanying Figures, in which several embodiments of the invention are shown. The
                                                    4

   present invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed
   as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided
   so that this disclosure will be complete and will fully convey the invention to those
   skilled in the art.
 5 [00311          For illustrative purposes, the invention is described in connection with a
   mechanism for locating and activating a preference pane containing a preference control.
   Various specific details are set forth herein and in the Figures, to aid in understanding the
   present invention. However, such specific details are intended to be illustrative, and are
   not intended to restrict in any way the scope of the present invention as claimed herein.
10 In particular, one skilled in the art will recognize that the invention can be used to assist
   the user in locating items of any type, including for example data items, files, telephone
   numbers, people, addresses, folders and other containers, devices, and any other type of
   data or resource available to a user via a computer interface. In other words, in the
   following description, preference controls are merely an example of items to be located,
15 and preference panes are examples of containers containing items. In addition, the
   particular screen layouts, appearance, and terminology as depicted and described herein,
   are intended to be illustrative and exemplary, and in no way limit the scope of the
   invention as claimed.
   [0032]          In one embodiment, the present invention is implemented in a
20 conventional personal computer system, such as an iMac, Power Mac, or PowerBook,
   (available from Apple Computer, Inc. of Cupertino, California), running an operating
   system such as MacOS X (also available from Apple Computer, Inc.). It will be
   recognized that the invention may be implemented on other devices as well, such as
   handhelds, personal digital assistants (PDAs), mobile telephones, consumer electronics
25 devices, and the like. The invention may be embodied in software that runs on the
   personal computer. The invention may be included as addon software, or it may form
   part of the operating system itself, or it may be a feature of an application that is bundled
   with the computer system or sold separately. The various features of the invention as
   described herein include output presented on a display screen that is connected to the
30 personal computer. In addition, the invention makes use of input provided to the
   computer system via input devices such as a keyboard, mouse, touchpad, or the like.
   Such hardware components, including their operation and interactions with one another
   and with a central processing unit of the personal computer, are well known in the art of
   computer systems and therefore are not depicted here. Several Figures are presented as
                                                   5

   screen shots depicting examples of the user interface as it might appear on a display
   screen or other output device.
   [00331          Referring now to Fig. 1, there is shown a screen shot depicting an example
   of a system preferences window 100 according to one embodiment of the present
 5 invention. In one embodiment, window 100 is activated in response to a user command,
   for example by clicking on an icon (not shown) or making a selection from a menu (not
   shown).
   [0034]          Window 100 includes a number of icons 101 that provide access to
   preference panes. The user can access a preference pane, for example, by navigating an
10 onscreen cursor or selection tool to the desired icon 101 and activating the icon 101 (for
   example, by doubleclicking a mouse button, or by hitting an activation key on a
   keyboard, or the like). In one embodiment, each icon 101 is a visual representation of
   the type of preferences that can be controlled from its associated preference pane. In one
   embodiment, each icon 101 also has a text label 103 providing additional information as
15 to the type of preferences that can be controlled via the associated pane. The present
   invention does not require that icon 101 be used, or that any particular visual
   characteristic of icon 101 be present; in fact, the present invention can operate, for
   example, with a simple text list, wherein each item in the list corresponds to a preference
   pane.
20 [0035]          In the example of Fig. 1, icons 101 are organized into several categories,
   each represented by a band 102 within window 100. Each category has a title 104. Thus,
   for example, the Hardware category includes icons 101 that provide access to
   hardwarerelated preference panes (such as CDs & DVDs, Displays, Energy Saver,
   Keyboard & Mouse, and the like). This categorybased organizational scheme is not
25 essential to the operation of the present invention.
   [00361          The present invention makes it easier for a user to find a particular
   preference control when he or she does not know which preference pane contains the
   desired control. The user types a search query in search field 105. Referring now to Fig.
   2, as the user enters query text 201, pop-up menu 202 appears, showing names of controls
30 that match the entered text. In the example shown, the user has entered "pa". Menu 202
   includes names of controls that contain the text string "pa".
   [0037]          In one embodiment, as will be described in more detail below in
   connection with Fig. 6, a search table 601 is maintained internally, and can be updated
   periodically if desired. In table 601, each preference control 504 is associated with one or
                                                 6

   more text strings and/or other metadata, including for example a title for control 504,
   other text that appears within control 504, and/or alternative and descriptive text strings
   for preference control 504. Thus, search results in menu 202 can include not only names
   of controls 504, but also descriptive text and/or alternative text for which there is a match
 5 with query text 201. In one embodiment, search table 601 is constructed ahead of time by
   automatically grabbing all text that appears in each control 504 (possibly omitting
   commonly used words such as prepositions, articles, and the like). For example, referring
   briefly to Fig. 5, search table entries pointing to the various controls 504 in preference
   pane 500 can be constructed by grabbing text strings such as "proxy," "password,"
10 "server," ".passive," and the like. In another embodiment, search table 601 is manually
   constructed by a developer, author, or other individual.
   [0038]          Accordingly, in one embodiment, menu 202 includes some names of
   controls 504 that do not themselves contain the text string "pa", but that are associated
   with descriptive text and/or alternative text that does contain "pa". For example, Printing
15 control 504 is associated with alternative text that specifies that it is used for controlling
   paper selection options. In other words, users may be searching for a paper selection
   control 504, without realizing that the appropriate preference control 504 is actually
   called "printing". Thus, when the user enters "pa" as query text 201, "Printing" appears
   as one of the items 203 in menu 202, since "pa" is a match for "paper selection." Such
20 alternative text can include common misspellings, as well as alternative terminology that
   may be used in other operating systems, or that may be commonly used by users or other
   individuals when referring to a particular feature or function. For example, controls 504
   associated with a user's desktop background may have alternative text including the word
   "wallpaper", since "background" and "wallpaper" are terms commonly used in
25 connection with different operating systems to refer to the same general functionality.
   [0039]          Thus, search results as presented in menu 202 include not only those
   controls 504 whose names match query text 201, but also those controls 504 that have
   matching descriptive or alternative terms.
   [0040]          In one embodiment, menu 202 only includes results corresponding to
30 preference controls 504 that apply to installed features. If a particular hardware or
   software function is not installed on the user's computer, then any preference controls
   504 that apply to that feature are omitted from menu 202. In one embodiment, the
   exclusion of such controls 504 is facilitated by maintaining, in table 601, keys that
   indicate the hardware and/or software configurations to which each entry in table 601
                                                   7

   applies. If the hardware and/or software configuration for a particular entry in table 601
   is not present in the system, the entry is excluded from searches. In one embodiment, if
   the user enters query text 201 that refers to an uninstalled feature, he or she is notified
   that the feature is not present (for example, by presenting a dialog box, or by placing
 5 explanatory text within menu 202). In one embodiment, the user is given an opportunity
   to click on a link or button to install the feature.
   [0041]           For example, if the user searches for BlueTooth in a system that does not
   have BlueTooth, any BlueToothrelated preference controls 504 will be omitted from the
   search results. A dialog box or other explanatory text is presented to explain to the user
10 that the system does not have BlueTooth.
   [0042]           In one embodiment, when displaying a menu item representing an
   alternative terminology match, the alternative terminology is displayed alongside or
   instead of the menu item, so as to clarify the reason for the appearance of the item on
   menu 202. For example, if the user types "wa", and one of the menu items is "desktop
15 background", the menu item appears as "Desktop background (wallpaper)" to clarify that
   the two terms refer to the same functionality and to tell the user why the term appeared in
   response to his or her query. In another embodiment, only the alternative terminology
   appears as the menu item ("Wallpaper"). In yet another embodiment, only the primary
   terminology appears ("Desktop background"), with no reference to the alternative
20 terminology. In yet another embodiment, only the primary terminology appears, but it is
   displayed using some distinctive visual characteristic (such as a different color), or is
   accompanied by some indicator to clarify that it is an alternative text match.
   [0043]           As the user enters query text 201, and concurrently with the display of
   menu 202, certain icons 101 are highlighted to indicate that they represent preference
25 panes 500 that contain controls 504 referenced in menu 202. In one embodiment, a
   distinctive type of highlighting is used, as depicted for icon 101A in Fig. 2. This
   highlighting takes the form of a spotlight effect, in which most of window 100 is
   darkened slightly, except for a circular area immediately surrounding each icon 101A.
   Thus, these circular areas appear slightly brighter than does the remainder of window
30  100, so that the overall effect is that of a spotlight shining on each icon 101A. The effect
   is reinforced by a gradual transition of brightness from the central area for each icon
    101A to the darker region. In alternative embodiments, the spotlight effect can be
   accomplished by brightening the area surrounding the highlighted icon 101A and leaving
                                                    8

   the remainder of window 100 at the same brightness as before. In yet other
   embodiments, other types of highlighting may be used.
   [0044]          "Highlighting," as used herein, is not limited to the specific spotlight effect
   described and illustrated. Rather, the term "highlighting" is intended to refer to any form
 5 of effect by which some resources or items are distinguished from others. Examples of
   such effects include changing the size, shape, color, contrast, and/or other visual features
   of an associated name, , or other item. In other embodiments, highlighting refers to
   displaying one or more items in a specific area of the screen or window, or rearranging
   some items within a display area to indicate that they are highlighted. In yet other
10 embodiments, highlighting is accomplished using nonvisual means; for example,
   highlighted items can produce a distinctive sound when pointed to by a cursor, or they
   can have a distinctive tactile characteristic. Other alternatives will be apparent to one
   skilled in the art.
   [0045]          In one embodiment, the presentation of menu 202 and the highlighting of
15 certain icons 101A take place automatically as the user types query text 201 in query
   field 105. Thus, the user need not hit an Enter key or otherwise manually activate the
   search command. Menu 202 and highlights of icon 101A are updated automatically as
   the user enters additional characters in field 105, or as the user hits the backspace key to
   delete characters. In general, typing additional characters lengthens query text 201 string,
20 thus narrowing the search and causing menu 202 to include fewer items (and also causing
   fewer icons 101A to be highlighted); conversely, deleting characters shortens query text
   201 string, thus broadening the search and causing menu 202 to include more items (and
   also causing more icons 101A to be highlighted). In one embodiment, processing is
   performed as each character is input, and feedback is provided substantially
25 instantaneously upon receipt of the input, for example as described in U.S. Patent No.
   4,704,703 for "Dynamic Input Processing System."
   [0046]          In an alternative embodiment, searches are performed in response to a
   certain trigger event. For example, a search may be initiated or updated whenever the
   user pauses while typing query text 201; a predetermined minimum pause length can be
30 established. Alternatively, a search may be initiated or updated when the user requests it,
   by hitting an Enter key or search button, or the like.
   [0047]          In one embodiment, the user can click on any icon 101 or icon 101A at
   any time to activate corresponding preference pane 500, regardless of whether the icon
    101 or icon 101A is currently highlighted or not, and regardless of whether menu 202 is
                                                  9

   currently displayed. In another embodiment, whenever menu 202 is displayed,
   nonhighlighted icons 101 are temporarily disabled, although the user can click on a
   highlighted icon 101A to activate a preference pane 500.
   [00481          Referring now to Fig. 3, there is shown a continuation of the same
 5 example after the user has pressed another keystroke to add a character to query text 201,
   which now reads "pas". In one embodiment, menu 202 and icon 101 highlighting are
   automatically updated to reflect the new query text 201. Specifically, in this example,
   menu 202 now contains items 203 that contain "pas" or that have equivalent text that
   contains "pas"; menu 202 contains fewer items than it did in Fig. 2, since there are fewer
10 matches for "pas" than there were for "pa". Similarly, the number of highlighted icons
    101A has been reduced, so as to include only those icons 101A that represent preference
   panes 500 that contain controls 504 referenced in menu 202.
   [0049]          In one embodiment, icons 101A having text labels 103 that match query
   text 201 are highlighted in the same manner as icons that represent preference panes 500
15 that contain controls 504 whose names match query test 201.
   [0050]          In one embodiment, icons 101A are highlighted if they represent
   preference panes 500 that contain controls 504 referenced in menu 202, whether or not
   the text labels 103 for those icons 101A match query text 201.
   [0051]          In one embodiment, a different type of highlight effect is used to indicate
20 icons 101A having text labels 103 that match query text 201, as opposed to icons 101A
   that contain controls 504 whose names match query test 201.
   [0052]          In one embodiment, different types of highlighting are used depending on
   the degree of certainty as to which preference pane 500 is likely to contain the correct
   match. When there is relative uncertainty as to which preference control 504 is being
25 sought, icons 101 for the preference panes 500 containing the search term are highlighted
   using a first type of highlighting. When sufficient search term input has been provided
   that yields greater certainty as to which control is being sought (for example, if only one
   preference pane 500 contains a matching control), a second, more prominent type of
   highlighting is used.
30 [0053]          At any time, the user can navigate within menu 202, for example by
   clicking up/down arrows on a keyboard, or by moving an onscreen cursor to a desired
   menu item 203. Referring now to Fig. 4, there is shown an example wherein the user has
   navigated to menu item 203A, which is a "Proxy password" menu item. Menu item
   203A is displayed in inverse video, to show that it is currently highlighted or selected.
                                                 10

   One skilled in the art will recognize that any other distinctive visual technique can be
   used to indicate a highlighted or selected menu item 203A.
   [0054]         In one embodiment, in response to the user having highlighted or selected
   menu item 203A, icon 101B, representing preference pane 500 that contains control 504
 5 referenced by menu item 203A, is highlighted. In one embodiment, icon 101B is
   highlighted using a different type of highlighting that is visually distinctive from the
   highlighting used for icon 101A. By highlighting icon 101B in this manner, the present
   invention provides a useful mechanism for teaching the user where to find various
   preference controls 504; the user can navigate within menu 202 and see which icon 101
10 is highlighted with the second highlighting technique for each menu item 203. In the
   example shown, icon 101B represents Network preference pane 500, which contains
   preference controls 504 related to network operations.
   [0055]         In one embodiment, the second highlighting technique is brighter and
   sharper than the first highlighting technique, so as to reinforce the notion that it is a
15 "stronger" form of highlight. For example, the region surrounding icon 101B is brighter
   than the region surrounding icon 101A. Also, the transition from the bright region to the
   darker area is much sharper; in one embodiment, it is a discontinuous transition, whereas
   in another embodiment it is a less gradual transition than the transition found in the
   regions surrounding icon 101.
20 [0056]         In other embodiments, other types of visual highlights can be used. Icon
    101A and icon 101B may be given different types of highlights, or the same type.
   Alternatively, in another embodiment, when a menu item 203A is selected or highlighted,
   only the corresponding icon 101B is highlighted (i.e., the icon for preference pane 500
   that contains control 504 corresponding to menu item 203A), and other icons for
25 preference panes 500 containing controls 504 other than control 504 corresponding to
   menu item 203A are not highlighted at all, even if menu items 203 for those controls 504
   appear in menu 202.
   [0057]         In one embodiment, menu item 203A is automatically highlighted (and
   corresponding icon 101B is highlighted) in response to certain trigger events. For
30 example, when there is a wholeword match between query text 201 and item 203A,
   automatic highlighting may take place.
   [0058]         The user can cause a control to be displayed on screen by activating (for
   example by clicking on) the corresponding menu item 203 from menu 202. This causes
   preference pane 500 containing control 504 to be displayed on the screen. In one
                                                 11

   embodiment, if preference pane 500 containing control 504 has various parts, tabs,
   subpanes, or sections, the part, tab, or section that contains control 504 is brought to the
   foreground. In one embodiment, the particular control corresponding to the selected
   menu item 203 is highlighted or selected automatically, so that the user is able to
 5 manipulate control 504 immediately without having to search for it on the screen. For
   example, if control 504 is a text field, the text cursor may be active and ready to receive
   input within the text field.
   [0059]          In one embodiment, when the user selects an item 203 from menu 202, the
   corresponding icon 101 momentarily blinks, so as to further reinforce the connection
10 between menu items 203 and their corresponding icon 101.
   [0060]          In one embodiment, when a user clicks on an icon 101A while an item
   203A is highlighted in menu 202, preference pane 500 containing control 504 referenced
   by item 203A is displayed. Again, in one embodiment, if preference pane 500 containing
   control 504 has various parts, tabs, subpanes, or sections, the part, tab, or section that
15 contains control 504 is brought to the foreground. As described in the previous
   paragraph, in one embodiment, the particular control corresponding to the highlighted
   menu item 203A is highlighted or selected automatically, so that the user is able to
   manipulate control 504 immediately without having to search for it on the screen.
   [00611          Referring now to Fig. 5, there is shown an example of a preference pane
20 500 that is displayed in response to user activation of the "proxy password" menu item
   203A in Fig. 4. Preference pane 500 is a Network preference pane; as indicated above,
   Network preference pane 500 corresponds to the network icon 101B shown in Fig. 4.
   [0062]          In the example of Fig. 5, Network preference pane 500 has four subpanels,
   related to various types of network operations; the user can navigate among the subpanes
25 by clicking on selector 502. Indicator 503 shows the names of the four subpanels:
   AirPort, TCP/IP, AppleTalk, and Proxies. The currently active subpane is indicated by
   highlighting "Proxies" in indicator 503. As described above, this subpane is
   automatically brought to the foreground because it is the section of pane 500 that contains
   the control 504 for setting proxy passwords (since "Proxy password" was the menu item
30 203A activated by the user in Fig. 4).
   [0063]          The user can navigate back to system preferences window 100 by clicking
   on arrow 501. The user can perform additional searches by typing or editing query text
   201 in query field 105.
                                                  12

   [0064]          The present invention provides a mechanism for allowing a user to quickly
   locate the preference control 504 he or she is interested in. In addition, the invention
   serves to train the user as to which preference panes 500 contain which preference
   controls 504. By highlighting various icons 101 as the user enters query text 201, and by
 5 providing additional distinctive highlighting in response to navigation within menu 202,
   the present invention provides the user with a quick mechanism for determining which
   preference panes 500 contain controls 504 that are of interest.
   [0065]          The present invention can be used to provide centralized access to many
   different types of controls 504 and files. For example, in one embodiment, if no
10 matching system preference controls 504 are found, the system of the present invention
   displays application preference controls and/or help text entries that match query text
   201. In another embodiment, matching application controls and/or help text entries are
   presented regardless of whether matching system preference controls 504 are found.
   Search results for application preference controls and/or help text entries can be presented
15 within the same menu 202 as those for system preference controls 504; in one
   embodiment a different color or other distinctive visual characteristic is used to clarify
   the difference between the types of controls. In another embodiment, the user can select
   whether and how application preference controls and/or help text entries are displayed in
   response to queries.
20 [00661          Referring now to Fig. 6, there is shown a block diagram depicting a
   functional architecture for implementing the invention according to one embodiment. As
   described above, the various components of Fig. 6 may be implemented in software.
   System 600 includes the various preference panes 500 that can be depicted as part of the
   overall preferences functionality. Each preference pane 500 includes any number of
25 preference controls 504. Search table 601 maintains search terms and their relationships
   to preference panes 500 and controls 504; as described above, search table 601 may
   include names for controls 504 as well as alternative and/or descriptive text. Search table
   601 may be automatically constructed and updated from preference panes 500 and
   controls 504, or it can be manually constructed and updated. User interface 602 accepts
30 input from input device 605 and outputs results via display 603. User interface 602
   includes search field 105 for accepting user entry of query text 201, as described above.
   User interface 602 also includes menu 202, which presents search results as menu items
   203, as described above. Query engine 604 is a software component that takes query text
   input 201 from search field 105, compares it with entries in search table 601, and
                                                 13

   generates search results 606 to be displayed in menu 202. Menu 202 is a component of
   user interface 602 that is output via display device 603. When preference panes 500
   and/or controls 504 are to be displayed, user interface 602 handles the display and
   interaction with these elements as well.
 5 [0067]           As will be apparent to one skilled in the art, the invention is not limited to
   the particular application set forth in the above description, which is intended to be
   exemplary. For example, the invention can be used in a file manager application, where
   represent files, folders, or directories. In such a context, the system of the invention
   searches for query text 201 within files, and highlights those icons that represent files,
10 folders, or directories that contain query text 201. In one such embodiment, icon 101
   represent folders, and the system of the invention searches for query text 201 within file
   names for files within the various folders. In another such embodiment, the system of the
   invention searches for query text 201 within the body of files within the folders. In yet
   another such embodiment, icons 101 represent files, and the system of the invention
15 searches for query text 201 within the body of files corresponding to icon 101. The
   abovedescribed techniques for highlighting icon 101, and for presenting menu items 203
   in menu 202, and for navigating, highlighting, and selecting menu items 203, can be
   applied to such an embodiment as well.
   [00681           In one embodiment, the present invention is implemented as a technique
20 for highlighting onscreen items in any context, and is not limited to a context where
   search results are being presented. For example, the abovedescribed spotlight effect can
   be used in any situation where it is desirable to visually distinguish one (or more)
   onscreen item from other onscreen items. Referring again to Fig. 2, most of window 100
   is darkened slightly, except for a circular area immediately surrounding each icon 101A.
25 Thus, these circular areas appear slightly brighter than does the remainder of window
    100, so that the overall effect is that of a spotlight shining on each icon 101A. The effect
   is reinforced by a gradual transition of brightness from the central area for each icon
    101A to the darker region. In alternative embodiments, the spotlight effect can be
   accomplished by brightening the area surrounding the highlighted icon 101A and leaving
30 the remainder of window 100 at the same brightness as before. In yet other
   embodiments, other types of highlighting may be used. In any context where it is
   desirable to present two different types of highlights, a sharper and/or brighter spotlight
   can be used, as discussed above in connection with Fig. 4.
                                                    14

   [00691           Examples of contexts for highlighting onscreen items in this manner are:
   to indicate which item(s) have been selected by a user, or which item(s) is/are relevant to
   an operation being performed, or which item(s) is/are newly added to a set, or which
   item(s) is/are newly installed or updated, or which item(s) have alerts to be brought to the
 5 attention of the user. Another example is to highlight probable destination(s) for an item
   that has been selected or is being dragged on the screen; for example, if the user selects
   an icon representing an email message (or other item) and starts to drag it on the screen,
   likely destinations can be highlighted using the visual techniques described herein. Other
   contexts and situations will be apparent to one skilled in the art.
10 [0070]           One skilled in the art will recognize that the spotlight effect can be
   implemented using any shape and size for the area immediately surrounding each icon
    101A, and is not limited to circular areas. For example, in other embodiments, the
   brighter (or otherwise visually distinguished area) can be an oval, square, triangle, or any
   other regular or irregular polygon, and can be of any size. In some embodiments, the size
15 and/or shape can indicate the nature of the highlight, the degree of confidence in the
   selection, and/or can be dictated by user preference. In other embodiments, the size
   and/or shape can vary according to current conditions or context: for example, if many
   items are highlighted simultaneously, the sizes of the spotlight can be reduced in order to
   make room for one another.
20 [0071]           In the above description, for purposes of explanation, numerous specific
   details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. It will
   be apparent, however, to one skilled in the art that the invention can be practiced without
   these specific details. In other instances, structures and devices are shown in block
   diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the invention.
25 [0072]           Reference in the specification to "one embodiment" or "an embodiment"
   means that a particular feature, structure, or characteristic described in connection with
   the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the invention. The
   appearances of the phrase "in one embodiment" in various places in the specification are
   not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.
30 [0073]           Some portions of the detailed description are presented in terms of
   algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer
   memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those
   skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work
   to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here, and generally, conceived to be a
                                                   15

   selfconsistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring
   physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually, though not necessarily, these
   quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored,
   transferred, combined, compared, and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient
 5 at times, principally for reasons of common usage, to refer to these signals as bits, values,
   elements, symbols, characters, terms, numbers, or the like.
   [0074]           It should be borne in mind, however, that all of these and similar terms are
   to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels
   applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the
10 discussion, it is appreciated that throughout the description, discussions utilizing terms
   such as "processing" or "computing" or "calculating" or "determining" or "displaying" or
   the like, refer to the action and processes of a computer system, or similar electronic
   computing device, that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical
   (electronic) quantities within the computer system's registers and memories into other
15 data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or
   registers or other such information storage, transmission or display devices.
   [0075]           The present invention also relates to an apparatus for performing the
   operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes,
   or it may comprise a generalpurpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a
20 computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a
   computer readable storage medium, such as, but is not limited to, any type of disk
   including floppy disks, optical disks, CDROMs, and magneticoptical disks, readonly
   memories (ROMs), random access memories (RAMs), EPROMs, EEPROMs, magnetic
   or optical cards, or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions, and each
25 coupled to a computer system bus.
   [0076]           The algorithms and modules presented herein are not inherently related to
   any particular computer or other apparatus. Various generalpurpose systems may be used
   with programs in accordance with the teachings herein, or it may prove convenient to
   construct more specialized apparatuses to perform the method steps. The required
30 structure for a variety of these systems will appear from the description below. In
   addition, the present invention is not described with reference to any particular
   programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages
   may be used to implement the teachings of the invention as described herein.
   Furthermore, as will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the relevant art, the modules,
                                                  16

   features, attributes, methodologies, and other aspects of the invention can be
   implemented as software, hardware, firmware or any combination of the three. Of
   course, wherever a component of the present invention is implemented as software, the
   component can be implemented as a standalone program, as part of a larger program, as a
 5 plurality of separate programs, as a statically or dynamically linked library, as a kernel
   loadable module, as a device driver, and/or in every and any other way known now or in
   the future to those of skill in the art of computer programming. Additionally, the present
   invention is in no way limited to implementation in any specific operating system or
   environment.
10 [0077]          It will be understood by those skilled in the relevant art that the
   abovedescribed implementations are merely exemplary, and many changes can be made
   without departing from the true spirit and scope of the present invention. Therefore, it is
   intended by the appended claims to cover all such changes and modifications that come
   within the true spirit and scope of this invention.
15
                                                  17

                                             CLAIMS
    1. In a user interface display, a method for highlighting operating system preference
   items corresponding to search results, comprising:
 5 responsive to user input representing at least a portion of a search term, highlighting at
   least a subset of operating system preference items;
   wherein each highlighted item represents at least one operating system preference
   control having metadata that at least partly matches the at least a portion of a search term.
   2. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one highlighted item has a text label that does
10 not match the at least a portion of a search term.
   3. The method of claim 1, wherein the metadata comprises text.
   4. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
   responsive to the user input and concurrently with highlighting the at least a subset of the
   items, displaying a pop-up menu comprising a list of at least one operating system
15 preference item having metadata that at least partly matches the at least a portion of a
   search term;
   wherein each item listed in the menu corresponds to an item in at least one of the
   highlighted items.
   5. The method of claim 4, further comprising:
20 receiving user input selecting one of the items from the menu; and
   responsive to the user selecting one of the items from the menu, activating the
   corresponding operating system preference item.
   6. The method of claim 4, further comprising:
   responsive to the user selecting one of the items from the menu, momentarily altering a
25 visual characteristic of the corresponding highlighted item.
   7. The method of claim 6, wherein momentarily altering a visual characteristic of the
   item comprises blinking the item.
   8. The method of 4, further comprising:
   responsive to the user selecting one of the highlighted items, activating the selected
30 operating system preference item.
   9. The method of claim 1, wherein each operating system preference is related to a
   system function, and wherein each operating system preference item comprises at least
   one preference control related to the system function.
                                                 18

    10. The method of claim 1, wherein highlighting an item comprises performing at least
   one of:
   lightening a first screen area immediately surrounding the item; and
   darkening a second screen area surrounding the first screen area;
 5 so that the second screen area is darker than the first screen area.
    11. The method of claim 10, wherein the first screen area is circular in shape.
    12. The method of claim 10, wherein the plurality of items are displayed within a
   window, and wherein the second screen area comprises the remainder of the window not
   including the first screen area.
10  13. The method of claim 10, wherein the second screen area comprises the remainder of
   the user interface display not including the first screen area.
    14. The method of claim 10, wherein the difference in brightness between the first and
   second screen areas is gradated.
    15. The method of claim 1, wherein highlighting at least a subset of the items comprises:
15 highlighting at least one of the items using a first type of highlight; and
   highlighting at least one of the items using a second type of highlight that is visually
   distinctive from the first type of highlight.
    16. The method of claim 15, wherein the second type of highlight is brighter than the
   first type of highlight.
20  17. The method of claim 15, wherein highlighting an item comprises performing at least
   one of:
   lightening a first screen area immediately surrounding the item; and
   darkening a second screen area surrounding the first screen area;
   so that the second screen area is darker than the first screen area;
25 and wherein the second type of highlight is brighter than the first type of highlight.
    18. The method of claim 15, wherein highlighting an item comprises performing at least
   one of:
   lightening a first screen area immediately surrounding the item;
   darkening a second screen area surrounding the first screen area; and
30 so that the second screen area is darker than the first screen area;
   wherein, for the first type of highlight, the difference in brightness between the first and
   second screen areas is gradated; and
                                                  19

   wherein, for the second type of highlight, the difference in brightness between the first
   and second screen areas is gradated less gradually than the difference in brightness for the
   first type of highlight.
    19. The method of claim 15, wherein highlighting an item comprises performing at least
 5 one of:
   lightening a first screen area immediately surrounding the item;
   darkening a second screen area surrounding the first screen area; and
   so that the second screen area is darker than the first screen area;
   wherein, for the first type of highlight, the difference in brightness between the first and
10 second screen areas is gradated; and
   wherein, for the second type of highlight, the difference in brightness between the first
   and second screen areas is not gradated.
   20. The method of claim 1, wherein highlighting at least a subset of the items
   comprises, responsive to a determination that the metadata of an item better matches the
15 user input than does the metadata of other items, performing at least one of:
   highlighting at least one item not representing the item having the better matching
   metadata using a first type of highlight; and
   highlighting the item representing the item having the better matching metadata using a
   second type of highlight that is visually distinctive from the first type of highlight.
20 21.   The method of claim 1, wherein highlighting at least a subset of the items comprises:
   responsive to a determination that at least two of the items match the user input,
   highlighting the items representing the matching items using a first type of highlight; and
   responsive to a determination that only one of the items at least partly matches the user
   input, highlighting the item representing the matching item using a second type of
25 highlight.
   22. The method of claim 1, wherein the user input comprises keystrokes representing a
   text string.
   23. The method of claim 1, wherein the items are useractivatable.
   24. The method of claim 1, wherein the highlighted items are useractivatable and the
30 nonhighlighted items are not useractivatable.
   25. In a user interface display including a plurality of items, a method for highlighting
   items corresponding to search results, comprising:
   receiving user input representing at least a portion of a search term;
                                                  20

   responsive to receiving user input representing a search command, highlighting at least a
   subset of the items based on the user input;
   wherein each highlighted item represents at least one operating system preference item
   having metadata that at least partly matches the at least a portion of a search term.
 5 26. The method of claim 25, wherein the user input representing a search command
   comprises activation of an Enter key.
   27.    In a user interface display including a plurality of operating system preference
   items, a method for highlighting items corresponding to search results, comprising:
   receiving user input representing at least a portion of a search term;
10 responsive to a pause in the user input exceeding a predetermined length, highlighting at
   least a subset of the operating system preference items based on the user input;
   wherein each highlighted item represents at least one operating system preference item
   having metadata that at least partly matches the at least a portion of a search term.
   28. In a user interface display including a plurality of operating system preference items,
15 a method for highlighting items corresponding to search results, comprising:
   receiving user input comprising at least one keystroke, the user input representing an
   initial portion of a search term; and
   responsive to the user input, highlighting at least a subset of the operating system
   preference items, wherein each highlighted item represents an item having metadata that
20 at least partly matches the initial portion of the search term;
   receiving additional user input comprising at least one keystroke, the user input
   representing an additional portion of the search term;
   responsive to the additional user input, updating the highlighting of the at least a subset of
   the operating system preference items, so that each highlighted item represents an item
25 having metadata that at least partly matches the initial portion of the search term
   combined with the additional portion of the search term.
   29. The method of claim 28, wherein items having metadata that at least partly matches
   the initial portion of the search terms are highlighted using a first type of highlight, and
   wherein items having metadata that at least partly matches the initial portion of the search
30 term combined with the additional portion of the search term are highlighted using a
   second type of highlight that is distinct from the first type of highlight.
   30. In a user interface display including a plurality of items, each item representing an
   operating system preference pane, a method for highlighting items corresponding to
   search results, comprising:
                                                  21

   receiving user input representing at least a portion of a search term; and
   responsive to the user input:
   displaying a pop-up menu comprising a list of items having text that at least partly
   matches the at least a portion of a search term, wherein each item listed in the menu
 5 corresponds to an operating system preference control associated with one of the items;
   and
   concurrently highlighting at least a subset of the items using a first type of highlight,
   wherein each highlighted item represents an operating system preference pane that
   contains an item having text that at least partly matches an item in the menu;
10 responsive to a trigger event:
   highlighting an item in the pop-up menu; and
   concurrently highlighting an item using a second type of highlight that is visually
   distinctive from the first type of highlight, wherein the highlighted item represents a
   container that contains an item having text that at least partly matches the highlighted
15 item in the menu.
   31. The method of claim 30, wherein the trigger event comprises the user input
   representing a complete word that at least partly matches text in one of the menu items,
   and wherein highlighting the item in the pop-up menu comprises highlighting the item
   having the matching text.
20 32. The method of claim 30, wherein the trigger event comprises user navigation of a
   movable highlight to a menu item, and wherein highlighting the item in the pop-up menu
   comprises highlighting the item to which the user has navigated.
   33. The method of claim 30, wherein the trigger event comprises a determination that
   one item in the pop-up menu represents a better match than all other items in the pop-up
25 menu, and wherein highlighting the item in the pop-up menu comprises highlighting the
   item representing the better match.
   34. In a user interface display including a plurality of items, each item representing a
   container that contains operating system preference items having primary text, at least a
   subset of the items having alternative text, a method for highlighting items corresponding
30 to search results, comprising:
   receiving user input representing at least a portion of a search term; and
   responsive to the user input, highlighting at least a subset of the items;
                                                 22

   wherein each highlighted item represents a container that contains operating system
   preference items having at least one of primary or alternative text that at least partly
   matches the at least a portion of a search term;
   and wherein at least one highlighted item has a text label that does not match the at least a
 5 portion of a search term.
   35. The method of claim 34, wherein for at least one item, the alternative text represents
   alternative terminology for the item.
   36. The method of claim 34, wherein for at least one item, the alternative text represents
   a misspelling of the primary text.
10 37. The method of claim 34, wherein for at least one item, the alternative text represents
   an alternative spelling of the primary text.
   38. In a user interface display including a plurality of items, each item representing a
   preference pane, each preference pane comprising at least one system preference control
15 having text, a method for highlighting items corresponding to search results, comprising:
   receiving user input representing at least a portion of a search term; and
   responsive to the user input matching the text for at least one system preference control,
   highlighting at least one item representing a preference pane having a preference control
   whose text matches the user input.
20 39. The method of claim 38, further comprising:
   responsive to the user input matching text associated with a help function, highlighting an
   item representing a help function.
   40. The method of claim 38, further comprising:
   responsive to the user input matching text for at least one application preference control,
25 highlighting at least one item representing at least one of:
   the application;
   the application preference control; or
   a preference pane corresponding to the application.
   41.  The method of claim 38, further comprising:
30 responsive to the user input matching text associated with a help function, highlighting an
   item representing a help function; and
   responsive to the user input matching text for at least one application preference control,
   highlighting at least one item representing at least one of:
   the application;
                                                 23

   the application preference control; or
   a preference pane corresponding to the application.
   42. In a user interface display including a plurality of items, each item representing a
   preference pane, each preference pane comprising at least one system preference control
 5 having text, a method for highlighting items corresponding to search results, comprising:
   receiving user input representing at least a portion of a search term; and
   responsive to the user input matching the text for at least one system preference control,
   highlighting at least one item representing a preference pane having a preference control
   whose text matches the user input;
10 responsive to the user input not matching the text for at least one system preference
   control:
   responsive to the user input matching text associated with a help function, highlighting an
   item representing a help function; and
   responsive to the user input matching text for at least one application preference control,
15 highlighting at least one item representing at least one of:
   the application;
   the application preference control; or
   a preference pane corresponding to the application.
   43. In a user interface display including a plurality of onscreen items, a method for
20 highlighting onscreen operating system preference items corresponding to search results,
   comprising:
   receiving user input representing at least a portion of a search term; and
   responsive to the user input, highlighting at least a subset of the onscreen operating
   system preference items;
25 wherein each highlighted onscreen operating system preference item represents a
   container that contains at least one contained operating system preference control having
   text that at least partly matches the at least a portion of a search term;
   and wherein at least one highlighted onscreen operating system preference item has a text
   label that does not match the at least a portion of a search term.
30 44. In a user interface display including a plurality of items, a method for highlighting
   onscreen operating system preference items corresponding to search results, comprising:
   responsive to user input representing at least a portion of a search term, the user input at
   least partially matching metadata associated with an operating system preference item,
                                                   24

   highlighting at least one onscreen operating system preference pane representing a
   container that contains a corresponding operating system preference control.
   45. The method of claim 44, wherein the at least one onscreen item comprises at least
   one item.
 5 46. A computer program product for highlighting operating system preference items
   corresponding to search results in a user interface display including a plurality of items,
   the computer program product comprising:
   a computerreadable medium; and
   computer program code, encoded on the medium, for:
10 responsive to user input representing at least a portion of a search term, highlighting at
   least a subset of the operating system preference items;
   wherein each highlighted item represents at least one operating system preference
   control having metadata that at least partly matches the at least a portion of a search term.
   47. The computer program product of claim 46, wherein at least one highlighted item
15 has a text label that does not match the at least a portion of a search term.
   48. The computer program product of claim 46, wherein the metadata comprises text.
   49. The computer program product of claim 46, wherein the computer program code for
   highlighting at least a subset of the items comprises computer program code for:
   highlighting at least one of the items using a first type of highlight; and
20 highlighting at least one of the items using a second type of highlight that is visually
   distinctive from the first type of highlight.
   50. A computer program product for highlighting items corresponding to search results
   in a user interface display including a plurality of operating system preference items, the
   computer program product comprising:
25 a computerreadable medium; and
   computer program code, encoded on the medium, for:
   receiving user input comprising at least one keystroke, the user input representing an
   initial portion of a search term; and
   responsive to the user input, highlighting at least a subset of the operating system
30 preference items, wherein each highlighted item represents an item having metadata that
   at least partly matches the initial portion of the search term;
   receiving additional user input comprising at least one keystroke, the user input
   representing an additional portion of the search term;
                                                  25

   responsive to the additional user input, updating the highlighting of the at least a subset of
   the operating system preference items, so that each highlighted item represents an item
   having metadata that at least partly matches the initial portion of the search term
   combined with the additional portion of the search term.
 5 51. A computer program product for highlighting onscreen operating system preference
   items corresponding to search results, the computer program product comprising:
   a computerreadable medium; and
   computer program code, encoded on the medium, for:
   responsive to user input representing at least a portion of a search term,
10 the user input at least partially matching metadata associated with an operating system
   preference item, highlighting at least one onscreen item representing a preference pane
   that contains a corresponding operating system preference control.
   52. The computer program product of claim 51, wherein the at least one onscreen item
   comprises at least one item.
15 53. A system for highlighting items corresponding to search results, comprising:
   an input device, for receiving user input representing at least a portion of a search term;
   a processor, coupled to the input device, for processing the user input; and
   a display device, coupled to the processor, for displaying a user interface comprising a
   plurality of operating system preference items, and for highlighting at least a subset of the
20 items;
   wherein each highlighted item represents at least one corresponding operating system
   preference control having metadata that at least partly matches the at least a portion of a
   search term.
   54. The system of claim 53, wherein at least one highlighted item has a text label that
25 does not match the at least a portion of a search term.
   55. The system of claim53, wherein the metadata comprises text.
   56. The system of claim 53, wherein at least one highlighted item represents a
   preference pane including the corresponding operating system preference control.
   57.   The system of claim 53, wherein the display device is further adapted to:
30 highlight at least one of the items using a first type of highlight; and
   highlight at least one of the items using a second type of highlight that is visually
   distinctive from the first type of highlight.
   58. A system for highlighting operating system preference items corresponding to
   search results, comprising:
                                                 26

   an input device, for receiving user input comprising at least one keystroke, the user input
   representing an initial portion of a search term; and
   a processor, coupled to the input device, for processing the user input; and
   a display device, coupled to the processor, for displaying a user interface including a
 5 plurality of operating system preference items, and for responsive to the user input,
   highlighting at least a subset of the items, wherein each highlighted item represents an
   operating system preference control having metadata that at least partly matches the
   initial portion of the search term;
   wherein, responsive to the input device receiving additional user input comprising at least
10 one keystroke, the user input representing an additional portion of the search term, the
   display device updates the highlighting of the at least a subset of the operating system
   preference items, so that each highlighted item represents an operating system preference
   control having metadata that at least partly matches the initial portion of the search term
   combined with the additional portion of the search term.
15 59. A system for highlighting items corresponding to search results, comprising:
   an input device, for receiving user input representing at least a portion of a search term;
   a processor, coupled to the input device, for processing the user input; and
   a display device, coupled to the processor, for displaying a user interface comprising a
   plurality of operating system preference controls, and for, responsive to user input
20 representing at least a portion of a search term, highlighting at least a subset of the
   controls;
   wherein each highlighted control has metadata that at least partly matches the at least a
   portion of a search term.
   60. A system for highlighting onscreen items corresponding to search results,
25 comprising:
   an input device, for receiving user input representing at least a portion of a search term;
   a processor, coupled to the input device, for processing the user input; and
   a display device, coupled to the processor, for displaying a user interface comprising a
   plurality of operating system preference controls, and for, responsive to user input
30 representing at least a portion of a search term, the user input at least partially matching
   metadata associated with preference control, highlighting at least one onscreen item
   representing a preference pane that contains the item.
                                                 27

   61. A computer program product having a computerreadable storage medium having
   computer executable code for highlighting system preference items corresponding to
   search results, comprising:
   a plurality of preference control modules, each preference control module adapted to
 5 control a behavior of an operating system and having associated metadata;
   a search table module, coupled to the preference control modules, adapted to maintain
   associations between the preference control modules and the metadata;
   a user interface module, coupled to the search table module, adapted to receive a search
   query; and
10 a query engine, coupled to the user interface module, adapted to:
   determine a set of preference control modules matching, at least in part, the received
   search query and by reference to the search table module; and
   display via the user interface module and in a highlighted fashion, the set of matching
   preference control modules.
15 62. The method of claim 1, wherein each item comprises an icon.
   63. The computer program product of claim 46, wherein each item comprises an icon.
   64. The system of claim 53, wherein each item comprises an icon.
   65.   The computer readable medium of claim 61 wherein the user interface module is
   further adapted to display without highlighting a plurality of preference control modules
20 not matching the received query.
                                                28

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
