Abstract
A system 10 for supplying power to a grid 22 is disclosed. The system 10 includes a
main controller 12 configured to receive event data 14, and at least one node controller
16. Each node controller 16 is in communication with the main controller 12 and is
configured to control power distribution between a load 18, a battery 20 and the grid 22.
Responsive to a parameter of the event data 14 exceeding a defined threshold, the main
controller 12 sends a supply command to the at least one node controller 16 causing the at
least one node controller 16 to decrease load on the battery 20, and supply power from the
battery 20 to the grid 22.

    I;          2
A                    Is
                     I
  ------------------
Figure 1

                                                1
                         "Systems for supplying power to a grid"
Technical Field
[0001]    The present disclosure relates generally to systems for supplying power to an
electrical grid. In particular, the disclosure relates to systems for supplying the power
from at least one battery to the grid.
Background
[0002]    Electrical grids typically span across a large area, such as an entire country, to
supply electricity from suppliers to consumers. It is common for such grids to be
supplied with electricity from many suppliers, including large-scale centralized power
stations, such as coal-fired or nuclear power plants, and small-scale distributed energy
resources, such as domestically installed photovoltaic cells.
[0003]    Occasionally, load on the grid can surge significantly, for example, due to a
heat wave causing a substantial increase in operation of air conditioning units, causing
a peak load (or peak demand) period. When demand during this period exceeds a
maximum supply level, this can cause a power outage (sometimes referred to as a
'black out'). A common approach to address this is to supply additional power to the
grid during the peak load period from a storage-type power plant to balance the load on
the grid. For example, this may involve supplying power from large-scale batteries in a
battery storage power station to the grid, or releasing water stored in a reservoir of a
pumped-storage hydroelectricity power station, causing the power station to generate
power which is supplied to the grid. However, both of these approaches require
complex infrastructure and are expensive.
[0004]    In recent years, it has become increasingly common for domestic households
to install a battery storage system and photovoltaic cells to generate and store electricity
for use by the home. This arrangement is beneficial as power generated by the cells and
not consumed by the home charges the battery. When the cells are not generating

                                              2
power, for example, at night, and power is required by loads in the home, the battery
supplies power to these loads. The battery can also be operated to supply power to the
grid, which can assist with load balancing during peak demand periods.
[0005]    Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like
included in the present specification is not to be taken as an admission that any or all of
these matters form part of the common general knowledge in the field relevant to the
present disclosure as it existed before the priority date of each claim of this application.
Summary
[0006]    According to some embodiments disclosed in this specification, there is
provided a system for supplying power to a grid, the system including a main controller
configured to receive event data, and at least one node controller, each node controller
being in communication with the main controller and configured to control power
distribution between a load, a battery and the grid. Responsive to a parameter of the
event data exceeding a defined threshold, the main controller sends a supply command
to the at least one node controller causing the at least one node controller to decrease
load on the battery, and to supply power from the battery to the grid.
[0007]    The load may include one or more electrical devices, and decreasing the load
include controlling the power distribution to decrease power consumption by the one or
more devices. The node controller may be configured to operate the one or more
devices, and decreasing the power consumption include operating at least one of the
one or more devices to decrease power consumed by the at least one device. This may
involve operating the at least one device in a low power mode. The node controller may
be wirelessly connected to the one or more devices.
[0008]    The supply command may cause the node controller to prevent supply of
power from the battery to the load. This may be effected where the node controller is
configured to operate the battery to prevent supply of power to the load.

                                              3
[0009]    The load may be connected to a node circuit, and the node controller
communicatively connected to the node circuit and configured to control the node
circuit.
[0010]    The node controller may include a power inverter.
[0011]    The system may include a plurality of the node controllers, and some of the
plurality of node controllers are grouped into a cluster. In this embodiment, the supply
command causes each node controller in the cluster to decrease load on the associated
battery and supply power from the battery to the grid.
[0012]    The main controller may group the node controllers in the cluster responsive
to determining a charge status of each battery associated with each node controller
exceeding a defined charge threshold. Determining the charge status may include
determining a current charge status and a predicted future charge status, and comparing
the current charge status and the predicted future charge status. Each node controller
may be authorised to decrease the load on the associated battery by a defined amount,
and determining the predicted future charge status may include comparing a current
load on the battery and the authorised load decrease amount.
[0013]    The main controller may group some of the plurality of node controllers in a
first cluster responsive to determining the charge status of the associated batteries
exceeding a first charge threshold, and group some of the plurality of node controllers
in a second cluster responsive to determining the charge status of the associated
batteries exceeding a second charge threshold which is less than the first charge
threshold. In this embodiment, the supply command may cause the node controllers
grouped in the first cluster to decrease the load on the associated batteries and supply
power from the associated batteries to the grid for a first period, and cause the node
controllers grouped in the second cluster to decrease the load on the associated batteries
and supply power from the associated batteries to the grid for a second period which is
less than the first period.

                                             4
[0014]    The parameter exceeding the defined threshold may cause the main controller
to determine an amount of power required by the grid, and, responsive to determining
the amount of power, group the node controller into one or more clusters.
[0015]    The node controllers grouped in each cluster may be interchangeable and
determined responsive to the parameter exceeding the defined threshold.
[0016]    The supply command may cause each node controller to decrease load on the
associated battery and supply power from the associated battery to the grid until the
parameter falls below the defined threshold.
[0017]    The system may also include a data store storing historical event data, the data
store being in communication with the main controller, and the main controller may be
configured to compare the event data to the historical event data to predict when the
parameter will exceed the defined threshold. Responsive to a positive prediction, the
main controller may send a pre-supply command to the at least one node controller
causing the at least one node controller to decrease load on the associated battery.
[0018]    According to some other embodiments, there is provided a device for
supplying power to a grid, the device including a controller configured to control power
distribution between a load, a battery and the grid, the controller being in
communication with a network. Responsive to receiving a supply command from the
network, the controller decreases load on the battery, and supplies power from the
battery to the grid.
[0019]    According to further disclosed embodiments, there is provided a system for
supplying power to a grid, the system including a main controller configured to receive
event data, and a plurality of node controllers, each node controller configured to
control power distribution between a battery and the grid. Responsive to a parameter of
the event data exceeding a defined threshold, the main controller determines one or
more clusters, each cluster comprising only some of the node controllers, and sends a

                                              5
supply command to each cluster, causing each node controller in the cluster to
simultaneously supply power from the associated battery to the grid.
[0020]    Throughout this specification the word "comprise", or variations such as
"comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated
element, integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps, but not the exclusion of
any other element, integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps.
Brief Description of Drawings
[0021]    Embodiments will now be described by way of example only with reference to
the accompany drawings in which:
[0022]    Figure 1 is a schematic overview of an embodiment of a system for supplying
power to a grid;
[0023]    Figure 2 is a schematic overview of part of the system shown in Figure 1,
being a node;
[0024]    Figure 3 is a schematic overview of part of the system shown in Figure 1,
being two clusters, each cluster comprising a plurality of nodes;
[0025]    Figure 4 is a schematic overview of part of the system shown in Figure 1,
being a supplier terminal;
[0026]    Figure 5 is a schematic overview of part of the system shown in Figure 1,
being an operator terminal;
[0027]    Figure 6 is a diagram illustrating stages of operation of the system shown in
Figure 1;
[0028]    Figures 7 to 10 are diagrams illustrating information displayed on the operator
terminal.
Description of Embodiments
[0029]    In the drawings, reference numeral 10 generally designates an embodiment of
a system for supplying power to a grid. The system 10 includes a main controller 12
configured to receive event data 14, and at least one node controller 16, each node

                                              6
controller 16 being in communication with the main controller 12 and configured to
control power distribution between a load 18, a battery 20 and the grid 22, wherein
responsive to a parameter of the event data 14 exceeding a defined threshold, the main
controller 12 sends a supply command to the at least one node controller 16 causing the
at least one node controller 16 to decrease load on the battery 20, and supply power
from the battery 20 to the grid 22. While Figure 1 shows only a single node controller
16, in use, the system 10 comprises a plurality of the node controllers 16.
[0030]    The event data 14 is a data stream comprising data relating to, or derived from,
one or more real-world events. For example, the event data 14 may include ambient
temperature information for a geographical region, such as a region local to each node
controller 16. The event data 14 may alternatively be derived from current or
anticipated power demand (load) on the grid 22. For example, the event data 14 may
define a current power unit price, typically being a price for 1 MWh ($/MWh), derived
from current or anticipated demand.
[0031]    The event data 14 includes one or more parameters. For example, the event
data 14 may include current local ambient temperature (first parameter), current local
ambient humidity (second parameter), anticipated local ambient temperature in one
hour (third parameter), and anticipated local ambient humidity in one hour (fourth
parameter). The event data 14 is conveyed to the main controller 12 substantially
continuously or at defined intervals. For example, where the event data 14 defines a
power unit price, this may be defined and then supplied to the main controller 12 at five
minute intervals.
[0032]    The main controller 12 is communicatively connected to the stream of event
data 14, typically via the Internet, and configured to assess the data 14 to determine
when to send the supply command to the at least one node controller 16 of the system
10. The main controller 12 is associated with a memory, in this embodiment being a
data store 24, configured to store information relating to the event data 14, including
one or more defined thresholds relating to one or more of the event data parameters.
The data store 24 may also store historical event data. The main controller 12 includes

                                              7
a processor configured to compare the event data 14 to one or more of the defined
thresholds stored in the data store 24 to determine when to send the supply command.
This may also involve determining one or more parameters of the supply command,
such as a period of supply, or total power to be supplied to the grid 22 by operating the
node controllers 16.
[0033]    Each node controller 16 is communicatively connected to the main controller
12, typically via the Internet, and associated with the load 18 and the battery 20, and
configured to distribute power between the battery 20, the load 18 and the grid 22
responsive to, or in advance of, receiving the supply command from the main
controller. Each node controller 16 includes, or is coupled with, a power inverter (not
illustrated) to assist with varying the power distribution. Each node controller 16 is also
communicatively connected to the battery 20 and the load 18, typically by a wireless
connection such as using a WiFiTM and/or ZigBeeTM communications protocol, to allow
operation of at least one of the battery 20 and the load 18 to be controlled by its
associated node controller 16. This may involve the node controller 16 controlling
operation of the battery 20, or controlling relays associated with the battery 20, to
prevent the battery supplying power to the load 18 and, therefore, to restrict supply of
power from the battery to the grid 22 only. Communication between the battery 20 and
its associated node controller 16 also allows each node controller 16 to convey battery
20 charge status and load status information to the main controller 12. For example,
this may include each node controller 16 communicating to the main controller 12 that
the battery 16 is currently charged to 55% capacity and the load 18 is currently
consuming 2kWh.
[0034]    The battery 20 is a battery storage system which may include a plurality of
connected batteries, such as the Tesla PowerwallTM product. The battery 20 is
connected to the grid 22 to allow the battery 20 to supply power to the grid 22 and
potentially also recharge with energy supplied by the grid 22. The battery 20 may also
be connected to one or more photovoltaic (PV) cells 26 to allow recharging with energy
supplied from the cells 26.

                                               8
[0035]    The load 18 includes any device or system arranged to consume power
supplied by the battery 20. This may include a wide range of devices or systems, such
as electrical wiring circuits, lighting systems, appliances such as washing machines,
dryers, dishwashers, ovens, and the like, air conditioning systems, and pool pumping
and/or filtration systems. Where the load 18 includes devices such as the appliances
mentioned above, the node controller 16 may be configured to directly affect operation
of the devices prior or responsive to receiving the supply command. For example,
where the load 18 includes an air conditioning unit, the node controller 16 may be
configured to prevent the air conditioning unit from consuming power supplied by the
battery 20 or the grid 22, or reduce power consumed by the air conditioning unit, such
as by operating the unit in a low power mode whereby fan and/or refrigeration unit
power consumption is reduced. Where the load 18 includes devices, these may be
connected to a ZigBee       device to control power consumption of each device. For
example, a ZigBee       device may act as a relay at a power point, or may be connected
to a node circuit (not illustrated), being an electrical circuit in a premises, which the
devices are also connected to. In either arrangement, operation of the ZigBee        device
prevents the load 18 from consuming power.
[0036]    The node controller 16, battery 20 and load 18 are arranged together to form a
node 28. The node 28 may also include the PV cells 26 and is typically associated with
a single premises occupied by a supplier. Whilst only one node 28 is illustrated in
Figure 1, it will be appreciated that the system 10 includes a significant number of
nodes 28, in the order of thousands, and potentially millions, and the main controller 12
communicates with each associated node controller 16.
[0037]    The main controller 12 is communicatively connected, typically via the
Internet, to an operator terminal 30. The operator terminal 30 provides an interface for
an operator of the system 10 to affect operation of the main controller 12 and/or the
node controllers 16. Operation of the operator terminal 30 may involve the operator
manually defining the threshold to which the main controller 12 compares the event
data 14 in order to determine when to send the supply command to one or more of the
node controllers 16. Alternatively or additionally, the operator terminal 30 may be

                                             9
configured to execute an algorithm to determine event data trends to predict future
event data and adjust the threshold responsive to predicted values. Similarly, the
operator terminal 30 may be configured to execute an algorithm to monitor current
charge of node batteries 20 and predict future charge at a defined point, allowing total
stored power available to the system 10 at the defined point to be calculated. The
operator terminal 30 is typically provided by an application executed by a server
computer arranged remotely from the main controller 12.
[0038]    The main controller 12 is also communicatively connected, typically via the
Internet, to a supplier terminal 32. The supplier terminal 32 provides an interface for
the supplier to affect operation of that supplier's node controller 16, and for the main
controller 12 to communicate information to the supplier, such as notification of the
supplier's node controller 16 receiving the supply command and commencing
redistribution of power between the load 18, battery 20 and the grid 22. Operation of
the supplier terminal 32 to control its node controller 16 may involve the supplier
selecting which load 18 devices and systems associated with the node controller 16 the
node controller 16 is authorised to operate, and any limiting conditions restricting this
authorisation. For example, the supplier may use the terminal 32 to define that the node
controller 16 is authorised to power down an air conditioning unit responsive to
receiving the supply command unless a local ambient temperature is above 350 C. The
supplier terminal 32 is typically provided by an application executed by a personal
computing device, such as a smartphone, phablet or tablet computer.
[0039]    Figure 2 shows a schematic view of another node 40 in isolation. The node 40
includes a node controller 42 and a battery 44.
[0040]    Figure 3 shows a schematic view of two clusters 50, 52, each comprising a
plurality of nodes 54, 56, 58, 60 grouped to form the cluster 50, 52. Grouping the nodes
54, 56, 58, 60 in one or more clusters 50, 52 allows the system 10 to coordinate power
being supplied simultaneously from each node in a cluster, and control power supply
distribution density across the grid 22. Operation of the nodes in clusters therefore
modulates the power being supplied to the grid 22 from the associated batteries 20 to

                                              10
ensure one or more of power being supplied to the grid 22 at a consistent rate, a total
amount of power being supplied to the grid 22, and the power being supplied from
nodes in dispersed geographical locations, which prevents local portions of the grid 22,
for example, covering one street, being destabilised.
[0041]    The group of nodes 54, 56, 58, 60 in each cluster 50, 52 is non-permanent and
dynamically determined by the main controller 12 responsive to the event data 14 and
at least one of the defined thresholds, in order to optimise power being supplied by the
nodes 54, 56, 58, 60 to the grid 22. For example, responsive to first event data 14
triggering a first supply command, the main controller 12 can determine the first cluster
50 to comprise nodes 54, 56, 58. This may be due to the main controller 12 deriving,
from the first event data 14 that the grid 22 requires 100MWs to be supplied within a
defined period and determining that nodes 54, 56, 58 can supply the required power
within the period. Similarly, responsive to second event data 14 triggering a second
supply command, the main controller 12 can reconfigure the cluster 50 to form a
second cluster 52 comprising nodes 54, 56, 60 as, for example the main controller 12
has revised, from the second event data 14, the grid 22 requires 70MWs within another
defined period and that nodes 54, 56, 60 can supply the required power within the
period. It will be appreciated that whilst three nodes are shown in each cluster 50, 52,
each cluster 50, 52 may be configured to comprise virtually any number of nodes.
[0042]     The configuration of a cluster is generally determined by the main controller
12 determining power available to be supplied to the grid 22 from each node 16 in
communication with the main controller 12, for example, by assessing at least the
charge stored in each battery 20 associated with each node 16, and assessing load on
each of the batteries 20. The nodes are then grouped to ensure power supplied to the
grid 22 is optimised, for example, grid strain is minimised, and that the power supplied
satisfies a demand defined by, or derived from, the event data 14.
[0043]    For example, prior to sending the supply command, the main controller 12
may assess all connected node controllers 16 and filter node controllers 16 which are
associated with a battery 20 having a charge status greater than or equal to 90%

                                             11
capacity, and group these nodes in a first cluster, and then assess all remaining
connected node controllers 16 and filter node controllers 16 which are associated with a
battery 20 having a charge status greater than or equal to 80% capacity, and group these
nodes in a second cluster, and so on. Cluster configuration is therefore not limited by
physical location of the nodes and, instead, is optimised to enhance power being
supplied to the grid 22 and/or to enhance grid 22 functionality.
[0044]    The main controller 12 may also determine the charge status of each battery 20
by determining a current charge status and comparing this to a predicted future charge
status. The compared charge status value is then used to configure the node controllers
16 in one or more clusters. For example, this may involve the main controller 12, or
each node controller 16, determining current load on the battery 20, calculating load
decrease on the battery 20 which the node controller 16 is authorised to execute, and
determining a net power available to be supplied to the grid 22 from each node. As
noted above, the supplier may configure the node controller 16 to decrease load on the
battery 20 in limited circumstances, and therefore, in these circumstances, the node
controller 16 is authorised to supply a limited amount of power from the battery 20 to
the grid 22.
[0045]    Alternatively, the main controller 12 may configure the clusters responsive to
the parameter of the event data 14 exceeding various defined thresholds. For example,
where the parameter is power unit price ($/MWh) and the defined thresholds comprise
three different price thresholds, the main controller 12 may configure five node
controllers in one cluster responsive to the parameter exceeding a 5$/MWh threshold,
ten node controllers in one cluster responsive to the parameter exceeding a 10$/MWh
threshold, and one thousand node controllers in ten clusters responsive to the parameter
exceeding a 1,000$/MWh threshold. This therefore allows the system 10 to coordinate
supply of escalating amounts of power to the grid 22 in response to the power unit price
escalating, consequently satisfying demand on the grid 22 and balancing load on the
grid 22.

                                              12
[0046]    Figure 4 shows a schematic view of the user interface 32 in isolation. As
indicated above, the user interface 32 is provided to the supplier and communicates
with the node controller 16 of the node 28. The user is able to monitor the electricity
usage within their premises and is able to set parameters relating to the devices
connected within the premises. For example, the user is able to determine which
devices constituting the load 18 are to be disconnected from the battery 20 and in what
order the devices are to be disconnected.
[0047]    Figure 5 shows a schematic view of the operator interface 30 in isolation. The
operator interface 30 ensures that the system 10 has overall control of the nodes 28 and
the clusters 50, 52 made up of the nodes. Thus, the operator interface 30 is used to
determine when power is to be supplied to the grid 22 and the quantity of power to be
supplied to the grid 22.
[0048]    Figure 6 illustrates stages of operation of the system 10. At 100, event data 14
is supplied from a cloud-based data store to the main controller 12. In the embodiment
shown, the data store is provided by a national electricity market operator. At 102, the
main controller 12 assesses the event data 14. In the embodiment shown, the event data
14 includes at least one parameter being spot price data, which is a current price/MWh
derived from at least one of current and scheduled load demand on the grid 22. At 104,
the main controller 12 determines the parameter of the event data 14 exceeding a
defined threshold. In the embodiment illustrated, the defined threshold is a target price
for 1 MWh. At 106, the main controller 12 sends the supply command to node
controllers 161, 162, 163 connected to the main controller 12. At 108, one of the node
controllers 161 adjusts load on the associated battery 201, by reducing power
consumption of two of three devices connected to the node controller 161 and powered
by the battery 201. At 110, the node controller 161 supplies power from the battery 201
to the grid 22.
[0049]    Power is supplied from the battery 201 to the grid 22 until the earlier of all
power stored in the battery 201 being exhausted or the period in which the parameter of
the event data 14 exceeds the threshold passes, for example, by the spot price falling

                                               13
below the threshold. This is determined by, after commencing power supply from the
battery 201 to the grid 22 , the main controller 12 assessing new event data 14 to
determine when the parameter falls below the threshold. When determined, this causes
the main controller 12 to send a stop supply command to the node controllers 161, 162,
163, causing the node controller 161 to prevent the battery 201 from supplying power
to the grid 22 and restoring operation of the devices powered by the battery 201 to
default states.
[0050]     Figures 7 to 10 are screenshots illustrating examples of information displayed
on the operator interface 30.
[0051]     Figure 7 shows a country-wide view of all nodes 28 within the system 10. To
assist the operator using the interface 30, dense pluralities of the nodes 28 are
illustrated as pin locations 120. A sidebar 122 displays statistical information including
a supply command threshold 124, a stop supply command threshold 126, quantity of
node controllers 128 capable of supplying power, from the associated battery 20, to the
grid 22, and total power 130 (MWs) available to be supplied to the grid 22.
[0052]     Figure 8 shows a regional view of some of the nodes 28 within the system 10,
whereby dense pluralities of the nodes 28 are illustrated as pin locations 131.
[0053]     Figure 9 shows information relating to one of the nodes 281. The information
includes current battery 20 charge status 132, node identification information 134,
historical power supply information 136 indicating supply events, being occasions
where the associated battery 20 has supplied power to the grid 22, within the past thirty
days, and other node component information, such as photovoltaic cell identification
information 138 and inverter identification information 140.
[0054]     Figure 10 shows further information relating to the node 281, the information
illustrating the load 18 associated with the node 281, current charge status 142, and
future (predicted) charge status 144. In this embodiment, the load 18 comprises an oven

                                              14
146, air conditioner 148 and washing machine 150. Dials 152 illustrate power being
supplied from the associated battery 20 to each of the load devices 146, 148, 150.
[0055]    The system 10 advantageously allows power to be supplied to the grid 22 from
one or more batteries 20 to meet demand and balance load on the grid 22. The system
10 optimises power being supplied to the grid 22 from each battery 20 associated with
the system 10 by decreasing load on the battery 20 prior to, or at the same time as,
supplying power from the battery 20 to the grid 22. This therefore allows power being
supplied to the grid 22 to be maximised.
[0056]    The system 10 may be configured to coordinate supply of power from a
plurality of batteries 20 to the grid 22. This may involve simultaneous supply of power
from multiple batteries 20 and/or optimising location distribution of the batteries 20. In
either case, this provides a uniform power output which modulates power being
supplied to the grid 22 and enhances stabilisation of the grid 22.
[0057]    The system 10 controls when and how power is to be injected on to the grid
22. A user, while being able to set parameters relating to his or her node 28, cannot,
via the node controller 16 of that node 28 make a decision as to when and how power is
to be supplied to the grid 22.
[0058]    In an alternative embodiment (not illustrated), a device may be provided for
supplying power to a grid. The device includes a controller configured to control power
distribution between a load, a battery and the grid, the controller being in
communication with a network, such as the Internet. Responsive to receiving a supply
command from the network, the controller decreases load on the battery, and supplies
power from the battery to the grid.
[0059]    This embodiment is effectively the same as the node controller 16 described
above and functions in the same way. The device may be configured as an electrical
device or, for some applications, be configured as an application configured for
execution by a personal computing device, including a personal computer, smartphone

                                             15
or tablet computer. The device is useful where the system 10 is in place and a supplier
requires an additional or replacement device to provide the function of the node
controller 16.
[0060]    In another alternative embodiment (not shown), a system may be provided for
supplying power to a grid, the system including a main controller configured to receive
event data, and a plurality of node controllers, each node controller configured to
control power distribution between a battery and the grid. Responsive to a parameter of
the event data exceeding a defined threshold, the main controller determines one or
more clusters, each cluster comprising only some of the node controllers, and sends a
supply command to each cluster, causing each node controller in the cluster to
simultaneously supply power from the associated battery to the grid.
[0061]    This embodiment is a variation of the system 10 described above and
functions in a similar way. This embodiment does not necessarily include a load
supplied with power from the battery. This embodiment is configured to optimise
power being supplied to the grid by grouping a plurality of the node controllers into one
or more clusters and coordinating supply of power to the grid from the batteries
associated with each cluster. The grouping of node controllers into clusters may be
responsive to a range of factors, as described above.
[0062]    It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that numerous variations
and/or modifications may be made to the above-described embodiments, without
departing from the broad general scope of the present disclosure. The present
embodiments are, therefore, to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not
restrictive.

                                              16
CLAIMS:
1.        A system for supplying power to a grid, the system comprising:
          a main controller configured to receive event data; and
          at least one node controller, each node controller being in communication with
the main controller and configured to control power distribution between a load, a
battery and the grid,
          wherein responsive to a parameter of the event data exceeding a defined
threshold, the main controller sends a supply command to the at least one node
controller causing the at least one node controller to decrease load on the battery, and to
supply power from the battery to the grid.
2.        The system according to claim 1, wherein the load includes one or more
electrical devices, and decreasing the load includes controlling the power distribution to
decrease power consumption by the one or more devices.
3.        The system according to claim 2, wherein the node controller is configured to
operate the one or more devices, and decreasing the power consumption includes
operating at least one of the one or more devices to decrease power consumed by the at
least one device.
4.        The system according to claim 3, wherein the node controller is wirelessly
connected to the one or more devices.
5.        The system according to claim 3 or 4, wherein the at least one device is
operated in a low power mode.
6.        The system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein responsive
to the supply command, the node controller prevents supply of power from the battery
to the load.

                                             17
7.        The system according to claim 6, wherein the node controller is configured to
operate the battery to prevent supply of power to the load.
8.        The system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the load is
connected to a node circuit, and the node controller is communicatively connected to
the node circuit and configured to control the node circuit.
9.        The system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the node
controller includes a power inverter.
10.       The system according to any one of the preceding claims, comprising a
plurality of the node controllers, and wherein some of the plurality of node controllers
are grouped into a cluster, and wherein the supply command causes each node
controller in the cluster to decrease load on the associated battery and supply power
from the battery to the grid.
11.       The system according to claim 10, wherein the main controller groups the
node controllers in the cluster responsive to determining a charge status of each battery
associated with each node controller exceeding a defined charge threshold.
12.       The system according to claim 11, wherein determining the charge status
includes determining a current charge status and a predicted future charge status, and
comparing the current charge status and the predicted future charge status.
13.       The system according to claim 12, wherein each node controller is authorised
to decrease the load on the associated battery by a defined amount, and determining the
predicted future charge status includes comparing a current load on the battery and the
authorised load decrease amount.
14.       The system according to any one of claims 11 to 13, wherein the main
controller groups some of the plurality of node controllers in a first cluster responsive
to determining the charge status of the associated batteries exceeding a first charge

                                              18
threshold, and groups some of the plurality of node controllers in a second cluster
responsive to determining the charge status of the associated batteries exceeding a
second charge threshold which is less than the first charge threshold.
15.       The system according to claim 14, wherein the supply command causes the
node controllers grouped in the first cluster to decrease the load on the associated
batteries and supply power from the associated batteries to the grid for a first period,
and causes the node controllers grouped in the second cluster to decrease the load on
the associated batteries and supply power from the associated batteries to the grid for a
second period which is less than the first period.
16.       The system according to claim 10, wherein, the parameter exceeding the
defined threshold causes the main controller to determine an amount of power required
by the grid, and, responsive to determining the amount of power, groups the node
controllers into the cluster.
17.       The system according to claim 16, wherein the node controllers grouped in the
cluster are interchangeable and determined responsive to the parameter exceeding the
defined threshold.
18.       The system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the supply
command causes each node controller to decrease load on the associated battery and
supply power from the associated battery to the grid until the parameter falls below the
defined threshold.
19.       The system according to any one of the preceding claims, further comprising a
data store storing historical event data, the data store being in communication with the
main controller, and wherein the main controller is configured to compare the event
data to the historical event data to determine a prediction of when the parameter will
exceed the defined threshold, and wherein responsive to the prediction, the main
controller sends a pre-supply command to the at least one node controller causing the at
least one node controller to decrease load on the associated battery.

                                             19
20.      A device for supplying power to a grid, the device comprising:
         a controller configured to control power distribution between a load, a battery
and the grid, the controller being in communication with a network,
         wherein responsive to receiving a supply command from the network, the
controller decreases load on the battery, and supplies power from the battery to the
grid.
21.      A system for supplying power to a grid, the system comprising:
         a main controller configured to receive event data; and
         a plurality of node controllers, each node controller being in communication
with the main controller and configured to control power distribution between a battery
and the grid,
         wherein responsive to a parameter of the event data exceeding a defined
threshold, the main controller determines one or more clusters, each cluster comprising
only some of the node controllers, and sends a supply command to each cluster,
causing each node controller in the cluster to simultaneously supply power from the
associated battery to the grid.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/6

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/6

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/6

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/6

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/6

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/6

