ABSTRACT
A local network system includes one or more terminals operable to act as a client
on the local network and gateway device operable to manage communications
between the one or more terminals and an external network. The gateway device
includes a memory configured to store a set of instructions and a processor
configured to execute the set of instructions. The gateway device further includes
a plurality of communications modules in communications with the external
network and/or one or more terminals.

1/11
           ci
           U
     C
       0
       0
         C
         C

                                              1
GATEWAY DEVICE, SYSTEM AND METHOD
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001]       The invention relates to networked system and in particular gateway
devices, systems and methods.
BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION
[0002]       It is becoming increasingly common for homes, businesses, etc. to
have access to a wide variety of networked or remote services. Illustrative
services include Internet service, cellular voice and data services, on-line
services, phone services (PSTN, POTS, VoIP, etc.), cable television services,
satellite television services, satellite radio services, etc. Unfortunately, it is quite
common for at least some of these services to each have their own access point
as well as required hardware. As such, homes and businesses are frequently
cluttered with numerous wires and cables as well as "electronically cluttered" with
a variety of wireless access or communication points.
[0003]       Therefore, there exists a need for the ability to combine the access
points to a significantly smaller number of access points as well as manage the
communications between devices and networks.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0004]       The present invention includes several embodiments of gateway
devices, network systems and methods.
[0005]       In a first aspect, the present invention provides a local network system
which comprises: one or more terminals operable to act as a client on the local
network; a gateway device operable to manage communications between the one
or more terminals and an external network, the gateway device comprising a
memory configured to store a set of instructions, a processor configured to
execute the set of instructions, a first communications module in communication

                                            2
with the external network, a second communications module for providing
communication between the gateway device and at least one terminal, and a third
communications module for providing communication between the gateway
device and at least one other terminal.
[0006]      In a second aspect, the present invention provides a gateway device
operable to manage communications between one or more terminals and an
external network, the gateway device comprising a memory configured to store a
set of instructions, a processor configured to execute the set of instructions, a first
communications module in communication with the external network, a second
communications module for providing communication between the gateway
device and at least one terminal, and a third communications module for
providing communication between the gateway device and at least one terminal.
[0007]      In a third aspect, the present invention provides a method for
transferring a call on a mobile device between a first communications network
and a second communications network, wherein communication via the second
communications network is managed by a gateway device, the method
comprising determining if the mobile device is within range of the first
communications network and the gateway device, determining the stronger of a
signal strength between the mobile device and first network and a signal strength
between the mobile device and the gateway device, and transferring the call to
the first communications network or the gateway device based on the
determination of the stronger signal.
[0008]      Other aspects of the invention and preferred features present in
various embodiments of the invention will now be described in more detail by way
of non limiting embodiments of the invention with reference to the accompanying
drawings.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS

                                            3
[0009]     FIG. 1 is a schematic illustration of a first embodiment of a system.as
envisioned by the present invention;
[0010]     FIG. 2 is a schematic illustration of a second embodiment of a
system.as envisioned by the present invention;
[0011]     FIG. 3 is a schematic illustration of a third embodiment of a system.as
envisioned by the present invention;
[0012]     FIG. 4 is a schematic illustration of a fourth embodiment of a system.as
envisioned by the present invention;
[0013]     FIG. 5 is a schematic illustration of a fifth embodiment of a system.as
envisioned by the present invention;
[0014]     FIG. 6 is a schematic illustration of a sixth embodiment of a system.as
envisioned by the present invention;
[0015]     FIG. 7 is a schematic illustration of a gateway device as contemplated
in one embodiment of a different aspect of the invention;
[0016]     FIG. 8 illustrates a flow diagram of a method for transferring calls
between a gateway device and a telecommunications network, as envisioned in
another aspect of the present invention;
[0017]     FIG. 9 illustrates part of a flow diagram for communicating caller ID
information in accordance with a methodology envisioned in one embodiment.
[0018]     FIG. 10 illustrates a flow diagram of a method for providing on-demand
services, as envisioned in another aspect of the present invention;.

                                            4
[0019]      FIG. 11 illustrates a flow diagram of a method for providing dynamic
control of streamed content, as envisioned in another aspect of the present
invention;
[0020]      FIG. 12 illustrates a flow diagram of a method for providing parental
controls, as envisioned in another aspect of the present invention; and
[0021]      FIG. 13 illustrates a flow diagram of a method for providing text
messages, as envisioned in another aspect of the present invention;.
DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
[0022]      Referring now to the figures, where like elements are referred to using
the same numerals throughout the figures, FIG. 1 illustrates a system 100 in
accordance with a first embodiment.
[0023]      The system 100 includes a gateway device 110, one or more terminals
 115a-115n (collectively 115), and an external network 120.
[0024]      The external network 120 may include any number of networks
capable of providing communications to and/or receiving communications from
the gateway device 110. For example, the external network may be one or more,
or any combination of, wireless networks, data or packet networks, publicly
switched telephone networks (PSTN), cellular networks, wide area networks
(WAN), adjacent local area networks (LAN), etc. In one embodiment, the external
network 120 includes the Internet.
[0025]      The participant terminals 115 may include any suitable device operable
to act as a client on a network. Illustrative terminals 115 include, but are not
limited to, personal computers, desktop computers, laptop computers, tablet
computers, video game systems, servers, any suitable telecommunications
device, including, but not limited to, VoIP telephones, smart telephones or

                                           5
wireless devices, such as cellular telephones, personal digital assistants (PDA),
communications enabled mp3 players, etc., smart meters, closed circuit television
systems, communications enabled televisions, DVRs, set top boxes, satellite
radio receivers, printers, copiers, switches, enterprise switches, network access
storage (NAS), or any other device suitable to act as a terminal on the local
network. The terminals 115 may communicate with the gateway 110 using
wireless communications or hardwired connections, such as fibre optics, cable,
DSL, telephone lines, and other similar connections.
[0026]       As will be further discussed below, the gateway device 110 and
terminals 115 form a local area network (LAN) 125 such that the gateway device
 110 manages communications between the external network 120 and LAN 125.
Further, the gateway device 110 is configured to provide communications
between and otherwise manage or control communications between the terminals
 115 and the external network 120.
[0027]       The gateway device 110 includes a plurality of communications
modules to communicate with one or more of the external network 120 and
terminal(s) 115. In one embodiment, the gateway device 110 includes a first
communication module configured to communicate with the external network 120.
Illustrative first communications modules, include without limitation, a WAN
communications module (e.g. any DocSIS, DSL, xDSL, ADSL, ADSL 2, ADSL 2+,
VDSL, VDSL2, SHDSL, GbE, ONT, GPON ONT, SPON ONT, EPON ONT,
BPON ONT, MoCA, TDM, any T-carrier, any E-carrier, any J-carrier, etc.), a
WLAN communications module, an Ethernet communications module, or any
other suitable communications module. Additionally, it will be appreciated that the
term "module" should be understood broadly so as to encompass any device for
communicating with an external network including, but not limited to one or any
combination of modems, peripheral cards, modules, on-chip arrangements,
transmitters, receivers, transceivers, etc.

                                            6
[0028]       The gateway device 110 further includes one or more communications
modules for communicating with one or more terminals 115. The second, third,
fourth, etc. communications module(s) for communicating with one or more
terminals 115 may include, without limitation, a voice gateway communications
module, an Ethernet communications module, a VoIP communications module, a
Femto communications module, a Zigbee communications module, a WiFi
communications module, WHDMI communications module, print servers, DVR
communications module, etc. In one embodiment, one or more of the
communications modules is a wireless USB-based communications module (e.g.
a wireless WHDMI USB module, etc.). It will be appreciated that any
communications module, or any number or combination of communications
modules, configured to communicate with one or more terminals may be
employed and remain within the scope of the present invention.
[0029]       Suitable illustrative communications modules for communicating with
the external network 120 and/or terminals 115 of the system include, without
limitation: the Packet AMC board offered by AD AX, Inc.; any of the AMC
modules (AM4500, AM451 0, AM4520, etc.) offered by Kontron AG; the iSPAN
3639 TI/El controller offered by Interphase Corp.; the ETRX3 Zigbee module
offered by Telegesis Ltd.; the XB24-Z7PIT-004 module offered by Digi
International, Inc.; the Femtocell SoC solution offered by Freescale
Semiconductor Inc.; and the Starcore Voice Gateway offered by Freescale
Semiconductor Inc. However, it will be appreciated that any suitable device for
providing communication between the gateway device 110 and the external
network 120 and/or terminals 115 may be employed as any suitable
communication module in the system.
[0030]       FIGS. 2-6 illustrate several non- limiting examples of the
implementation of the system of the present invention. It will be appreciated that
the following illustrative embodiments are not intended to limit the scope of the
invention in any way. Each of the illustrative embodiments in FIGS. 2-6 illustrate a
variety of terminals in several different settings. It will be appreciated that

                                            7
embodiments having a plurality of the same terminal type are expressly
contemplated. Additionally, it will be appreciated that additional terminal types not
shown may be employed, including but not limited to the various terminals
mentioned above. Also, fewer terminals than shown may be employed and that
the expression of one terminal type is not at the exclusion of all other terminal
types. Also, it will be appreciated that the functionality of the gateway device 110
in one embodiment may be employed in every other embodiment and it will be
appreciated that expression of only a certain functionality in one embodiment is
not at the exclusion of all other the functionality described in other embodiments
herein.
[0031]      FIG. 2 illustrates the implementation of the gateway device 110 as a
home communication and entertainment gateway. In this embodiment, the
terminals (collectively 315) include a television 315a, a mobile device 315b, a
computer 315c, a smart meter 315d, a security system 315e, a gaming system
315f and a DVR/STB 315g. The gateway device 110 manages communications
between the terminals 315 and external network 120. For example, the gateway
device 110 may permit access to the external network 120 by one or more of the
terminals 315 -this may include, without limitation, providing communications
between one or more of the terminals and the external network 120 by
transferring data between the terminals 315 and network 120, which may include
converting the data so that it is usable by the terminals 315 or endpoint in the
external network 120, etc. For example, and without limitation, the gateway
device 110 may act so as to permit one of the terminals to access the Internet,
etc. Additionally, the gateway device 110 may manage communications between
the terminals 315. For example, and without limitation, the gateway device 110
may receive a command from one terminal and pass the command to a second
terminal such that the second terminal is responsive to the command from the
first terminal (e.g. a record command from the mobile device 315b or computer
315c to the DVR/STB 315g, etc.). Furthermore, the gateway device 110 may
manage remote access to one of the terminals 315 over the external network
 120. For example, and without limitation, a remote device 317 (e.g. mobile
device, computer, etc.) may be permitted to access one of the terminals 315 so

                                              8
as to allow control of the terminal (e.g. remote access to control a smart meter
315d, security system 315e, DVR/STB 315g, etc.).
[0032]       FIG. 3 illustrates the implementation of the gateway device 110 in an
office setting. The gateway device 110 may be configured to serve as a small
home office gateway, a multi- service business gateway or any other suitable
gateway or device. In this embodiment, the terminals (collectively 415) include a
switch 415a, such as an enterprise switch, which is connected to devices such as
a multifunction device (copier/scanner/printer) 415b, workstations 415c, phones
such as ISDN lines 415d or VoIP lines 415e. It will be appreciated that in some
instances a switch may not be desirable or necessary and that a switch 415a may
not be employed and the terminals placed in direct communication with the
gateway device 110. Further, even in instances where a switch 415a is employed,
it may still be desirable for certain terminals to be in direct communication with the
gateway 110 including, but not limited to, workstations 415f, network access
storage (NAS) 415g, printers/scanners 415h, VoIP phone, any Power Over
Ethernet (POE) enabled device, etc. The gateway device 110 may manage
communications between the external network 120 and the terminals 415 as well
as communications between terminals 415.
[0033]       Referring now to FIG. 4, a gateway device 110 is shown in
communication with smart meters (collectively 515). As used herein, the term
smart meter refers to any device configured to monitor and/or control utilities,
utility services, or the like. Illustrative smart meters include, without limitation,
smart breaker boxes 515a, lighting control systems 515b, smart electric meters
515c, smart gas meters, smart water meters, industrial PLCs, access control
systems, smart appliances, or any other suitable device or devices. In one
embodiment, the gateway device 110 manages communications between one or
more smart meters 515 such that the meter(s) 515 may be monitored or
controlled by another terminal (not show in FIG. 5). Also, in one embodiment, the
gateway device 110 may be configured to allow remote access to one or more
smart meters 515 over the external network 120 such that a remote device 517

                                           9
(e.g. mobile device, computer, etc.) may be permitted to access, monitor and/or
control the smart meter(s) 515. It will be appreciated that the gateway device 110
provide smart meter management, including but not limited to energy grid
management, for home area networks (HAN) as well as field area networks
(FAN).
[0034]      Referring now to FIG. 5, another embodiment employing the gateway
device 110 is shown. In this embodiment, the terminals 615a-615n, collectively
615, include components for a closed-circuit television arrangement. In one
embodiment, each of the terminals 615 is a camera such as a video camera,
infrared camera, FLIR camera, thermographic camera, or any other device or
devices suitable for a closed-circuit arrangement. In one embodiment, a terminal
is a network digital video recorder 618 to which at least some of the cameras 615
are in communication with. Alternatively, if the gateway device includes persistent
storage, the footage from the terminals may be stored thereon. In one
embodiment, the gateway device 110 manages communications between other
terminals (not shown) and the camera terminals 615 so that the other terminals
are able to view, monitor and/or control the camera terminals 615 as well as view
recorded footage from the cameras that is stored in the network digital video
recorder 618 and/or persistent storage of the gateway device 110. Also, in one
embodiment, the gateway device 110 may be configured to allow remote access
to one or more of the terminals 615 and/or 618 over the external network 120
such that a remote device (e.g. mobile device 617a, computer 617b, etc.) may be
permitted to view, monitor and/or control the camera terminals 615 as well as
view recorded footage from the cameras that is stored in the network digital video
recorder 618 and/or persistent storage of the gateway device 110. Further, in one
embodiment, the gateway device may be configured to enhance the stored video
footage so as to enhance the quality of the video or any other suitable aspect or
characteristic of the video.
[0035]      Referring now to FIG. 6, the gateway device 110 may be configured to
also act as a unified communication controller. Here, the terminals (collectively

                                          10
715) may include a video camera 715a, a microphone 715b, and a monitor or
television 715c. The terminals may be discrete devices or combined in any
suitable combination for an integrated device. The gateway device 110 may be
configured to provide communications between each of the terminals 715 and the
external network 120 such that the gateway device 110 is operable to provide real
time video conferencing.
[0036]      Referring to FIG. 7, a block diagram of a gateway device 110 is shown
in which the illustrative embodiments may be implemented. Computer-usable
program code or instructions implementing the processes used in the illustrative
embodiments described herein, including all methods, may be located on the
gateway device 110. The gateway device 110 includes a communications fabric
210, which provides communications between a processor unit 215, a memory
220, a persistent storage 225 the first communications module 230, second
communications module 235 and third communications module 240. While three
communications modules are shown herein, it will be appreciated that any
number of communications modules may be employed and remain within the
scope of the present invention. Further, it will be appreciated that in some
embodiments the gateway device 110 may not include a persistent storage 225.
The processor unit 215 serves to execute instructions for software that may be
loaded into the memory 220. The processor unit 215 may be a set of one or more
processors or may be a multi-processor core, depending on the particular
implementation. Further, the processor unit 215 may be implemented using one
or more heterogeneous processor systems in which a main processor is present
with secondary processors on a single chip. As another illustrative example, the
processor unit 215 may be a symmetric/asymmetric multi-processor system
containing multiple processors of the same type.
[0037]     The memory 220, in these examples, may be, for example, a random
access memory or any other suitable volatile or non- volatile storage device. The
persistent storage 225 may take various forms depending on the particular
implementation. For example, the persistent storage 225 may contain one or

                                            11
more components or devices. For example, the persistent storage 225 may be a
hard drive, a flash memory, a rewritable optical disk, a rewritable magnetic tape,
or some combination of the above. The media used by the persistent storage 225
also may be removable. For example, a removable hard drive may be used for
the persistent storage 225. In one embodiment, the persistent storage 225 also
stores video data selectively stored by a user (e.g. as a DVR drive, etc.).
[0038]      The communications modules 230, 235, 240 will be the
communications modules as previously discussed - that is, at least one
communications modules is configured to communicate with an external network
and at least one module is configured to communicate with one or more
terminals. Each module may take any of the forms previously discussed. In one
embodiment, one or more of the communications modules includes an ingress
connector 250a-250c (collectively 250) and an egress connector 255a-255c
(collectively 255). The ingress connector 250 may be configured to test the
incoming signal to the communications module without interruption. The egress
connector 255 may be configured to test the outgoing signal from the
communications module without interruption. Alternatively, an ingress connector
and an egress connector may each be connected to the board of the gateway
device 110 wherein the memory of the gateway device includes instructions that
will allow the incoming and outgoing signals for each communications module to
be tested via such connection to the gateway board. Thus, the line connections
for each module may be tested.
[0039]       Instructions for the operating system and applications or programs are
located on the persistent storage 225. These instructions may be loaded into the
memory 220 for execution by the processor unit 215. The processes or methods
of the different embodiments may be performed by the processor unit 215 using
computer- implemented instructions, which may be located in a memory, such as
the memory 220. These instructions are referred to as program code, computer
usable program code, or computer-readable program code that may be read and
executed by a processor in the processor unit 215. The program code in the

                                          12
different embodiments may be embodied on different physical or tangible
computer-readable media, such as the memory 220 or the persistent storage 225.
[0040]       In one embodiment, program code 260 is located in a functional form
on a computer-readable media 265 and may be loaded onto or transferred to the
gateway device 110 for execution by the processor unit 215. The program code
260 and the computer-readable media 265 form computer program product 270
in these examples.
[0041]       In one example, the computer-readable media 265 may be in a
tangible form, such as, for example, an optical or magnetic disc that is inserted or
placed into a drive or other device that is part of the persistent storage 225 for
transfer onto a storage device, such as a hard drive that is part of the persistent
storage 225. In a tangible form, the computer-readable media 265 also may take
the form of a persistent storage, such as a hard drive or a flash memory that is
connected to the gateway device 110. The tangible form of the computer
readable media 265 is also referred to as computer recordable storage media.
[0042]       Alternatively, the program code 260 may be transferred to the gateway
device 110 from the computer-readable media 265 through a communication link
to a communications module.
[0043]       The communication link or the connection may be physical or wireless
in the illustrative examples. The computer-readable media 265 also may take the
form of non-tangible media, such as communication links or wireless
transmissions containing the program code 260. In one embodiment, the program
code 260 is delivered to the gateway device 110 over the Internet.
[0044]       The different components illustrated for the gateway device 110 are
not meant to provide architectural limitations to the manner in which different
embodiments may be implemented. The different illustrative embodiments may
be implemented in a data processing system including components in addition to

                                            13
or in place of those illustrated for gateway device 110. Other components shown
in FIG. 7 can be varied from the illustrative examples shown.
[0045]      As one example, a storage device in the gateway device 110 is any
hardware apparatus that may store data. The memory 220, the persistent storage
225, and the computer-readable media 265 are examples of storage devices in a
tangible form.
[0046]      In another example, a bus system may be used to implement the
communications fabric 210 and may be comprised of one or more buses, such as
a system bus or an input/output bus. Of course, the bus system may be
implemented using any suitable type of architecture that provides for a transfer of
data between different components or devices attached to the bus system.
Further, a memory may be, for example, the memory 220 or a cache such as
found in an interface and memory controller hub that may be present in the
communications fabric 210. It will be appreciated that the communications fabric
210 may take any suitable form including, but not limited to, non-blocking switch
fabric, non-blocking point-to-point/multi-point link or any other suitable
communication fabric of communications path(s) between the various elements.
[0047]      Referring now to FIGS. 8-13, illustrative methods of the gateway
device 110 managing communications between the external network 120 and/or
between the terminals are shown. It will be appreciated that the terms "managing"
and "controlling" are to be understood broadly and encompass not only pushing
communications through from the terminal(s) to one or both of another terminal
and external network, and vice versa, but also converting data, providing security
checks, storing data, caching data and any other means or method for optimizing
said communications. Furthermore, while the following methods are discussed
individually, it will be appreciated that a gateway device 110 may perform any of
these methods, whether simultaneously, sequentially, selectively, user
selectively, etc., and remain within the scope of the present invention.
Furthermore, the methods may also be employed by any device other than a

                                            14
gateway device as described herein and be considered within the scope of the
present invention. Also, while the methods may sometimes refer to a single
terminal, it will be appreciated that more than one terminal may be employed and
remain within the scope of the present invention.
[0048]       Referring now to FIG. 8, a method 800 for transferring calls between a
telecommunications network and a gateway device is shown. As used herein,
telecommunications network shall be understood broadly so as to encompass
any network suitable for providing telecommunications, including but not limited to
PSTN, POTS, cellular networks, wireless networks, data or packet networks, or
any other suitable network. Further, it will be appreciated that the gateway device
is in communications with an external network as described above,
telecommunications or otherwise, such that a call may be transferred to or
otherwise managed, handled or controlled by the gateway device. Also, the terms
"strong," "relatively strong," "weak," and "relatively weak" should be understood
broadly so as to encompass a signal or output compared against a predetermined
threshold value or a determination of the quality or strength of a signal based on
the ability to maintain service within a predetermined quality range, or by any
other suitable means or metric for ranking or otherwise determining the strength
and/or quality of a signal.
[0049]       First, a mobile device (also referred to as a terminal), e.g. cellular
phones, etc., is registered with the gateway device [step 802]. This will permit the
gateway device to only recognize or otherwise provide service to the mobile
device registered therewith. Optionally, this step may include installing an
application on the mobile device such that the mobile device provides the
necessary information to the gateway device (e.g. tower strength, signal strength
of telecommunications network, etc.) and/or is responsive to commands from the
gateway device (e.g. handover command, etc.), but it will be appreciated that
such an application may not always be desirable or necessary.

                                          15
[0050]      Once the mobile device(s) have been registered, the gateway device is
configured to scan or otherwise recognize mobile devices that become within
range of the gateway device [step 804]. In one embodiment, a WiFi and/or a
Femto module of the gateway device is employed for scanning or otherwise
recognizing mobile devices within range. However, it will be appreciated that any
suitable module or device may be used for this purpose. If it is determined that a
mobile device is not connected, the gateway will remain in a stand-by mode with
respect to this method and/or continue to scan for mobile devices [step 806].
Once a mobile device is detected, the gateway device will determine if the mobile
device is recognized as a device having been previously registered with the
gateway device [step 808]. In an alternative embodiment where the mobile device
is configured to provide an initial communication to a recognized gateway, this
step may be optional or not included in the method. If the mobile device is not
recognized, the gateway device continues to scan for a recognized mobile device
or, alternatively, awaits an initial communication from a previously registered
mobile device [step 806]
[0051]      If the mobile device is recognized by the gateway as a registered
mobile device, the gateway device will determine the strength of the signal or
communications between the mobile device and the gateway device [step 812]. If
the signal is relatively weak, the gateway device may be configured to return to
any of the previous steps (e.g. steps 804-810). If the signal is relatively strong,
the gateway device will query the mobile device to determine the strength of the
signal between the mobile device and the telecommunications network [step 812].
In one embodiment, the mobile device is queried for the relative signal strength
between the mobile device and a cellular tower the mobile device is connected to.
However, it will be appreciated that the mobile device may be queried about the
signal strength between the mobile device and any telecommunications network
and remain within the scope of the present invention. If the signal strength
associated the telecommunications network is stronger than the signal strength
between the mobile device and the gateway device, the gateway device may be
configured to return to any of the previous step (e.g. steps 804-812).

                                           16
[0052]       If the signal strength between the mobile device and the gateway
device is stronger, the gateway device will, if necessary, make the necessary
connection via the external network such that the call maybe transferred from the
telecommunications network to the gateway device without interruption. The
gateway device may then command the mobile device to transfer the call to the
gateway device [step 814].
[0053]       The gateway device may further be configured to handover a call from
a mobile device in communication with the gateway device to a
telecommunications network. If a mobile device is connected to the gateway
device [step 804], the gateway device will monitor the signal strength and
determine if the signal strength is relatively strong or relatively weak [step 816]. If
the signal is relatively strong, the gateway device will maintain the connection and
continuously or periodically monitor the signal strength. If the signal strength is
relatively weak, the gateway device will determine if a telecommunications
network is within range [step 818]. This may be accomplished by the gateway
itself or by querying the mobile device to determine if the mobile device detects a
telecommunications network. If no telecommunications network is detected, the
gateway may be configured to return to any of the previous steps (e.g. steps 804
815).
[0054]       If a telecommunications network is detected, the gateway device may
determine whether the signal or connection with the gateway device is stronger
than the signal to the telecommunications network [step 820]. If the signal to the
gateway device is stronger, the gateway device may maintain the connection and
may be further configured to return to one of the forgoing steps (e.g. steps 804
820). If the signal to the telecommunications network is stronger, the gateway
device may command the mobile device to initiate a handover sequence, as is
known in the art, so that the call may be transferred from the gateway device to
the telecommunications network [step 822]. The method may then be concluded
and/or return to step 804.

                                           17
[0055]      The forgoing method may be employed in a variety of contexts. In one
embodiment, the mobile device is a cellular phone and the telecommunications
network is a cellular network whereby the gateway device may transfer a call to or
from the telecommunications network to an external network in communication
with the gateway device (e.g. PSTN, POTS, VoIP, etc.). In another embodiment,
rather than a call being transferred, the connection for streaming data (e.g.
YouTube, Hulu, Netflix, etc.) may be transferred (e.g. between a 3G or 4G
telecommunications network and an internet connection managed or maintained
by the gateway device, etc.).
[0056]      Referring now to FIG. 9, a method 900 for providing caller ID
information to one or more terminals is shown. First, one or more terminals are
designated to receive caller ID information when an incoming call is received by
the gateway device from an external network [step 902]. Next, a call is received
wherein the call has caller ID information associated therewith [step 904]. In
response thereto, the gateway device communicates the caller ID information to
the previously designated devices [step 906].
[0057]      Referring now to FIG. 10, a method 100 for providing on-demand
services to one or more terminals is shown. On-demand services shall be
understood to include any service for providing content via an external network to
a user or users. Illustrative content includes video, audio, or any other suitable
content. Illustrative on-demand service providers include, without limitation,
Hulu@, YouTube@, Netflix@, Pandora@, Songza@ and the like. First, the
registration information for each on-demand service is entered and stored in the
gateway device [step 1002]. A search request from at least one terminal may then
be received [step 1004]. The search request may then be communicated to each
on-demand service via the external network [step 1006]. The search results from
each on-demand service may then be received [step 1008]. The search results
may then be communicated to one or more terminal(s) [step 1010]. A command,
such as play, download, etc., from a terminal may then be received [step 1012].
The gateway device may then push or stream the on-demand content to one or

                                          18
more terminals [step 1014]. It will be appreciated that the gateway device may
stream/push the content to the terminal(s) as it is received from the on-demand
service, may cache a suitable amount of the content prior to streaming/pushing
the content to the terminal(s), store the content in persistent storage and
transmit/push the content to the terminal(s) at a later time, etc.
[0058]       Referring now to FIG. 11, a method 1100 of providing dynamic control
of streamed content is provided. First, the gateway device streams content [step
 1102]. The content may be streamed from an on-demand source via the external
network, from persistent storage, or from any other suitable source (e.g. HD
television signal via antenna, etc.). The gateway device will stream the content to
a cache, located in memory, persistent storage or other suitable repository, so as
to buffer the streaming content [step 1104]. The buffered content may then be
pushed or otherwise communicated to one or more terminals [step 1106]. The
gateway device may then receive a user command [step 1108]. Illustrative user
commands here include, without limitation, pause, record, etc. Upon receiving the
user command, the cached content will be tagged in accordance with the user
command [step 1110]. The gateway device may later provide access to the
tagged content based on the tag [step 1112]. For example, and without limitation,
content in cache may be tagged with a pause tag whereby a user may later
access the paused content in cache and even from a terminal different than the
terminal from which the pause command was made. In another example without
limitation, cached content having a record tag may be transferred to persistent
storage for subsequent access by the user and even from a terminal different
than the terminal from which the record command was made.
[0059]       Referring now to FIG. 12 a method 1200 for providing parental control
is shown. First, the gateway device receives parental control instructions [step
 1202]. The parental control instructions may include restrictions based on any
suitable content rating systems, restrictions based on channel, restrictions based
on time, or any suitable combination thereof. In one embodiment, the restrictions
may also be limited to certain terminal(s) and are not applied equally to all

                                            19
terminal(s). The gateway device may then receive content to be transmitted or
pushed to one or more terminals [step 1204]. This content may be received in
response to a specific command (e.g to stream/play from a particular external
network source, stream/play from persistent storage, etc.) or may be more
passive in nature (e.g. channel surfing by a user). The gateway device may then
determine if the content is permitted by the terminal(s) according to the parental
control instructions [step 1206]. If the content is not permitted to the terminal(s),
the gateway device will not stream/push the content to the terminal(s) [step 1208].
If the content is permitted to the terminals, the gateway device will stream/push
the content to the terminal(s) [step 1210]. It will be appreciated that this method
may be applied to any suitable content type including, but not limited to, video,
audio, Internet content etc.
[0060]       Referring now to FIG. 13, a method 1300 of delivering text messages
is shown. First, terminal(s) for receiving text messages are identified to the
gateway [step 1302]. The gateway may then receive a text message from a
source via the external network [step 1304]. The gateway device may then
transmit/push the text message to the previously identified terminal(s). In one
non- limiting example, a terminal for receiving text messages may be a DECT
phone.
[0061]       While the present invention has been described in connection with
what is considered the most practical and preferred embodiment, it is understood
that this invention is not limited to the disclosed embodiments, but is intended to
cover various arrangements included within the spirit and scope of the broadest
interpretation so as to encompass all such modifications and equivalent
arrangements. Also, as used herein, including in the claims, the terms first,
second, third, etc... used in relation to an element are for reference or
identification purposes only, and these terms, unless otherwise indicated, are not
intended to describe or suggest a number, order, source, purpose, or substantive
quality for any element for which such a term is used.

                                           20
[0062]     The disclosed invention would be valuable in the field of networking
systems that utilize gateways to communicate with various terminals. In particular,
the referenced devices, systems, and methods enable a user to simplify the use
of and provide additional functionality to the many types of electronic devices that
permeate most users' lives. This will allow users more flexibility and manufactures
a way to integrate their products in a simplified network gateway.
[0063]     Finally, it should be noted that the terms 'comprising' and 'comprises'
are used in this disclosure in their inclusive meaning of 'including' and 'includes',
respectively.

                                       21
CLAIMS:
1.    A local network system, comprising:
      one or more terminals operable to act as a client on the local network;
      a gateway device operable to manage communications between the one
      or more terminals and an external network, the gateway device comprising
             a memory configured to store a set of instructions;
             a processor configured to execute the set of instructions;
             a first communications module in communication with the external
             network: a second communications module for providing
             communication between the gateway device and at least one
             terminal; and
             a third communications module for providing communication
             between the gateway device and at least one other terminal.
2.    The system of claim 1 further comprising a fourth communications module
in communications with a second external network.
3.    The system of claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein the first module includes at least
one member of a group comprising: a WAN communications module; a WLAN
communications module; and an Ethernet communications module.
4.    The system of claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein the second module includes at least
one member of a group comprising: a voice gateway communications module, an
Ethernet communications module, a VoIP communications module, a Femto
communications      module,  a   Zigbee   communications       module,    a   WiFi
communications module, WHDMI communications module, a print server, and a
DVR communications module.

                                         22
5.      The system of claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein the third module includes at least
one member of a group comprising: a voice gateway communications module, an
Ethernet communications module, a VoIP communications module, a Femto
communications      module,    a   Zigbee    communications     module,   a  WiFi
communications module, WHDMI communications module, a WUSB WHDMI
communications module, a print server, and a DVR communications module.
6.      The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is arranged to perform the
following steps in processing the instructions: receive a communication having
caller ID information associated therewith; and transmit the caller ID information
to one or more terminals.
7.      The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is arranged to perform the
following steps in processing the instructions: receive a search request from a
terminal; communicate the search request to one or more on-demand services
via the external network; receive one or more search results from the one or more
on-demand services via the external network; and transmit the one or more
search results to one or more terminals.
8.      The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is arranged to perform the
following steps in processing the instructions: receive content; cache at least a
portion of the content in the memory; transmit content from the cache to a
terminal; receive a command from the terminal; tag the content cached in the
memory with information relating to the user command; and provide subsequent
access to the tagged content based at least in part on the tag.
9.      The system of claim 8, wherein the command is a pause command.
 10.    The system of claim 8, wherein the command is a record command
wherein the tagged cached content is transferred from the memory to a storage.
 11.    The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is arranged to perform the
following steps in processing the instructions: receive a parental control

                                          23
instruction for limiting terminal access to certain content transmitted from the
external network; receive content transmitted from          the external network;
determine if a terminal is permitted to receive the content based on the parental
control instruction; and transmit the content to the terminal if the terminal is
permitted access according to the parental control instruction.
12.    The system of claim 1, wherein at least one terminal is a DECT phone, and
wherein the processor is arranged to perform the following steps in processing
the instructions: receive a text message from the external network; and transmit
the text message to the DECT phone.
13.    A gateway device operable to manage communications between one or
more terminals and an external network, the gateway device comprising: a
memory configured to store a set of instructions, a processor configured to
execute the set of instructions, a first communications module in communication
with the external network, a second communications module for providing
communication between the gateway device and at least one terminal, and a third
communications module for providing communication between the gateway
device and at least one terminal.
14.    The gateway device of claim 13, further comprising persistent storage.
15.    The gateway device of claim 13 or 14, wherein the first module includes at
least one member of a group comprising: a WAN communications module; a
WLAN communications module: and an Ethernet communications module.
16.    The gateway device of claim 13, 14 or 15, wherein each of the second
module and third module includes at least one member of a group comprising: a
voice gateway communications module, an Ethernet communications module, a
Vo IF3 communications module, a Femto communications module, a Zigbee
communications        module,   a    WiFi    communications     module,   WHDMI
communications module, a WUSB WHDMI communications module a print
server, and a DVR communications module.

                                        24
17.    A method for transferring a call on a mobile device between a first
communications network and a second communications network, wherein
communication via the second communications network is managed by a
gateway device, the method comprising: determining if the mobile device is within
range of the first communications network and the gateway device, determining
the stronger of a signal strength between the mobile device and first network and
a signal strength between the mobile device and the gateway device, and
transferring the call to the first communications network or the gateway device
based on the determination of the stronger signal.
18.     The method of claim 17, further comprising the step of determining if the
mobile device is permitted access to the gateway device prior to determining the
stronger signal strength between the first communications network and the
gateway device.
19.     The method of claim 17 or 18, wherein the first communications network is
a cellular telecommunications network.
20.     The method of claim 17, 18 or 19, wherein the second communications
network is one of the Internet, a PTSN network or a VoIP network.
ULTERIUS TECHNOLOGIES, LLC
WATERMARK PATENT AND TRADE MARKS ATTORNEYS

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
