                                               ABSTRACT
  Devices, systems, and methods for detecting molecules of interest within a collected sample are
  described herein. In certain embodiments, self-contained sample analysis systems are disclosed,
  which include a reusable reader component, a disposable cartridge component, and a disposable
5 sample collection component. In some embodiments, the reader component communicates with
  a remote computing device for the digital transmission of test protocols and test results. In
  various disclosed embodiments, the systems, components, and methods are configured to
  identify the presence, absence, and/or quantity of particular nucleic acids, proteins, or other
  analytes of interest, for example, in order to test for the presence of one or more pathogens or
o contaminants in a sample.

  SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR DETECTION AND QUANTIFICATION
                                         OF ANALYTES
                CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED PATENT APPLICATIONS
        [0001]     This application is a divisional application of AU <removed-apn>, which is itself a
divisional application of AU 2014248813, and claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional
Application No. 61/776,254, filed March 11, 2013, entitled SYSTEM FOR PORTABLE AND
EASY-TO-USE DETECTION OF ANALYTES WITH MOBILE COMPUTING DEVICE, which
is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.
                                       FIELD OF INVENTION
        [0002]     The present technology relates generally to the field of molecule detection. In
particular, the technology relates to microfluidic devices, systems, and methods for detecting the
presence, absence and/or quantity of one or more particular analytes within a collected sample.
                                           BACKGROUND
        [0003]     Conventional technologies for identifying the presence, absence and/or quantity
of nucleic acids, proteins, and/or other molecules of interest within a sample often require
expensive laboratory equipment and the expertise of highly-trained medical professionals.
Consequently, such analyses are typically performed within laboratories or medical facilities.
Such molecule detection can be important, for example, to detect the presence of pathogens,
disease, contamination, overdoses, and poisonings within a person or other animal or within the
environment. Unfortunately, today, individuals may face long waits before the proper tests can
be performed and before the results can be generated and analyzed. Due to the long waits and the
inconvenience of traveling to a laboratory or medical facility, illnesses and contaminations
often spread and may cause substantial harm before the presence of said illness or contamination
is even identified.
                                                  -1-

                                           SUMMARY
         [0004]   There is a significant need for improved molecule detection and quantification
technologies. There is a need for devices that can detect molecules of interest in less time and
with less technical expertise than the conventional devices used today.        There is a need for
molecule detection technologies that can be utilized by consumers in non-clinical settings, for
example, in schools, places of employment, and in the home. There is also a need for molecule
detection technologies that can be used by consumers upon entering a pharmacy or healthcare
facility, and which can generate results quickly so that results are available by the time the
consumer talks with a pharmacist or healthcare practitioner. There is also a need for consumer
targeted molecule detection devices configured to minimize biohazard risks.                 Various
embodiments disclosed herein may fulfill one or more of these needs.
         [0005]   One aspect of the disclosure is directed to a system for detecting molecules. In
various embodiments, the system includes a cartridge device, a reader device removably coupled
to the cartridge device, and a sample collection device.      In some embodiments, the cartridge
device includes: a cartridge housing having internal barriers defining a plurality of reservoirs, an
analysis channel, and an input tunnel; and a circuit board coupled to or disposed within the
cartridge housing, the circuit board forming a wall of the analysis channel and having a plurality
of sensors disposed within a portion of the analysis channel. In some embodiments, the reader
device includes: a magnet aligned with the sensor; a circuit electrically coupled to the sensor;
and a processor having memory with instructions stored thereon. In such embodiments, the
reader device also includes a reader housing in which the magnet, circuit, and processor are
located, the reader housing defining a dock which receives at least a portion of the sample
analysis cartridge. In some embodiments, the sample collection device is sized to fit at least
partially within the input tunnel. Additionally, in some embodiments, the molecule detection
system also includes a sonication component electrically coupled to the circuit and aligned with a
first of the plurality of reservoirs.  The sonication component may form a component of the
cartridge device or the reader device and can be comprised partially or wholly of a piezoelectric
transducer.
                                                -2-

        [0006]       Another aspect of the disclosure is directed to a sample analysis cartridge. In
some embodiments, the cartridge includes a housing and a circuit board disposed on, under, or
within the housing. In some embodiments, the housing has internal barriers defining a plurality
of reservoirs, an analysis channel, and an input tunnel. The plurality of reservoirs includes a first
reservoir at least partially filled with a first liquid volume comprising sample preparation
reagents and another reservoir at least partially filled with a liquid volume comprising a chemical
substrate. In some embodiments, the plurality of reservoirs additionally includes a reservoir at
least partially filled with a liquid volume comprising a wash solution, In certain embodiments,
the input tunnel extends from an aperture at a surface of the housing to the first reservoir and
each of the plurality of reservoirs is, at least at times, in fluid communication with the analysis
channel. In certain embodiments, the circuit board includes a plurality of sensors aligned with a
portion of the analysis channel.
        [0007]      In some such embodiments, the sample preparation reagents include a plurality
of magnetic particles having surface-bound affinity molecules, a plurality of detector agents, and
a plurality of agents to facilitate access to the target analyte and binding between the target
analyte and the surface-bound affinity molecules and the detector agents. In other embodiments,
the cartridge also includes a membrane disposed between the input tunnel and the first reservoir.
The membrane of some such embodiments dry-stores a plurality of competitive binding agents,
each competitive binding agent including a pre-bound target analyte bound to a signaling agent.
Additionally, in such embodiments, the sample preparation reagents in the first reservoir include
a plurality of magnetic particles having surface-bound affinity molecules and a plurality of
agents to facilitate access to the target analyte and to facilitate binding of the surface-bound
affinity molecules to the target analyte or the competitive binding agent.               In various
embodiments, the plurality of magnetic particles may include magnetic particles of two or more
sizes, each size having a different surface-bound affinity molecule such that each size binds to a
different target analyte.
        [0008]       In some embodiments of a sample analysis cartridge, the cartridge includes a
plurality of valves corresponding with the plurality of reservoirs with one valve positioned at
                                                  -3-

each intersection between one of the plurality of reservoirs and the analysis channel. In some
such embodiments, each of the plurality of valves is phase-changeable upon the application of
heat, and the circuit board includes a plurality of vias aligned with (e.g., disposed directly above
or below) the plurality of valves; such vias are physically coupled to a heating element. In some
embodiments, the sample analysis cartridge further includes an absorbant material disposed at a
downstream end of the analysis channel.
         [0009]      In various embodiments of the cartridge, the housing includes a cover
component, an internal component, and a base component coupled together to form a fixed
structure. In some such embodiments, the cover component is disposed on a first side of the
internal component, the base component is disposed on a second side of the internal component,
and the circuit board is positioned between the internal component and the base component.
Features of the cover component and the first side of the internal component may together define
the input tunnel and the plurality of reservoirs, and features of the second side of the internal
component and the circuit board may together define the analysis channel.
         [0010]   An additional aspect of the disclosure is directed to a sample analysis reader. In
various embodiments, the reader includes a magnetic field generator, a circuit having a cartridge
detection unit, a processor having memory with instructions stored thereon, and a housing with a
dock for coupling to a sample analysis cartridge.       In certain embodiments, when the sample
analysis reader is coupled to the sample analysis cartridge, the magnetic field created by the
magnetic field generator is substantially aligned with a sensor of the sample analysis cartridge,
and the circuit is electrically coupled to the sensor of the sample analysis cartridge. In various
embodiments, the sample analysis reader interchangeably couples to a plurality of sample
analysis cartridges.
         [0011]      In some embodiments, the reader also includes a sonication component
electrically coupled to the circuit.   In such embodiments, when a sample analysis reader is
coupled to the sample analysis cartridge, the sonication component is aligned with a sample
preparation reservoir in the sample analysis cartridge.
                                                 -4-

        [00121       In some embodiments of the sample analysis reader, the magnetic field
generator includes a plurality of magnet field generators, and when the sample analysis reader is
coupled to the sample analysis cartridge, the plurality of magnet field generators are aligned with
a plurality of sensors lying on a plane of the sample analysis cartridge with each magnetic field
generator configured to produce a magnetic field of a different strength. Such a configuration
creates a magnetic field gradient within the analysis channel of the sample analysis cartridge. In
some embodiments, the plurality of magnetic field generators are formed of a plurality of
permanent magnets, each disposed at a different depth relative to the plane of the sensors. In
other embodiments, the magnetic field gradient may be formed, for example, using a plurality of
permanent magnets of increasing size or a plurality of inductors of increasing size or increasing
numbers of coils.
        [0013]    In some embodiments of the reader, the sonication component is a piezoelectric
component electrically coupled to the processor, and the piezoelectric component is positioned to
transduce a mechanical event or mechanical change within the reservoir into an electrical signal.
In such embodiments, a processor and/or circuitry electrically coupled to the piezoelectric
component is configured to receive and interpret the electrical signal. This mechanical event in
the reservoir can be transduced in the form of detected pressure applied to the piezoelectric
component through flex in the sample preparation reservoir of the sample analysis cartridge upon
entry of a sample collection device. Alternatively, a change in the mechanical load or mass
above the piezoelectric component can cause a shift in the resonance frequency of the
piezoelectric component that is detectable and/or quantifiable by the processor and/or circuitry.
In other embodiments, the piezoelectric component and connected processor and/or circuitry
quantify variation in the reflected wave of a pulse emitted from the piezoelectric component. In
some such embodiments, the processor and/or circuitry is programmed with a threshold value for
such variation in the reflected wave, the threshold set to distinguish between a state of having no
collection device within the reservoir versus a collection device inserted state. In yet another
example of the piezoelectric component transducing a mechanical event or mechanical change
within the reservoir into an electrical signal, the piezoelectric component is configured to detect
                                                  -5-

a sound wave such as the sound wave corresponding with a clicking that is actuated by
mechanical parts of the sample collection device interacting with features of the input tunnel or
reservoir.
         [0014]   In some embodiments of the sample analysis reader, the processor is configured
to execute the instructions stored in memory, which when executed, cause the processor to
perform a method.      The method of certain embodiments includes identifying a proper test
protocol for the coupled sample analysis cartridge based at least in part on cartridge
identification information received from the circuit, and executing the proper test protocol. In
some embodiments, executing the proper test protocol includes: stimulating the piezoelectric
component to generate a test signal within the sample preparation reservoir and to detect a return
signal, receiving detection signals from the piezoelectric component, the detection signals
including the return signal and a resonance of the piezoelectric component, detecting entry of a
sample collection device into the sample preparation reservoir based at least in part on a change
in the return signal and/or a shift in the resonance of the piezoelectric component, and initiating a
sonication protocol for the sonication component to mix reagents and sample particles within a
liquid disposed within the sample preparation reservoir, wherein mixing facilitates hybridization
of at least some of the reagents with the sample particles.
         [0015]   In some embodiments, the method performed by the processor when executing
the proper test protocol additionally or alternatively includes receiving via the circuit, detection
signals generated by the sensor of the sample analysis cartridge, and processing the detection
signals. The method may also include transmitting data based at least in part on the detection
signals to a mobile computing device or display device.
         [0016]   A further aspect of the disclosure is directed to a specialized computer for non
clinical disease detection.    The specialized computer of various embodiments includes both
hardware and software. For example, in some embodiments, the computer includes a dock or
port for engaging at least a portion of a disease detection cartridge, the dock positioned on or
within the computer. The computer of various embodiments also includes: circuitry for detecting
signals generated from an oxidation reaction occurring within the disease detection cartridge, and
                                                  -6-

a processor having memory with instructions stored thereon. Upon engagement with the disease
detection cartridge, the processor executes the instructions, which in certain embodiments,
causes the processor to perform a method that includes: detecting a classification of the disease
detection cartridge from signals received from the circuitry, initiating a testing protocol specific
to the classification, and generating disease detection results specific to the classification in less
than thirty minutes. The method may further include transmitting the disease detection results to
a remote computing device for further processing, display, and/or storage.                 In certain
embodiments, the computer is less than 30 cm in height, less than 30 cm in width, and less than
30 cm in length.      In certain embodiments, the computer is intended for use by non-trained
consumers in home, office, or school settings.
        [0017]     One aspect of the disclosure is directed to a self-contained analyte detection kit,
which securely stores, during and after analyte detection, all collected sample and all liquids
needed to detect a specific analyte.      In various embodiments, the kit includes a one-time-use
sample collection device; and a one-time-use detection unit. The detection unit includes an input
tunnel sized to securely and permanently receive the sample collection device, and a plurality of
compartments, which separately and securely store reagents, a wash media, and a substrate. In
some embodiments, the input tunnel extends from an aperture on a surface of the detection unit
to an entryway of a first compartment holding the reagents.          In some embodiments, prior to
insertion of the sample collection device, a selectively breakable membrane covers the entryway
of the first compartment to block flow of the reagents into the input tunnel.                In some
embodiments, complementary locking features are disposed on the sample collection device and
in the input tunnel to restrict movement of the sample collection device relative to the detection
unit upon insertion of the sample collection device into the input tunnel. Moreover, in some
embodiments, the sample collection device and input tunnel are sized to form a liquid-tight seal
as the sample collection device advances into the input tunnel.
        [0018]      Still a further aspect of the disclosed technology is directed to a method for
detecting a disease without a healthcare provider or technician present. In some embodiments,
such a method includes: rubbing an internal passage of a user's nose with a swab to collect a
                                                   -7-

sample, placing a cartridge, which houses all reagents and substrates needed to perform a
disease-detection testing protocol, into or onto a specialized computer configured to detect the
cartridge, and inserting the swab into the cartridge such that the swab locks into place within the
cartridge and cannot be removed. In various embodiments, the specialized computer senses the
insertion of the swab and initiates a testing protocol. In some such embodiments, the specialized
computer detects the presence or absence of a particular disease within the sample via the testing
protocol in less than 30 minutes. The method may also include reading results of the test from a
remote computing device, after the results are transmitted from the specialized computer to the
remote computing device via a wired or wireless communication connection.
         [0019]    An additional aspect of the disclosure is directed to a method for detecting the
presence, absence, and/or quantity of a target analyte within a sample. The method of various
embodiments includes: loading a cartridge into or onto an analyte reader, wherein the cartridge
has a plurality of reservoirs, including a first reservoir filled at least partially with reagents, a
reservoir filled at least partially with a substrate, and optionally, another reservoir filled at least
partially with a wash solution; removing a sample collection device from a sterile package;
contacting a specimen with a tip of the sample collection device to collect a sample; and
inserting the sample collection device into the cartridge until at least the tip enters the first
reservoir. In certain embodiments, inserting the tip of the sample collection device into the first
reservoir activates the analyte reader, causing a sonication device within the analyte reader to
perform a sonication protocol to mix the sample collected by the sample collection device with
the reagents in the first reservoir. Additionally or alternatively, inserting the tip into the first
reservoir causes a series of heating elements to sequentially melt a series of valves positioned
within or near the plurality of reservoirs, thereby sequentially releasing the contents of the
plurality of reservoirs into an analysis zone for analysis by the analyte reader. In some such
embodiments, inserting the tip of the sample collection device into the cartridge involves
advancing the sample collection device into an input tunnel of the cartridge until: the tip of the
sample collection device breaks a membrane barrier disposed at a distal end of the input tunnel,
the tip enters the first reservoir, and the sample collection device locks into fixed engagement
                                                   -8-

with the cartridge with a liquid-tight seal formed between the sample collection device and the
input tunnel.
         [0020]      Another aspect of the disclosure is directed to computerized methods of
detecting the presence, absence, and/or quantity of target analytes within a sample. For example,
in some embodiments, a method performed by a computerized analyte reader includes: detecting
the presence of a cartridge loaded into or onto the analyte reader, detecting identification
information associated with the cartridge, and identifying a proper test protocol for the cartridge
based at least in part on the identification information. In some embodiments, the computerized
method additionally or alternatively includes: detecting a sample collection device inserted into a
first reservoir of the cartridge, initiating a sonication protocol upon sample collection device
insertion in order to mix a plurality of reagents, a plurality of magnetic particles, a plurality of
detector agents or competitive binding agents, and a plurality sample particles within the first
reservoir. In some such embodiments, the plurality of magnetic particles includes at least: a
plurality of large magnetic particles each having a first surface affinity molecule on its surface
configured to bind to a first target analyte, and a plurality of small magnetic particles each
having a second surface affinity molecule on its surface configured to bind to a second target
analyte. Upon mixing, for example, via the sonication protocol, if the first and/or the second
target analyte is present, hybridization occurs.        In some such embodiments, particularly
embodiments with detector agents, the resulting mixture includes a plurality of sandwich
complexes, each formed of a target analyte bound to both a surface affinity molecule on a
surface of a magnetic particle and a detector agent.          In other embodiments, particularly,
embodiments with a competitive binding agent, the resulting mixture includes molecule
complexes each formed of a target analyte bound only to a surface affinity molecule on a surface
of a magnetic particle.
         [0021]     In some embodiments, the method also includes stimulating a first heating
element such that a first valve within the cartridge melts and the mixture flows out of the sample
preparation reservoir into an analysis channel.         In various embodiments, the mixture is
suspended in a solution, and the solution acts as a transport medium transporting the mixture
                                                  -9-

from the first reservoir into the analysis channel towards a downstream absorbent material via
capillary action. Within the analysis channel, the magnetic particles of the mixture localize over
a plurality of magnets or other magnetic field generators within a portion of the analysis channel;
the magnetic particles thereby form a plurality of localized samples. In such embodiments, the
magnetic particles localize based on size and strength such that the large magnetic particles
localize within a smaller upstream magnetic field and the small magnetic particles localize
within a larger downstream magnetic field. The method of some embodiments also includes
stimulating a second heating element such that a second valve within the cartridge melts and a
wash solution flows out of a second reservoir into the analysis channel with the wash solution
removing, from the plurality of localized samples, detector agents and/or competitive binding
agents that are not indirectly bound to magnetic particles. The method of some embodiments
further includes stimulating a third resistive heater such that a third valve within the cartridge
melts and a solution of substrates flows out of a third reservoir into the analysis channel. In
some embodiments, the detector agents and competitive binding agents include oxidizing
enzymes which oxidize the substrate.
        [0022]     The computerized method may further include: detecting a first signal at a first
recording sensor located within the smaller magnetic field, wherein at least a portion of the first
signal is caused by the oxidation of the substrate; detecting a second signal at a second recording
sensor located near the larger magnetic field, wherein at least a portion of the second signal is
caused by the oxidation of the substrate; detecting a reference signal at a reference sensor;
calculating a first resultant signal, for example, by subtracting the reference signal from the first
signal to eliminate noise; processing and analyzing the first resultant signal to identify the
presence and/or quantity of the first target analyte; calculating a second resultant signal, for
example, by subtracting the reference signal from the second signal to eliminate noise; and
processing and analyzing the second resultant signal to identify the presence and/or quantity of
the second target analyte. In some embodiments, the method also includes transmitting signals
indicative of a test result to a mobile computing device.
                                                 -10-

         [0023]   In some such embodiments, the first resultant signal is proportional to a quantity
of the first target analyte present within the localized samples and the second resultant signal is
proportional to a quantity of the second target analyte present within the localized samples. In
other embodiments, the first and second resultant signals are indirectly proportional to a quantity
of first and second target analytes present in the sample. In other embodiments, the first signal is
indirectly proportional to the quantity of first analyte and the second signal is directly
proportional to the quantity of second target analyte, or vice versa.
         [0024]     In other embodiments of a computerized method for detecting the presence,
absence, and/or quantity of target analytes within a sample, the first reservoir only includes one
size of magnetic particles and only one magnet or other magnetic field generator is provided in
or near the analysis channel. In such embodiments, the method allows for the detection of the
presence, absence, and/or quantity of a single target analyte.
         [0025]      In other embodiments of the computerized method, three or more sizes of
magnetic particles are present in the first reservoir and an equal number of three or more
magnetic field generators are provided in or near the analysis channel.       In such a manner, a
single device and single method may be employed to test for the presence of a plurality of
analytes within a sample.     Any number of particle sizes and magnetic field strengths can be
utilized to create a 1-to-i mapping between sensor signal and analyte target concentration
whether that signal be directly or indirectly proportional to quantity of target analyte. In such
embodiments, the number of magnetic fields is equal to the number of sensors and the number of
unique magnetic particle populations, which are both equal to the number of different target
analytes the system is configured to detect.        Such methods and devices may be used, for
example, to determine: from which illness, among many, a person is suffering; to which drug or
poison, among many, a person is adversely reacting; or which chemical, among many, has
contaminated the water. Other examples include quantifying the concentrations of various
vitamins, hormones, proteins, or other analytes of interest within one's body.
                                                 -11-

                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        [0026]      Exemplary    embodiments     are  described   below    with reference   to  the
accompanying drawings, wherein like numerals denote like elements. In the drawings:
        [0027]     FIGS. 1A-ID provide schematic depictions of molecules and reactions found
within one embodiment of the presently disclosed analyte detection system.
        [0028]     FIGS. 2A-2B provide schematic depictions of molecules and reactions found
within another embodiment of the presently disclosed analyte detection system.
        [0029]     FIGS. 3A-3B depict a side view and perspective view, respectively, of one
embodiment of a sample collection device.
        [0030]     FIGS. 3C-3D depict a perspective view and side view, respectively, of the
collection head provided in the sample collection device embodiment of FIGS. 3A-3B.
        [0031]     FIG. 4A depicts a side view of another embodiment of a sample collection
device.
        [0032]     FIG. 4B depicts a perspective view of the sample collection device of FIG. 4A.
        [0033]     FIG. 5 depicts a functional block diagram of one embodiment of a sample
collection device.
        [0034]     FIG. 6 depicts a side view of another embodiment of a sample collection
device.
        [0035]     FIG. 7A depicts a perspective view of one embodiment of an assembled
cartridge device.
        [0036]     FIG. 7B depicts a perspective view of components forming the cartridge device
of FIG. 7A in a disassembled configuration.
        [0037]     FIG. 8 depicts an exploded view of another embodiment of a cartridge device.
        [0038]     FIGS. 9A-9C depict exploded, semi-exploded, and non-exploded perspective
views of another cartridge device embodiment.
        [0039]    FIG. I0A depicts a top view of the cartridge device embodiment of FIG. 8.
        [0040]    FIG. lOB depicts a partial perspective view of the cartridge device from FIG. 8.
                                                -12-

        [0041]     FIGS. 11 A-11 B depict a top view and perspective view, respectively, of an
internal component and a circuit board component found in one embodiment of a cartridge
device.
        [0042]    FIG. 11 C depicts a partial view of the internal component of FIG. 11 A zoomed
to highlight the features of the reservoirs in the particular embodiment.
        [0043]    FIGS. 12A-12B depict a top view and a side view, respectively, of the cartridge
device embodiment of FIG. 8 having the sample collection device embodiment of FIG. 4
disposed therein.
        [0044]    FIGS. 13A-13B depict a top view and a perspective view of one embodiment of
a sample preparation reservoir schematically represented in isolation from the remainder of a
cartridge.
        [0045]    FIG. 14 depicts a functional block diagram of one embodiment of an input
tunnel.
        [0046]    FIGS.   15A-15C      depict a top view, side view, and perspective        view,
respectively, of another embodiment of an input tunnel.
        [0047]    FIG. 16A depicts a top view of one embodiment of an input tunnel wherein one
embodiment of a sample collection device is disposed therein in a locked configuration.
        [0048]    FIGS. 16B-16C depict partial views of the input tunnel and sample collection
device of FIG. 16A zoomed to highlight the embodiment's locking features and sealing features,
respectively.
        [0049]    FIGS. 17A-171 depict cross-sectional views of various embodiments of a
microfluidic analysis channel.
         [0050]   FIGS. 18A- 18B depict a top view and a bottom view, respectively, of the circuit
board component embodiment of the cartridge embodiment of FIGS. 7A-7B.
        [0051]    FIG. 19 depicts a cross-sectional view of a first reservoir from the cartridge
embodiment of FIG. 8.
        [0052]    FIG. 20 depicts valves positioned within one embodiment of a cartridge.
        [0053]    FIG. 21 schematically represents one embodiment of a reader device.
                                                  -13-

        [0054]   FIG. 22 depicts an exploded view of one embodiment of a reader device.
        [0055]   FIGS. 23A-23C schematically represent a sonicator engaged in various states of
an automatic detection and automatic start protocol.
        [0056]   FIG. 24 depicts a schematic diagram of one embodiment of a valve feedback
system.
        [0057]   FIG. 25 depicts a partial view of one embodiment of a reader device having a
valve feedback system.
        [0058]   FIGS. 26A-26C depict various views of the reader device embodiment of FIG.
22 in various stages of engagement with the cartridge device embodiment of FIGS. 7A-7B.
        [0059]   FIGS. 27A-27B provide a side view and cross-sectional view of another
embodiment of a reader device coupled to another embodiment of a cartridge device.
        [0060]   FIG. 28A depicts various components comprising one embodiment of a target
analyte detection system.
        [0061]   FIG. 28B depicts the target analyte detection system of FIG. 28A with the
various components coupled together and in use.
        [0062]   FIG. 29A depicts another embodiment of a reader device.
        [0063]   FIG. 29B depicts the reader device of FIG. 29A directly coupled to a remote
computing device.
        [0064]   FIG. 30 depicts another embodiment of a reader device.
        [0065]   FIG. 31 provides a schematic diagram of one embodiment of an analyte
detection system.
        [0066]   FIG. 32 provides a flowchart of one embodiment of a method for detecting the
presence, absence, and/or quantity of a target analyte in a sample.
                 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF CERTAIN EMBODIMENTS
        [0067]    In the following detailed description, reference is made to the accompanying
drawings, which form part of the present disclosure.          The embodiments described in the
drawings and description are intended to be exemplary and not limiting. As used herein, the
                                                -14-

term "exemplary" means "serving as an example or illustration" and should not necessarily be
construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments.        Other embodiments may be
utilized and modifications may be made without departing from the spirit or the scope of the
subject matter presented herein. Aspects of the disclosure, as described and illustrated herein,
can be arranged, combined, and designed in a variety of different configurations, all of which are
explicitly contemplated and form part of this disclosure.
         [0068]   Unless otherwise defined, each technical or scientific term used herein has the
same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this
disclosure belongs. In accordance with the claims that follow and the disclosure provided herein,
the following terms are defined with the following meanings, unless explicitly stated otherwise.
         [00691       The term "about" or "approximately,"       when used before a numerical
designation or range (e.g., pressure or dimensions), indicates approximations which may vary by
(+ ) or ( - ) 5%, 1% or 0.1%.
         [0070]   As used in the specification and claims, the singular form "a", "an" and "the"
include both singular and plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. For
example, the term "a molecule" may include, and is contemplated to include, a plurality of
molecules. At times, the claims and disclosure may include terms such as "a plurality," "one or
more," or "at least one;" however, the absence of such terms is not intended to mean, and should
not be interpreted to mean, that a plurality is not conceived.
         [0071]   As used herein, the term "comprising" or "comprises" is intended to mean that
the devices, systems, and methods include the recited elements, and may additionally include any
other elements. "Consisting essentially of' shall mean that the devices, systems, and methods
include the recited elements and exclude other elements of essential significance to the
combination for the stated purpose.      Thus, a device or method consisting essentially of the
elements as defined herein would not exclude other materials or steps that do not materially
affect the basic and novel characteristic(s) of the claimed invention. "Consisting of' shall mean
that the devices, systems, and methods include the recited elements and exclude anything more
                                                 -15-

than a trivial or inconsequential element or step.        Embodiments defined by each of these
transitional terms are within the scope of this disclosure.
         [0072]    Various devices, systems, kits, and methods disclosed herein are intended to
isolate, tag, and detect a target analyte within a sample taken from a specimen.         In certain
embodiments, chemical reactions are employed to enable such detection. Exemplary chemical
reactions are discussed below and depicted in Figures 1A-2B.
The Reactants and the Reactions
         [0073]    In some embodiments, a target analyte 1 I0a, 110b is added to a solution of
sample preparation reagents, as shown in Figures 1A and 1B. This target analyte may be any
molecule such as a nucleic acid, protein, small molecule, or heavy metal. The sample preparation
reagents at least include magnetic microbeads or nanoparticles 120a, 120b (referred to herein as
"magnetic particles").    In various embodiments, each magnetic particle 120a, 120b has an
affinity molecule 130a, 130b bound to its surface. The affinity molecule may be any suitable
molecule or moiety that can bind to or capture a target molecule.       Non-limiting examples of
affinity molecules include antibodies (including single chain, multi-chain antibodies, diabodies,
humanized antibodies, etc.), antibody fragments with affinity, ligands, polypeptide or protein
molecules and moieties with binding affinity for substrates, nucleic acid molecules (e.g.,
aptamers), other molecules with binding affinity, and the like. Figures 1A and lB depict an
antibody 130a and a nucleic acid probe 130b, although any suitable affinity molecule could be
used, including a nucleic acid aptamer or other binding protein or molecule.              In some
embodiments, the sample preparation reagents also include a detector agent 140a, 140b, such as,
for example, an antibody 160a conjugated to a signaling agent 150a or a labeled nucleic acid
probe 160b bound to a signaling agent 150b. The detector agents 140 of various embodiments
each include a signaling agent 150, such as, for example, an oxidizing enzyme or other signaling
enzyme, methylene blue or other electrochemically responsive tag, or a fluorescent tag such as
ethidium bromide, fluorescein, green fluorescent protein, or other fluorophore.
         [0074] In embodiments that include detector agents 140, the various reagents listed above
may hybridize together to form sandwich complexes.          Exemplary sandwich complexes 100a,
                                                 -16-

100b are illustrated in Figures IC and ID. Each sandwich complex is formed of: (1) a magnetic
particle 120a, 120b having a surface-bound affinity molecule 130a, 130b, (2) a target analyte
110a, 110b, and (3) a detector agent 140a, 140b. The exemplary sandwich complex 100a of
Figure 1C uses antibodies as affinity molecules, and the target analyte is a protein or small
molecule of interest. The exemplary sandwich complex 100b of Figure ID uses nucleic acid
probes designed to capture a particular sequence of nucleic acids.
         [0075]    In various embodiments, the signaling agent 150 is an oxidizing enzyme such
as, for example, horseradish peroxidase (HRP) or soybean peroxidase. In such embodiments, the
enzyme induces an oxidation reaction to occur at an electrochemical cell when in the presence of
a particular chemical substrate.     Thus, if the particular substrate flows over, or otherwise
encounters, the oxidizing enzyme bound to a target analyte and magnetic particle at an
electrochemical cell, an oxidation reaction occurs.        In such embodiments, electrons are
accordingly released from a working electrode of the electrochemical cell to replenish electrons
stripped from the substrate by the oxidizing enzyme in a quantity proportional to the amount of
target analyte present. The release or flow of electrons results in a current, which is detectable
by an electrode, for example, as a change in current or a change in voltage.
         [0076]    In other embodiments, such as the embodiment represented by the schematic
diagrams of Figures 2A-2B, the sample preparation reagents at least include a population of
magnetic particles 220, each having an affinity molecule 230 bound to its surface. In some such
embodiments, a competitive binding agent 240 and a sample containing target analyte 210 are
added to the sample preparation reagents.       The competitive binding agent 240 of various
embodiments includes a pre-bound target analyte 270, which comes pre-bound to a signaling
agent 250, for example, any of the signaling agents described above.         The pre-bound target
analyte 270 may be indirectly bound to the signaling agent 250, for example, via an antibody, a
nucleic acid probe, a nucleic acid aptamer, or other affinity molecule 260.            In various
embodiments, the unbound target analyte 210 from a sample and the competitive binding agent
240 compete with each other to bind to the affinity molecules 230 on the magnetic particles 220.
The amount of competitive binding agent 240 and signaling agent 250 that successfully binds to
                                               -17-

the magnetic particles 220 is inversely proportional to the amount of unbound target analyte 210
present in a sample. In embodiments where the signaling agent 250 of the competitive binding
agent 240 is an oxidizing enzyme, an oxidation reaction occurs if a particular substrate flows
over, or otherwise encounters, the magnetic particles bound to the competitive binding agents
240 at an electrochemical cell. Electrons are accordingly released from a working electrode of
the electrochemical cell to replenish electrons stripped from the substrate by the oxidizing
enzyme in a quantity inversely proportional to the amount of target analyte present in the sample.
The release or flow of electrons results in a current, which is detectable by an electrode, for
example, as a change in current or a change in voltage.
        [0077]      In some embodiments contemplated herein, the sample reagents include only
one population of magnetic particles and one population of detector agents or competitive
binding agents. Such embodiments are tailored for detection of a single target analyte of interest.
        [0078]     In other embodiments, multiple populations of magnetic particles and detector
agents and/or competitive binding agents are provided, each population constructed to have its
own affinity. In such embodiments, each population of magnetic particles has a unique affinity
molecule bound to its surface, and each population of magnetic particles is thereby designed to
bind with a different target analyte.   Similarly, each population of detector agents includes a
unique affinity molecule and is thereby designed to bind with a different target analyte.        In
embodiments employing the competitive binding approach, each population of competitive
binding agents includes a different pre-bound target analyte and is thereby designed to compete
with a different target analyte. Such embodiments allow for the detection of a plurality of target
analytes.
        [0079]    Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the possibilities for forming the
magnetic particle-bound complexes are numerous and all such possibilities are contemplated
herein. For example, the sample preparation reagents may include a biotin-labelled antibody,
which binds to a portion of the target analyte. In some embodiments, antibodies and/or nucleic
acids present among the sample preparation reagents may be pre-biotinylated such that a
streptavidin conjugated signaling enzyme can bind with the biotinylated detector to form a
                                               -18-

complex. One such streptavidin conjugated signaling enzyme is HRP. The tagging combination
is not limited to biotin-streptavidin. Any suitable tagging scheme will work. In another example,
multiple HRP enzymes are conjugated together into a molecule commonly known as a Poly-HRP
molecule in order to enhance the signal generating capability of the resultant sandwich complex.
         [0080]    In addition to the components that form the magnetic particle-bound complexes,
the sample preparation reagents of various embodiments can include one or more of: (a) agents
that facilitate formation of the magnetic particle-bound complexes, such as salts; (b) agents that
facilitate access and specificity to target analytes, such as detergents and enzymes for lysis of
bacteria or viruses or cutting of large molecules or nucleotides; (c) blocker proteins to decrease
nonspecific binding; and (d) stabilizers such as, for example, trehalose, which can improve the
shelf life of the sample preparation reagents.
         [0081]      In at least some embodiments of the sample preparation reagents, salts are
necessary to enhance the likelihood of binding.         For example, some embodiments include
phosphate buffered saline (PBS). In other embodiments, any salt which does not interfere with
electrochemical detection may be provided within the reagents.
         [0082]       Blocker proteins, such as the well-known Bovine Serum Albumin, casein,
fibrinogen, or other blocker protein may be provided to help stabilize the antibodies, enzymes,
and/or other proteins present among the sample preparation reagents. Such blocker proteins may
also help prevent non-specific binding of signaling enzymes to the magnetic particles and to the
walls of the systems and devices described elsewhere herein.
         [0083]      Additionally, for embodiments that require lysis to access the molecules or
nucleic acids of interest, detergents may be employed.         In various embodiments, nonionic
detergents, rather than ionic detergents, are provided to prevent denaturation of the signaling
enzyme and/or antibodies.       Detergents can enhance lysis of bacteria, but are also useful for
gently lysing various viruses, such as the influenza virus. Such lysing may be desirable to
improve access to target analytes such as nucleoproteins internal to a virus. Additionally, in
some embodiments, the sample preparation reagents include enzymes that enhance lysis and
reduce viscosity during lysis; such reagents may be necessary for the preparation of some
                                                 -19-

samples, for example, samples containing bacteria such as E. coli. The enzymes that enhance and
facilitate lysis may include lysozymes and DNAses that chop up released genomic DNA without
disrupting nucleic acid probes on the surface of the magnetic particles.
         [0084]    Enzymes such as RNAses or DNAses, which selectively chop larger nucleotide
sequences into smaller sequences, can be useful for generating smaller fragments having
favorable binding kinetics. Such enzymes are present in the sample preparation reagents of some
embodiments. Other components may also be included within the sample preparation reagents.
For example, a stabilizer agent such as trehalose, may be present; such stabilizer agents help
protect proteins from oxidation and thereby increase the shelf-life of the reagents, especially at
room temperature.
         [0085]    Various embodiments of systems described herein are designed to create a self
contained environment in which any of the chemical reactions described above can occur in an
automated manner entirely or substantially without human intervention. For example, in some
designs described herein, one or more of the above-described chemical reactions proceeds
without any need for an operator to add or remove reagents from the system.             In certain
embodiments, the systems are closed such that biohazard risks, such as the risk of spilling
sample collected from a specimen, are minimized.         In various embodiments, such systems
include at least, a sample collection device, a cartridge device, and a reader device.       Some
exemplary embodiments of such devices are described in detail below.
The Sample Collection Device
         [0086]    The sample collection device of various embodiments is configured to collect a
sample from a specimen. Sample collection devices may be configured to collect cells and other
biological material from any desired region or location, for example, an inner cheek, the throat, a
nasal passageway, an ear, from urine, from blood, or from another body part. One exemplary
sample collection device includes a unit that wicks a small droplet of blood or urine into a small
capillary channel.    In other embodiments, the sample collection device may be configured to
collect biological material, particulates, or other chemicals from the environment, such as, for
example, from the air or the water, or from a physical surface or other structure.
                                                -20-

         [0087]     The sample collection device of various embodiments is sized and shaped to
collect a sufficiently large sample from an appropriate location of a specimen such that it is
possible, using the other devices described below, to detect the presence, absence, and/or
quantity of a target analyte in the specimen. For example, for some target analytes, such as ones
associated with the flu or cold viruses, the sample collection device may be a nose-insertion
swab; the swab is sized and shaped to collect a sufficient amount of sample from a nasal
passageway of an individual to enable detection of target analytes associated with the flu or cold
virus, if present in the individual. For other target analytes, such as, for example, ones associated
with strep throat, the sample collection device may be a throat swab shaped to scrape sufficient
cells from an individual's throat. As another example, the sample collection device appropriate
for collecting a target analyte associated with HIV may comprise a blood lancet. In another
example, a sample collection device configured to collect urine may be appropriate for collecting
target analytes for various tests, including, for example, tests for tracking testosterone levels,
drug levels, vitamin levels, and/or fertility.
         [0088]    One such embodiment of sample collection device is provided in Figures 3A
3D. The sample collection device 300 is configured to collect a small quantity of urine from a
specimen. The sample collection device 300 has a shaft 310, a collection head 320, a tip 330, and
a collection area 340, the collection area 340 formed of a capillary tube. The shaft of some
embodiments is elongated to facilitate easy and sanitary collection, with a collector's hand
removed from the site of collection.       The collection head 320 having a tip 330 is shown in
isolation in Figures 3C-3D. In some embodiments, the collection head 320 is combined with a
shaft having one or more of the features described in more detail below, such as, for example,
complementary threading or a locking mechanism and/or a sealing mechanism for engagement
with a cartridge device.
         [0089]    Another embodiment of a sample collection device 400 is provided in Figures
4A and 4B. The provided sample collection device 400 is a nasal swab configured for collecting
biological material from a nasal passage. The sample collection device 400 has a shaft 410, a
collection head 420, and a tip 430. In some embodiments, the tip 430 is rounded; in other
                                                  -21-

embodiments, any blunt or substantially blunt tip shape may be used. In various embodiments,
the shaft 410 is elongated to fit within the nose of an individual and the collection head 420 is
configured to gently scrap against an inner wall of the nose to collect fluid, cells, and other
biological material present within the nose.     In some embodiments, the shaft 410 and the
collection head 420 are formed of the same material; in other embodiments, they are formed of
different materials. In some embodiments, both the shaft 410 and the collection head 420 are
formed of a plastic. In some embodiments, the sample collection device 400 is pre-packaged
within sterile packaging and is configured for one-time use.
        [0090]     In some embodiments, the tip 430 of the sample collection device 400 is blunt
and includes no sharp edges; the blunt design reduces the risk of users hurting themselves on the
sample collection device. Additionally, advantages of a blunt tip 430 are explained in more
detail below in the discussion of the cartridge device. The sample collection device 400 of
various embodiments is configured for full or partial insertion into such a cartridge device.
        [0091]     In various embodiments of the sample collection device, including sample
collection device 400 of Figure 4A-B, the device includes a plurality of functional components.
Such functional components are represented schematically in the block diagram of Figure 5. As
these components are described functionally, one skilled in the art will appreciate that the
components may take many physical forms. All suitable physical forms are herein contemplated
and incorporated. As depicted, in various embodiments, the sample collection device 500
includes one or more of: a collection zone 510 for collecting the sample and storing the sample
for delivery to a reservoir within a cartridge device; a sealing zone 520 for facilitating the
formation of a liquid-tight seal between the sample collection device 500 and a cartridge device
upon insertion of the sample collection device 500 into the cartridge device, a locking zone 530
for facilitating a fixed engagement between the sample collection device 500 and the cartridge
device such that upon insertion of the sample collection device 500 into the cartridge device, the
collection device is mated irreversibly and immovably with the cartridge; and a handle zone 540
for the user to grasp and manipulate the sample collection device. In some embodiments, the
collection zone 510 is also provided and configured to break a membrane within the cartridge
                                               -22-

device in order to obtain access into a reservoir within the cartridge device.              In some
embodiments, the handle zone 540 is breakable or otherwise removable from the remainder of
the sample collection device 500 following insertion of said remainder of the sample collection
device 500 into the cartridge device.
         [0092]     One embodiment of a sample collection device 600 with the functional zones
prominently displayed is provided in Figure 6. As shown, the sample collection device 600
includes a handle 640 for holding the device 600, a locking feature 630 for locking the device
600 into a cartridge, a sealing feature 620 for forming a liquid-tight seal with an internal tunnel
in the cartridge, and a collection feature 610 for collecting and temporarily storing a sample.
The CartridgeDevice
         [0093]     In various embodiments, a cartridge is formed of a housing, which defines an
enclosed space and has various features that enable the cartridge to do one or more of the
following: receive a sample with target analytes from a sample collection device, store the
sample with sample preparation reagents, provide a space for mixing and hybridizing the target
analytes with sample preparation reagents, provide an analysis zone wherein hybridized target
analytes localize over sensors for detection, provide a liquid medium for transporting the
hybridized target analytes to the analysis zone, store and provide a substrate that can undergo a
detectable reaction when introduced to the hybridized target analytes, provide a liquid medium
for transporting the substrate to the hybridized target analytes in the analysis zone, and provide a
waste collection zone where waste is stored.
         [0094]    In various embodiments, the cartridge is a substantially closed system in which
occur the reactions needed to detect the presence, absence, and/or quantity of target analytes.
The cartridge of such embodiments is said to be "substantially closed" because the only inputs
needed into the cartridge system are one or more of the following: a sample from a specimen,
energy to facilitate mixing and hybridization, and a magnetic force to facilitate localization of
hybridized target analytes within an analysis zone; the only outputs from the cartridge are
electrical signals.    In various embodiments, the cartridge is target-analyte-specific with the
                                                 -23-

included sample preparation reagents selected to detect one or more specific target analytes.
Different cartridge types include different reagents intended to identify different target analytes.
         [0095]   One embodiment of a cartridge 700 is provided in Figures 7A-7B. Specifically,
Figure 7A depicts various non-limiting examples of components of a cartridge 700 coupled
together in a fixed configuration; Figure 7B depicts the same components separated, prior to
assembly, in order to highlight various features of the cartridge 700. As shown, the cartridge 700
of various embodiments includes a housing 710 formed of a cover component 720, an internal
component 730, and a base component 740.          Upon assembly, these components are coupled
together to form a fixed structure having an input tunnel 712, a plurality of reservoirs 722, and an
analysis channel 732. In some embodiments, these components are formed of a hard plastic or
other substantially rigid material.
         [0096]    The various components of a similar cartridge embodiment and the orientation
of the components relative to each other are also shown in the exploded view of Figure 8. As
shown, upon assembly of the depicted embodiment, the cover component 820 is disposed on a
first side of the internal component 830, and the base component 840 is disposed on a second
side of the internal component 830. A circuit board component 850 is positioned between the
internal component 830 and the base component 840 and attached to the internal component 830,
for example, with a layer of adhesive 860. Features of the cover component 820 and the first
side of the internal component 830 together define an input tunnel 812 and a plurality of
reservoirs 822, and features of the second side of the internal component 830 and the circuit
board 850 define an analysis channel 832.
         [0097]    The various components of another cartridge embodiment and the assembly of
such components are shown in the exploded, semi-exploded, and non-exploded perspective
views of Figures 9A-9C, respectively. As shown, during assembly of the cartridge 900, the first
cover component 920 is disposed laterally of the internal component 930, and the second cover
component 940 is disposed on the opposite lateral side of the internal component 930. A circuit
board component 950 is attached to the internal component 930, for example, to an underside of
the internal component 930 using a layer of adhesive.           In such embodiments, the internal
                                                -24-

component 930 and circuit board component 950 are positioned together between the first cover
component 920 and the second cover component 940. Features of the first cover component 920
and the internal component 930 may together define an input tunnel 912, and features of the
underside of the internal component 930 and the circuit board 950 may define an analysis
channel 932. In some embodiments, the internal component 930 defines a plurality of reservoirs.
In some such embodiments, each reservoir is a well that has been etched, carved, cut, or
otherwise formed into a reservoir-defining portion 922 of the internal component 930. In some
embodiments, the open side of each reservoir is covered by a gas-permeable/liquid-impermeable
membrane.
         [0098]   Returning to the cartridge embodiment 800 of Figure 8, various elements of the
internal component 830 are also shown in the top view and partial perspective view of Figures
10A and 10B. In the depicted views, the input tunnel 812 leads to a first reservoir 824 in the
cartridge 800. A second reservoir 828 and third reservoir 826 are also provided with the first
reservoir 824. Each of the plurality of reservoirs 824, 826, 828 has a corresponding outlet near a
bottom portion of the reservoir, which opens to the microfluidic analysis channel 832.
         [0099]   One skilled in the art will appreciate that while three reservoirs are depicted, in
various embodiments, the plurality of reservoirs may include two reservoirs or four or more
reservoirs and may adopt alternative spatial configurations.         Any and all possible spatial
configurations are contemplated and expressly incorporated herein.          An example of another
possible spatial configuration is provided in Figures 11 A-I IC. Figures 11 A-I IC depict the
internal component 1130 and the circuit board component 1150 of a cartridge embodiment with
the external housing components removed. In the depicted embodiment, the reservoirs 1122 are
oriented in a cloverleaf fashion around an analysis channel 1132. As in other embodiments, the
input tunnel 1112 extends from an aperture 1102 of the cartridge to a first reservoir 1124, and the
analysis channel 1132 is defined by walls of the internal component 1130 and a wall of the
circuit board component 1150. Additionally, each reservoir 1122 includes an outlet 1123, which
connects the reservoir 1122 to the analysis channel 1132, and the analysis channel 1132 extends
from the reservoirs 1122 to an absorbent pad 1136. In the depicted embodiment, sensors 1158
                                                -25-

on the circuit board component 1150 are positioned within the analysis channel 1132.
Additionally, in the depicted embodiment, a sonicator element 1121 is included, the sonicator
element 1121 positioned to form all or a portion of the bottom surface of the first reservoir 1124.
         [0100]     In various embodiments of the cartridge device and sample collection device,
such as, for example, in all embodiments described above, the input tunnel of the cartridge is
configured to receive all or a portion of the sample collection device. One example is provided
in Figures 11 A and 11B, using the cartridge 800 of Figure 8 and the sample collection device
400 of Figure 4. As shown, the input tunnel 812 of the cartridge 800 is sized and shaped to
receive all or a portion of the sample collection device 400. In certain embodiments, the input of
a collected sample occurs by advancing all or a portion of the sample collection device 400 into
the cartridge 800. For example, in Figures 11 A and 11B, the sample collection device 400 is
slid, tip 430 first, into the input tunnel 822. The sample collection device 400 is slid into the
input tunnel 822 until all or a portion of the head 420 of the sample collection device 400 is
disposed within the first reservoir 824.
         [0101]   In some embodiments, prior to insertion of the sample collection device 400 into
the cartridge 800, an internal membrane is disposed within the input tunnel or between the input
tunnel and the first reservoir. One embodiment of an internal membrane 823 is visible in Figure
10 A. While the internal membrane is most visible in Figure 10A, it is contemplated that any and
all of the cartridge embodiments provided herein may also include an internal membrane. As
depicted, the internal membrane 823 covers, at least, the entirety of the cross-sectional area of
the input tunnel 812, at or near the entryway to the first reservoir 824. The internal membrane
823 of some embodiments is double-walled and contains a volume of liquid between the two
walls. The membrane liquid facilitates suspension of the sample from the sample collection
device 400 and helps transport the sample particles into the first reservoir 824. In embodiments
employing the competitive agent detection method described above, the internal membrane 823
also stores the competitive binding agents.     In various embodiments, insertion of the sample
collection device 400 into the input tunnel 812 ruptures the internal membrane 823, thereby
releasing the stored liquid, any stored reagents, and the collected sample particles into the first
                                                -26-

reservoir 824. In other embodiments, as described below with reference to Figures 13A and
13B, the internal membrane 823 of cartridge 800 is a thin, single-walled membrane. In some
such embodiments, one or more molecules are dry-stored within the membrane.
         [0102] Another configuration for the internal membrane is provided in Figures 13A and
13B.    Figures 13A-B schematically represent a top view and a perspective view of a first
reservoir 1324 (similar to first reservoir 724 or 824) shown in isolation, removed from the
remainder of the cartridge in order to highlight the placement of the internal membrane 1323. In
the depicted embodiment, the internal membrane 1323 is disposed on an outer wall of the first
reservoir 1324. Such a membrane 1323 would be within the input tunnel or within a space
between the input tunnel and the first reservoir 1324. The internal membrane 1323 blocks entry
to a sample input aperture 1321, thereby preventing liquid stored within the first reservoir 1324
from leaking out of the reservoir into, for example, the input tunnel. In some such embodiments,
the internal membrane 1323 dry stores various molecules 1319, such as, for example,
competitive binding agents or signaling agents as depicted in Figure 1 as 150.
         [0103] In various embodiments of the input tunnel, the tunnel includes a plurality of
functional components that are complementary to functional zones and features of the sample
collection device of various embodiments.          Such functional components are represented
schematically in the block diagram of Figure 14.             As these components are described
functionally, one skilled in the art will appreciate that the components may take many physical
forms. All suitable physical forms are herein contemplated and incorporated. As depicted, in
various embodiments, the input tunnel 1400 includes one or more of: an entry port zone 1410
that provides an opening through which the sample collection device can enter the tunnel; a
guidance zone 1420 for directing the collection device along an axis towards a first reservoir and
restricting movement that is not along the axis; a locking zone 1430 with mechanical features to
complement the locking zone on the sample collection device for achieving a secure, fixed
coupling between the two devices; a sealing zone 1440 with mechanical features to complement
the sealing zone on the sample collection device for achieving a liquid-tight seal between the two
structures; and a membrane zone 1450 wherein a membrane is affixed to prevent leakage from
                                                -27-

the first reservoir. The first reservoir 1460 is also provided as it may form the distal end of the
input tunnel 1400.
         [0104] One embodiment of an input tunnel 1500 with the functional zones prominently
displayed is provided in Figures 15A-15C. As shown, the input tunnel 1500 is defined, at least
in part, by the internal component 1501.       The input tunnel 1500 includes: an aperture 1510
through which the sample collection device can enter the tunnel 1500; an elongated portion 1520
for directing the collection device along an axis towards a first reservoir, the elongated portion
1520 having a diameter which restricts lateral movement of the sample collection device; a
locking zone 1530 with mechanical features to complement and fixedly couple the sample
collection device; a sealing zone 1540 with a narrowed diameter, a gasket, and/or or other
mechanical feature to help achieve a liquid-tight seal between the internal tunnel 1500 and the
sample collection device; and a membrane 1550. Also visible are a plurality of reservoirs 1560.
A vent 1570 is also provided within the input tunnel 1500 to allow for the displacement of air
that may otherwise create a pressure resisting the input of the collection device into the tunnel
1500.
         [0105]    As mentioned above, various embodiments of the cartridge include a membrane
that prevents liquid from flowing out of the first reservoir and into the input tunnel prior to
insertion of a sample collection device.     In such embodiments, the sample collection device
ruptures the internal membrane while advancing into the first reservoir. In certain embodiments,
two events happen at, or substantially at, the instant the sample collection device pushes the
membrane to its rupture point: (1) a flexible feature, such as for example, a rubber gasket or a
gasket of any other suitable material, at the base of the collection head moves into position to
form a liquid-tight seal with the structural housing features surrounding the membrane, and (2)
the shaft of the sample collection device advances to a location where it locks in place within the
input tunnel of the cartridge.      The locking may be achieved, for example, by providing
complementary grooves and ridges, grooves and teeth, or other complementary features between
the shaft of the sample collection device and the surrounding input tunnel. By entering into a
structurally engaged, fixed configuration within the input tunnel, the sample collection device of
                                                 -28-

various embodiments is able to remain in place and resist pressure exerted on the collection head
during rupture of the membrane. Additionally or alternatively, such a configuration enhances the
convenient disposal of the cartridge after use by preventing users from accidentally opening the
cartridge, thereby preventing exposure to the cartridge's potentially bio-hazardous components.
         [0106] Figures 16A-C depict one example of a sample collection device in a locked
engagement within the input tunnel embodiment of Figures 15A-C. In the depicted example, the
sample collection device is the sample collection device 600 from Figure 6. As shown in Figure
16B, in the locked position, complementary features 630, 1530 on the shaft of the sample
collection device 600 and the surrounding input tunnel 1500 engage, and as shown in Figure
16C, in the locked position, the membrane 1550 has ruptured and a sealing mechanism 1540 on
the collection device 1500 has formed a seal with a sealing portion 620 of the input tunnel 600.
In the depicted embodiment, the sealing portion 1540 of the input tunnel 1500 includes a tunnel
portion having a narrowed diameter and the sealing portion 620 of the collection device includes
a gasket.
         [0107]   Returning to Figures 12A and 12B as another example, during insertion of the
sample collective device 400 into the cartridge 800, the sample collection device 400 ruptures
the internal membrane 823 while advancing into the first reservoir 824. In various embodiments,
the tip 430 of the sample collection device 400 is blunt to ensure the internal membrane 823
deforms then ruptures at a controlled rupture point rather than being immediately pierced by the
tip 430.
         [0108] In order to obtain an internal membrane, such as, for example, internal membrane
823, having the desired rupture characteristics and desired rupture point, in various
embodiments, the internal membrane is formed of a material carefully selected to have a desired
modulus of elasticity, yield point, and/or rupture point. The modulus of elasticity is a constant
that characterizes a material's degree of elasticity and can be used to determine the maximum the
membrane can be stretched while still returning to its original shape. This point is called the
yield point. Beyond the yield point, the material exhibits plasticity, undergoing irreversible
deformation.    Beyond the yield point is another critical point called the rupture point. The
                                                 -29-

rupture point is when the membrane fails or breaks. The specific modulus of elasticity desired
for an embodiment varies according to the size and shape of the sample collection device tip,
which exerts pressure onto the internal membrane.            The selected membrane material may
include, for example: polyurethane, polysilicone and polybutadiene, nitrile, or other elastic
material or composite thereof.      Other suitable materials for the deformable membrane include,
for example, parafilm, latex, foil, and polyethylene terephthalate.
          [0109]   In various embodiments, the size of the collection head 420, the shape of the tip
430, the rupture point of the internal membrane material, and the location of the complementary
locking features are selected in consideration of each other.
          [0110] In one embodiment, the complementary locking features include positive grooves
(i.e., ridges or other protrusions) radially placed in the input tunnel and negative grooves or other
complementary depressions radially placed on the shaft of the sample collection device. The
radial placement allows for insertion of the sample collection device 400 into the input tunnel
812 regardless of the radial orientation of the sample collection device 400.                In other
embodiments, one or a plurality of non-radial complementary engagement features may be
provided. In some embodiments, the engagement features are constructed such that, when the
engagement features of the shaft 410 move against the engagement features of the input tunnel
812, one or both of the engagement features are reversibly compressed or retracted, returning to
their initial positions when the shaft 410 enters the location of fixed engagement.            Such a
structure prevents any further forward or backward lateral movement of the sample collection
device 400. Such a structure provides tactile confirmation for the user that the sample collection
device was inserted fully and correctly; additionally, the two-way lock gives structural support to
the rupture/seal mechanism. By preventing intentional and accidental removals of the sample
collection device 400 from the cartridge 800, the risk of contact with the sample is minimized.
Accordingly, the biohazard risk is minimized. Such a structure allows for easy disposal of the
system into the normal trash.
          [0111]    Within the cartridge 800, the input tunnel 812 of some embodiments extends
from an aperture on a surface of the cartridge 800 to a first reservoir 824.          In the depicted
                                                  -30-

embodiment, the plurality of reservoirs includes a first reservoir 824, a second reservoir 828, and
a third reservoir 826. In other embodiments, only two or four or more reservoirs may be present.
These reservoirs 822 are each separate from the others and no cross-mixing of their contents
occurs within the reservoirs. As visible in the top and perspective views of Figures 10A-10B,
each of the plurality of reservoirs 822 is, at least at times, in fluid connection with a microfluidic
analysis channel 832 by way of a reservoir outlet. In certain embodiments, the bottom "floor" or
bottom internal surface of each reservoir is not flat, but rather, angled downward toward the
outlet, with the intersection of the reservoir and the analysis channel 832 located at the lowest
height or deepest depth. Such embodiments help encourage flow of all reservoir contents into
the analysis channel 832, thereby minimizing dead volume.              In various embodiments, each
reservoir outlet has a valve disposed therein (such as, for example, valves 825, 827, 829), which
fully seals the outlet and prevents liquid from flowing from the reservoirs into the analysis
channel 832 prior to use. In use, in accordance with a method described in more detail below,
the plurality of valves can open in a timed manner such that contents from each of the plurality
of reservoirs 822 can flow sequentially into the analysis channel 832.
         [0112]    In the depicted embodiment, the first reservoir 824 is furthest downstream and
closest to the input channel 822.      This is by design so that, upon insertion of the sample
collection device 400, the head 420 enters the first reservoir. The first reservoir 824 is at least
partially filled with the sample preparation reagents described above and a first liquid. Within
this disclosure, the terms "first reservoir" and "sample preparation reservoir" may be used
interchangeably. In various embodiments, when the sample collection device 400 enters the first
reservoir 824, the first reservoir 824 becomes further filled with sample particles, including one
or more target analytes, if present in the sample. Additionally, in various embodiments, when
the sample collection device 400 enters the first reservoir 824, the liquid is gently mixed to
suspend and hybridize particles within the reservoir. In some embodiments, the target analytes
in the sample hybridize and bind, at least, to the magnetic particles and affinity molecules
present among the sample preparation reagents forming magnetic particle-bound complexes.
When the first valve opens, liquid from the first reservoir 824 acts as a transport medium causing
                                                  -31-

the magnetic particle-bound complexes and other particles to flow from the first reservoir 824
into the analysis channel 832. Advantageously, the liquid serving as the mixing medium and
storage medium within the first reservoir 824 also acts as the flow medium to transport the
contents of the first reservoir 824 to an analysis zone within the analysis channel 832 without the
need for a pump.
         [0113]   The second reservoir 828, present in some but not all embodiments, is at least
partially filled with a wash solution. The term "second" as used herein, refers to the order in
which solution from the reservoir is released into the analysis channel 832 rather than the
position of the reservoir within the cartridge 800. The second reservoir 828 is located furthest
upstream in various embodiments. In such embodiments, when a corresponding second valve
829 opens, the wash solution flows from the second reservoir 828 into the analysis channel 832,
thereby removing all or substantially all unbound detector agents and/or unbound competitive
binding agents from the analysis channel 832. Locating the wash solution in the upstream-most
reservoir ensures that all free-floating, unbound molecules from the sample preparation reservoir
824 are washed from the analysis channel 832 and reduces the likelihood of having any non
specific binding of significance occur within an analysis zone of the analysis channel 832.
         [0114]     The third reservoir 826 is located upstream of the first reservoir 824, for
example, between the first reservoir 824 and the second reservoir 828. The third reservoir 826 is
at least partially filled with a chemical substrate in solution.     In various embodiments, the
solution of the third reservoir 826 includes a substrate that undergoes a reaction in the presence
of a signaling agent from the first reservoir 824.       For example, in some embodiments, the
substrate of the third reservoir 826 undergoes an oxidation reaction in the presence of an
oxidizing enzyme from the first reservoir 824. In various embodiments, when the third valve
827 opens, liquid from the third reservoir 826 acts as a transport medium causing the chemical
substrate to flow from the third reservoir 826 into the analysis channel 832.
         [0115]    In various embodiments, liquid flows from each of the plurality of reservoirs
822 into the analysis channel 832 and continues to flow in a downstream direction within the
analysis channel as a result of capillary action. In certain embodiments, a vent is provided in or
                                                 -32-

over each reservoir to allow for air to replace the liquid emptying from each reservoir into the
analysis channel. Without proper ventilation, fluid may not flow within the cartridge. In some
embodiments, the vent is formed by placing an air permeable membrane, such as, for example, a
PTFE membrane, over the plurality of reservoirs. In some such embodiments, at least portions of
the cover component of the cartridge housing may be formed of PTFE; in other embodiments, an
opening may be provided in the cover component over the reservoirs, which is sealed with a
PTFE membrane. Advantageously, a membrane such as a PTFE membrane that is air permeable
but not liquid permeable provides a means for sealing off the top of each reservoir to prevent
liquid leakage while allowing for the liquid to drain out of the reservoir into the analysis channel.
Additionally, one or more vents 835, 836 may be provided over all or a portion of the analysis
channel, in order to allow displaced air to vent as the liquid flows into the channel. Bubbles are
often a problem in microfluidic systems. This issue is countered in some embodiments with the
strategic placement of the vents, which allow for passive degassing of bubbles. For example, in
some embodiments, all or a portion of the top side of the microfluidic channel (within the
internal component of the cartridge) is replaced with a PTFE membrane or other air permeable
membrane. In such embodiments, the membrane forms the ceiling of much of the channel. The
pore sizes of the membrane can vary and can be selected to include pores of 0.1 microns to 3
microns in diameter.     In some such embodiments, the membrane is sealed onto the channel
and/or over the reservoirs with adhesive.
         [0116] Attachment of an air-permeable membrane within the cartridge during assembly
may be achieved using any suitable manufacturing process. In some embodiments, adhesive is
applied to a bottom side of the membrane, and the membrane is taped to a bottom wall of the
analysis channel; the bottom wall of the channel is formed of a surface of the circuit board
component. A vacuum is then applied by pushing air through one or more vents; the vacuum
raises the membrane such that an adhesive portion of the membrane contacts the side walls of the
analysis channel, forming an adhesive seal. In effect, the membrane will be sucked into place
and bonded to the side walls of the analysis channel through the use of an applied vacuum and
adhesive.
                                                -33-

         [0117] To facilitate capillary flow in the analysis channel, in various embodiments, the
interior surfaces of the channel are made to be hydrophilic. As used herein, "hydrophilic" refers
to an affinity for a surface and/or molecule to maximize its contact area with water.             A
hydrophilic surface is one in which the contact angle of a droplet of water is less than 90 degrees.
In some embodiments described herein, surfaces having a contact area of less than 60 degrees are
achieved. As used herein, "capillary flow" or "capillary action" refers to movement of fluid
along a fluidic channel driven by at least two physical properties of the fluid and the channel.
The physical properties include: hydrophilic adhesion of the molecules of the fluid in contact
with surfaces of the channel, and intermolecular cohesive forces within the body of liquid which
help to draw the bulk of the fluid along as the molecules closest to the hydrophilic surfaces of the
channel propagate along the channel surface.
         [0118] In various embodiments, the analysis channel is defined by two or more walls,
and some or all such surfaces are made to be hydrophilic. In some embodiments, the analysis
channel includes a first semi-circular wall formed into the internal component of the cartridge
and a second wall formed of a surface of the circuit board component of the cartridge. In other
embodiments, such as, for example, the embodiment depicted by the cross-sectional view of an
analysis channel in Figure 17A, the walls of the analysis channel 1732 include three walls that
are carved, etched, or otherwise formed into the internal component 1730 of the cartridge and the
fourth wall is formed of a surface of the circuit board component 1750.
         [0119] Various materials or surface chemistry modifications can be used to create an
analysis channel having hydrophilic walls. For example, the internal component 1730 and the
analysis channel walls formed of the internal component 1730 may be made from a
thermoplastic resin as shown in Figure 17A. Such an embodiment is also depicted in Figure
17B; in Figure 17B, an adhesive layer 1760 is also shown coupling the internal component 1730
to the circuit board component 1750 to form the analysis channel 1732. As another example,
such as, for example, the embodiment provided in Figure 17C, one or more surfaces of the
internal component 1730, including the surfaces forming walls of the analysis channel 1732, may
undergo pegylation grafting mediated by plasma treatment to activate the surfaces such that
                                                 -34-

polyethylene glycol (PEG) will bond thereto, making a hydrophilic and protein-resistant
modified surface 1731.     Additionally, in some embodiments, a commercially available lateral
flow type membrane, may be disposed within the channel interior to provide a wicking material
within the channel.
         [0120] As described above, in some embodiments, the cartridge includes a means for
venting gases from the analysis channel.         As shown in Figures 17D and 17E, in some
embodiments, the means for venting gases includes one or more vents 1736, which are formed of
small holes within the internal component 1730. In some embodiments, the walls defining the
vents 1736 are hydrophobic and the holes are sufficiently small such that aqueous liquids within
the analysis channel 1732 are repelled from the vents 1736 and do not leak. As shown in Figure
17F, in another embodiment, a bubble bypass segment 1733, defined by the internal component
1730 is provided in a top portion of the analysis channel 1732. The bubble bypass segment 1733
is sized and positioned to allow gases to flow through bubble bypass segment 1733 while liquids
within the analysis channel remain within the lower, main segment of the channel 1732. In some
embodiments, the bubble bypass segments 1733 are provided between two vents 1736 and serve
to transport gases from the analysis channel to the vents 1736 for release.
         [0121] In other embodiments, the means for venting gases from the analysis channel
1732 includes a breathable membrane, such as a PTFE membrane, which replaces one analysis
channel wall otherwise formed of the internal component 1730.            One such embodiment is
depicted in Figure 17G with a top wall of the analysis channel 1732 replaced by a breathable
membrane 1735.       In some embodiments having a breathable membrane 1735 for venting,
prewetting of the membrane 1735 may be required, because some breathable materials, such as
PTFE, are hydrophobic.        To eliminate the need for a distinct prewetting step, structural
prewetting may be utilized in some embodiments. One such embodiments is depicted in Figure
17H. As shown, to "structurally prewet" a breathable membrane 1735, rails 1737 of hydrophilic
material may be provided, which run the length of the breathable membrane. Such rails 1737
promote the flow of liquid along the rails, for example, from a reservoir into the analysis channel
1732 and/or along the length of the analysis channel 1732. The hydrophilic rails 1737 help
                                                -35-

overcome the hydrophobic resistance of the membrane. These rails 1737 can be formed in a
multitude of ways and are constructed to include thin plastic rails spanning the length of the
membrane ceiling 1735.     In some embodiments, adhesives disposed directly on the membrane
can form the rail; in another embodiment, the rail may be formed by a patterned surface
modification of the membrane which causes a hydrophilic surface modification to run the length
of the analysis channel 1732.
         [0122] Additionally, as described in more detail below, in some embodiments, one or
more sensors are disposed on the circuit board component 1750 within the analysis channel
1732. As depicted in Figures 17D-171 and specifically identified in Figure 171, the sensor 1758
may be formed of gold or other conducting metal, and as described below with reference to
Figure 18A, may include additional surface chemistry modifications 1757. In various cartridge
embodiments described herein, such as, for example, in cartridge 700 of Figures 7A-B and
cartridge 800 of Figure 8, it is contemplated that the analysis channel 732/832 may include any
or all of the features described and/or depicted within any of Figures 17A-171 or any other
features known to those skilled in the art.
         [0123] Additionally, to facilitate flow via capillary action in the analysis channel, in
various embodiments, an absorbent material is provided at the downstream-most end of the
analysis channel. One example of an absorbent material, in the form of an absorbent pad 834, is
visible in Figure 10A. The absorbent material or pad 834 wicks liquid from the analysis channel
832, thereby encouraging liquid to flow downstream to the absorbent pad 834.            In some
embodiments, the absorbent pad 834 acts as a waste receptacle, collecting all waste liquids and
waste particles after they have flowed through the analysis channel 832.              In various
embodiments, the absorbent pad's size and degree of absorbency is selected to meter the flow of
liquids and particles within the analysis channel 832. For example, in some embodiments, the
volume of liquid that the absorbent pad 834 can wick must be great enough to drain all liquid
from the first (sample preparation) reservoir 824 and the second (wash) reservoir 828 and draw
the liquid carrying the chemical substrate from the third (substrate) reservoir 826.      Such a
condition may serve as the lower limit of absorbency. Additionally, acting as an upper limit is
                                                -36-

the requirement that the flow of the liquid carrying the chemical substrate must slow or stop over
an analysis zone of the analysis channel 832 so that the chemical substrate has time to react with
signaling agents localized within the analysis zone.
         [0124]     As shown clearly, for example, in Figs. 7B, 8, and 11 A-C, the cartridge of
various embodiments also includes a printed circuit board, 750, 850, and 1150, respectively,
referred to herein as a circuit board or circuit board component. The circuit board component is
coupled to the internal component of the cartridge. The circuit board component 750 of Figure
7B is provided, in isolation, in Figs. 18A-18B.        The circuit board component 750 includes
electrical components, for example, one or more of: a resistor, electrical leads 754, vias 756, and
sensors 758 needed for detection of target analytes. Although described separately, it is to be
appreciated that electrical components of the circuit board component 750 need not be separate
structural elements. One or more electrical components and/or circuits may perform some of or
all the roles of the various components described herein. In some embodiments, the resistor is
provided as a unique-identifying tag, which allows for a reader device (described in more detail
below) to distinguish between cartridge types. The resistor may include a small surface mount
resistor, a resistive-ink based resistive element, or any other resistive element that allows the
reader to "read" the resistor and thereby identify the cartridge type. As used herein, cartridges
differ in "cartridge type" if they are configured for the detection of different target analytes. In
other embodiments, different non-resistive means of identifying the cartridge type are employed.
         [0125] As described in more detail below, the electrical leads 754 of various
embodiments are provided to establish electrical connections and continuity with a            reader
device. As shown in Figure 18B, the electrical leads 754 are electrically coupled to the vias 756,
providing electrical current to such components when activated by the reader device. A via is a
standard product on printed circuit boards and is typically used to enable signal traces on one
layer of a circuit board to continue electrically with another layer. The vias provide electrical
continuity through multiple layers. Such vias are excellent conductors of heat; they are able to
transfer heat to a very precise location without affecting the surrounding areas, because the
surrounding material that comprises most circuit boards is an excellent insulator of heat. Thus, in
                                                 -37-

various embodiments, a plurality of vias 756 are provided in the circuit board component, and
each via 756 is disposed under, over, or adjacent to a phase-changeable, heat-actuated valve
disposed in a reservoir outlet to create a valve actuating element. The precision of heat transfer
associated with the vias 756 allows for minimal crosstalk between valves located close to each
other; thus, the timing of valve actuation can be carefully controlled for each valve. In some
embodiments, the valves are formed of a wax, for example, a hydrophilic wax, and the vias 756
act as conductors of heat to melt wax at precise points of time, as controlled by a reader device.
One or more heating elements generate the heat that is to be conducted to the exact location
where the wax needs to be melted. Upon melting of a wax valve disposed in the outlet of a
reservoir, the outlet is no longer occluded and the reservoir has an opening through which its
fluid contents can drain into the analysis channel. The heating element of some embodiments
forms part of the circuit board component. For example, in the embodiment of Fig. 18B, the
heating element is a resistive heating element appearing as a serpentine trace 755 located on the
bottom side of the circuit board component 750, surrounding the via 756. In other embodiments,
the heating element is located external to the cartridge, for example, on the reader. In various
embodiments in which a resistive heating element is used, in order to generate heat, current is
allowed to flow through the resistive heating element, for example, through actuation of a
transistor. Current passing through the resistive heating element generates heat through Joule
heating. The heat is conducted to the via due to physical contact between the resistive heating
element and the via. In various embodiments, the heat is then conducted through the via up the
wax barrier and a phase transition, such as, for example, melting, of the wax occurs.
        [0126] In order to ensure full melting of the wax with precise timing, in various
embodiments, the wax valves are carefully constructed within the outlets of the reservoirs. For
example, in some embodiments, it is preferable for the wax valves to have the minimum height
necessary to occlude the outlet of the reservoir; the minimal height minimizes the distance heat
must travel to melt the wax. One example method for realizing a wax barrier having such
characteristics involves applying melted wax to a pre-heated via. Advantageously, when the via
is pre-heated, it takes longer for the wax valve to solidify relative to a room-temperature via; thus
                                                 -38-

the wax has more time to flatten and expand outward before hardening. "Pancaking" of the wax
is desirable to minimize the height, which will maximize the chance of proper melting actuation
of the valve. Additionally, the heating of the via facilitates a greater level of contact area between
the wax and the via such that a greater proportion of the wax experiences the heat, also
maximizing the chance of proper valve actuation.           The method of heating the via prior to
deposition of wax is further enhanced with the following method: the opening of the reservoir is
aligned over the via such that when the melted wax is applied to the pre-heated via, the opening
at the bottom of the reservoir is spatially close to the via such that when the wax hardens, the
wax adheres simultaneously to multiple inner walls of the reservoir and the via itself. This is
advantageous for enhancing the manufacturing yield of intact valves that fully occlude the
opening to the analysis channel such that no inadvertent flow of liquid from the reservoir occurs.
         [0127] A cross-sectional view of one embodiment of the valve 825 is provided in Figure
19. The valve 825 is located within an outlet at the bottom of the reservoir 824 of the cartridge
800. As depicted in Figure 19, the reservoir 824 is defined by walls of the internal component
830. In some embodiments, the outlet is formed of a hole within a bottom wall of the internal
component 830. In various embodiments, the circuit board component 850 is disposed below the
internal component 830 and affixed to the internal component 830 with the use of an adhesive
860, such as, for example, a double-sided adhesive tape which may be hydrophilic to support the
capillary flow of fluid. In various embodiments, the valve 825 is formed of a heat-sensitive,
phase-changeable material, such as, for example, a hydrophilic wax. Prior to actuation, the wax
or other heat-sensitive material of the valve 825 is in a solid or semi-solid state and is sized and
shaped to fill an entire cross-section of the outlet such that no liquid can escape from the
reservoir 824 into the analysis channel 832. As depicted, the heat-actuated valve 825 of some
embodiments is aligned directly above a via 856 or other localized heat-conductive element.
Such alignment allows for the localized application of heat to induce a phase change in the valve
825 without causing a phase change of any neighboring valves. In various embodiments, the
phase change melts or otherwise transforms the heat-sensitive material such that it no longer
                                                 -39-

causes full occlusion of the outlet, but instead permits liquid in the reservoir 824 to flow into the
analysis channel 832.
        [0128] In some embodiments, the wax material disposed upon the via, and which
occludes the opening of the reservoir to prevent the liquid from flowing into the analysis
channel, is preferably a hydrophilic material such as hexadecanol or octodecanol. This
advantageously promotes, rather than obstructs the flow of liquid past any wax bits that harden
within any area of the analysis channel after valve actuation. These materials also preferably
have a melting temperature between 50 and 100 degrees Celsius, which allows for actuation with
reasonable power-consumption for a battery-operated device, yet remains unactuated in general
handling and storage environments and/or during a sonication protocol. In some embodiments,
the amount of wax disposed upon the via is below 1 microliter in its liquid state, and in some
such embodiments, the amount is less than or equal to .5 microliters.              In at least some
embodiments, it is preferable to use at little wax as possible in order to reduce any occlusion of
the analysis channel and maximize full valve actuation when heat is applied.                In some
embodiments, the valve also has a feedback-and-control system that allows for a consistent
thermal profile to be achieved at the via for consistent valve actuation. Furthermore this
feedback-and-control system may incorporate sensing elements to enable the system to confirm
that each valve has properly actuated.
        [0129] in some non-limiting embodiments, the outlet at the bottom of the reservoir is
sized and shaped, for example, as depicted in Figure 20A or Figure 20B. In Figure 20A, the
valve opening/outlet at the bottom of each reservoir is depicted as a semicircle in fluidic
communication with the analysis channel.        In some such embodiments, the semicircle has a
diameter of approximately 1 mm, a size which may help reduce the amount of wax necessary to
hold back the fluid of the reservoir from entering into the analysis channel. Alternatively, Figure
20B depicts an outlet formed of a semicircle with a boundary extension.               In some such
embodiments, the boundary extension has a length between 0.1 mm and 1 mm. Compared to
Figure 20A, the boundary extension of Figure 20B may enhance proper valve actuation and flow
by providing a larger surface area for wax melted during the course of valve actuation to solidify
                                                 -40-

onto before entering into the analysis channel. Such a configuration may reduce the amount of
wax entering into the analysis channel. Similarly, during valve construction, the extensions from
the semi-circle opening allow for an increased area wherein the wax can harden without
occluding the analysis channel.
        [0130] Returning to Fig. 18A, the electrical leads 754 are also electrically coupled to the
sensors 758; such an electrical connection allows signals detected by the sensors 758 to be
delivered to the reader device for processing. In various embodiments, the sensors 758 and the
area of the analysis channel above them form the "analysis zone", mentioned elsewhere herein.
The sensors 758 are strategically located such that, when the circuit board 750 is included within
the assembled cartridge 700 with a surface of the circuit board 750 forming one wall of the
analysis channel 732, the sensors 758 are disposed within the analysis channel 732. As shown in
Figure 18A, a plurality of sensors 758 may be provided, each spaced relative to the others, and
all aligned with the analysis channel 732. The sensors 758 are electrochemical sensors, each
forming an electrochemical cell within the analysis channel. In this embodiment, each sensor 758
is formed of a working electrode 758a, a reference electrode 758b, and a counter electrode 758c.
In some embodiments, an oxidation reaction may occur at an electrochemical sensor 758 if an
oxidizing enzyme bound indirectly to a magnetic particle is present at the sensor 758 and an
appropriate   chemical substrate is introduced into the analysis channel 732.             In such
embodiments, the working electrode 758a releases electrons to replenish electrons stripped from
the substrate by the oxidizing enzyme in a quantity proportional to the amount of oxidizing
enzyme present. The release of electrons from the working electrode is a current which may be
detectable as a signal within a circuit connected to the sensor 758. The sensors 758 can thereby
indirectly detect the presence, absence, and/or quantity of oxidizing enzymes localized in the
analysis zone of such embodiments.         A computer, for example, within the reader device
described below, can then correlate the presence, absence, and/or quantity of a target analyte to
the presence, absence, and/or quantity of oxidizing enzymes. The functions of such a computer
are described in more detail below. In various embodiments, one or more magnetic fields are
used to facilitate localization of the enzymes or other signaling agents within the analysis zone.
                                                -41-

Advantageously, in such embodiments, no affinity molecules need to be pre-bound to the sensors
to achieve localization, which would otherwise significantly slow the analyte quantification
process due to the limits of diffusion-based hybridization kinetics. Details of the magnetic fields
are also provided below.
         [0131] In some embodiments, the electrochemical sensors 758 where detection takes
place are made through an ENIG process and thus have gold on the surface.                  In other
embodiments, gold or gold-plated sensors are used that have not been made through an ENIG
process. In some embodiments, at least the working electrode 758a of each sensor 758 has a
surface chemistry formed of thiolated ethylene glycol and/or a dithiol such as hexaethylene
glycol dithiol for added stability. The hydrophilic nature of the head groups of such surface
chemistry facilitates flow and protein resistance.        Additionally or alternatively, in some
embodiments, the surface of one or more of the electrodes is backfilled with mercaptoundecanoic
acid, mercaptohexanol, or other suitable backfiller. In some embodiments, the surface of one or
more of the electrodes within the sensor 758 is formed through sequential addition and
incubation of the ethylene glycol dithiol and the backfiller at unelevated temperatures.
         [0132] In various embodiments, one or more ambient electrochemical noise sensors, or
reference sensors 759, are provided and spaced within the analysis channel away from the site of
magnetic particle localization. The reference sensor 759 with its associated circuitry quantifies
background noise in the system. Such noise may be due to, for example, the presence of non
specifically bound enzyme. In various embodiments, during processing of the detection results,
a computer applies an algorithm to remove the reference sensor signal from the detection sensor
signal to account for and/or eliminate system noise and to thereby allow for proper quantification
or detection of target analyte.
         [0133] In some embodiments,        the detection is carried       out using a     standard
electrochemical circuit that utilizes a bias potential generated at the reference electrode for the
oxidation-reduction reaction to proceed. The potential is held at the reduction potential of the
chemical substrate (low enough that there is little nonspecific reduction of reducible species in
the solution) so that the flow of electrons to the oxidized molecules can be quantified using an
                                                -42-

operational amplifier based current-to-voltage (op amp) circuit topology connected to the
working electrode. For example, a common substrate molecule, tetramethylbenzidine, is used for
HRP. When present, HRP oxidizes TMB molecules, and these molecules are in turn reduced by
the working electrode. Since this event occurs in proportion to the amount of HRP present, a
change in the current-to-voltage op amp measurement results.           Using an analog-to-digital
converter, the actual signal can be delivered to a processor for processing. As described in more
detail below, in various embodiments, said processor and signal processing components are
provided within the reader device.
The Reader Device
         [0134] The reader device, or reader, of various embodiments is, comprises, or is
comprised of, a specialized computer. The computer includes a processor with memory having
instructions stored thereon for executing one or more methods for detecting the presence,
absence, and/or quantity of target analytes in a sample. In various embodiments, the reader's
computer controls the operations of the detection system, controlling when and how various
functions of the system occur, such as, for example: mixing of the fluids in the first reservoir of
the cartridge, opening of valves, and/or localization of magnetic particles over the sensors. To
control such operations, the computerized reader is configured to receive information from, and
send information to, physical components present within the reader or cartridge.
         [0135] A functional block diagram of one embodiment of a reader is depicted in Figure
21. Although described separately, it is to be appreciated that functional blocks described with
respect to the reader 2100 need not be separate structural elements. For example, the processor
2110 and memory 2120 may be embodied in a single chip. Similarly, the processor 2110 and
communication interface 2150 may be embodied in a single chip. In various embodiments, the
reader 2100 includes a power supply 2160 such as a battery.
         [0136] The processor 2110 can be a general purpose processor, a digital signal processor
(DSP), an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), a field programmable gate array
(FPGA) or other programmable logic device, discrete gate or transistor logic, discrete hardware
components, or any suitable combination thereof designed to perform the functions described
                                                -43-

herein. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices, e.g., a
combination of a DSP and a microprocessor, a plurality of microprocessors, one or more
microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core, or any other such configuration.
         [0137] The processor 2110 is coupled, via one or more buses, to read information from,
or write information to, the memory 2120. The processor may additionally, or in the alternative,
contain memory, such as processor registers. The memory 2120 can include processor cache,
including a multi-level hierarchical cache in which different levels have different capacities and
access speeds. The memory 2120 can also include random access memory (RAM), other volatile
storage devices, or non-volatile storage devices. The storage devices can include, for example,
hard drives, optical discs, flash memory, and Zip drives.
         [0138] The processor 2110, in conjunction with software stored in the memory 2120
executes an operating system, such as, for example, Windows, Mac OS, Unix or Solaris 5.10.
The processor 2110 also executes software applications stored in the memory 2120. In one non
limiting embodiment, the software comprises, for example, Unix Korn shell scripts. In other
embodiments, the software can be programs in any suitable programming language known to
those skilled in the art, including, for example, C++, PHP, or Java.
         [0139] The processor 2110 is also coupled to a cartridge interface 2130, which may
include an EDGE card or other electrical connector, to send electrical signals to, and receive
electrical signals from, the circuit board component of the cartridge.
         [0140] In some embodiments, the processor 2110 may be coupled to a user interface
2140. For example, in some embodiments, the reader 2100 may include a touchscreen, LED
matrix, other LED indicators, or other input/output devices for receiving inputs from, and
providing outputs to, a user. In other embodiments, the user interface 2140 is not present on the
reader 2100, but is instead provided on a remote computing device communicatively connected
to the reader 2100 via the communication interface 2150. Yet still in other embodiments, the user
interface can be a combination of elements on the reader and a remote computing device.
         [0141] The communication interface 2150 of various embodiments is also coupled to the
processor 2110. In some embodiments, the communication interface 2150 includes a receiver
                                                 -44-

and a transmitter, or a transceiver, for wirelessly receiving data from, and transmitting data to a
remote computing device. In some such embodiments, the remote computing device is a mobile
computing device that provides the system with a user interface; additionally or alternatively, in
some embodiments, the remote computing device is a server. In embodiments configured for
wireless communication with other devices, the communication interface 2150 prepares data
generated by the processor 2110 for transmission over a communication network according to
one or more network standards and/or demodulates data received over a communication network
according to one or more network standards.           The communication interface 2150 of some
embodiments may additionally or alternatively include electrical connections for wired
communication of signals between the reader 2100 and a remote computing device.
         [0142] In addition to the computing components, the reader of various embodiments,
includes several additional physical components needed to implement target analyte detection.
For example, the reader 2200 of Figure 22 includes a slot, opening, bed, port, or other docking
feature, referred to herein as a dock 2210, for receiving a cartridge. The cartridge, when received
by the reader 2200, may be disposed on or in, or otherwise coupled to, the reader 2200.
          [0143] Several of the reader components are strategically positioned in particular
locations relative to the dock 2210 in order to achieve desired interactions with the cartridge.
For example, the reader 2200 of the depicted embodiment includes an electrical connector 2220
and one or more magnetic field generators 2240, and the location of such components is selected
to align with particular features of a docked cartridge.         Additionally, some embodiments,
including the embodiment of Figure 22, include a sonication element 2230.             Each of these
components is described in more detail below.
         [0144] The electrical connector 2220 of various embodiments is an EDGE card or other
connector having pins for electrical connectivity.      The connector 2220 is located on, under,
within, or adjacent to the dock 2210 and is positioned such that the pins of the connector 2220
make contact with, and establish electrical connectivity with, the electrical leads of a docked
cartridge device. The electrical connector 2220 thereby establishes electrical continuity between
the sensors on the circuit board component of the cartridge and electrochemical circuitry within
                                                 -45-

the reader. In some embodiments, the electrical connector 2220 of the reader may also establish
electrical continuity with a heating element, if present on the circuit board component of the
cartridge. In some embodiments, the reader 2200 includes a portion of an electrochemical circuit,
which is completed with the addition of the cartridge based on electrical continuity between the
electrical connector 2220 and the electrical leads of the cartridge. In such embodiments, the
addition of the cartridge completes or closes the circuit. In such embodiments, coupling the
cartridge to the reader 2200 activates the reader, causing it to "wake up." Once awoken, the
electrical connector 2220 may identify signals being received from a portion of the cartridge to
identify what type of cartridge is coupled to its dock. In some embodiments, the electrical
connector 2220 may identify a label, such as, for example, a resistive label on the cartridge,
which is unique to a particular cartridge type in order to identify the docked cartridge type. In
other embodiments, a digital barcode coded within the electrical leads of the circuit board
component of the cartridge is read by electrical pins or pads within the reader to identify the
cartridge type. In some such embodiments, the circuit board component of the cartridge includes
a plurality of electrical leads, some of which are connected to a ground lead and some of which
are not. Through a combinatorial usage of the electrical pins and connections between them and
a ground pin, and/or with a pull-up/pull-down resistor located on the reader, the condition (e.g.,
grounded or not grounded) of each pin is sensed as a high or lower voltage than a set voltage,
which is read as a logic situation at the processor of the reader to determine whether a particular
pin is grounded. In this manner, a combination of grounded and non-grounded pins can be
detected and recognized by the reader 2200 to uniquely identify classes of cartridges.
         [0145] In some embodiments, once awoken, the reader 2200 also determines what test
protocol to run for the identified cartridge and/or searches for, and connects to, nearby mobile
computing devices.
         [0146] Continuing with Figure 22, the reader 2200 optionally includes a sonication
component, or sonicator 2230. The sonicator 2230 of various embodiments is located in, under,
or over the dock 2210 and is positioned directly or substantially over or under the first reservoir
of a docked cartridge. In some embodiments, the docked cartridge includes features to facilitate
                                                -46-

a close relationship between the sonicator 2230 and the first reservoir. For example, as seen in
Figure 7B, the circuit board component 750 and base component 740 are each shaped to provide
a cutout or window 741, 751 in their structures, the cutouts 741, 751 aligned with the reservoirs.
Thus, in various embodiments, the sonicator 2230 and the first reservoir of the cartridge can be
aligned with no structures provided between them. In some embodiments, when the user slides
the cartridge into the dock, the cutouts 741, 751 allow for the sonicator 2230 to be positioned
directly underneath the reservoir. Such a configuration enables the sonicator 2230 to transmit
controlled amounts of energy into the first reservoir. In other embodiments, the sonicator (or
other component performing the sonication steps disclosed herein) is disposed on or forms a
bottom wall of the first reservoir 724, such as, for example, as shown in Figure 11.      In other
embodiments, no sonicator is provided. In various embodiments having a sonicator 2230, the
sonication energy is controlled to achieve mixing and hybridization of components within the
first reservoir while limiting damage caused to fragile DNA probes or other molecules.
         [0147] In some embodiments,       the sonicator    2230   includes  a pressure-sensitive
piezoelectric disk 2232. Optionally, in some embodiments, the sonicator 2230 further includes a
high water content blister disposed between the first reservoir and the piezoelectric disk. In
some embodiments, the high water content blister is affixed under the first reservoir in the
cartridge production process; in other embodiments, it is provided over the sonicator 2230 within
the reader.    The high water content blister may facilitate delivery of sonic energy from the
sonicator 2230 to the first reservoir with minimal attenuation. In some embodiments, the blister
is replaced with another appropriately conducting sonication medium. In some embodiments,
the component serving as a sonication medium is preferably dry on the outside, with no liquid
residue present.     In some embodiments, when the cartridge slides into the reader 2200, the
sonically conducting medium coupled to the sonicator forms a soft seal with a sonically
conducting medium affixed to the bottom of the first reservoir. This "soft seal" may be enhanced
by using a conformal sonically conducting medium on the bottom of the reservoir.
         [0148] In addition to generating sonic energy to mix and hybridize the contents of the
first reservoir, in various embodiments having a sonicator 2230, the sonicator 2230 can be used
                                               -47-

to detect the introduction of the sample collection device into the first reservoir.
Advantageously, such detection enables the reader 2200 to initiate an automated start of a testing
protocol immediately or substantially immediately following introduction of a sample into the
first reservoir.   The automated start improves ease of use for lay users; it also ensures a
consistent start time relative to sample introduction, thus providing consistent results.
         [0149] As mentioned above, in some such embodiments, the sonicator 2230 is a pressure
sensitive piezoelectric element. In such embodiments, a wall of the cartridge is designed to flex
slightly upon insertion of the sample collection device into first reservoir; such flexing results in
a change in pressure, which is detectable by the sonicator 2230.
         [0150] In other embodiments, detection of the sample collection device in the first
reservoir occurs through resonance or signal monitoring. Specifically, as shown in Figure 23A,
upon activation of the reader, for example, as a result of coupling a cartridge to the reader, the
sonicator 2300, and/or the piezoelectric element forming all or a portion of the sonicator 2300,
generates a sound wave 2310 directed towards the first reservoir. In some embodiments, the
sonicator 2300 or a portion thereof then deforms as a result of a reflected sound wave 315 and/or
the resonance frequency of the sonicator is recorded, thereby allowing a processor and/or circuit
within the reader to determine a baseline, unloaded condition. Thereafter, the sonicator 2300
enters a scanning condition shown in Figure 23B, periodically pinging a sound wave 2310 into
the first reservoir so the processor or circuit within the reader can monitor the return signal 2315
and/or resonance frequency shift of the sonicator to determine if any variation has occurred. In
some embodiments, if no variation has been detected and/or the baseline unloaded condition is
being established, the reader emits one or more lights or sounds prompting a user to enter a
sample collection device into the cartridge. At Figure 23C, the addition of the sample collection
device 2350 causes a shift in resonance of the sonicator and/or a change to the sound wave return
signal above a threshold which the processor or circuit within the reader is programmed to
identify as sample collection device insertion. In various embodiments, the processor and/or
circuit then returns instructions to the sonicator 2300 to initiate a sonication step of the testing
protocol. In some embodiments, a light pattern on the reader changes or a sound is emitted to
                                                 -48-

signify that a testing protocol has been initiated.     In some embodiments, the user-prompting
light or audible user-prompting sound pattern emitted during the scanning phase experiences a
change in intensity or frequency to signal increased urgency to the user to input a collection
device. In various embodiments, the sound waves associated with prompting the user are distinct
from the sound waves emitted by the sonicator to establish the loaded vs. unloaded condition of
the reservoir.
         [0151] In some embodiments, a high intensity sonication procedure is performed to
actively elute the sample particles, including, if present, the target analyte, into the solution of
the first reservoir. The sonication procedure is also performed to achieve proper suspension of
the sample preparation reagents, particularly the magnetic particles, in order to make the
magnetic particles available in solution for binding with the target. Any sonicator may be used
which is capable of achieving the goal of generating a gentle sonication, even at the high
intensity phase, while avoiding cavitation and large shearing forces.       One embodiment of an
appropriate sonicator is a piezoelectric component, such as, for example, a 1.6 megahertz
bending transducer piezoelectric disk at an output of less than 15 Watts.
         [0152] Following the high intensity sonication, the sonic signal of the sonicator is pulsed
in order to prevent the magnetic particles from settling and to continue to add energy into the
system. The addition of energy enhances the hybridization between the affinity molecules on the
magnetic particle, the target, and the detector agent or competitive binding agent.
         [0153] The sonication profile selected by the reader varies according to the sample being
tested. As used herein, "sonication profile" refers to characteristics of the delivered sonication,
such as the length of time of sonication, the frequency of sonication, the intensity, etc. In various
embodiments, the reader has fine-grained control over such variables. In some embodiments, for
power consumption purposes, the sonicator has an "on period" in which it pulses. For example,
in one embodiment, during the sonication phase, the sonicator is activated for three seconds
within every 10 second window, and within those three activated seconds, the sonicator pulses at
regular intervals; for example, the sonicator may generate a sound wave every 0.027 seconds.
Such methods create an environment conducive to hybridization, target capture, and formation of
                                                 -49-

various molecule complexes while avoiding over-consumption of power and over-heating of the
sample.
        [0154] Continuing with Figure 22, the reader 2200 of various embodiments also includes
one or more magnetic field generators 2240. In some embodiments the magnetic field generator
2240 may be an inductor or other electromagnetic component affixed within the reader 2200. As
shown in Figure 22, in some embodiments, the magnetic field generator 2240 is a permanent
magnet.    The magnetic field generator(s) 2240 are positioned such that, when a cartridge is
coupled to the dock 2210, the one or more detection sensors are each disposed directly within a
magnetic field created by the magnetic field generator(s) 2240.      In various embodiments, the
magnetic field(s) are the cause of localization; the magnetic field(s) are what induce magnetic
particles and accompanying hybridized molecules to localize within the analysis zone.
        [0155] In various embodiments, the base component of the cartridge has a cutout that
allows for at least one permanent magnet or inductor to be positioned directly underneath the
detection sensor of the circuit board component. The cutout allows the cartridge to slide into
place on the dock 2210 without hitting the magnet or inductor. The cutout also allows for the
magnetic field generator 2240 to be positioned as close to the detection sensor as possible. The
closer the magnet field generator 2240 is to the sensor, the more force the magnet field is able to
exert, meaning that smaller magnets or inductors are capable of exerting equivalent magnetic
field strengths as larger, more costly magnets or inductors.       The use of small magnets or
inductors is particularly advantageous in embodiments having multiple magnetic fields and
multiple analysis zones (for example, in embodiments configured to detect a plurality of different
target analytes), because the smaller the magnet or inductor, the less the magnetic fields overlap.
Smaller magnetic fields can limit the amount of cross talk between the magnets or inductors
under the different detection sensors.
        [0156] Additionally, as mentioned above in the discussion of the cartridge, in some
embodiments of an analyte detection system, a heating element is provided to activate heat
actuated valves within the reservoir outlets. In such embodiments, the heating element delivers
heat to vias on the circuit board component of the cartridge, and the vias act as conductors of
                                               -50-

heat to melt wax at precise points of time and/or within precise spatial area.             In some
embodiments, a plurality of heating elements are located within the reader 2200 and positioned
to align with the vias of a docked cartridge. In some such embodiments, spring-loaded contacts
are provided within the reader 2200 to form an effective contact between the heating elements of
the reader and the via. In some such embodiments, the heating element is a resistive heating
element.
         [0157] In various embodiments, regardless of the location of the heating element (in the
reader or the cartridge), the timing of heat delivery and valve opening is precisely timed and
controlled by the reader device.        For example, in some embodiments, the reader computer
controls when heat-generating current flows through the heating element.            The valves are
actuated by heat caused by such current in the following sequence: (1) sample preparation
reservoir, (2) wash reservoir, if present, then (3) chemical substrate reservoir. Actuation of each
valve is timed such that: the respective valve fully actuates, the associated reservoir has time to
empty its contents into the analysis channel, and at least some of the contents of the reservoir
have time to travel to the absorbent pad positioned downstream of the sensors before the contents
of the next reservoir is released.     In some embodiments, the time between valve actuations is
selected to be great enough for the absorbent pad to entirely or substantially absorb liquid present
within the analysis channel. Advantageously, in such embodiments, very little mixing occurs
between the contents of successive reservoirs.
         [0158] In some embodiments, the precise timing of sequential valve actuation and/or
determination of successful valve actuation can be determined at the processor through the usage
of feedback control systems utilizing an algorithm on the processor and information derived
from sensing elements, such as thermistors and electrochemical sensors. For example, an
electrochemical sensor in the analysis channel can be queried to determine whether the analysis
channel has liquid in it since the signal generated at the sensor will be different depending upon
the presence or absence of liquid above the sensor. This signal, in combination with a processor
set to logically interpret the signals, can thereby determine whether a valve has actuated properly
and/or when a reservoir has fully emptied its liquid contents and when the liquid contents have
                                                  -51-

been absorbed into a waste pad such that the channel is free of liquid and ready for a sequential
valve actuation. In some embodiments, the processor and/or circuitry of the reader sends signals
instructing a heating element to actuate a subsequent valve only after the processor and/or
circuitry has received confirmation, through the feedback system, that the analysis channel is
wholly or partially cleared and ready for the next step.
         [0159] Additionally, as shown schematically in Figure 24, in some embodiments, a
desired thermal profile of the heating element for valve actuation can be consistently achieved
through the usage of an additional feedback and control system 2400 which includes: a
temperature sensing element 2410, such as a thermistor, in thermal communication with a
heating element 2420 positioned to actuate a heat-actuated valve 2430, and a processor 2440 set
to logically interpret signals from said heating element 2420.
         [0160] One embodiment of a thermal profile-controlling feedback and control system is
provided in Figure 25. Alternate Figure 25 depicts an embodiment of a temperature sensing
element 2510 in thermal communication with the via 2520 on a circuit board component 2530 of
a valve actuating element. In particular, the temperature sensing element depicted is a thermistor,
which has a resistance that varies with its temperature. When in electronic communication with
other circuitry and/or a processor configured to interpret the electronic signals from the
thermistor, the information gathered from the thermistor can be utilized to maintain consistent
thermal actuation of the valve through command and control of a heating element in electronic
communication with aforementioned processor. This sensing element can additionally improve
safety of the sample analysis device by helping to prevent runaway escalation of temperature at
the heating element in thermal communication with said thermistor by contributing sensing
information that will enable a processor to shutoff the heating element if the temperature runs too
hot. The depicted embodiment of Figure 25 shows the thermistor 2510 in thermal
communication with the heating element through the usage of a heat conducting element on a
circuit board of the reader device, said heat conducting element being a metallic trace 2540, for
example, a copper trace. Additionally, the thermistor 25510 is in thermal communication with
the via 2520 of the valve unit through the use of a connector 2550 (in one embodiment, a spring
                                                 -52-

loaded connector pin), which typically has high thermal conductivity. The heating element is not
depicted in Figure 25, but it can be appreciated that the heating element can be thermally coupled
to the via in multiple ways, including through the usage of a trace as the thermistor is coupled to
the via through a conducting trace and then through the spring loaded pin in contact with the via.
         [0161] Figures 26A-26C depict the reader device 2200 of Figure 22 shown through
various stages of coupling to a cartridge 700. As shown, the reader 2200 includes a dock 2210,
an electrical connector 2220, a sonicator 2230, and a magnetic field generator 2240 in the form
of a permanent magnet. The cartridge 700 is configured to slide into the dock 2210 and couple
to the reader 2200. When coupled, the electrical leads 754 of the cartridge 700 are in direct
contact with the electrical connector 2220, the first reservoir 724 is disposed over the sonicator
2230, and a portion of the microfluidic analysis channel 732 is disposed over the magnetic field
generator 2240 within the magnetic field.
         [0162] Figures 27A-27B provide an additional embodiment of a reader device 2700
coupled to a cartridge 2702.      The reader device of Figures 27A-27B includes a plurality of
magnets 2740 disposed in series below the dock of the reader 2700, positioned such that when a
cartridge 2702 is coupled to the dock, the magnets 2742, 2744, 2746, 2748 are located below a
plurality of detection sensors 2762, 2764, 2766, 2768, respectively. In embodiments such as the
embodiment of Figure 27A-27B, which are designed to detect the presence, absence, and/or
quantity of a plurality of different target analytes in a sample, modifications are made to both the
design of the cartridge 2702 and the reader 2700 relative to other embodiments described herein.
For example, as described above, the detection of multiple different target analytes requires the
inclusion of multiple populations of magnetic particles and multiple populations of detector
agents and/or competitive binding agents within the first reservoir 2724.        Each population of
magnetic particles, detector agents, and competitive binding agents present in the reservoir 2724
is designed to have affinity to a different target analyte and include a different capture antibody,
capture DNA probe or other affinity molecule.           Additionally, each population of magnetic
particles present in the reservoir 2724 has a unique identifying physical characteristic, such as a
different size, magnetic response, density, or any combination thereof.
                                                  -53-

         [0163] In one embodiment in which multiple populations of magnetic particles are
present to detect the presence of a plurality of different target analytes, dead-end filtration is used
to separate the populations for detection. In such an embodiment, as the magnetic particles flow
out of the first reservoir 2724 and into the analysis channel 2704, a sequence of filters provided
within the analysis channel 2704 are encountered. Moving in a downstream direction, the filters
are ordered by pore size with the first filter having the largest pores and the last filter having the
smallest pores. Each filter is placed in close proximity to a detection mechanism designated to
detect a particular detector agent or a product of a particular detector agent. For example, in
some embodiments, the detection mechanism is an electrochemical sensor designated to detect
oxidation that occurs among a particular population of hybridized magnetic particles. Magnetic
particles smaller than the first filter pore size will pass through the filter with the flow of liquid
down the channel.      Magnetic particles larger than the pore size of the first filter will remain
behind, in close proximity to the first sensor 2762.       Through the use of successive filters of
decreasing pore size, the magnetic particle populations are separated and localized over the
different detection sensors 2760. In this manner, reactions such as oxidation reactions among
different populations of hybridized magnetic particles and target analytes can then be monitored
in the manner described elsewhere herein to identify the presence, absence, and/or quantity of
each of a plurality of target analytes.
         [0164] This process can be enhanced through the use of magnetism. Magnetic particles
of the same material composition vary in their magnetic response with the square of the diameter
of the magnetic particle.      Therefore, a magnetic field will interact differently on magnetic
particles of different size, thus allowing a sorting mechanism to take place. This differential
magnetic response may be exploited in some embodiments to enhance separation speed and
specificity. As the magnetic particles leave the first reservoir, a magnetic field may be applied to
the analysis channel in order to at least partially order the magnetic particles by size. Since larger
magnetic particles will feel the magnetic force more strongly than smaller magnetic particles, the
larger ones will move more slowly downstream relative to the smaller magnetic particles. This
results in a preference for smaller magnetic particles to progress down the analysis channel 2704
                                                  -54-

earlier than larger magnetic particles, which decreases the likelihood of magnetic particle-based
clogging of pores.      Magnetic particle-based clogging of a pore may decrease multiplexing
specificity and may prevent proper testing altogether by restricting the flow of liquid needed to
wash away excess enzyme and to provide chemical substrate to the captured detector agents.
         [0165] In some embodiments, cross flow filtration technology is used to prevent
membrane fouling common with dead-end filtration.           In such embodiments, the magnets or
inductors are positioned to exert a perpendicular or other non-parallel magnetic force relative to
the direction of flow. Such a placement of the aligning magnets or inductors causes magnetic
particles to be pulled to the side of the analysis channel where the filters are located, if they are
of sufficient size to be acted upon by the provided magnet field generator. In such embodiments,
the magnet field sizes are selected such that a magnetic particle will be pulled to the side of the
analysis channel 2704 to encounter a filter just upstream of the first filter having a pore size
smaller than the size of the magnetic particle.
         [0166] Alternatively, the populations of magnetic particles and target analytes can be
separated through the use of magnetism alone.         Because the magnetic force response of a
magnetic particle scales with the square of the diameter of the particle, separation and
localization of magnetic particle populations can be achieved in a single channel without the use
of membranes by providing a plurality of magnets or inductors located on the reader device or
cartridge creating different magnetic field strengths at different locations of the analysis channel
2704. Specifically, moving in a downstream direction, magnetic field generators of increasing
magnetic field strength are encountered. The largest magnetic particles are localized at the first
sensor because they are unable to escape the first magnetic field, which is just strong enough to
capture the largest magnetic particles, but is not strong enough to capture any other size of
magnetic particles. Magnetic particle populations will travel downstream with the flow of liquid
until they are caught by the magnetic field tailored for their particular magnetic particle size
located over a detection sensor 2760 provided for detecting oxidation reactions among their
population. The second weakest magnetic field will capture the population of magnetic particles
with the second largest diameter; the third weakest magnetic field will capture the population of
                                                 -55-

magnetic particles with the third largest diameter, and so on. The smallest magnetic particles are
captured by the strongest magnetic field. This allows each population of magnetic particles to
localize over a different detection sensor and detection proceeds as described above.         The
magnetic fields can be varied through at least a couple methods. In some embodiments, each
magnet or inductor is a different size; the larger the magnet or inductor, the larger its magnetic
field. In other embodiments, such as the embodiment shown in Figures 27A-27B, magnets 2740
are placed at varying depths relative to the plane of the analysis channel 2704. The upstream
most magnet 2748, is placed furthest to the analysis channel 2702, and thus exerts the strongest
magnetic field on the channel 2704. The downstream-most magnet 2742, is placed closest to the
analysis channel 2702, and thus exerts the strongest magnetic field on the channel 2704.
        [0167] Importantly, in various embodiments described herein, the magnetic attraction
between the magnetic particles and the one or more magnet fields is sufficiently strong to cause
the magnetic particles to remain localized over the one or more magnetic field generators as a
wash solution and/or a liquid carrying chemical substrates flows over the magnetic particles.
The Detection System
        [0168] One embodiment of a detection system 2800, which includes the sample
collection device 400 of Figure 4, the cartridge device 700 of Figures 7A-B, and the reader
device 2200 of Figure 22, is provided in Figures 28A and 28B. The devices forming the system
are shown separately, prior to use, in Figure 28A and in a coupled configuration, in use, in
Figure 28B.      The sample collection device 400 of various embodiments, including the
embodiment of Figure 28A, is disposable and configured for one-time use. It may come within
removable sterile packaging. Once inserted into the input tunnel 712 of the cartridge 700, the
sample collection device 400 is locked into a permanent fixed engagement and cannot be used
again. Similarly, the depicted cartridge 700 is disposable and configured for one-time use. Once
the sample collection device 400 locks into place within the input tunnel 712 of the cartridge
700, the cartridge 700 cannot be used again. The cartridge 700, can, however, be removed from
the reader 2200. In various embodiments, the cartridge 700 and the reader 2200 are configured
to be separably coupled, and the cartridge 700 can be inserted and removed from the dock of the
                                                -56-

reader 2200 at least before and after implementation of a detection protocol.             In some
embodiments, the reader 2200 may include a locking mechanism for temporarily locking the
cartridge 700 into place, and limiting removal, during the duration of a detection test cycle. The
reader 2200 of various embodiments is reusable.
        [0169] Additionally, in certain embodiments, the reader 2200, and the entire detection
system 2800, are configured for non-clinical, consumer-directed use. Accordingly, the system
2800 of some embodiments is easy to use and generates results quickly. In some embodiments,
results of a target analyte detection protocol are generated in 30 minutes or less from the time a
sample from a sample collection device 400 is inserted into the system's cartridge 700. In some
embodiments, the results are generated in less than 20 minutes, in some embodiments, less than
10 minutes, and in some embodiments, results are generated in less than 5 minutes.
Additionally, the consumer-directed system of some embodiments is small for an unobtrusive
presence within a home, school, office, or other place of employment. In some embodiments,
the system is less than 30 cm in height, less than 30 cm in width, and less than 30 cm in length;
in some embodiments, the height, width, and length are each less than 20 cm; in some
embodiments, one or more of the height, width, and length are less than 10 cm.             In some
embodiments, the cartridge 700, sample collection device 400, and reader 2200 together form a
system 2800 approximately the size of a smartphone or other mobile computing device. In some
embodiments, the system is sized and configured to be portable.         In such embodiments, in
addition to a compact, hand-held design, all liquids within the sample are properly sealed and
separated such that no leaking or premature oxidation reactions will occur due to jostling of the
system components while on the go.
        [0170] To promote use by lay people in non-clinical settings, the system 2800 of some
embodiments is designed to be "dummy proof' by including a self-activating and self-run
detection protocol. For example, Figure 28B depicts an example in which the cartridge 700 has
been placed into the dock 2210 of the reader 2200 and the sample collection device 400 has been
inserted into the input tunnel 712 of the cartridge 700. In the depicted embodiment, loading the
cartridge 700 into the reader 2200 established an electrical connection between the pins of the
                                                -57-

cartridge 700 and the reader 2200, thereby completing a circuit within the reader 2200, which
automatically activated the reader. Upon being activated, the reader 2200 of some embodiments
activates its sonicator, if present, utilizing the sonicator to detect entry of a sample collection
device 400 into the first reservoir. Upon detection, the reader 2200 of various embodiments is
configured to initiate a detection protocol automatically without any further human intervention.
The automated start ensures that mixing of reagents and sample within the first reservoir occurs
consistently at a fixed time following insertion of the sample collection device, leading to
consistent test results. In other embodiments, where no sonicator is present, the testing protocol
may initiate when a user presses a "go", "run", "start", or other similar button or icon on the
reader 2200 or a remote computing device 2820.
         [0171] As described in more detail below, and as shown in Figures 28A and 28B, in
some embodiments, the system 2800 includes a remote computing device 2820.             The remote
computing device 2820 may be a mobile computing device, such as, for example, a smartphone,
tablet, or wearable device, or a laptop or other computer. As shown in Figure 28A, in some
embodiments, the reader 2200 communicates with the remote computing device 2820 wirelessly.
In other embodiments, a removable wired connection, such as a cable connection, is provided
between the reader 2200 and the remote computing device 2820. In still other embodiments,
such as the embodiment of Figures 29A-B, an analyte reader 2910 having a cartridge docking
station 2915, within the system 2900, removably couples to the remote computing device 2920
directly, for example, by connecting via a plug 2912 into a headphone jack or electrical charging
port.
         [0172] In various embodiments, the remote computing device may be included within the
system: to provide for more computing power and/or more memory; to provide a wireless
transceiver for pulling data from, and transmitting data to, a remote server; and/or to provide a
display screen and user interface.       A remote computing device is not needed within every
embodiment.      For example, as shown in Figure 30, in some embodiments, the reader 3000
includes a processor and memory (not shown), a dock 3015 for a cartridge, as well as a
touchscreen or other user interface 3010.       In such embodiments, the reader is configured to
                                                 -58-

identify the proper test protocol, run the test protocol, analyze the raw results received from the
sensors in the system, and display digital results to a user. The reader of such embodiments may
further include a wireless receiver and transmitter for accessing and transmitting data from
remote servers.
         [0173] One embodiment of an analyte detection system is shown schematically in Figure
31.    Figure 31 provides a schematic illustration of the interactions between computerized
components within one embodiment of an analyte detection system 3100. One skilled in the art
will appreciate that the embodiment is illustrative in nature only and various components may be
added, deleted, or substituted and various different hierarchies and modes of communication
between the devices may be employed. In the depicted example, the detection system 3100 is
formed of a plurality of computerized devices, including a reader 3130, a device having a user
interface 3140, and a server 3150.       While not computerized, the system 3100 additionally
includes a sample collection device 3110 and a cartridge 3120 shown coupled to the reader 3130.
It should be understood that in certain embodiments described with reference to Figure 31, the
reader 3130 may represent any reader embodiment described elsewhere herein, such as for
example, reader 2200, reader 2910, or reader 3000. Similarly, the device having a user interface
3140 may represent any such device described herein, such as the mobile computing device 2820
or 2920. The cartridge 2820 may represent any cartridge embodiment described herein, such as
cartridge 700, 800, or 900 and the sample collection device 2810 may represent any sample
collection device described herein, such as sample collection device 400 or 600. The system
3100 includes a communication network 3160 through which some or all of the various devices
communicate with one another. The network can be a local area network (LAN) or a wide area
network (WAN). In some embodiments, the network is a wireless communication network, such
as, for example, a mobile WiMAX network, LTE network, Wi-Fi network, or other wireless
network. In other embodiments, the communication between the computer having a user
interface 3140 and the server 3150 occurs over the internet via a wired network, such as a DSL
cable connection.
                                                 -59-

         [0174] In some embodiments, the reader 3130 and the device having a user interface
3140 are not separate devices, but rather, are both provided within the reader device 3130, for
example, as shown in Figure 30. In such embodiments, communication between the reader
processor and the user interface occurs internally within the reader 3130 via the transmission of
electrical signals.
         [0175] In other embodiments, the reader 3130 and the device having a user interface
3140 are separate devices. In some embodiments, the device with the user interface 3140 is a
smartphone or other mobile computing device. Communication between the reader 3130 and the
mobile computing device 3140 may occur, wirelessly, for example, using Bluetooth@, near-field
communications, or other radiofrequency technology.         Alternatively, transmission of signals
between the reader 3130 and the mobile computing device 3140 may occur over a cord, cable, or
other wired or direct connection. In various embodiments, the mobile computing device or other
device having a user interface 3140 includes a software application for a front-end, graphical
user interface for presenting test results to a user.
         [0176] In various embodiments, the reader 3130 is configured to control the tests and
processes needed to detect and/or quantify target analyte within a sample. To do so, a significant
amount of information may be stored within the memory of the reader 3130. Alternatively, some
or all of the information may be stored within the server 3150 and accessible by the reader 3130
via the communication network 3160. Such information includes, for example a database of
cartridge keys, which identifies each cartridge type by the signal generated by the cartridge's
unique identifying resistor label. The information also includes test protocols associated with
each cartridge key. The test protocols may specify such details as how long to mix sample
preparation reagents through sonication, the frequency of the sonication, when to heat the
various heat-sensitive valves, etc. The information may also include correlation tables for each
cartridge type, which correlate detected sensor signals to the absence, presence, and/or a specific
quantity of a target analyte. Additionally, the information stored by the reader 3130 and/or the
server 3150 may include one or more past results. In some embodiments, the reader 3130 stores
test results at least until the reader 3130 comes into communication with a remote computing
                                                  -60-

device; at such time, the results may be transmitted to the remote computing device (mobile
computing device 3140 or server 3150) for display and/or long-term storage.
         [0177] In some embodiments, the server 3150 also stores user profiles, which may
include biographical information entered into the system by a user through the device having a
user interface 3140. In some such embodiments, a log of test results for each user is also stored
by the server 3150 and accessible for viewing by the user through transmission of such data to
the device with a user interface 3140.
         [0178] In one embodiment, when a cartridge 3120 is loaded into the reader 3130, the
reader 3130 detects signals from a label, such as a resistor label or electronic barcode, on the
cartridge 3120 to detect the cartridge type. The reader 3130 compares the detected signals to a
database of known label signals or cartridge keys to determine which cartridge type is present. If
the detected label signal is not found within the database of cartridge keys, the reader 3130 may
transmit a message to a server 3150 requesting updates to the database of cartridge keys. The
reader 3130 may transmit the message directly to the server 3150 or indirectly by way of the
mobile computing device 3140. The reader 3130 may additionally receive, directly or indirectly,
data for cartridge key database updates. The data may include new cartridge types and the
cartridge keys and test protocols corresponding to each new cartridge type.                In some
embodiments, the reader 3130 then identifies and implements the test protocol associated with
the detected cartridge type. Upon receiving signals from a detection sensor, the reader 3130 of
some embodiments compares the signals to a correlation table to process the signals and generate
meaningful results. The results may be transmitted to the device with a user interface 3140 for
display to a user. One skilled in the art will appreciate that the various information stored by the
computing devices of the detector system 3100 may be stored by any one or more of the devices
and may be accessible to the other devices through the receipt and transmission of data signals.
The ComputerizedMethods ofDetection
         [0179] As mentioned above, the computerized reader largely controls the operations of
the detection system.     The reader includes a processor and memory, the memory having
instructions stored thereon for implementing various methods needed to successfully detect the
                                                 -61-

presence, absence, and/or quantity of target analyte within a collected sample. For example, an
embodiment of one method performed by the computerized reader in an automated manner is
provided in Figure 32.
         [0180] At block 3202, the computerized reader detects the presence of a cartridge loaded
into or onto the reader. For example, in some embodiments, a cartridge is coupled to the reader
such that electrical leads on the cartridge come into physical contact with electrical pins on the
reader, completing a circuit that turns on the reader and signals the reader to the presence of a
cartridge.
         [0181] At block 3204, the reader detects identification information associated with the
cartridge. For example, the cartridge of some embodiments includes a unique identification key
on its circuit board component, which generates signals unique to the particular cartridge type of
the cartridge, allowing the reader to distinguish between cartridge types. The identification key
may be a resistive element, for example, a surface mount resistor or a resistive ink-based element
having a unique size or shape, or it may be another unique electrical signal generator.
         [0182] The reader's processor receives the unique identification key signals from the
reader's circuitry which detected the signals, and as shown at block 3206, identifies a proper test
protocol for the cartridge based on the unique identification key.      In some embodiments, the
reader's processor compares the unique identification key signals to a database of identification
keys stored in memory. Within the database of some embodiments, each identification key is
associated with a particular cartridge type and test protocol.    If the identification key signals
received from the processor match a key in the database, the corresponding test protocol will be
opened and executed by the processor. If the identification key signals do not match a key in the
database, the processor may communicate with a remote computing device such as a mobile
computing device and/or a server to signal that an unidentifiable cartridge has been detected. In
some embodiments, the reader downloads updates directly from a server or indirectly with the
mobile computing device acting as an intermediary. In some embodiments, when an unknown
cartridge type is detected, a user is prompted via the user interface of the mobile computing
device, to download updates; in other embodiments, the updates are downloaded automatically.
                                                -62-

In various embodiments, the updates include newly developed cartridge identification keys and
test protocols. Once the new identification keys and test protocols are downloaded, they will be
added to the reader's database of supported tests so that future tests with this cartridge type will
automatically be recognized and implemented without the need for communicating with remote
computing devices.
         [0183] As shown at block 3208, in various embodiments, the computerized reader detects
insertion of a sample collection device into a first reservoir of the cartridge. Various processes
can be implemented to accomplish this detection, as provided in more detail in the discussion of
sonication above.     In various embodiments, the reader's processor receives signals from a
sonicator element comprised partially or wholly of a piezoelectric element, in the reader. By
monitoring the sonicator element to identify changes in the signals generated from a mechanical
event within the reservoir, the processor can identify when a change in pressure and/or a change
in resonance and/or a change in a reflected signal (pressure or sound wave) has occurred in the
first reservoir of the cartridge through the ability of the piezoelectric component to transduce
mechanical signals into electric signals which can be amplified and understood through a
combination of circuitry and processor in electronic communication with said piezoelectric
element; such changes are indicative of entry of a sample collection device into the reservoir.
         [0184] At block 3210, the reader's processor sends signals to the sonicator to instruct it
to initiate a sonication protocol to mix a plurality of reagents, affinity molecules, and sample
particles within a liquid disposed within the first reservoir.       In various embodiments, the
resulting mixture includes magnetic particles bound to: target analytes, target analytes and
detector agents, and/or competitive binding agents. As used herein, sandwich complexes refer to
magnetic particles bound directly or indirectly to target analytes and detector agents; competitive
binding complexes refer to magnetic particles bound to competitive binding agents.             Each
sandwich complex and competitive binding complex include a detector agent bound within the
complex. In one embodiment described here, the detector agent is an oxidizing enzyme.
         [0185] As shown at block 3212, in some embodiments, the reader generates a current,
which heats or otherwise stimulates a first heating element, thereby causing heat to transfer to a
                                                -63-

first heat-actuated valve within the cartridge. In some embodiments, this causes the valve to
melt or undergo another phase change, which allows liquid to flow out of the first reservoir into
an analysis channel via capillary action. As the liquid flows, it transports the mixture with it, and
the magnetic particles within the mixture, including magnetic particles within sandwich
complexes and/or competitive binding complexes, localize over one or more magnetic fields
within the analysis channel, forming one or more localized samples.
         [0186] Optionally, at block 3214, the reader generates a current, which heats or otherwise
stimulates a second heating element such that a second valve within the cartridge undergoes a
phase change and a wash solution flows out of a second reservoir into the analysis channel. In
various embodiments, the wash solution removes, from the one or more localized samples,
oxidizing enzymes (or other detector agents) that are not indirectly bound to magnetic particles.
         [0187] At block 3216, the reader generates a current, which heats or otherwise stimulates
a third heating element such that a third valve within the cartridge undergoes a phase change and
a solution of substrates flows out of a third reservoir into the analysis channel.       In various
embodiments, when the detector agent is an oxidizing enzyme, the oxidizing enzymes within the
sandwich complexes and/or competitive binding complexes of each localized sample oxidize the
substrate molecules present in the aqueous media used to transport said substrate molecules. In
embodiments in which sandwich complexes are present, oxidation occurs at an electrochemical
cell formed by an electrochemical sensor and the volume of liquid substantially over it and
electrons flow from the working electrode of the electrochemical sensor to the volume
substantially above said sensor in a quantity proportional to a quantity of target analyte present
within the localized sample.      In embodiments in which competitive binding complexes are
present, oxidation occurs at an electrochemical cell formed by an electrochemical sensor and the
volume of liquid substantially over said sensor and electrons flow from working electrode of the
electrochemical sensor in a quantity inversely proportional to a quantity of target analyte present
within the localized sample.
         [0188] At block 3218, the reader's processor receives from the reader's electric
connector a first signal detected at the electrochemical sensor. In various embodiments, the
                                                -64-

signal is a voltage or current signal. At least a portion of the signal is caused by the oxidation of
the substrate. At block 3220, the reader's processor receives from the reader's electric connector
a second signal detected by a reference sensor. At block 3222, the reader's processor calculates
a resultant signal by subtracting or applying another algorithm to remove the second signal from
the first signal to account for and/or eliminate noise that may be present within the system. At
block 3224, the reader's processor processes and analyzes the resultant signal to identify the
presence and/or quantity of a target analyte.       Optionally, as shown at block 3226, in some
embodiments, the reader transmits signals indicative of a test result to a mobile computing
device for further processing, storage, transmission to a server, and/or display of results to a user.
          [0189]       Although the foregoing has included detailed descriptions of some
embodiments by way of illustration and example, it will be readily apparent to those of ordinary
skill in the art in light of the teachings of these embodiments that numerous changes and
modifications may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the appended claims.
                                                 -65-

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
        1.      A sample analysis cartridge, comprising:
                a housing having internal barriers defining a plurality of reservoirs, an analysis
channel, and an input tunnel,
                         wherein the plurality of reservoirs comprises a first reservoir at least
        partially filled with a first liquid volume comprising sample preparation reagents, a
        second reservoir at least partially filled with a second liquid volume comprising a wash
        solution, and a third reservoir at least partially filled with a third liquid volume
        comprising a chemical substrate,
                         wherein each of the plurality of reservoirs is, at least at times, in fluid
        communication with the analysis channel, and
                         wherein the input tunnel extends from an aperture at a surface of the
        housing to the first reservoir; and
                a circuit board coupled to the housing, the circuit board comprising a plurality of
sensors disposed within a portion of the analysis channel.
        2.      The cartridge of Claim 1, wherein the sample preparation reagents comprise:
                a plurality of magnetic particles having surface-bound affinity molecules;
                a plurality of detector agents; and
                a plurality of agents to facilitate access to the target analyte and binding between
the target analyte and the surface-bound affinity molecules and the detector agents.
        3.      The cartridge of Claim 1, further comprising a membrane disposed between the
input tunnel and the first reservoir, wherein the membrane dry-stores a plurality of competitive
binding agents, each competitive binding agent comprising a pre-bound target analyte bound to a
signaling agent; and wherein the sample preparation reagents in the first reservoir comprise:
                a plurality of magnetic particles having surface-bound affinity molecules, and
                                                   -66-

                a plurality of agents to facilitate access to the target analyte and to facilitate
        binding of the surface-bound affinity molecules to the target analyte or the competitive
        binding agent.
        4.      The cartridge of Claim 2 or 3, wherein the plurality of magnetic particles
comprises magnetic particles of two or more sizes, and wherein each size has a different surface
bound affinity molecule for binding to a different target analyte.
        5.      The cartridge of Claim 1, 2, or 3, further comprising a plurality of valves
corresponding with the plurality of reservoirs, wherein one valve is positioned at each
intersection between one of the plurality of reservoirs and the analysis channel.
        6.      The cartridge of Claim 5, wherein each of the plurality of valves is phase
changeable upon the application of heat, and wherein the circuit board further comprises a
plurality of vias aligned with the plurality of valves and each electrically coupled to a heating
element.
        7.      The cartridge of Claim 1, 2, or 3, further comprising an absorbent material
disposed at a downstream end of the analysis channel.
        8.      The cartridge of Claim 1, 2, or 3, wherein:
                 the housing comprises a cover component, an internal component, and a base
        component coupled together to form a fixed structure;
                the cover component is disposed on a first side of the internal component, the
        base component is disposed on a second side of the internal component, and the circuit
        board is positioned between the internal component and the base component;
                                                   -67-

                features of the cover component and the first side of the internal component
        together define the input tunnel and the plurality of reservoirs; and
                features of the second side of the internal component and the circuit board define
        the analysis channel.
        9.      A sample analysis reader, comprising:
                a magnetic field generator;
                a circuit having a cartridge detection unit;
                a processor having memory with instructions stored thereon; and
                a housing with a dock for coupling to a sample analysis cartridge, wherein when
the sample analysis reader is coupled to the sample analysis cartridge, the magnetic field created
by the magnetic field generator is aligned or substantially aligned with a sensor of the sample
analysis cartridge, and the circuit is electrically coupled to the sensor of the sample analysis
cartridge;
                wherein the sample analysis reader interchangeably couples to a plurality of
sample analysis cartridges.
        10.     The sample analysis reader of Claim 9, further comprising a sonication
component electrically coupled to the circuit, wherein when the sample analysis reader is
coupled to the sample analysis cartridge, the sonication component is aligned with a sample
preparation reservoir in the sample analysis cartridge.
        11.     The sample analysis reader of Claim 10, wherein the sonication component
comprises a piezoelectric component electrically coupled to the processor, the piezoelectric
component positioned to detect: flex in the sample preparation reservoir of the sample analysis
cartridge, a change in a return sound wave, or a shift in resonance frequency upon entry of a
sample collection device into the sample preparation reservoir.
                                                   -68-

         12.    The sample analysis reader of Claim 9, 10, or 11, wherein the magnetic field
generator comprises a permanent magnet.
         13.    The sample analysis reader of Claim 12, wherein the permanent magnet
comprises a plurality of magnets, and wherein, when the sample analysis reader is coupled to the
sample analysis cartridge, the plurality of magnets are aligned with a plurality of sensors lying on
a plane of the sample analysis cartridge, each magnet disposed at a different depth relative to the
plane.
         14.    The sample analysis reader of Claim 11, wherein the processor is configured to
execute the instructions stored in memory, which when executed, cause the processor to perform
a method comprising:
                identify a proper test protocol for the coupled sample analysis cartridge based at
least in part on cartridge identification information received from the circuit;
                stimulate the piezoelectric component to generate a test signal within the sample
preparation reservoir and to detect a return signal;
                receive the return signal or a resonance signal from the piezoelectric component;
                detect entry of a sample collection device into the sample preparation reservoir
based at least in part on a change in the return signal or a shift in the resonance signal of the
piezoelectric component;
                initiate a sonication protocol for the sonication component to mix reagents and
sample particles within a liquid disposed within the sample preparation reservoir, wherein
mixing facilitates hybridization of at least some of the reagents with the sample particles;
                receive, via the circuit, detection signals generated by the sensor of the sample
analysis cartridge; and
                process the detection signals.
                                                  -69-

        15.    The sample analysis reader of Claim 14, wherein the method performed by the
processor further comprises: transmit data based at least in part on the voltage signals to a mobile
computing device or display device.
        16.    The sample analysis reader of Claim 14 or 15, wherein the method performed by
the processor further comprises transmitting a signal to the electrical circuit to deliver an electric
current sequentially to a plurality of heating elements.
        17.    A molecule detection system, comprising:
               a cartridge device, which comprises:
                         a cartridge housing having internal barriers defining a plurality of
               reservoirs, an analysis channel, and an input tunnel, and
                        a circuit board coupled to form a wall of the analysis channel and
               comprising a plurality of sensors disposed within a portion of the analysis
               channel;
               a reader device removably coupled to the cartridge device, comprising:
                        a magnetic field generator aligned with the sensor;
                        a circuit electrically coupled to the sensor;
                        a processor having memory with instructions stored thereon; and
                        a reader housing in which the magnetic field generator, circuit, and
               processor are located, the reader housing defining a dock which receives at least a
               portion of the sample analysis cartridge; and
               a sample collection device sized to fit at least partially within the input tunnel.
                                                  -70-

        18.     The molecule detection system of Claim 17, further comprising a sonication
component electrically coupled to the circuit and aligned with a first of the plurality of
reservoirs, the sonication component forming a component of the cartridge device or the reader
device.
        19.     A specialized computer for non-clinical disease detection, comprising:
                a dock for engaging at least a portion of a disease detection cartridge, the dock
        positioned on or within the computer;
                circuitry for detecting signals generated, at least in part, as a result of a signaling
        agent localized in an analysis zone of the disease detection cartridge; and
                a processor having memory with instructions stored thereon,
                wherein, upon engagement with the disease detection cartridge, the processor
        executes instructions, which cause the processor to perform a method comprising:
                        detect a classification of the disease detection cartridge from signals
                received from the circuitry,
                        initiate a testing protocol specific to the classification, and
                        generate disease detection results specific to the classification in less than
                thirty minutes.
        20.     The specialized computer of Claim 19, wherein the computer is less than 30 cm in
height, less than 30 cm in width, and less than 30 cm in length.
        21.     The specialized computer of Claim 19 or 20, wherein the method performed by
the processor further comprises transmitting the disease detection results to a remote computing
device.
                                                  -71-

        22.     A self-contained analyte detection kit, which securely stores, during and after
analyte detection, all collected sample and all liquids needed to detect a specific analyte, the kit
comprising:
                a one-time-use sample collection device; and
                a one-time-use detection unit comprising:
                         an input tunnel sized to securely and permanently receive the sample
                collection device, and
                        a plurality of compartments, which separately and securely store reagents
                and a substrate,
                        wherein the input tunnel extends from an aperture on a surface of the
                detection unit to an entryway of a first compartment holding the reagents,
                        wherein, prior to insertion of the sample collection device, a flexible
                membrane covers the entryway of the first compartment to block flow of the
                reagents into the input tunnel,
                        wherein complementary locking features are disposed on the sample
                collection device and in the receiving channel to restrict movement of the sample
                collection device relative to the detection unit upon insertion of the sample
                collection device into the input tunnel, and
                        wherein the sample collection device and input tunnel are sized to form a
                liquid-tight seal as the sample collection device advances into the input tunnel.
        23.     A method for detecting a disease without a healthcare provider or technician
present, the method comprising:
                rubbing an internal passage of a user's nose with a swab to collect a sample;
                placing a cartridge, which houses all reagents and substrates needed to perform a
disease-detection testing protocol, into or onto a specialized computer configured to detect the
cartridge; and
                                                  -72-

                 inserting the swab into the cartridge such that the swab locks into place within the
cartridge and cannot be removed, wherein the specialized computer senses the insertion of the
swab and initiates a testing protocol, whereby the specialized computer detects the presence or
absence of a particular disease within the sample via the testing protocol in less than 30 minutes.
         24.     The method of Claim 23, further comprising reading results of the test from a
remote computing device, wherein the results were transmitted from the specialized computer to
the remote computing device via a wired or wireless communication connection.
         25.     A method for detecting the presence, absence, and/or quantity of a target analyte
within a sample, the method comprising:
                 loading a cartridge into or onto an analyte reader, wherein the cartridge comprises
a first reservoir filled at least partially with reagents, a second reservoir filled at least partially
with a wash solution, and a third reservoir filled at least partially with a substrate;
                 removing a sample collection device from a sterile package;
                 contacting a body fluid with a tip of the sample collection device to collect a
sample;
                 inserting the sample collection device into the cartridge until at least the tip enters
the first reservoir,
                 wherein inserting the tip of the sample collection device into the first reservoir
activates the analyte reader, causing a sonication device within the analyte reader to perform a
sonication protocol to mix the sample collected by the sample collection device with the reagents
in the first reservoir, and causing a series of heating elements to sequentially melt a series of
valves positioned within or near the first, second, and third reservoirs, thereby sequentially
releasing the contents of the first, second, and third reservoirs into an analysis zone for analysis
by the analyte reader.
                                                    -73-

        26.      The method of Claim 25, wherein inserting the tip of the sample collection device
into the cartridge comprises advancing the sample collection device into an input tunnel of the
cartridge until: the tip of the sample collection device breaks a membrane barrier disposed at a
distal end of the input tunnel, the tip enters the first reservoir, and the sample collection device
locks into fixed engagement with the cartridge with a liquid-tight seal formed between the
sample collection device and the input tunnel.
        27.      A method for detecting the presence, absence, and/or quantity of a target analyte
within a sample, the method performed by a computerized analyte reader and comprising:
                 detecting the presence of a cartridge loaded into or onto the analyte reader and
        detecting identification information associated with the cartridge;
                 identifying a proper test protocol for the cartridge based at least in part on the
        identification information;
                 detecting a sample collection device inserted into a first reservoir of the cartridge;
                 initiating a protocol to mix a plurality of reagents, a plurality of magnetic
        particles, a plurality of detector agents or competitive binding agents, and a plurality of
        sample particles within the first reservoir, wherein:
                          if detector agents are provided, a resulting mixture comprises: a plurality
                 of sandwich complexes formed of a target analyte bound to both a surface affinity
                 molecule on a surface of a magnetic particle and a detector agent, and
                          if competitive binding agents are provided, a resulting mixture comprises:
                 a plurality of molecule complexes each formed of a competitive binding agent
                 bound to a surface affinity molecule on a surface of a magnetic particle;
                 stimulating a first heating element such that a first valve within the cartridge melts
        and the mixture flows out of the first reservoir into an analysis channel via capillary
        action, wherein the magnetic particles within the mixture localize over a magnetic field
        within a portion of the analysis channel, forming a localized sample;
                                                    -74-

                stimulating a second heating element such that a second valve within the cartridge
        melts and a wash solution flows out of a second reservoir into the analysis channel,
        wherein the wash solution removes, from the localized sample, detector agents or
        competitive binding agents that are not indirectly bound to magnetic particles;
                stimulating a third heating element such that a third valve within the cartridge
        melts and a solution of substrates flows out of a third reservoir into the analysis channel,
        wherein the detector agents or competitive binding agents within the localized sample
        comprise oxidizing enzymes that oxidize the substrate, causing electrons to flow from an
        electrochemical sensor at the site of the localized sample, wherein:
                if detector agents are present, electrons flow in a quantity proportional to a
        quantity of target analyte present within the localized sample, and
                if competitive binding agents are present, electrons flow in a quantity inversely
        proportional to a quantity of target analyte present within the localized sample;
                detecting a first signal at a recording sensor located near the analysis channel,
        wherein at least a portion of the first signal results from the oxidation of the substrate;
                detecting a second signal at a reference sensor;
                calculating a resultant signal by applying an algorithm to remove the second
        signal from the first signal to eliminate noise;
                processing and analyzing the resultant signal to identify the presence and/or
        quantity of target analyte; and
                transmitting signals indicative of a test result to a mobile computing device.
        28.     A method for detecting the presence, absence, and/or quantity of a plurality of
target analytes within a sample, the method performed by a computerized analyte reader and
comprising:
                detecting the presence of a cartridge loaded into or onto the analyte reader and
        detecting identification information associated with the cartridge;
                                                   -75-

        identifying a proper test protocol for the cartridge based at least in part on the
identification information;
        detecting a sample collection device inserted into a first reservoir of the cartridge;
        initiating a sonication protocol to mix within the first reservoir:
                  a plurality of reagents,
                 a plurality of magnetic particles comprising at least: a plurality of large
        magnetic particles each having a first surface affinity molecule on its surface
        configured to bind to a first target analyte, and a plurality of small magnetic
        particles each having a second surface affinity molecule on its surface configured
        to bind to a second target analyte,
                 a plurality of detector agents each comprising an oxidizing enzyme, and
                 a plurality sample particles,
                 wherein a resulting mixture comprises a plurality of sandwich complexes,
        each formed of a target analyte bound to both a surface affinity molecule on a
        surface of a magnetic particle and a detector agent;
        stimulating a first heating element such that a first valve within the cartridge melts
and the mixture flows out of the sample preparation reservoir into an analysis channel,
wherein the magnetic particles within the mixture, including magnetic particles bound to
target analyte within sandwich complexes, localize over a plurality of magnets within a
portion of the analysis channel forming a plurality of localized samples, wherein the
magnetic particles localize over the magnets based on size and strength such that the
large magnetic particles localize over a smaller upstream magnet and the small magnetic
particles localize over a larger downstream magnet;
        stimulating a second heating element such that a second valve within the cartridge
melts and a wash solution flows out of a second reservoir into the analysis channel,
wherein the wash solution removes, from the plurality of localized samples, detector
agents that are not indirectly bound to magnetic particles;
        stimulating a third heating element such that a third valve within the cartridge
melts and a solution of substrates flows out of a third reservoir into the analysis channel,
                                           -76-

         wherein the oxidizing enzymes within the sandwich complexes of the plurality of
         localized samples oxidize the substrate and a first recording sensor is reduced, causing
         electrons to flow from the first recording sensor;
                 detecting a first signal at the first recording sensor located near the smaller
         magnet, wherein at least a portion of the first signal is caused by the oxidation of the
         substrate;
                 detecting a second signal at a second recording sensor located near the larger
         magnet, wherein at least a portion of the second signal is caused by the oxidation of the
         substrate;
                 detecting a reference signal at a reference sensor;
                 calculating a first resultant signal by applying an algorithm to remove the
         reference signal from the first signal to eliminate noise;
                 processing and analyzing the first resultant signal to identify the presence and/or
         quantity of the first target analyte;
                 calculating a second resultant signal by applying an algorithm to remove the
         reference signal from the second signal to eliminate noise; and
                 processing and analyzing the second resultant signal to identify the presence
         and/or quantity of the second target analyte.
         29.     The method of Claim 28, further comprising transmitting signals indicative of a
test result to a mobile computing device.
         30.     The method of Claim 28 or 29, wherein the mixture is suspended in a solution,
and wherein the solution acts as a transport medium transporting the mixture from the first
reservoir into the analysis channel towards a downstream absorbent material via capillary action.
                                                     -77-

        31.     The method of Claim 28 or 29, wherein the first signal is proportional to a
quantity of the first target analyte present within the localized samples and the second signal is
proportional to a quantity of the second target analyte present within the localized samples.
                                                  -78-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2702>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2702>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2702>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2702> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2702>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2702><U+2702><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702>

