                                        ABSTRACT
           A printing technique is presented for efficiently printing (i.e. with production
  lines rates at high resolution and high accuracy) on outer surfaces of a plurality of
  objects passing in an optimized stream through a printing route/zone. According to this
5 technique, at least one array of printing head units is provided being configured to
  define at least one printing route along a printing axis, where the at least one printing
  route is a substantially linear segment of a closed loop lane along which the objects are
  progressing.
  1002024453

                                                -1
                             PRINTING SYSTEM AND METHOD
   RELATED APPLICATIONS
                    Incorporated      herein    by    reference,     in   its     entirety,   is
   PCT/IL2013/050946 (published as WO 2014/076704), filed on 14 November 2013.
   TECHNOLOGICAL FIELD
            The invention is generally in the field of digital printing and relates to printing
   system and method, in particular for printing on a curved surface.
   BACKGROUND
 5          Digital printing is a printing technique commonly used in the printing industry,
   as it allows for on-demand printing, short turn-around, and even a modification of the
   image (variable data) with each impression. Some of the techniques developed for
   printing on a surface of a three-dimensional object are described hereinbelow.
            US Patent No. 7,467,847 relates to a printing apparatus adapted for printing on a
10 printing surface of a three-dimensional object. The apparatus comprises an inkjet
   printhead having a plurality of nozzles, and being operative to effect relative movement
   of the printhead and the object, during printing, with a rotational component about an
   axis of rotation and with a linear component, in which the linear component is at least
   partially in a direction substantially parallel with the axis of rotation and wherein the
15 nozzle pitch of the printhead is greater than the grid pitch to be printed onto the printing
   surface in the nozzle row direction.
            US Patent No. 6,769,357 relates to a digitally controlled can printing apparatus
   for printing on circular two-piece cans, the apparatus including digital print-heads for
   printing an image on the cans and drives for transporting and rotating the cans in front
20 of the print-heads in registered alignment.
            US Patent Application No. 2010/0295885 describes an ink jet printer for
   printing on a cylindrical object using printheads positioned above a line of travel and a
   carriage assembly configured to hold the object axially aligned along the line of travel
   1 AA AiA 2

                                                -2
   and to position the object relative to the printheads, and rotate it relative to the
   printheads. A curing device located along the line of travel is used to emit energy
   suitable to cure the deposited fluid.
   GENERAL DESCRIPTION
 5           There is a need in the art for printing techniques that allow expediting the
   printing process while enabling maximal utilization (high efficiency) of the printing
   technology by allowing simultaneous printing on a plurality of objects. It is also
   required that such printing techniques retain a relatively high printing resolution, with
   very high system accuracies (microns), which makes inkjet printing technology very
10 challenging for real production line use. Therefore, maintaining a high efficiency level
   by maximizing the printing engine utilization is necessary in such techniques to perform
   production runs.
            In the above-mentioned patent publications (US 7,467,847 and US 6,769,357),
   printing takes place at discrete printing stations and is interrupted while the object is
15 transported between printing stations. This interruption significantly slows the printing
   process. The inventor of the present invention has developed novel printing techniques
   enabling conducting a fast and efficient printing process on curved (and/or flat) surfaces
   of a plurality of objects streamed into the printing system from a production line.
             The present invention is aimed at expediting the printing process, by providing a
20 print head assembly which includes a plurality of print head units, where the print head
   units are arranged in a corresponding plurality of different (e.g., spaced-apart) locations
   along an axis of translation. In particular, in some embodiments a closed loop lane is
   used in the printing system to manage at least one stream of objects from a production
   line and move the stream of object over the lane through one or more stages of the
25 printing process. A printing zone is defined along a section of the closed loop lane
   wherein a printing assembly is operatively installed for printing on external surfaces of
   the objects traversing the printing zone by at least one array of print head units of the
   print head assembly.
             The at least one array of print head units is preferably configured to define at
30 least one printing route along a printing axis for advancing the stream of objects
   therealong while printing over their external surfaces by the print head units of the
   assembly. The print head assembly may comprise several arrays of print head units,
   1002024453

                                                -3
   each configured to define at least one printing route along the printing axis and which
   may be used for passing additional streams of objects therealong for printing on the
   objects. For example, and without being limiting, each print head array may comprise
   one or more aligned columns of print head units, wherein the print head units in each
 5 column have a predefined slant defining a specific orientation of each column of print
   head units to thereby direct their printing elements (e.g., printing nozzles for ejecting a
   material composition, markers, engraving tools, laser markers, paint markers) towards a
   specific printing path covered by the array.
             The lane may comprise a conveyor system configured to convey the stream of
10 objects along the lane and pass the objects through one or more zones of the lane
   adapted for carrying out various functionalities of the system. One or more support
   platforms (also referred to herein as carriages) may be used in the conveyor system to
   translate the stream of objects over the lane. In some embodiments each support
   platform is configured to be loaded with at least one stream of objects from the
15 production line and slide the objects over the lane through its one or more zones for
   processing and treatment. The support platform may be configured to maintain a stream
   of objects loaded thereto and aligned with respect to one or more printing routes defined
   by the print head assembly, and controllably rotate the objects carried by the platform
   whenever passing through certain zones of the lane (e.g., the printing zone).
20           The lane may include loading and unloading zones configured to receive one or
   more such streams of objects, and for removing the objects therefrom after completing
   the printing (typically requiring a single loop travel over the lane). A priming zone may
   be also defined on a section of the lane, typically upstream to the loading zone, wherein
   the surface areas of the loaded objects undergo a pre-treatment process designed to
25 prepare the surface areas of the objects for the printing process. The lane may further
   comprise a curing zone, typically upstream to the printing zone, wherein the objects
   exiting the printing zone undergo a curing process (e.g., ultra violet - UV) to cure
   material compositions applied to their external surfaces.
            In some embodiments, projections of the print head units on the axis of
30 translations fall on different portions of the axis of translation. In this setup, the
   conveyor system effects a relative motion between the objects and the print head units.
   The relative motion provides both (i) a rotational motion around the axis of translation
   for bringing desired regions of the object's surface to the vicinity of the desired print
   1002024453

                                                -4
   head units and (ii) a translational motion along the axis of translation needed for
   bringing the object from one of print head units to a successive print head unit. This
   enables two or more print head units to print on the same object simultaneously. In the
   techniques of the present application the objects may be printed upon while being
 5 moved between groups of print head units. In this manner, the printing process is
   accelerated, and high printing throughput can be achieved. Additionally, the
   configuration of the printing system simultaneously prints on more than one object at
   the same time, by exposing consecutive objects to the arrays of print head units. It is
   further noted that the array of print head units is suitable for printing also on long
10 objects at a variety of diameters.
             The printing may be performed continuously (continuous printing) or in discrete
   steps (step printing). If the printing is continuous, the relative motion between object
   and print head units includes concurrent translation along the axis of translation and
   rotation around the axis of translation. In this manner printing of image data on the
15 object's surface occurs along a substantially spiral path. If the printing occurs in discrete
   steps, a relative translation between the object and the print heads brings desired regions
   of the object in the vicinity of one or more groups. The translation is stopped, and a
   relative rotation is effected, in order to enable circumferential printing on the object's
   surface.
20          In some embodiments the print head assembly includes a plurality of groups of
   printing heads. Each group includes at least two print head units arranged in different
   locations along a curved path around said axis of translation and surrounding a
   respective region of the axis of translation.
             Therefore, an aspect of some embodiments of the present application relates to a
25 printing system configured for printing on an outer curved surface of a volumetric
   object. The system comprises a conveyor system and a print head assembly. The
   conveyor system is configured for effecting a relative translation between the object and
   the print head assembly along an axis of translation, and for effecting a relative rotation
   between the object and the print head assembly around the axis of translation. The print
30 head assembly comprises a plurality of print head units, arranged such that projections
   of different print head units on the axis of translations fall on different portions of the
   axis of translation, each of the print head units having at least one nozzle and/or ejection
   1002024453

                                                -5
   aperture (also referred to herein as printing element) for ejecting a material composition
   onto the object's surface.
            In a variant, the print head assembly further comprises additional print head
   units, such that the print head units are arranged in a plurality of groups, at least one
 5 group comprising at least two of the print head units arranged along a curved path
   around the axis of translation, and each group surrounding a respective region of the
   axis of translation.
            In another variant, the printing system comprises a control unit configured to
   operate the conveyor system to carry out said translation and rotation and to operate at
10 least some of the print head units according to a predetermined pattern.
             The control unit may be configured to operate the conveyor system and at least
   some of the print head units, so as to effect simultaneous printing of image data on the
   object's surface by at least two print head units, each belonging to a respective one of
   the groups.
15           Optionally, the control unit is configured to operate the conveyor system and at
   least some of the print head units, so as to effect simultaneous printing of image data on
   the object's surface by different printing elements of a single one of the print head units.
             The control unit may be configured to operate the conveyor system and at least
   some of the print head units, so as to effect simultaneous printing of image data on the
20 object's surface by at least two print head units belonging to a single one of the groups.
            In a variant, the conveyor system is configured for moving the object along the
   axis of translation. In another variant, the conveyor system is configured for moving the
   print head assembly along the axis of translation. In yet another variant, the conveyor
   system is configured for rotating the object around the axis of translation. In a further
25 variant, the conveyor system is configured for rotating the print head assembly around
   the axis of translation.
            In some embodiments the control unit is configured to operate the conveyor
   system to carry out the translation in a step-like fashion and to carry out the rotation at
   least during a time interval in which translation does not occur, and to operate at least
30 some of the print head units to carry out the printing during the time interval in which
   translation does not occur and rotation occurs.
            In some embodiments the control unit is configured for operating the conveyor
   system to carry out the translation and rotation simultaneously while operating at least
   1002024453

                                                -6
   some of the print head units to effect printing, such that continuous printing of image
   data is performed on the object's surface along at least one substantially spiral path.
            In a variant, said conveyor system is further configured for effecting a relative
   motion between the object and the print head assembly along one or more radial axes
 5 substantially perpendicular to the axis of translation, in order to maintain a desired
   distance between at least one print head unit and the object's surface, while said at least
   one print head unit prints data on said surface.
            In another variant, the conveyor system is configured for displacing at least one
   of the print head units to move towards and away from the translation axis.
10          In yet another variant, the conveyor system is configured and operable for
   displacing said at least one of said print head units with respect to the translation axis
   before operating the print head assembly to print the image data.
            In a further variant, the conveyor system is configured and operable for
   displacing said at least one of the print head units with respect to the translation axis
15 during the printing of the image data.
            In yet a further variant, the conveyor system is configured and operable to
   operate said displacement to adjust a position of said at least one print head unit to
   conform to a shape of the surface of the object which is to undergo said printing.
            In some embodiments of the present invention, the control unit is configured to
20 operate said displacement of said at least one print head unit between an inoperative
   passive position and an operative active position of said at least one print head unit.
            In a variant, the print head units of the same group are configured for ejecting a
   material composition of the same color. In another variant, each of the groups of print
   head units is configured for ejecting a material composition of a respective color.
25          In yet another variant, the printing system comprises at least one curing unit
   configured for curing a material composition ejected by any print head unit on the
   object's outer surface, the curing unit being located downstream along the translation
   axis of a last one of said print head units.
            In a further variant, the printing system comprises at least one priming unit
30 configured for priming at least one location of the object's surface to receive a
   composition to be ejected by at least one of the print head units, the priming unit being
   located upstream along the translation axis of a last one of said print head units. In yet a
   further variant, the printing system comprises at least a second curing unit located
   1002024453

                                                -7
   between print head units belonging to the same group. Optionally, the printing system
   comprises at least a second priming unit located between print head units belonging to
   the same group.
            In a variant, projections along the translation axis of the print head units of at
 5 least one group fall on a single region of the translation axis. In another variant, the
   print head units of at least one of the groups are staggered, such that projections along
   the translation axis of at least two of the print head units of the at least one group fall on
   a different regions of the translation axis. In yet another variant, different print head
   units are configured for ejecting respective material composition on a region of the
10 object's surface, such that a combination of the respective compositions on the object's
   surface forms a desired composition.
            In a further variant, successive printing elements (e.g., nozzles and/or ejection
   apertures) of at least one of the print head units are configured for ejecting respective
   compositions on a region of the object's surface, such that a combination of the
15 respective compositions on the object's surface forms a desired composition.
             Optionally, the combination of the respective compositions comprises at least
   one of a mixing between the respective compositions and a chemical reaction between
   the respective compositions.
            In yet another aspect there is provided a printing system for printing on outer
20 surfaces of objects progressing on a production line. The system may comprise one or
   more print head assemblies comprising an array of print head units configured to define
   at least one printing route along a printing axis, the print head units being arranged in a
   spaced-apart relationship along the at least one printing route, each of the print head
   units having at least one printing element (e.g., comprising at least one of a nozzle for
25 ejecting a material composition, a marker, an engraving tool, a laser marker, and a paint
   marker) for printing onto respective portions of the objects successively aligned with
   the at least one printing element while moving with respect to the print head assembly.
   A conveyor system is used for moving at least one stream of objects in a successive
   manner along a general conveying direction through said at least one printing route, the
30 conveyor system comprising a closed loop lane, said at least one printing route being a
   substantially linear segment of said closed loop lane.
             The system may comprise a support platform for supporting the at least one
   stream of objects respectively. The support platform is mountable on the conveyor
   1002024453

                                               -8
   system for moving the objects along the general conveying direction passing through
   the at least one printing route and configured to effect rotation of the objects about the
   printing axis while moving along the printing route.
            In a possible embodiment the print head assembly comprises at least one
 5 additional array of the print head units, such that the printing units of the at least one
   additional print head array are arranged along at least one additional printing route
   along the printing axis, and at least two of the printing units in each one of the at least
   two arrays being spaced-apart along an axis traverse to the printing axis. Accordingly,
   the support platform may be configured to support at least one additional stream of
10 objects and to move them on the conveyor system along the general conveying direction
   passing through the at least one additional printing route. For example, and without
   being limiting, the print head units of the at least two arrays may be arranged in a
   common plane such that each array of the print head units define a respective printing
   route, where the conveyor system and the support platform are configured for
15 simultaneously moving the at least two streams of objects along the at least two printing
   routes covered by the respective at least two arrays of the printing head units.
            In some embodiments a control unit is used to operate the conveyor system to
   carry out the translational movement along the general conveying direction, to operate
   the support platform to carry out the rotational movement, and to operate at least some
20 of the print head units to concurrently print on the objects of the at least one stream of
   objects. The control unit may be configured to operate the support platform to carry out
   the rotational movement.
              In some embodiments the control unit is configured to operate the conveyor
   system to carry out the translational movement along the general conveying direction in
25 a step-like fashion, and to operate the support platform to carry out the rotation at least
   during a time interval in which translational movement does not occur, and to operate at
   least some of the print head units to carry out the printing during the time interval in
   which translation does not occur and rotation occurs.
             Optionally, the control unit may be configured for operating the conveyor
30 system and the support platform to carry out the translation and rotation simultaneously
   while operating at least some of the print head units to effect printing, such that
   substantially continuous printing of image data is performed on the surfaces of the
   objects in the stream of objects along a spiral path.
   1002024453

                                                 -9
            In a variant, the control unit is configured to operate the conveyor system and at
   least some of the print head units, so as to effect simultaneous printing of image data on
   surfaces of the objects by at least two print head units belonging to different arrays of
   print head units.
 5          In some embodiments the control unit is configured and operable to effect a
   change in a distance between at least one print head unit and the object surface aligned
   with the at least one print head unit to thereby adjust a position of the at least one print
   head unit to conform to a shape of the surface of the object.
            In a possible embodiment the print head units may be mounted for movement
10 along radial axes or one or more axes substantially perpendicular to the printing axis.
             Optionally, the control unit is configured to selectively shift one or more of the
   print head units between an inoperative passive state and an operative active state
   thereof, and between different operative states thereof.
            In some possible embodiments the control unit is configured to generate a
15 virtual signal for synchronizing operation of the printing elements according to angular
   and linear positions of the objects carried by the support platform along the printing
   route. More particularly, the virtual signal is used to synchronize the location of the
   carriages and the angular position of the objects carried by the carriages in the printing
   zone and operate the printing heads to apply a predetermined pattern to the surfaces of
20 the objects after adjusting the location of the carriages and the angular orientation of the
   objects according to the virtual signal.
            In yet another aspect there is provided a method of printing on outer surfaces of
   objects from a production line, the method comprising passing at least one stream of
   said objects through a printing route comprising at least one array of printing head units
25 arranged along a printing axis, receiving data indicative of locations of the stream of
   objects passing through the printing route and of angular orientation of each object in
   the stream, determining, based on the received data, surface areas of the objects facing
   the print head units of the at least one array, and one or more printing patterns to be
   applied on the surface areas by the respective print head units, and operating the array
30 of print head units to apply the one or more patterns on the surface area by the
   respective printing head units.
              The method may comprise rotating the objects passing through the printing
   route during application of the one or more patterns. Optionally, the stream of objects
   1002024453

                                              - 10
   are advanced along the at least one printing route during application of the one or more
   patterns. In some embodiments a pre-treatment process is applied to surface areas of the
   stream objects before passing them through the printing route. A curing process may be
   also applied to surface areas of the stream of objects before passing them through the
 5 printing route.
             The method may further comprise generating a virtual signal for synchronizing
   operation of the printing head units according to angular and linear positions of the
   objects progressing through the printing route.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
10          In order to better understand the subject matter that is disclosed herein and to
   exemplify how it may be carried out in practice, embodiments will now be described,
   by way of non-limiting example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in
   which:
            Fig. 1 schematically illustrates a printing system according to some possible
15 embodiments employing a closed loop lane to translate objects therealong;
            Figs. 2A and 2B are schematic drawings illustrating different examples of a
   print head assembly according to some embodiments, which includes a plurality of print
   head units located at successive positions along an axis of translation;
            Figs. 3A and 3B are schematic drawings illustrating possible arrangements of
20 printing elements on single print head units, according to some possible embodiments;
            Figs. 4A and 4B are schematic drawings illustrating different views of the
   printing array according to some possible embodiments, which includes a plurality of
   groups of print head units located at successive positions along an axis of translation;
            Figs. 5A and 5B are schematic drawings exemplifying use of a conveyor system
25 according to some possible embodiments;
            Figs. 6A and 6B are schematic drawings illustrating some possible embodiments
   in which the print head units are controllably movable;
            Figs. 7A and 7B are schematic drawings exemplifying possible embodiments in
   which the print head units are controllably movable to fit a shape of the object, before
30 and during rotation of the object;
   1002024453

                                               - 11
            Fig. 8A is a schematic drawing exemplifying some embodiments in which the
   print head units belonging to the same group are positioned at the same location along
   the axis of translation;
            Fig. 8B is a schematic drawing exemplifying some embodiments in which the
 5 print head units belonging to the same group are staggered, being positioned at different
   locations along the axis of translation;
            Fig. 9A is schematic drawing exemplifying some embodiments in which at least
   one curing/fixing station is located at the end of the print unit assembly, downstream of
   the last group of print head units and/or in which at least one priming/pretreatment
10 station is located at the beginning of the print unit assembly, upstream from first group
   of print head units;
            Fig. 9B is schematic drawing exemplifying some embodiments in which at least
   one curing/fixing station and/or priming/pretreatment station is located between two
   successive groups of print head units;
15          Fig. 9C is a schematic drawing exemplifying some embodiments in which a
   plurality of curing/fixing and/or priming/pretreatment stations are positioned one after
   the other along the axis of translation;
            Fig. 9D is a schematic drawing exemplifying some embodiments in which at
   least one curing/fixing and/or priming/pretreatment unit is located between print head
20 units of the same group;
            Figs 10A to 10C are schematic drawings illustrating some embodiments in
   which first and second compositions are jetted on the same location of the object's
   surface by print head units of first and second groups respectively, in order to print the
   location with a third composition which is formed by a combination of the first and
25 second compositions;
            Figs. 11A to 1iC are schematic drawings illustrating some embodiments in
   which first and second compositions are jetted on the same location of the object's
   surface by different nozzles belonging to a single print head unit, in order to print the
   location with a third composition which is formed by a combination of the first and
30 second compositions;
            Figs 12A to 12C are schematic drawings illustrating some embodiments in
   which first and second compositions are jetted on the same location of the object's
   surface by respectively first and second print head units of the same group, in order to
   1002024453

                                               - 12
   print the location with a third composition which is formed by a combination of the first
   and second compositions;
            Fig. 13A and 13B are schematic drawings exemplifying possible embodiment in
   which printing units belonging to different groups are located at the same position
 5 around the axis of translation, and are organized in bars/columns;
            Fig. 14 is a block diagram illustrating a control unit usable according to some
   possible embodiments to control the conveyor system and print head assembly
   according to one or more kinds of input data;
            Fig. 15 schematically illustrates a conveyor system according to some possible
10 embodiments;
            Figs. 16A and 16B schematically illustrate arrangement of the print head
   assembly in the form of an array according to some possible embodiments;
            Fig. 17 schematically illustrates a carriage and an arrangement of mandrels
   mounted thereon, configured to hold objects to be printed on and translate and rotate
15 them over the conveyor system;
            Fig. 18 schematically illustrates a carriage loaded with a plurality of objects to
   be printed entering a printing zone of the system;
            Fig. 19 schematically illustrates simultaneous printing on a plurality of objects
   attached to three different carriages traversing the printing zone;
20          Fig. 20 schematically illustrates a mandrel arrangement according to some
   possible embodiments; and
            Figs. 21A to 21C schematically illustrate possible control schemes usable in
   some possible embodiments.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
25           The various embodiments of the present invention are described below with
   reference to Figs. 1 through 20 of the drawings, which are to be considered in all
   aspects as illustrative only and not restrictive in any manner. Elements illustrated in the
   drawings are not necessarily to scale, emphasis instead being placed upon clearly
   illustrating the principles of the invention. This invention may be provided in other
30 specific forms and embodiments without departing from the essential characteristics
   described herein.
   1002024453

                                                - 13
            Fig. 1 schematically illustrates a printing system 17 according to some possible
   embodiments employing a closed loop lane 10 (e.g., elliptical track) to translate objects
   to be printed on (not shown) therealong towards a printing zone 12z provided in the lane
   10 and comprising one or more printing head assemblies 100 (e.g., comprising printing
 5 heads of various colors). The printing system 17 in this non-limiting example comprises
   a loading zone 3061 configured for automatic loading of a plurality of objects to be
   printed on, from a production line. The loading zone 3061 may comprise a loading unit
   employing an independent controller and one or more sensors, motors mechanics and
   pneumatics elements, and being configured to communicate measured sensor data with
10 a control unit 300 of the printing system 17 for timing, monitoring and managing the
   loading process. In some embodiments, the loading unit is configured to load a stream
   of objects to the system's lane at the same accurate index (used for marking printing
   start point on the surface of the object e.g., in cases in which the object has a previous
   mark or cap orientation).
15          In some embodiments the loaded objects are attached to a plurality of carriages
   C1 , C2 , C3,...,C.-, Cn (also referred to herein as support platforms or as carriages C)
   configured for successive movement over the lane 10 and for communicating data with
   the control unit 300 regarding operational state of the carriages Ci (e.g., speed, position,
   errors etc.). As described hereinbelow in detail, the carriages Ci may be configured to
20 simultaneously, or intermittently, or in an independently controlled manner, move the
   carriages Ci along the lane 10, and to simultaneously, or intermittently, or in an
   independently controlled manner, to move and rotate the object attached to them (e.g.,
   using rotatable mandrels, not shown in figl) while being treated in a pre-treatment unit
   204 (also referred to herein as a priming station) and/or being treated/coated/primed
25 prior, during or after, printing on in the printing zone 12z.
            A size detection unit 13 may be used in the lane 10 to determine sizes
   (geometrical dimensions and shapes) of the objects received at the loading zone 3061
   and to communicate size data to the control unit 300. The size data received from the
   size detection unit 13 is processed and analyzed by the control unit 300 and used by it to
30 adjust positions of print head units of the print head assembly 100 and alert on any
   possible collision scenarios.
            A pre-treatment unit 204 may be also provided in the lane 10 to apply a pre
   treatment process to the surfaces of the objects moved along the lane 10 (e.g., plasma,
   1002024453

                                               - 14
   corona and/or flame treatment to improve adhesion of the ink to the container and create
   uniformity of the surface to the introduced printing/coating). Accordingly, control unit
   300 may be configured to adjust operation of the pre-treatment unit 204 according to
   size data received from the size detection unit 13. As exemplified in Fig. 1 the print
 5 head assembly 100 may be configured to accommodate a plurality of carriages Ci (in
   this example three carriages C1, C2 and C3 are shown) and simultaneously print on
   surfaces of the objects attached to each one of the carriages.
             Objects exiting the printing zone 12z may be moved along a portion of the lane
   10 comprising a curing unit 202. The curing unit 202 may be operated by the control
10 unit 300 and configured to finalize the printing process by curing the one or more layer
   of compositions applied to their surfaces (e.g., employing an ultra-violet/UV ink curing
   process or any other fixing or drying process such as IR, Electronic beam, chemical
   reaction, and suchlike). A vision inspection unit 16 may be further used to collect data
   (e.g., image data) indicative of the colors, patterns (e.g., print registration, diagnostics,
15 missing nozzles, image completeness) applied to the objects exiting the printing zone
   12z and/or the curing unit 202. After the printing, and optionally curing and/or
   inspection, process is completed the objects may be advanced over the lane 10 towards
   an unloading zone 306u for automatic removal thereof from the printing system 17. The
   unloading zone 306u may include an unloading unit employing an independent
20 controller and one or more sensor units, motors, mechanics and pneumatics elements,
   and being configured to communicate sensor data with the control unit 300 of the
   printing system 17 for monitoring and managing the unloading process.
            Figs. 2A and 2B are schematic drawings illustrating different examples of a
   print head assembly 100 of the present disclosure, which includes a plurality of print
25 head units located at successive positions along an axis of translation.
            In the example of Fig. 2A, the print head units 102a, 104a, 106a, 108a are
   arranged such that projections of different print head units on the axis of translation fall
   on different portions of the axis of translation 110 (along the printing axis), and are set
   at respective (angular) locations around the axis of translation 100. In the example of
30 Fig. 2B, the print head units 102a, 104a, 106a, 108a are arranged such that projections
   of different print head units on the axis of translations fall on different portions of the
   axis of translation 110, and are positioned at the same (angular) locations around the
   1002024453

                                               - 15
   axis of translation 110, to form a line of print head units substantially parallel to the axis
   of translation 110.
            In this non-limiting example the axis of translation 110 generally corresponds to
   an axis of the object 101, and is the axis along which a respective translation between
 5 the object 101 and the print head assembly 100 may occur. Moreover, a relative rotation
   between the object 101 and the print head assembly 100 may occur around the axis of
   translation 100. The details of the translational and rotational motions will be discussed
   later hereinbelow.
            Referring now to Figs. 3A and 3B, schematically illustrating possible
10 arrangements of printing elements 130 (e.g., nozzles or ejection apertures) on single
   print head units, according to some possible embodiments.
            As exemplified in Figs, 3A/B, a print head unit may include one or more nozzles
   or ejection apertures (generally 130) configured for enabling ejection of material
   compositions onto the surface of the object 101. The material compositions may be
15 fluids (as is the case in inkjet printing, and plastic jetting or/and printing) and/or solids
   (e.g., powders, as is the case in laser printing). The term printing is herein meant to
   include any type of ejection of a material onto a surface of an object, and/or engraving
   or marking dots, lines or patterns thereon. Thus printing includes, for example,
   changing the color, the shape, or the texture of an object, by ejecting a material on the
20 object's surface, engraving and/or applying marks thereon. For example, and without
   being limiting, the printing head units may comprise one or more markers (e.g.,
   engraving tool, laser marker, paint marker, and suchlike) configured to apply visible
   and/or invisible (i.e., functional, such as electronic charges) markings on the external
   surfaces of the objects traversing the printing zone 12z.
25          Fig. 3A exemplifies different configurations of printing elements 130 of the
   print head units 104a and 106a. The print head units 104a and 106a are shown from a
   side thereof parallel to the translation axis. The print head unit 104a includes a plurality
   of printing elements 130 (e.g., four), set along a row at successive locations along the
   axis of translation. The print head unit 106a in this non-limiting example includes a
30 single printing element       130, as commonly used in the art for jetting plastic
   compositions.
            Fig. 3B exemplifies a possible configuration of the printing elements provided
   in the print head unit 102a. Fig. 3B shows a front view of the print head unit 102a
   1002024453

                                                - 16
   (perpendicular to the translation axis 110). In this non-limiting example, the print head
   unit 102a includes a column of printing elements 130 set in a line perpendicular to the
   translation axis 110. Optionally, not all of the printing elements 130 are perpendicular to
   the object's surface. In the example of Fig. 3B, the printing element is perpendicular to
 5 the object's surface, e.g., is configured for ejecting a material composition along an
   ejection path perpendicular to the object's surface. On the other hand, the outer printing
   elements located on the sides of the central printing element are oblique to the object's
   surface.
             Optionally, a print head unit used in the present invention can include a plurality
10 of rows or columns of printing elements forming a two dimensional array defining a
   surface of the print head assembly facing the object. The print head assembly may be
   configured in any shape, such as, but not limited to, rectangular, parallelogram, or the
   like. Referring now to Figs. 4A and 4B, schematically illustrating different views of a
   printing system 200 of the present disclosure. In Fig. 4A, a perspective view is shown,
15 while in Fig. 4B, a front view is shown. The printing system 200 is configured for
   printing an image/pattern on a curved outer surface of the object 101, and includes a
   print head assembly 100 having a plurality of print head units, and a conveyor system
   (302 in Figs. 5A and 15) configured for moving the object 101 and/or the print head
   units. Optionally, the system 200 includes a control unit (300, shown in Figs. 1 and
20 21A) configured for controlling the conveyor system 302 and the operation of the print
   head units. The curved surface of the object may be circular, oval, elliptical, etc.
            In some embodiments, each print head unit includes one or more printing
   elements e.g., configured for jetting/applying a material composition (such as ink,
   powder, curing fluid, fixation fluid, pretreatment fluid, coating fluid, and/or a
25 composition of one or more fluids to create a third fluid, and/or any solid/gas material
   that, while jetted, is a fluid) onto the outer surface of the object 101, as described above.
   The print head assembly 100 may be designed as the print head assemblies described in
   Figs. 2A and 2B, or as a print head assembly 100 in which the print head units are
   organized in groups, as will be now described.
30          In the example shown in Figs. 4A and 4B, the print head units of each group are
   arranged along a curved path around the axis of translation, and each group surrounds a
   respective region of the axis of translation 110. Thus, the print head units 102a, 102b,
   and 102c belong to a first group 102. The print head units 104a, 104b, and 104c (seen in
   1002024453

                                              - 17
   Fig. 13) belong to a second group 104. The print head units 106a, 106b, and 106c
   belong to a third group 106. The print head units 108a, 108b, and 108c belong to a
   fourth group 108. The groups 102, 104 and 106 are located at respective locations along
   the axis of translation.
 5           The conveyor system 302 is configured to move the object 101 and/or the print
   head assembly 100 such that a desired portion of the object 101 is brought to the
   vicinity of a desired print head unit at a desired time. In this manner, printing can be
   performed on the object's outer surface. The conveyor is configured for enabling at least
   two kinds of relative motion between the object 101 and the print head assembly: (i) a
10 translational motion along or parallel to the axis of translation 110, and (ii) a rotation
   about the axis of translation 110. In this manner, any point on the outer surface of the
   object 101 can be brought to the vicinity of any print head unit. Optionally, a third kind
   of relative motion exists along one or more radial (or planar) axes substantially
   perpendicular to the axis of translation. This third motion may be necessary, in order to
15 maintain a desired distance between at least one print head unit and the object's surface.
            In some embodiments the control unit (300) is an electronic unit configured to
   transmit, or transfer from a motion encoder of the carriage, one or more signals to the
   print head units in the assembly 100 and to the conveyor system 302. Alternatively, the
   signals from the motion encoder are transferred directly to the print head assembly
20 wherein they are translated by each print head unit into printing instructions based on
   signals received from the control unit 300. Accordingly, the positional control signal(s)
   transmitted from one of the carriage's encoders to the print head assembly 100, may be
   used by the control unit (300) to instruct individual print head units to eject their
   respective    material   compositions  from    one   or more    printing elements    (e.g.,
25 nozzles/ejection apertures) at specific times. The control unit 300 further generated
   control signal(s) to the conveyor system 302, to instruct the conveyor system 302 to
   move (i.e., translate and/or rotate) the objects 101 and/or the print head assembly 100
   according to a desired pattern. The control unit 300 therefore synchronizes the operation
   of the print head units with the relative motion between the object 101 and the print
30 head assembly 100, in order to create a desired printing pattern on the object and
   therefore print a desired image on the object's outer surface.
             The groups of print head units are set along the translation axis 110, such that
   during the relative motion between the object 101 and the print head assembly 100, the
   1002024453

                                               - 18
   object 101 is successively brought in the vicinity of different print head units or groups
   of print head units. Moreover, during at least certain stages of this motion, different
   portions of the objects 101 may be located in the vicinity of print head units belonging
   to at least two consecutive groups or print head units located at successive positions
 5 along the axis of translation 110. In this manner, the object's outer surface may be
   printed upon simultaneously by print head units belonging to different groups or print
   head units located at successive positions along the axis of translation 110. Optionally,
   different printing elements of a single printing unit may print on two different objects at
   the same time. As explained above, this feature enables the system 200 to perform
10 printing on one or more objects while optimizing the utilization of print heads, thereby
   achieving a high efficiency system capable of providing high objects throughput. As
   exemplified in Fig. 4A, during a certain time period, the object 101 is in the vicinity of
   the first group (which includes print head units 102a, 102b, and 102c) and the second
   group (which includes print head units 104a, 104b, and 104c).
15          Besides enhancing the printing throughput on one or more objects, the structure
   of the system 200 also enables simultaneous printing on a plurality of objects 101. For
   this purpose, the objects 101 are fed into the system 200 one after the other, and the
   conveyor system 302 moves (i.e., translates and/or rotates) the objects 101 and/or the
   assembly 100 of print head units, so that each object 101 can be printed upon by certain
20 portions of the print head units which are not printing on another object. For example, in
   Fig. 4A, the object 101 is in the vicinity of the first and second group (though in
   practice, an object can be printed upon by more than two groups if the object is long
   enough compared to the print heads and to the distances between print heads along the
   axis of translation). If no other object is present, the print head units of the third group
25 (106a, 106b, and 106c) and the print head units of the fourth group (108a, 108b, and
   108c) are idle. However, if a second object is introduced into the system 200 and moved
   to the vicinity of the printing heads of the first and/or second group, the first object will
   be moved to the vicinity of the second and/or third groups. In this manner, at least some
   of latter (second and third) groups of the printing heads will be able to print an image on
30 the first object and the former (first and second) groups of the print head units will be
   able to print an image on the second object.
             The printing system is considered fully utilized when under all the print heads
   units there are objects that are being printed on by the print heads units. To this end, any
   1002024453

                                               - 19
    gap between the objects in the printing zone is considered as decreasing the efficiency,
    and therefore it is required that gaps between objects be minimized.
             As can be seen in Fig. 4B, the print head units of each group are set around the
   translation axis 110, so as to maintain a desired distance from the object's outer surface.
 5  The print head units may be set in a spaced apart arrangement, or may be adjacent to
    each other. The distances between consecutive print head units belonging to the same
    group may be equal to each other or different to each other. Moreover, within a group,
   the print head units may be set around the object's outer surface, such that the distances
   between the different print head units and the object's outer surface are equal to each
10  other, or such that each print head unit has a respective distance from the object's outer
    surface. The distance between the print head units and the object's outer surface depends
    on the type of print head units used and composition, and is chosen so that the print
   head units deliver their compositions in a desired fashion. It should be noticed that the
    composition jetted by the print head units may be a chemical material, a chemical
15  compound of materials and/or a mixture between materials and/or compounds.
             In some embodiments of the present invention, the printing on the object's
    surface by different print head units or by different printing elements 130 of a print head
   unit may be performed for the purpose of creating a new path that was not printed
   beforehand. Optionally, some of the printing may be performed along or near an
20  existing printed path. A path printed near or between two other paths may be used to
    achieve a predefined resolution. A path printed along an existing path may be used to
    complete the resolution of the existing path by adding more dots to create a denser
    spiral path. Moreover, printing a path along an existing path may be used to create
   redundancy between two different printing elements, i.e., if one printing element is not
25 working then the second printing element prints a portion (e.g., 50%) of the desired
    data. Optionally, in case one of the printing element stops operating, the system can be
    controlled so as to enable the second printing element to print the data that was
    originally intended to be printed by the first printing element. This may be done, for
    example, by controlling (e.g., slowing) down the motion (translation and/or rotation) of
30 the object 101 and/or print head array, or by controlling the second printing element to
   jet more ink. Optionally, the print head units belonging to the same group are
    configured for jetting ink of a single color to the object's surface, and the different
    groups of print head units are configured for jetting respective colors to the object's
    1002024453

                                               -20
   surface. Alternatively, different print head units belonging to the same group are
   configured for jetting ink of different colors.
            It should be noted that although in the above-mentioned figures each group is
   shown to include three print head units, the groups may have any number of printing
 5 units, for example, one, two, four, etc. Moreover, though the above-mentioned figures
   show the presence of four groups, any number of groups may be included in the system
   of the present invention. Additionally, the print head units in the above-mentioned
   figures are shown to be shorter than the length of the object 101. This may not be the
   case, as in some cases, the print head units may be as long as the object, or even longer.
10           The system 200 can be used to print on the object 101 according to two different
   printing sequences: continuous printing and step printing or any combination thereof. In
   continuous printing, the printing occurs during the relative motion between the object
   101 and the print head arrangement 100, when such motion includes simultaneous
   translational motion along or parallel to the axis of translation 110 and a rotational
15 motion around the axis of translation 110. In this kind of printing, image data is printed
   on the object's surface along a substantially spiral path.
            In step printing, a relative translation between the object and the print heads
   brings desired regions of the object's surface to the vicinity of one or more print head
   groups or print head units located at successive positions along the axis of translation.
20 The translation is stopped, while the relative rotation is effected. During the rotation, the
   print head units perform circumferential printing on the object's surface. After the
   printing is performed, the relative translation re-starts to bring one or more additional
   desired regions of the object's surface to the vicinity of one or more print head groups.
   The rotation may be maintained during the translation, or be discontinued at least during
25 part of the translation.
             The steps may be small steps, where translation occurs for moving a desired
   region of the object 101 from one printing element 130 to a consecutive printing
   element 130 of a single print head unit, or may be larger steps, where translation occurs
   for moving a desired region of the object from a first print head unit to a successive
30 print head unit (e.g., belonging to a different group) along the axis of translation 110. In
   some embodiments, the steps may be large enough to translate a desired region of the
   object 101 from a first print head unit to a second print head unit while skipping one or
   more intermediate print head units.
   1002024453

                                                - 21
            In step printing, the circumferential printing may be activated by a trigger which
   confirms that the desired region of the object 101 has been translated by a desired
   distance. This trigger may be a positioning encoder signal and/or an index signal, which
   is active during translation and non active when no translation occurs. Knowing the
 5 speed of translation and the position (along the axis of translation) of the desired print
   head units and its printing elements 130, the time point at which the desired region of
   the object 101 is exposed to the desired print head unit, and its printing element 130 can
   be calculated. Thus, when the trigger is activated by the positioning encoder and/or
   index signal, an instruction to effect printing is sent to the desired print head unit, and/or
10 printing element      130 for example, according to the encoder position signals.
   Alternatively, the trigger may be activated by a light detector located on one side of the
   object 101 and corresponding light emitters located on a second side of the object 101.
   When the object 101 obscures the light detector, and the light from the light emitter
   does not reach the light detector, it is deemed that the desired region of the object's
15 surface has been translated by the desired amount.
             Optionally, a circumferential coordinate of a certain region of the object's
   surface is monitored (e.g., calculated via a known speed of rotation and the known
   radius of the object), and a second trigger is activated when the region reaches a desired
   circumferential coordinate which corresponds to the circumferential coordinate of
20 desired print head unit, or printing element 130. In a variant, after translation is stopped,
   the relative rotation is performed to expose the desired region on the object's surface to
   the desired print head unit, or printing element 130, and only then printing (ejection of
   the material composition) is effected. In another variant, the second trigger is not used,
   and when translation ceases, the desired region of the object's surface is exposed to a
25 different print head unit, or printing element 130. Because the circumferential
   coordinate of desired region is known, the control unit can instruct the different print
   head unit or printing element 130, to affect a desired printing onto the desired region.
   This last variant is useful for decreasing delays in the object's printing. A possible
   printing pattern may include both continuous printing and step printing, performed at
30 different times.
            It should be noted that the axis of translation 110 is shown in the figures as a
   straight line. This may not necessarily be the case. In fact, the axis of translation may be
   curvilinear, or may have straight sections and curvilinear sections.
   1002024453

                                               -22
            Referring now to Figs. 5A and 5B, which exemplify a conveyor system 302
   included in the printing system in some embodiments. In the non-limiting example
   illustrated in Fig. 5A the conveyor system 302 is configured to move the object 101,
   while in Fig. 5B the conveyor system 302 is configured to move the assembly of print
 5 heads 100.
            In the non-limiting example shown in Fig. 5A, the conveyor system 302 of the
   system 200 includes an object holder 150 joined to an end of the object 101. In a
   variant, the object holder moves the object 101 along the translation axis 110, and
   rotates the object around the translation axis 110. The translation and rotation may or
10 may not be simultaneous, depending on the desired manner of printing. Optionally, the
   conveyor system 302 includes a conveyor belt 152, which is configured to move the
   object 101 along the translation axis 110 (as shown by the double arrow 154), while the
   object holder's function is limited to rotating the object 101 (as shown by the arrow
   156).
15           The conveyor belt 152 may be a belt that is moved by a motion system, such as
   an electrical motor, linear motor system, multiple linear motor systems that combine to
   form a route, a magnetic linear system, or an air pressure flow system. In case a
   plurality of objects is handled, each of the objects may be handled separately by one or
   more object holders. It may be the case that at different places along the translation axis
20 110 each of the objects 101 is controlled to translate in a different manner (e.g., at a
   different speed) along the translation axis 110.
            In the non-limiting example shown in Fig. 5B, the conveyor system 302 of the
   system 200 includes a carriage 158. The carriage 158 in this example carries the print
   head assembly 100 along a direction parallel to the translation axis 110 (as shown by the
25 double arrow 160) and rotates with the print head units around the translation axis (as
   shown by the arrow 162).
            It should be added that, although not illustrated in the figures, other scenarios are
   also possible for giving rise to the relative translational and rotational motion between
   the object and the print head arrangement. In a first possible scenario, the conveyor
30 system 302 is designed for moving the print head assembly 100 along the axis of
   translation 110 and includes an object holder for rotating the object around the axis of
   translation 110. In a second possible scenario, the conveyor system 302 is designed for
   1002024453

                                              - 23
   moving the object 101 along the axis of translation 110 and for rotating the print head
   arrangement around the axis of translation 110.
            In some embodiments both the object 101 and the print head arrangements 100
   may be moved.
 5          All the above-described manners of relative motion (fixed print head units and
   moving object, moving print head units and fixed object, translating the object and
   rotating the print head arrangement, rotating the object and translating the print head
   arrangement, moving print head units and moving object) are within the scope of the
   present invention and equivalent to each other. In order to simplify the description of
10 the invention, in the remaining part of this document the description will relate to the
   case in which the print head units are fixed and the object 101 is moved (translated and
   rotated). However, references to the motion of the object 101 should be understood as
   references to the relative motion between the object 101 and the print head unit
   arrangements 100.
15          In both of the cases described above, individual print head units and/or
   individual groups may be movable along the translation axis 110 with respect to each
   other. This may be used for manual and/or automatic calibration prior and/or post
   printing. Optionally, individual print head units and/or groups may be movable around
   or perpendicularly to the translation axis 110. This may also be used for manual and/or
20 automatic calibration prior and/or post printing.
            Referring now to Figs. 6A and 6B, which are schematic drawings illustrating
   some possible embodiments in which the individual print head units are controllably
   movable.
            In Fig. 6A, the print head units 102a-102d belong to a single group and are set
25 along the circumference of the object 101. In Fig. 6B, the print head units 102b and
   102d are moved away from the translation axis (or from the object 101), as depicted by
   the arrows 180 and 182, respectively. In some embodiments of the present invention, at
   least some print head units can be individually moved toward and away from the object
   101. Optionally such motion for each print head unit occurs along a respective axis
30 which is perpendicular to the translation axis. Optionally, the orientation of individual
   print head units can be adjusted as well.
             The ability to move the print head units enables maintaining a desired distance
   between the print head units and the object 101. Also, the moving of the print head units
   1002024453

                                                -24
   enables moving the selected print head units between their active positions and their
   passive positions. This gives flexibility to the print head assembly, as it can be
   configured in different manners to print on surfaces of different diameters and lengths
   (e.g., for object of small diameters, the number of active print head units in a group is
 5 decreased, to enable the active print heads to be at a desired distance from the object's
   outer surface). In a variant, the print head units can be moved only prior to the printing,
   i.e., after the object starts to move the print head units maintain their position with
   respect to the axis of translation. This feature is advantageous, as it enables the system
   200 to keep a desired distance between the print head units and objects having a
10 plurality of diameters and lengths. In another variant, the print head units can be moved
   during the printing. The latter feature may be advantageous in the instance in which the
   cross-sectional size and/or shape of the object varies along the length of the object, or in
   the cases where the object is not circular (as exemplified in Figs. 7A to 7C).
            Referring now to Figs. 7A to 7C, exemplifying embodiments in which the print
15 head units are controllably movable to fit a shape of the object 101, before and during
   rotation of the object 101.
            In Fig. 7A, an object 101 having an elliptical cross section is brought to the
   system 100. The print head units 102a-102d belong to a single group and are initially
   set to match the shape of a circular object. In Fig. 7B, the print head units 102b and
20 102c are moved toward the translation axis (located at the center of the elliptical cross
   section on the object 101 and moving out of the page), so that a desired distance is
   maintained between the objects' outer surface and each print head unit. The object 101
   is rotated. During the rotation, the print head units 102a-102d are moved with respect to
   the translation axis, and optionally their orientation is varied. At a certain time, the
25 object 102 has rotated by 90 degrees (see Fig. 6c). The print head units 102a and 102d
   have been moved toward to the translation axis, while the print head units 102b and
   102c have been moved away from the translation axis. In this manner, a desired
   distance between the print head units and the object's surface is maintained. Moreover,
   the orientation of all of the print head units has been changed, in order to maintain a
30 desired orientation with respect to the regions of the object that are exposed to the print
   head units.
            It should be noted that in the previous figures, print head units of the same group
   have been shown to be located at the same coordinate along the axis of translation 110.
   1002024453

                                                - 25
   However, this need not be the case. Referring now to Figs. 8A and 8B, exemplifying
   two optional arrangements of print head units belonging to a group. In Figs. 8A a
   schematic drawing exemplifies some possible embodiments in which the print head
   units belonging to the same group are positioned at the same location along the axis of
 5 translation   110. Fig. 8B is a schematic          drawing exemplifying some possible
   embodiments in which the print head units belonging to the same group are staggered
   i.e., being positioned at different locations along the axis of translation 110.
            In Fig. 8A, all the print head units belonging to the same group are positioned at
   a same location X along the axis of translation 110. In other words, the projections of
10 the different print head units of the same group on the translation axis 110 fall on the
   same region of the translation axis. In Fig. 8B, each print head unit of the same group is
   positioned at a respective location along the translation axis 110. The print head unit
   102a is centered at coordinate A on the axis of translation 110. The print head unit 102b
   is centered at coordinate B. The print head unit 102c is centered at coordinate C. The
15 print head unit 102d is centered at coordinate D. In other words, projections along the
   translation axis of at least two of the print head units of the at least one group fall on a
   different regions of the translation axis 110.
            Referring now to Fig. 9A, which exemplifies some embodiments in which at
   least one curing/drying station is located at the end of the print unit assembly 100,
20 downstream of the last group of print head units.
            In Fig. 9A, the object 101 is moved from right to left, in the direction 201.
   During this translation, regions of the object's surface are successively exposed to the
   print head units of the groups 102, 104, 106, and 108 (or to print head units 102a, 104a,
   106a, and 108a, if the print head assembly 100 is set according to Figs. 2A and 2B) and
25 printed upon. The printing may be continuous printing or step printing, as described
   above. In some embodiments of the present invention, a curing/drying station 202 is
   located downstream from the last group 108 (or the last print head unit 108a). After
   receiving ink from the print head units, the object 101 is moved to the curing/drying
   station, where the ink is fixed on the object's surface. The curing/drying may be
30 performed according to any known technique, such as: exposing the printed surface to
   ultraviolet (UV) light without or with any combination of gas or external liquid to
   enhance the curing/drying speed; exposing the printed surface to an electrical beam
   1002024453

                                               -26
   (EB); heating the surface via exposure to IR (infra red) radiation; ventilation drying.
   These techniques maybe used for curing/drying after the printing is performed.
             Techniques may also be used for priming/pretreating the object's surface prior to
   printing: exposing the printed surface of the object to a flame, and/or plasma, and/or
 5 corona, and/or surface cleaning equipment: and/or antistatic equipment; surface heating
   or drying equipment; applying a primer or coating material to the surface; exposing the
   surface printed or unprinted to a gas, such as nitrogen or an inert to enhance later
   curing. To this end, optionally, a priming station 204 is located upstream from the first
   print head group 102 (or the first print head unit 102a). In the priming station 204, the
10 surface of the object 101 is treated so as to enhance the imminent printing upon it. The
   priming may be performed according to any of the above-mentioned manners used for
   priming/pretreating.
            It should be noticed that the curing/drying station may include a single
   curing/drying unit or a group of curing/drying units set around the translation axis 110.
15 Similarly, the priming station may include a single priming unit or a group of priming
   units set around the translation axis 110.
            Referring   now   to   Fig. 9B,     a  schematic  drawing   exemplifying     some
   embodiments in which at least one curing/drying station and/or priming/pretreating
   station is located between two successive groups of print head units.
20          In some embodiments, it may be desirable to have a curing or priming station
   after (downstream from) one or some of the groups of print head units (or after some of
   the print head units located at successive positions along the axis of translation). For
   example, and without being limiting, if consecutive groups or print head units apply to
   the object compositions that may mix together and yield undesirable results a curing
25 station is needed between these two consecutive groups or print head units. In another
   example, certain print head units or the print head units of a certain groups are
   configured for jetting a composition which needs a certain kind of priming prior to
   application on the object's surface. In this case, a priming station needs to be placed
   before the certain print head units or certain groups.
30          In   the   non-limiting   example     of   Fig.  9B,  a   curing/drying    and/or
   priming/pretreating station 206 is located between the groups 102 and 104 (or print head
   units 102a and 104a), a curing/drying and/or priming/pretreating station 208 is located
   between the groups 104 and 106 (or print head units 104a and 106a), and a
   1002024453

                                                -  27
   curing/drying and/or priming/pretreating station 210 is located between the groups 106
   and 108 (or print head units 106a and 108a).
            Referring      now  to  Fig. 9C,     a   schematic  drawing    exemplifying     some
   embodiments in which a plurality of curing/drying/priming/pretreating             stations are
 5 positioned one after the other along the axis of translation. In this non-limiting example,
   the curing/drying/priming/pre-treating     stations 212, 214, 216, 218, 219 are located
   below the object 101, while the print head groups (or the individual print head units) are
   located      above     the  object   101.  In     this  manner,   the    printing    and   the
   curing/drying/priming/pretreating may be performed simultaneously. Optionally, the
10 stations 212, 214, 216, 218, 219 may be part of a single long station having a plurality
   of     printing       elements.    This   is      advantageous    since     it    creates    a
   curing/drying/priming/pretreating to each printed layer on each cycle.
            Referring      now  to  Fig. 9D,     a   schematic  drawing    exemplifying     some
   embodiments in which at least one curing/drying and/or priming/pretreating unit is part
15 of a group of print head units. In this non-limiting example, the group 170 includes print
   head units 170a and 170c and curing/drying and/or priming/pretreating units 170b and
   170d. This enables curing/drying and/or priming/pretreating to be performed before,
   between, or after printing by individual print head units.
            It is that in some embodiments shown in Figs. 9A to 9D self-fixated inks may be
20 advantageously used in the print head units 35. Such self-fixated inks are typically
   configured to instantly fixate after injected from the printing elements of the print head
   upon reaching the surface of the object. Accordingly, such possible embodiments
   employing self-fixated inks may utilize one curing zone at the end of the printing
   process. Furthermore, in such possible embodiments wherein a single curing zone is
25 employed at the end of the printing process allows designing printing head assemblies
   having shorter lengths and higher accuracies.
            Referring now to Figs. 10A to 10C, which are schematic drawings illustrating
   some possible embodiments in which first and second compositions are jetted on the
   same location of the object's surface by print head units of first and second groups
30 respectively (or by first and second print head units), in order to print the location with a
   third composition which is formed by a combination of the first and second
   compositions.
   1002024453

                                               -28
            In Fig. 10A, the object 101 is moved in the direction 220 along the axis of
   translation so that a certain region of the object's surface is exposed to a print head unit
   of a first group 102 (or to a first print head unit 102a, if the print head assembly is
   configured according to the examples of Fig. 2A or 2B). The print head unit jets a first
 5 composition 222 on the region of the object's surface, according to an instruction from
   the control unit (300). In Fig. 10B, the object 101 is moved in the direction 220 by the
   conveyor system (302), so that the region of the object's surface is exposed to a print
   head unit of a second group 104 (or to a second print head unit 104a). At this point, the
   control unit instructs the print head of the second group to jet a second composition 224
10 on the region which received the first composition. At Fig. 9c, the first and second
   compositions combine and yield a third composition 226. The combination of the first
   and second compositions may be a mixing or a chemical reaction. The mixing may be
   mixing of ink of two different colors for generating a desired ink of a third color.
             This setup is advantageous in the instance in which the third composition 226
15 cannot be printed by the desired printing system. For example, and without being
   limiting, if the third composition is a solid, the third composition cannon be ejected in
   inkjet printing. The first and second liquid compositions are to be combined during the
   printing process according to the techniques of Figs. 10A to 10C, if they are to be
   delivered by print head units in liquid form to the target area. On the target area, the
20 combination between the liquid compounds will occur to form the solid composition.
            A solid composition is an extreme example. In fact, even a desired liquid
   composition having fluid viscosity above a certain threshold cannot be delivered by
   certain print head units (many inkjet print head units, for example, can jet liquids having
   viscosity between 10-15 centipoises). However if the component compositions of the
25 desired composition have a viscosity that is below the operating threshold of the print
   head units, the component compositions can be delivered by successive print head units
   and mix on the target area to form the more viscous desired composition.
             The combination of compositions described in Figs. 10A to 10C may be
   achieved by a single print head unit 102a having at least two printing elements 226 and
30 228, as depicted by Figs. 11A to 11C. In this non-limiting example, the first printing
   element 226 ejects the first composition 222 on a certain region of the surface of the
   object 101, and the second printing element 228 ejects the second composition 224 on
   the certain region of the surface of the object 101.
   1002024453

                                                -  29
            Referring now to Figs. 12A to 12C, which are schematic drawings illustrating
   some possible embodiments in which first and second compositions are jetted on the
   same location of the object's surface by respectively first and second printing units of
   the same group, in order to print the location with a third composition which is formed
 5 by a combination of the first and second compositions.
            In Fig. 12A, a first print head unit 102a jets a first composition 222 on a certain
   region of the object's surface, according to an instruction from the control unit (300),
   while the object rotates in the direction 230 around the axis of translation. In Fig. 12B,
   the object 101 is rotated in the direction 230, and the region which received the first
10 composition 222 is brought to the vicinity of a second print head unit 102b belonging to
   the same group as the first print head unit 102a. At this point, the control unit instructs
   the second print head unit 102b to jet a second composition 224 upon the region which
   previously received the first composition 222. In Fig. 12c, the first and second
   compositions combine together (e.g., by reacting chemically or mixing) and yield a
15 third composition 226. As above, this setup is advantageous in the instance in which the
   third composition 226 cannot be printed by the printing system.
            It should be noted that though the examples of Figs. 10A-10C, 11A-11C, and
   12A-12C      relate to printing a desired composition formed by two component
   compositions, the technique of Figs. 10A-10C, 11A-11C and 12A-12C, can also be
20 used for forming a desired composition by combining three or more component
   compositions.
            Referring now to Figs. 13A            and 13B, which are schematic       drawings
   exemplifying possible embodiments in which print units belonging to different groups
   are located at the same position around the axis of translation, and are organized in
25 bars/columns. In Fig. 13A a perspective view of the print head assembly is shown. In
   Fig. 13B, a side view of the print head assembly is shown.
            As explained above, the print head units 102a, 102b, and 102c belong to a first
   group, the print head units 104a, 104b, and 104c belong to a second group, and the print
   head units 106a, 106b, and 106c belong to a third group. In the example of Figs. 13A
30 and 13B, the print head units 102a, 104a, and 106a are located at a first angular
   coordinate around the axis of translation. Similarly, the printing head units 102b, 104b,
   and 106b are located at a second angular coordinate around the axis of translation.
   Moreover, the printing head units 102c, 104c, and 106c are located at a third angular
   1002024453

                                               - 30
   coordinate around the axis of translation. The printing head units 102a, 104a, and 106a
   form a column substantially parallel to the translation axis (as do the printing head units
   102b, 104b, and 106b, and the printing head units 102c, 104c, and 106c).
            In each column, the printing heads are joined to each other and form bars. The
 5 location of the print head units during printing is critical for achieving a successful
   printing. The print head units are to be aligned with each other along the translation axis
   at a high precision for high-resolution printing. Therefore, aligning the print head units
   with respect to each other is an important part of the printing process. The advantage of
   having the printing heads arranged in bars/columns lies in the fact that rather than
10 adjusting a position of each printing head individually prior to printing, the positions of
   the bars/columns along the translation axis are adjusted. By adjusting the position of
   each bar/column, the position of a plurality of printing head units which constitute the
   bar/column is adjusted. Thus, once the position of the first bar/column is chosen, all the
   other bars/columns must simply be aligned with the first bar/column. This enables a
15 precise and quick adjustment of the location of the printing heads prior to printing.
             Though subsequent print head units of any bar of Figs. 13A and 13B are shown
   to be joined to each other, this is not necessarily the case. In fact, a bar/column can
   include at least two subsequent print head units set so as to define an empty space
   therebetween.
20          Referring now to Fig. 14, which is a block diagram illustrating an embodiment
   of the system 200 in which a control unit 300 controls the conveyor and print head
   assembly according to one or more kinds of input data.
             The system 200 in this non-limiting example includes a control unit 300, a
   conveyor system 302, and a print head assembly 100, all of which have been described
25 hereinabove. The print head assembly 100 may, or may not, include one or more
   priming (204) and/or curing (202) units or stations, as described hereinabove.
   Optionally, the system 200 includes a loader/unloader unit 306 configured for loading
   the object(s) onto the conveyor system 302 and unloading the object(s) from the
   conveyor system 302        once the printing     (and optionally     curing/drying   and/or
30 priming/pretreating) is completed. The control unit 300 operates the conveyor system
   302, the print head assembly 100, and the loader/unloader device 306 (if present), to
   create a desired sequence of operations of these elements (printing pattern), in order to
   yield a printed image on the object (101).
   1002024453

                                                -31
             Optionally, the sequence of operations is transmitted to the control unit 300 from
   an outer source as input data 308. The outer source may be a computer, which computes
   a suitable sequence of operations based on properties (e.g., colors, size, etc.) of an
   image which is to be printed on the object. In a variant, the control unit 300 includes a
 5 processor 302a configured for processing the image and determining the desired
   sequence of operations. In this case, the input data 308 is data indicative of the image to
   be printed, which the processor 302a uses to determine the sequence of operations.
            In a variant, the system 200 includes a distance sensor 310 and an alignment
   sensor 312. The distance sensor 310 is configured for sensing the distance between at
10 least one print head unit and the surface of the object. The alignment sensor 312 is
   configured for determining whether print head units (or bars/columns of such units, if
   present) are properly aligned with each other along the translation axis and/or around
   the translation axis.
             The control unit 300 receives data from the distance sensor 310 and alignment
15 sensor 312 in order to determine whether the print head units are in their proper
   positions, and determines whether or not to move them. In a variant, the control unit
   300 instructs the print head units to move to their assigned positions before the printing
   starts (perpendicularly to the translation axis according to data from the distance sensor
   310, and/or along and/or around the translation axis according to data from the
20 alignment sensor 312). In another variant, the control unit 300 instructs the print head
   units to move to their assigned positions during the printing (for example, if the cross
   sectional shape of the object varies along the object's length or the object's cross section
   is not circular, as explained above).
             The distance sensor 310 and the alignment sensor 312 may operate by emitting
25 radiation (e.g., electromagnetic, optical, acoustic) toward a target and receiving the
   radiation reflected/scattered by the target. A property of the received radiation (e.g.,
   time period after emission, phase, intensity, etc.) is analyzed in order to determine the
   distance between the sensor and the target.
            According to a first variant, a distance sensor element is mounted on at least one
30 of the print head units and is configured for emitting radiation to and receiving radiation
   from the object. According to a second variant the distance sensor is an external element
   which determines the position of a print head unit and of the object's surface, and
   calculates the distance therebetween.
   1002024453

                                                - 32
             Similarly, in a variant, an element of the alignment sensor 312 is mounted on a
   print head unit and is configured for emitting radiation to and receiving radiation from
   another print head unit. In another variant, the alignment sensor 312 includes an
   external element configured for determining the position of two print head units (or
 5 bars/columns of such units) and calculating the distance therebetween.
            In some embodiments of the present invention, the distance sensor and
   alignment sensor are not present, and a calibration process is required prior to printing.
   In the calibration process, the print head units of the assembly 100 are moved to their
   positions prior to printing, and a trial printing is performed. The image printed in the
10 trial printing is analyzed either by a user or by a computer (e.g., an external computer or
   the control unit itself), and the positions of the print head units are adjusted accordingly,
   either manually or automatically. Once this calibration process is finished, the printing
   of one or more objects can take place.
            Figs. 15 to 21 demonstrate a printing system 17 according to some possible
15 embodiments. In general, the printing system 17 shown in Figs. 15 to 21 is configured
   to maintain and handle a continuous feed of objects 101 (also referred to herein as a
   stream of objects) to be printed on, while maintaining minimum gap (e.g., about 2 mm
   to 100 mm) between adjacent objects 101.
            With reference to Fig. 15, in this non-limiting example the printing system 17
20 generally comprises the closed loop lane 10 and the print head assembly 100 mounted
   in the printing zone 12z of the lane 10 on elevator system 27. Other parts of the printing
   system (e.g., priming unit, curing unit, etc.) are not shown for the sake of simplicity.
   The lane 10 is generally a circular lane; in this non-limiting example having a
   substantially elliptical shape. The lane 10 may be implemented by an elliptical ring
25 shaped platform 1 0 p comprising one or more tracks 10r each having a plurality of
   sliding boards 22 mounted thereon and configured for sliding movement thereover. At
   least two sliding boards 22, each mounted on a different track 10r, are radially aligned
   relative to the lane 10 to receive a detachable platform 37 and implement a carriage Ci
   configured to hold a plurality of objects 101 to be printed on, and advance them towards
30 the printing zone 12z. In this non-limiting example the lane 10 comprises two tracks 10r
   and the sliding boards 22 slidably mounted on the tracks 22 are arranged in pairs, each
   sliding board of each pair of sliding boards being slidably mounted on a different track
   1002024453

                                                     - 33
   22, such that a plurality of slidable carriages C1, C 2, C 3,..., are constructed by attaching
   a detachable platform 37 to each one of said pairs of sliding boards 22.
            Implementing an elliptical lane 10 may be carried out using straight rails
   connected to curved rails to achieve the desired continuous seamless movement on the
 5 elliptical track. Accordingly, the sliding boards 22 may be configured to enable them
   smooth passage over curved sections of the lane 10. Printing zones 12z of the lane 10
   are preferably located at substantially straight portions of the elliptical lane 10 in order
   devise printing zones permitting high accuracy, which is difficult to achieve over the
   curved portions of the lane 10. In some embodiments curved shape tracks have runners
10 with a built in bearing system's tolerance to allow the rotation required by the
   nonlinear/curved parts of the track. Those tolerances typically exceed the total
   allowable error for the linear printing zone 12z. In the printing linear zone 12z, the
   tolerable errors allowed are in the range of few microns, due to high resolution
   requirements for resolution greater than 1000 dpi for high image qualities/resolutions.
15 For such high resolutions require 25 micron between dots lines, which means that about
   5 micron dot accuracy is required in order for the sliding boards to pass the printing
   zone 12z in an accumulated printing budget error in X,Y,Z axis that will not pass the
   required 5micron tolerable dots placement position error.
             The printing head assembly 100 comprises an array of printing head units 35
20 removably attached to a matrix board 30 and aligned thereon relative to the tracks 10r
   of the lane 10. The matrix board 30 is attached to the elevator system 27 which is
   configured to adjust the height of the printing elements of the printing heads units 35
   according to the dimensions of the objects 101 held by the carriages C1, C2 , C3 ,...,
   approaching the printing zone 12z.
25          Referring now to Figs. 16A and 16B, the array of print head units 35 of print
   head assembly 100 may comprise a plurality of sub-arrays R 1, R 2, R3 ,..., of print head
   units 35, each one of said sub arrays R 1, R 2, R 3,..., configured to define a respective
   printing route T 1, T 2, T3 ,..., in the printing zone 12z. As illustrated in 16A and 16B, the
   printing routes T 1, T 2, T 3 ,..., are defined along a printing axis 38 e.g., being
30 substantially aligned with a the tacks 10r of the lane 10. In this way, objects 101 moved
   along a printing route Tj (j     =  1, 2, 3, ... ) are passed under the printing elements 130 of
   the print heads of the respective sub-array Rj.
   1002024453

                                                - 34
            Each carriage Ci being loaded onto the lane 10 at a loading zone (3061) with a
   plurality of objects 101 is advanced through the various stages of the printing system 17
   (e.g., priming 204, printing 12z, curing 202 and inspection 16), and then removed from
   the lane 10 at an unload zone 306u, thereby forming a continuous stream of objects 101
 5 entering the lane and leaving it after being printed on, without interfering the movement
   of the various carriages Ci. In this way, the closed loop lane 10 provides for a
   continuous feed of carriages C1 , C2 , C 3 ,..., loaded with objects 101 into the printing
   zone 12z, and independent control over the position and speed of each carriage Ci (i    =  1,
   2, 3, ... ) maintains a minimum gap (e.g., of about 1cm) between adjacent carriages Ci in
10 the printing zone 12z.
            In this non-limiting example the print head assembly 100 comprises ten sub
   arrays Rj ( = 1, 2, 3, ... , 10) of printing head units 35, each sub-array Rj comprising
   two columns, Rja and Rjh (     = 1, 2, 3, ... , 10), of printing head units 35. The printing
   head units 35 in the columns Rja and Rjh of each sub-array Rj may be slanted relative to
15 the matrix board 30, such that printing elements 130 of the printing head units of one
   column Rja are located adjacent the printing elements 130 of the printing head units of
   other column of the sub-array column Rjh. For example, and without being limiting, the
   angle a between two adjacent print head units Rja and Rjh in a sub-array Rj may
   generally be about 00 to 180', depending on the number of print head units used. The
20 elevator system 27 is configured to adjust the elevation of the print head units 35
   according the geometrical dimensions of the objects 101 e.g., diameter. For example, in
   some possible embodiments the printing head assembly 100 is configured such that for
   cylindrical objects having a diameter of about 50mm the printing heads 35 are
   substantially perpendicular to a tangent at the points on the surface of the object under
25 the printing elements 130 of said printing heads 35. For cylindrical objects having a
   diameter of about 25mm the angles between the printing heads remains in about 73
   degrees and the tangent is not preserved, which in effect results in a small gap between
   the printing elements 130 of the print heads 35 and the surface of the objects located
   beneath them. The formation of this gap may be compensated by careful scheduling the
30 time of each discharge of ink through the printing elements 130 according the angular
   and/or linear velocity of the object and the size of gap formed between the printing
   elements 130 and the surface of the objects 101.
   1002024453

                                                - 35
            Angular distribution of the print heads is advantageous since it shortens the
   printing route (e.g., by about 50%), by densing the number of nozzles per area, and as a
   result shortening the printing zone 12z (that is very accurate), thereby leading to a total
   track length that is substantially shortened.
 5          Fig. 17 illustrates a structure of a carriage Ci according to some possible
   embodiments. In this non-limiting example the carriage Ci comprises an arrangement of
   rotatable mandrels 33 mounted spaced apart along a length of the carriage C. More
   particularly, the rotatable mandrels 33 are arranged to form two aligned rows, r1 and r2,
   of rotatable mandrels 33, wherein each pair of adjacent mandrels 33a and 33b
10 belonging to different rows are mechanically coupled to a common pulley       33p  rotatably
   mounted in a support member 37s vertically attached along a length of the detachable
   platform 37. The mandrels 33a and 33b of each pair adjacent mandrels 33 belonging to
   different rows r1 and r2 are mechanically coupled to a single rotatable shaft, which is
   rotated by a belt 33q.
15          In some embodiments the same belt 33q is used to simultaneously rotate all of
   the pulleys  33p   of the rotatable mandrels arrangement, such that all the mandrels 33 can
   be controllably rotated simultaneously at the same speed, or same positions, and
   direction whenever the carriage Ci enters any of the priming, printing, and/or curing,
   stages of the printing system 17. A gap between pairs of adjacent mandrels 33a and 33b
20 belonging to the different rows r1 and r2 of mandrels may be set to a minimal desirable
   value e.g., of about 30mm. Considerable efficiency may be gained by properly
   maintaining a small gap between carriages (e.g., about lcm) adjacently located on the
   lane 10, and setting the gap between pairs of mandrels 33a and 33b belonging to the
   different rows r1 and r2 (e.g., about 30mm, resulting in efficiency that may be greater
25 than 85%).
            In order to handle the multiple mandrels 33 of each carriage Ci and obtain high
   printing throughput, in some embodiments all mandrels are rotated with a speed
   accuracy tolerance smaller than 0.5% employing a single driving unit (not shown).
   Accordingly, each carriage Ci may be equipped with a single rotation driver and motor
30 (not shown), where the motor shaft drives all of the mandrels 33 using the same belt
   33q. In some embodiments the speed of the rotation of the mandrel 33 is monitored
   using a single rotary encoder (not shown) configured to monitor the rotations of one of
   the pulleys   3 3 p. In this non-limiting example, each row (r1 or r2) of mandrels 33
   1002024453

                                               - 36
   includes ten pulleys   3 3 p, each pulley configured to rotate two adjacent mandrels 33a
   and 33b each belonging to a different row r1 and r2, such that the belt 33q concurrently
   rotates the ten pulleys, and correspondingly all twenty mandrels 33 of the carriage Ci
   are thus simultaneously rotated at the same speed and direction.
 5          Fig. 18 shows the coupling of the carriage Ci to the lane 10 according to some
   possible embodiments. Each sliding board 22 in this non-limiting example comprises
   four horizontal wheels 22w, where two pairs of wheels 22w are mounted on each side
   of the sliding board 22 and each pair of wheels 22w being pressed into side channels
   22c formed along the sides of the tracks 10r. The lane 10 may further include a plurality
10 of magnet elements 10m mounted therealong forming a magnet track (secondary motor
   element) for a linear motor installed on the carriages Ci. A linear motor coil unit 29
   (forcer/primary motor element) mounted on the bottom side of each detachable platform
   37 and receiving electric power from a power source of the carriage (e.g., batteries,
   inductive charging, and/or flexible cable) is used for mobilizing the carriage over the
15 lane. An encoder unit 23r attached to the bottom side of the carriage Ci is used to
   provide real time carriage positioning signal to the controller unit of the carriage. Each
   carriage Ci thus comprises at least one linear motor coil and at least one encoder so as to
   allow the control unit 300 to perform corrections to the positioning of the carriage Ci. In
   this way linear motor actuation of the carriages Ci may be performed while achieving
20 high accuracy of position of carriage movement, over the linear and curved areas of the
   lane 10.
            For example, and without being limiting, the magnetic track 10m used for the
   linear motors may be organized in straight lines over the straight portions of the lane 10,
   and with a small angular gap in the curved portion of the lane 10. In some embodiments
25 this small angular gap is supported by special firmware algorithm provided in the motor
   driver to provide accurate carriage movements. The lane may further include an encoder
   channel 23 comprising a readable encoded scale 23t on a lateral side of the channel 23.
   The encoder scale 23t is preferably placed around the entire elliptical lane 10, and the
   encoder unit 23r attached to the bottom side of each carriage Ci is introduced into the
30 encoder channel 23 to allow real time monitoring of the carriage movement along the
   lane 10.
            High resolution encoding allows closing of position loops in accuracy of about 1
   micron. For example, and without being limiting, the improved accuracy may be used to
   1002024453

                                                - 37
   provide carriage location accuracy of about 5 microns, in-position time values smaller
   that 50msec in the printing zone 12z, and speed accuracy smaller than 0.5%.
            Fig. 19 schematically illustrates simultaneous printing by the print head
   assembly 100 on surfaces of a plurality of objects 101 carried by three different
 5 carriages, C 1, C 2 and C3 . In order to enabler high printing resolutions, the movement of
   the carriages Ci in the printing zone 12z should be carried out with very high accuracy.
   For this purpose, in some embodiments, a highly accurate (of about 25 micron per
   meter) linear rod 44 is installed along the printing zone 12z, and each carriage Ci is
   equipped with at least two open bearing runners 28 which become engaged with the
10 linear rod 44 upon entering the printing zone 12z. In order to facilitate receipt of the
   linear rod 44 inside the bearing runners 28, in some embodiments the linear rod 44 is
   equipped with a tapering end sections 44t configured for smooth insertion of the rod 44
   into the opening 28b (shown in Fig. 18) of the bearing runners 44. A combination of
   individual carriage control (driver and encoder on each carriage) allows recognition of
15 the exact position of the tapering entry section 44t for allowing the carriage Ci to
   perform slow and smooth sliding of the bearing 28 onto the rod 44, thereby preventing
   direct damage to the bearings 28 and to the rod 44. The engagement of the carriage to
   the linear rod 44 is supported by a special firmware in the controller of the carriage and
   /or on the motor driver.
20          Fig. 20 provides a closer view of the mandrel arrangement provided in the
   carriages Ci. In some embodiments the mandrels 33 are configured to enable the system
   to adjust the diameter of the mandrel in order to permit firm attachment to objects 101
   having different diameters and lengths (i.e., using a single mandrel type and without
   requiring mandrel replacement as commonly used in the industry). For this purpose
25 each mandrel 33 may be constructed from a plurality of elongated surfaces 41a, where
   the elongated surfaces 41a of each mandrel 33 are connected to a levering mechanism
   41v configured to affect radial movement of the elongated surfaces 41a relative to the
   axis of rotation of the mandrel 33. The levering mechanism 41v may employ a tension
   spring 41s configured to facilitate controllable adjustment of a length of a central shaft
30 41r of the mandrel 33, such that elongation or shortening of the length of the central
   shaft 41r cause respective inward (i.e., increase of mandrel diameter) or outward (i.e.,
   decrease of mandrel diameter) radial movement of the elongated surfaces 41a of the
   mandrel 33. For example, and without being limiting, adjusting external diameter of a
   1002024453

                                                - 38
   25mm mandrel to fit into an object 101 having an inner diameter diameters of 50mm.
   This type of adjustment is required when different batches of objects 101 are introduced
   into the printing system (e.g., from a production line) and the setup time required to
   change the mandrels over the line is affecting the production efficiency. Accordingly,
 5 production efficiency can be significantly improved by using the adjustable mandrel
   setup on the present invention since the dimensions/size of the all mandrels are digitally
   controlled by the control unit to fit into objects of different sizes/dimensions).
            In some embodiments the lengths of the mandrels 33 may be also controllably
   adjusted according to the geometrical dimensions of the objects 101. For example, and
10 without being limiting, each mandrel 33 may be configured to be inflated by preload
   pressure applied thereto, and stopped whenever reaching the length of the mandrel 33
   i.e., when central shaft 41r elongation reaches the length of the inner space of the object
   101. The mandrel elongation mechanism may be deflated by applying pressure higher
   than the preload for load/unload purpose. Accordingly, each carriage may be configured
15 to controllably inflate/deflate 20 mandrels 33 using a single unit activated by pressure.
   However, mandrel length adjustment is not necessarily required because digital printing
   typically does not require full contact with the surface of the object 101 being printed.
   Accordingly, providing mechanical support by the mandrels 33 over a partial length of
   the objects 101 will be sufficient in most cases.
20          Figs. 21A to 21C demonstrate possible control schemes that can be used in the
   printing system 17. One of the tasks of the control unit 300 is to synchronize print heads
   data jetting signals from each mandrel under the print heads assembly 100 (exemplified
   in Fig 21B) or adjust the speed of the carriage to align it with strict control done by the
   controller/driver on each carriage Ci, so as to adjust a virtual signal for all print heads
25 units and carriages movement or/and rotation (demonstrated in Fig. 21C). For this
   purpose the control unit 300 is configured to synchronize the ink jetting data supplied to
   the print heads according to the position of each carriage Ci in the printing zone 12z,
   while simultaneously multiple carriages Ci are being advanced inside the printing zone
   and their mandrels 33 are being rotated under its printing head arrays. Fig. 21A shows a
30 general control scheme usable in the printing system 17, wherein the control unit 300 is
   configured to communicate with each one of the carriages Ci to receive its carriage
   position data and mandrel angular position (orientation, i.e., using rotation encoder)
   1002024453

                                               - 39
   data, and generate the ink jetting data 56d supplied to the print head assembly 100 to
   operate each one of the printing heads 35 having objects 101 located under its nozzles.
            Fig. 21A demonstrates possible approaches for communication between the
   control unit 300 and the carriages Ci. One possible approach is to establish serial
 5 connection between the plurality of carriages Ci moving on lane 10 e.g., using a flexible
   cable (not shown) to electrically (and pneumatically) connect each pair of consecutive
   carriages Ci on the lane 10. In this approach the carriage/mandrel the electrical supply,
   position data, and other motion and control data are serially transferred along the serial
   connection of the carriages Ci. The data communication over such serial communication
10 connectivity may be performed, for example, using any suitable serial communication
   protocol (e.g., Ethercat, Etheret and suchlike). In possible embodiments, electrical
   connection between the carriage Ci and the control unit 300 may be established using an
   electrical slip ring and/or wirelessly (e.g., Bluetooth, IR, RF, and the like for the data
   communication and/or a wireless power supply scheme such as inductive charging).
15          An alternative approach may be to establish direct connection, also called star
   connection (illustrated by broken arrowed lines) between the control unit 300 and power
   supply (not shown) units and the carriages Ci on the lane 10. Such direct connection
   with the carriages Ci may be established using an electrical slip ring and/or wirelessly
   (e.g., Bluetooth, IR, RF, and the like for the data communication and/or a wireless
20 power supply scheme such as inductive charging).
            A switching unit 56s may be use in the control unit 300 for carrying out the
   printing signals switching (index and encoder signals and other signals) of each carriage
   Ci to the respective print head units 35 above the carriages Ci traversing the printing
   zone 12z. The switching unit 56s may be configured to receive all printing signals from
25 all the carriages Ci and switch each one of the received printing signals based on the
   position of carriages Ci with respect to the relevant print heads 35.
            Fig. 21A also demonstrates a possible implementation wherein the control unit
   300 is placed on one of the carriages Ci; in this non-limiting example on the first
   carriage C1 . Each carriage Ci may also include a controller (not shown) configured to
30 control the speed of the carriage over the lane 10, the rotation of the mandrels 33, the
   data communication with the control unit 300, and performing other tasks and
   functionalities of the carriage as required during the different stations (e.g., priming,
   curing, inspection, loading etc.) along the lane 10. Fig. 21A further shows an exemplary
   1002024453

                                              - 40
   control scheme usable in each carriage Ci for controlling the speed of the carriage. In
   this control scheme a driver unit 51 is used to operate an electric motor 52 according to
   speed control data received from the control unit 300, and an encoder 53 coupled to the
   motor, and/or to rotating element associated with it, is used to acquire data indicative of
 5 the current speed/position of the carriage Ci and feeding it back to the driver unit, to
   thereby establish a closed loop local control.
             The control unit 300 may be configured to implement independent control of the
   carriage Ci typically requires monitoring and managing carriage movement and mandrel
   rotation speeds, and optionally also full stop thereof, at different stages of the printing
10 process carried out over the elliptic lane 10 (e.g., plasma treatment, UV, inspection,
   printing, loading/unloading). For example, and without being limiting, the control unit
   300 may be configured to perform loading/unloading of a plurality of objects 101 on
   mandrels 33 of one carriage, simultaneously advance another carriage in high speed
   through the printing zone 12z while printing desired patterns over outer surfaces of a
15 plurality of objects 101 carried by the carriage, and concurrently advance and slowly
   rotate mandrels of yet another carriage under a UV curing process. The control unit 300
   is further configured to guarantee high precision of the carriage movement and mandrel
   rotation of the carriages Ci traversing the printing zone 12z e.g., to maintain advance
   accuracy of about 5 microns for high print resolution of about 1200dpi
20          In some possible embodiments each wagon is equipped with two driver units 51,
   two motors 52 (i.e., a linear carriage movement motor and a mandrel rotative motor),
   and one or more high resolution position encoders 53 (i.e., a linear encoder and a
   rotative encoder) which are configured to operate as an independent real time motion
   system. Each one of the drivers is configured to perform the linear or rotary axis
25 movement, where the carriage linear advance and mandrels rotation per carriage (or per
   mandrel in other models) according to a general control scheme that is optimized to
   achieve high precision in real time. Accordingly, each carriage can effect both linear
   and rotatary motion of the objects,
            Figs. 21B and 21C are block diagrams schematically illustrating possible control
30 schemes usable for to achieve synchronization between the carriages Ci and the print
   head units 35 of the print head assembly 100. Fig. 21B demonstrates a multiple signal
   synchronization approach, wherein position (linear of the carriage and/or angular of the
   mandrels) data from each carriage Ci is received and processed by the control unit 300.
   1002024453

                                               - 41
   The control unit 300 process position data, accurately determines which carriage Ci is
   located under each print head unit 35, and accordingly generates control signals for
   activation of the print head units 35. The control signals are delivered to the print head
   assembly 100 through an electrical slip ring mechanism 55 (or any other suitable
 5 rotative cable guide). In this configuration each carriage Ci is independently controlled
   with respect to its speed and position on the lane 10.
            Fig.   21B    demonstrates    another   approach   employing   a  single   virtual
   synchronization signal that synchronizes mandrel rotations, speed and position, of all
   carriage Ci with the print head units 35 of the print head assembly 100. In this
10 embodiment the control unit 300 is configured to provide a virtual pulse to the carriages
   Ci that receives the virtual pulse and are then accordingly aligned. Once aligned with
   the virtual pulse, synchronization between the rotation requested and required is
   achieved. Under such synchronization the controller may use the virtual signal to
   initiate the print heads units ejection and printing.
15          In a possible embodiment the electrical slip ring mechanism 55 is installed at the
   middle of the elliptic lane 10, and the carriages Ci are electrically linked to the print
   head assembly via flexible cables (that are in between the carriages) electrically coupled
   to the electrical slip ring mechanism 55. The electrical slip ring mechanism 55 may be
   configured to transfer the signals from the carriages Ci to the switching unit 56s of the
20 control unit 300, which generates control signals to operate the printing heads 35 for
   printing on the objects held by the respective carriages Ci traversing the printing zone
   12z. In other possible scenarios the carriages Ci in the printing zone 12z are
   synchronized to one virtual pulse to create a synchronized fire pulse to the print head
   units 35 and thereby allow single print head printing on a plurality of different tubes
25 carried by different carriages Ci at the same time.
            With this design the printing system is capable of maintaining high efficiency of
   printing heads utilization in cases wherein the length of the objects 101 is greater than
   the length of a print head, and maintain high printing efficiency in cases wherein a
   single print head is printing simultaneously on two different objects 101. The print
30 heads 35 may be organized to form a 3D printing tunnel shape.
            Printing systems implementation based on the techniques described herein may
   be designed to reach high throughputs ranging, for example, and without being limiting,
   between 5,000 to 50,000 objects per hour. In some embodiments the ability to
   1002024453

                                               - 42
   simultaneously print on a plurality of objects traversing the printing zone by the print
   head assembly may yield utilization of over 80% (efficiency) of the printing heads.
            Functions of the printing system described hereinabove may be controlled
   through instructions executed by a computer-based control system. A control system
 5 suitable for use with embodiments described hereinabove may include, for example, one
   or more processors 302a connected to a communication bus, one or more volatile
   memories 56m (e.g., random access memory - RAM) or non-volatile memories (e.g.,
   Flash memory). A secondary memory (e.g., a hard disk drive, a removable storage
   drive, and/or removable memory chip such as an EPROM, PROM or Flash memory)
10 may be used for storing data, computer programs or other instructions, to be loaded into
   the computer system.
            For example, computer programs (e.g., computer control logic) may be loaded
   from the secondary memory into a main memory for execution by one or more
   processors of the control system. Alternatively or additionally, computer programs may
15 be received via a communication interface. Such computer programs, when executed,
   enable the computer system to perform certain features of the present invention as
   discussed herein. In particular, the computer programs, when executed, enable a control
   processor to perform and/or cause the performance of features of the present invention.
   Accordingly, such computer programs may implement controllers of the computer
20 system.
            As described hereinabove and shown in the associated Figs., the present
   invention provides a printing system for simultaneous printing on a plurality of objects
   successively streamed through a printing zone, and related methods. While particular
   embodiments of the invention have been described, it will be understood, however, that
25 the invention is not limited thereto, since modifications may be made by those skilled in
   the art, particularly in light of the foregoing teachings. As will be appreciated by the
   skilled person, the invention can be carried out in a great variety of ways, employing
   more than one technique from those described above, all without exceeding the scope of
   the invention.
30
   1002024453

                                                - 43
   CLAIMS:
    1.      A support assembly configured to carry at least one stream of objects, the
   support assembly comprising:
             at least one array of grippers each configured for holding one of the objects
 5 thereon; and
             a mobilizing mechanism configured and operable to couple said support
   assembly to a lane and controllably move said platform along the lane for applying
   therealong at least one treatment process to surface areas of the objects.
10 2.        The support assembly of claim 1 wherein the treatment process comprising at
   least one of: printing, inspection, curing, drying, dust removal, coating, ionizing,
   and priming.
   3.        The support assembly of claim 1 or 2 wherein the mobilizing mechanism
15 being configured and operable to enable smooth and continuous movement of the
   support assembly over at least one curved section of the lane.
   4.        The support assembly of any one of the preceding claims wherein the
   mobilizing mechanism comprises a linear motor element configured and operable to
20 magnetically      couple with magnet elements provided in the lane and permit
   controllable linear movement of the support assembly over the lane.
   5.        The support assembly of any one of the preceding claims comprising a
   control unit configured and operable to actuate the mobilizing mechanism for
25 moving the support assembly along the lane.
   6.        The support assembly of claim 5 wherein the control unit is configured and
   operable to move the support assembly to a loading zone for loading the at least one
   stream of objects onto its at least one array of grippers.
30
   7.        The support assembly of claim 5 or 6 wherein the control unit is configured
   and operable to move the support assembly to an unloading zone for unloading the at
   1002024453

                                              - 44
   least one stream of objects from its at least one array of grippers after applying the at
   least one treatment process to surface areas of the objects.
   8.        The support assembly of any one of claims 5 to 7 wherein the control unit is
 5 configured and operable to communicate data associated with at least one of position
   of said support assembly, velocity of said support assembly, angular position of the
   at least one array of grippers of said support assembly, velocity of the at least one
   array of grippers of said support assembly, and data associated with at least one other
   support assembly movably coupled to the lane.
10
   9.        The support assembly of claim 8 wherein the control unit is configured and
   operable to control at least one of speed of the support assembly, position of the
   support assembly on the lane, rotation speed of the at least one array of grippers of
   the support assembly, and angular position of the at least one array of grippers, based
15 on the communicated data.
    10.      The support assembly of any one of the preceding claims wherein the
   grippers are configured to rotate the objects at the same speed and direction, and
   position the objects held by said grippers at a substantially same position.
20
    11.      The support assembly of any one claims 5 to 10 wherein the control unit is
   configured and operable to operate the rotation of the grippers at the same speed and
   direction of rotations, and position the objects held by said grippers at a substantially
   same position.
25
    12.      The support assembly of any one of the preceding claims wherein each
   gripper is being configured and operable for varying its cross-sectional dimension
   for holding one of said objects thereon.
30  13.      The support assembly of any one of claims 5 to 12 wherein the control unit is
   configured and operable to adjust cross-sectional dimensions of the grippers for
   contacting inner portions of the objects and holding them thereon.
   1002024453

                                              - 45
    14.      The support assembly of claim 12 wherein the gripper comprises a circular
   array of spaced-apart elongated elements substantially parallel to a central axis of the
   gripper, and a levering mechanism operable for moving said elongated elements
   towards and away from the central axis thereby varying the diameter of the gripper.
 5
    15.      The support assembly of any one of the preceding claims wherein the
   grippers are arranged in two parallel rows, wherein each pair of adjacently located
   grippers belonging to different rows are mechanically coupled on to the other.
10  16.      The support assembly of claim 15 wherein the pair of adjacently located
   grippers belonging to the different rows are aligned in a same plane and extend in
   opposite directions therein.
    17.     A method of treating outer surface areas of a plurality of objects, the method
15 comprising:
            providing at least one support platform comprising at least one array of
   grippers, each configured for holding one of the objects thereon, said at least one
   support platform being coupled to a lane having a loading zone, an unloading zone,
   and one or more treatment zones;
20          moving said at least one support platform to said loading zone and loading at
   least one stream of objects thereonto;
            moving said at least one support platform along said lane and applying at
   least one treatment process to outer surface areas of said at least one stream of
   objects in one of said treatment zones; and
25          moving said at least one support platform to said unloading zone and
   unloading said at least one stream of objects therefrom.
    18.      The method of claim 17 wherein the loading or unloading of the at least one
   stream of objects comprises varying cross-sectional dimension of the at least one
30 array of grippers.
   1002024453

                                              - 46
   19.       The method of claim 17 or 18 wherein the loading of the at least one stream
   of objects comprises adjusting orientation of said objects to a same accurate start
   point of the at least one treatment process.
 5 20.       The method of any one of claims 17 to 19 wherein the applying of the at least
   one treatment process comprises rotating the at least one stream of objects and
   performing either continuous linear movement or stepped linear movement of the at
   least one support platform.
10 21.       The method of any one of claims 17 to 20 comprising communicating data
   between the at least one support platform and at least one other support platform
   movably coupled to the lane, and controlling at least one of position and speed of
   said at least one support platform based on said data.
15 22.       The method of any one of claims 17 to 21 comprising communicating data
   between the at least one support platform and a control unit and controlling at least
   one of rotation speed and angular position of the at least one array of grippers based
   on said data.
   1002024453

                                                   1/19
                                                   1
<removed-date>
                                             <U+2701><U+2702>
                                                                                       12z
                   204                C1                                        100
                                              Print head assembly
              13
                             Pre-   Carriage           Carriage        Carriage Cn-1
                          treatment   #1                 #2               #2
                     Size                                                       Carriage
                                 17
<removed-apn>
                   detection                                                      #n-1
                                                                C2      C3
                               306l                Control
                   Load
                   zone                             unit                          Additional
                               306u                                      100a     print head
                                       Cn                                         assemblies
                     Unload
                                              16             202 300              (optional)
                      zone                                               10
                           Carriage         Inspection       Curing
                             #n                              process

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      <U+2701><U+2702>
                      2
                           2/19

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      <U+2701><U+2702>
                      3
                           3/19

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
302
                            <U+2701><U+2702>
                            4
                                 4/19

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                        <U+2701><U+2702>
                        5
                             5/19
                  302

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      <U+2701><U+2702>
                      6
                           6/19

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      <U+2701><U+2702>
                      7
                           7/19

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      <U+2701><U+2702>
                      9
                           9/19

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      <U+2701><U+2702>
                      10
                           10/19

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      <U+2701><U+2702>
                      11
                           11/19

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      <U+2701><U+2702>
                      12
                           12/19

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      <U+2701><U+2702>
                      13
                           13/19

                  <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
200
                                        <U+2701><U+2702>
                                        14
                                             14/19
            204
      100

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                   19/19
                                                   19
<removed-date>
                                              <U+2701><U+2702>
              30
              35
                                                                              55
                                                   Slip ring
<removed-apn>
                                              Control unit
                        300
                        C1          C2                              Cn
                                                    ...
                   30
               35
                                                                               55
                                                     Slip ring
                              300
                                                   Control unit
                                                   Virtual signal
                                                    generator
                              C1         C2                              Cn
                                                        ...

