ll:\szp\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\SZP\16265727
                             _.docx-9/01 2018
                                              ABSTRACT
The present invention provides methods for producing block copolymers, either by the
sequential addition of monomers, or using a "one-pot" method. The invention also relates to
novel methods for producing polyesters by ring opening lactides and/or lactones and by
copolymerising anhydrides and epoxides.

          Method and catalyst system for preparing polymers and block copolymers
   This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2014267009, the entire
   content of which is incorporated herein by reference.
 5
   Field of the invention
   The present invention relates to methods for producing block copolymers, either by the
   sequential addition of monomers, or using a "one-pot" method. In particular, the chemistry
   of the catalyst active site allows selective polymerisation of particular monomers and
10 control of block sequence in the production of block copolymers comprising polycarbonate
   blocks and polyester blocks, using a single catalytic system. It is possible to switch
   between the formation of a polyester and a polycarbonate by controlling the growing
   polymer chain end and by selecting the identity and amount of the monomers used. The
   methods described allow the product of the preparation of di-block copolymers, as well as
15 more complex block sequences, including ABA and ABC type block copolymers. The
   invention also relates to novel methods for producing polyesters by ring opening lactides
   and/or lactones and by copolymerising anhydrides and epoxides.
   Background
20 Block copolymers are polymers having two or more distinct polymeric units, or "blocks".
   Such polymers are useful in a variety of different applications, and it is particularly
   preferred to be able to produce block copolymers having polyester and polycarbonate
   blocks.
25 Block copolymers can be produced in a variety of different ways. For example, the
   individual blocks may be prepared separately, and then joined together. Alternatively, a
   first block, comprising an initiating moiety (also known as a "macroinitiator") can be added
   to a mixture of one or monomers, and the second block is grown from the end of the pre
   formed block. However, such methods require the formation and purification of the first
30 blocks prior to the formation of a second block, and generally involve the use of different
   catalytic systems to produce each block. These methods can therefore be costly and
   difficult to use.
   The inventors have surprisingly found that it is possible to produce block copolymers
35 comprising two or more blocks, using a single catalytic system, either by the subsequent
   addition of monomer, or by a "one-pot" method in which all of the monomers are present
   in the reaction mixture at the start of the reaction.
                                                   1

   Summary of the invention
   In a first aspect, the present invention provides a method for preparing a block copolymer,
   using a single catalytic system, wherein the single catalytic system comprises a catalyst of
 5 formula(1):
        Z-      M
    R                 (1)
   Wherein:
   [M] is a metal complex having at least one metal atom M coordinated by a ligand system;
   M is Zn, Cr, Co, Mn, Mg, Fe, Ti, Ca, Ge, Al, Mo, W, Ru, Ni or V;
10 Z is absent, or is independently selected from -E-, -EX(E)-, or -EX(E)E-,
   each E is independently selected from 0, S or NRz, wherein Rz is H, or optionally
   substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic, aryl, heteroaryl, alkylaryl or
   alkylheteroaryl;
   X is C or S
15 R is hydrogen, or optionally substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic,
   aryl, heteroaryl, alkylaryl, alkylheteroaryl, silyl or a polymer; and when Z is absent, R may
   additionally be selected from halide, phosphinate, azide and nitrate;
   the method comprising the steps of:
20 a) forming a first block by polymerising a first monomer or combination of monomers
        selected from the groups (i) to (iii):
        Group (i): a lactide and/or a lactone,
        Group (ii): an epoxide and an anhydride, or
        Group (iii): an epoxide and carbon dioxide,
25 b) optionally contacting the catalyst of formula (1)with a compound [Y] which is capable
       converting the group -Z-R, wherein Z is absent or a group selected from -E-X(E)- or
        E-X(E)E-, to a group -Z-R wherein Z is -E-;
   c) forming a second block by polymerising a second monomer or combination of
        monomers selected from a different group (i) to (iii) to that selected for the first
30      monomer or combination of monomers:
                                                     2

        Group (i): a lactide and/or a lactone,
        Group (ii): an epoxide and an anhydride, or
        Group (iii): an epoxide and carbon dioxide,
   wherein when the first monomer or combination of monomers is Group (i), Z is -E-; and
 5 wherein when the first monomer or combination of monomers is Group (ii) or Group (iii) ,
   and the second monomer or combination of monomers is Group (i), step b) is performed
   after step a).
   In a second aspect, the present invention provides a method for producing a block
10 copolymer, said block copolymer having a first and second block, using a single catalytic
   system, wherein the single catalytic system comprises a catalyst of formula (1):
        Z--     M
    R         -       ()
   Wherein:
   [M] is a metal complex having at least one metal atom M coordinated by a ligand system;
15 M is Zn, Cr, Co, Mn, Mg, Fe, Ti, Ca, Ge, Al, Mo, W, Ru, Ni or V;
   Z is absent, or is independently selected from -E-, -EX(E)-, or -EX(E)E-,
   each E is independently selected from 0, S or NRz, wherein Rz is H, or optionally
   substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic, aryl, heteroaryl, alkylaryl or
   alkylheteroaryl;
20 X is C or S
   R is hydrogen, or optionally substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic,
   aryl, heteroaryl, alkylaryl, alkylheteroaryl, silyl or a polymer; and when Z is absent, R may
   also be selected from halide, phosphinate, azide and nitrate;
25 the method comprising the steps of:
   a) providing a mixture comprising:
           1.   an epoxide;
          II.   a first monomer or combination of monomers selected from a group (i) to (iii):
                         Monomer (i): a lactide and/or a lactone,
30                       Monomer (ii): an anhydride, or
                         Monomer (iii): carbon dioxide, and
                                                     3

          |11.      a second monomer or combination of monomers selected from a different
                    group (i) to (iii) to that selected for the first monomer or combination of
                    monomers:
                            Monomer (i): a lactide and/or a lactone,
 5                          Monomer (ii): an anhydride, or
                            Monomer (iii): carbon dioxide; and
   b) contacting the mixture with the single catalytic system;
   wherein the rate of insertion of the first monomer or combination of monomers into the
   bond between the metal complex [M] and the ligand -Z-R is faster than the rate of
10 insertion of the second monomer or combination of monomers into the bond between the
   metal complex [M] and the ligand -Z-R;
   wherein when the first monomer or combination of monomers is Group (i), either -Z-R is
   E-R, or the mixture comprises a compound [Y]; and
   wherein when the second monomer or combination of monomers is Group (i), the mixture
15 comprises a compound [Y].
   In a third aspect, the present invention provides a method for producing a polyester,
   comprising contacting a lactone and/or a lactide with a catalyst system having a catalyst
   of formula (IA):
                      R,
               R2          R2
                    RI    G
                      E2      NR4
         R4 N           2 ZR N
                  G    I   'R
               R2          R2
                      R1                 (IA)
20 wherein
   R, and R2 are independently hydrogen, halide, a nitro group, a nitrile group, an imine, an
   amine, an ether group, a silyl ether group, a thioether group, a sulfoxide group, a sulfinate
   group, or an acetylide group or an optionally substituted alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, haloalkyl,
   aryl, heteroaryl, alicyclic or heteroalicyclic;
                                                           4

   R3 is optionally substituted alkylene, alkenylene, alkynylene, heteroalkylene,
   heteroalkenylene, heteroalkynylene, arylene, heteroarylene or cycloalkylene, wherein
   alkylene, alkenylene, alkynylene, heteroalkylene, heteroalkenylene and heteroalkynylene
   may optionally be interrupted by aryl, heteroaryl, alicyclic or heteroalicyclic;
 5 R4 is H, or optionally substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic, aryl,
   heteroaryl, alkylheteroaryl or alkylaryl;
   R5 is H, or optionally substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic, aryl,
   heteroaryl, alkylheteroaryl or alkylaryl;
   El is C, E2 is O, S or NH or Ej is N and E2 is 0;
10 R is hydrogen, or optionally substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic,
   aryl, heteroaryl, alkylaryl, alkylheteroaryl silyl, or a polymer;
   Z is -E-;
   E is -0-, -S-, or NRz, wherein is H, or optionally substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic,
   alicyclic, heteroalicyclic, aryl, heteroaryl, alkylaryl or alkylheteroaryl;
15 each G is independently absent or a neutral or anionic donor ligand which is a Lewis
   base; and
   M is Zn(II), Cr(II), Co(II), Mn(II), Mg(II), Fe(II), Ti(II), Cr(Ill)-Z-R, Co(Ill)-Z-R, Mn (III)-Z-R,
   Fe(Ill)-Z-R, Ca(II), Ge(II), AI(Ill)-Z-R, Ti(Ill)-Z-R, V(Ill)-Z-R, Ge(IV)-(-Z-R) 2 or Ti(IV)-(-Z-R) 2.
20 In a fourth aspect of the invention, there is provided method for producing a polyester,
   comprising contacting an anhydride and an epoxide with a catalyst system having a
   catalyst of formula (IA):
                   R,
        R< R     2         R
                 RI    G
           N       E2       NR4
          RN       E2  Z        R3
               G         R
             R2          R2
                   R1              (IA)
   wherein
25 R, and R2 are independently hydrogen, halide, a nitro group, a nitrile group, an imine, an
   amine, an ether group, a silyl ether group, a thioether group, a sulfoxide group, a sulfinate
   group, or an acetylide group or an optionally substituted alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, haloalkyl,
   aryl, heteroaryl, alicyclic or heteroalicyclic;
                                                       5

   R3 is optionally substituted alkylene, alkenylene, alkynylene, heteroalkylene,
   heteroalkenylene, heteroalkynylene, arylene, heteroarylene or cycloalkylene, wherein
   alkylene, alkenylene, alkynylene, heteroalkylene, heteroalkenylene and heteroalkynylene
   may optionally be interrupted by aryl, heteroaryl, alicyclic or heteroalicyclic;
 5 R4 is H, or optionally substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic, aryl,
   heteroaryl, alkylheteroaryl or alkylaryl;
   R5 is H, or optionally substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic, aryl,
   heteroaryl, alkylheteroaryl or alkylaryl;
   El is C, E2 is O, S or NH or Ej is N and E2 is 0;
10 Z is absent, or is selected from -E-, -EX(E)-, or -EX(E)E-;
   X is S or C;
   E is -0-, -S-, or NRz, wherein is H, or optionally substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic,
   alicyclic, heteroalicyclic, aryl, heteroaryl, alkylaryl or alkylheteroaryl;
   R is hydrogen, or optionally substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic,
15 aryl, heteroaryl, alkylaryl, alkylheteroaryl, or silyl, or a polymer; and when Z is absent, R
   may additional be selected from halide, phosphinate, azide and nitrate;
   each G is independently absent or a neutral or anionic donor ligand which is a Lewis
   base; and
   M is Zn(II), Cr(II), Co(II), Mn(II), Mg(II), Fe(II), Ti(II), Cr(Ill)-Z-R, Co(Ill)-Z-R, Mn (Ill)-Z-R,
20 Fe(Ill)-Z-R, Ca(II), Ge(II), AI(Ill)-Z-R, Ti(Ill)-Z-R, V(Ill)-Z-R, Ge(IV)-(-Z-R) 2 or Ti(IV)-(-Z-R) 2.
   In a fifth aspect of the invention, there is provided a polymer obtainable from the method
   according to any of the first, second, third or fourth aspects of the invention.
25 Definitions
   For the purpose of the present invention, an aliphatic group is a hydrocarbon moiety that
   may be straight chain or branched and may be completely saturated, or contain one or
   more units of unsaturation, but which is not aromatic. The term "unsaturated" means a
   moiety that has one or more double and/or triple bonds. The term "aliphatic" is therefore
30 intended to encompass alkyl, alkenyl or alkynyl groups, and combinations thereof. An
   aliphatic group is preferably a C1-20aliphatic group, that is an aliphatic group with 1 ,2 ,3 ,4
   ,5 ,6 ,7 ,8 ,9 ,10 ,11 ,12 ,13 ,14 ,15 ,16 ,17 ,18 ,19      or 20 carbon atoms. Preferably, an
   aliphatic group is a Cl 115aliphatic, more preferably a Ca- 12aliphatic, more preferably a Cj_
   loaliphatic, even more preferably a Cl1 8aliphatic, such as a C1-6aliphatic group.
35 An alkyl group is preferably a     "C1-20 alkyl group", that is an alkyl group that is a straight or
   branched chain with 1 to 20 carbons. The alkyl group therefore has 1 ,2 ,3 ,4 ,5 ,6 ,7 ,8 ,9
                                                       6

   ,10 ,11 ,12 ,13 ,14 ,15 ,16 ,17 ,18 ,19 or 20 carbon atoms. Preferably, an alkyl group isa
   C1-15 alkyl, preferably a C1- 1 2 alkyl, more preferably a C1 -10 alkyl, even more preferably a Cj
   8alkyl,  even more preferably a C1-6 alkyl group. In certain embodiments, an alkyl group is
   a  "C1-6 alkyl group", that is an alkyl group that is a straight or branched chain with 1 to 6
 5 carbons. The alkyl group therefore has 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6 carbon atoms. Specifically,
   examples of "C1-20 alkyl group" include methyl group, ethyl group, n-propyl group, iso
   propyl group, n-butyl group, iso-butyl group, sec-butyl group, tert-butyl group, n-pentyl
   group, n-hexyl group, n-heptyl group, n-octyl group, n-nonyl group, n-decyl group, n
   undecyl group, n-dodecyl group, n-tridecyl group, n-tetradecyl group, n-pentadecyl group,
10 n-hexadecyl group, n-heptadecyl group, n-octadecyl group, n-nonadecyl group, n-eicosyl
   group, 1,1-dimethylpropyl group, 1,2-dimethylpropyl group, 2,2-dimethylpropyl group, 1
   ethylpropyl group, n-hexyl group, 1-ethyl-2-methylpropyl group, 1,1,2-trimethylpropyl
   group, 1-ethylbutyl group, 1-methylbutyl group, 2-methylbutyl group, 1,1-dimethylbutyl
   group, 1,2-dimethylbutyl group, 2,2-dimethylbutyl group, 1,3-dimethylbutyl group, 2,3
15 dimethylbutyl group, 2-ethylbutyl group, 2-methylpentyl group, 3-methylpentyl group and
   the like. Alkenyl and alkynyl groups are preferably "C2-20alkenyl" and "C2-20alkynyl"
   respectively, that is an alkenyl or alkynyl group which is a straight chain or branched chain
   with 2 to 20 carbons. The alkenyl or alkynyl group therefore has 2 ,3 ,4 ,5 ,6 ,7 ,8 ,9 ,10
   ,11 ,12 ,13 ,14 ,15 ,16 ,17 ,18 ,19 or 20 carbon atoms. Preferably, an alkenyl group or an
20 alkynyl group is "C2 -15alkenyl" and "C2-15alkynyl", more preferably "C2-12alkenyl" and "C2
   12alkynyl",  even more preferably "C2-1oalkenyl" and "C2-10alkynyl", even more preferably
   "C2-8alkenyl" and "C2-8 alkynyl", most preferably "C2-6 alkenyl" and "C2-6alkynyl" groups
   respectively.
   A heteroaliphatic group is an aliphatic group as described above, which additionally
25 contains one or more heteroatoms. Heteroaliphatic groups therefore preferably contain
   from 2 to 21 atoms, preferably from 2 to 16 atoms, more preferably from 2 to 13 atoms,
   more preferably from 2 to 11 atoms, more preferably from 2 to 9 atoms, even more
   preferably from 2 to 7 atoms, wherein at least one atom is a carbon atom. Particularly
   preferred heteroatoms are selected from 0, S, N, P and Si. When heteroaliphatic groups
30 have two or more heteroatoms, the heteroatoms may be the same or different.
   An alicyclic group is a saturated or partially unsaturated cyclic aliphatic monocyclic or
   polycyclic (including fused, bridging and spiro-fused) ring system which has from 3 to 20
   carbon atoms, that is an alicyclic group with 3 ,4 ,5 ,6 ,7 ,8 ,9 ,10 ,11 ,12 ,13 ,14 ,15 ,16
   ,17 ,18 ,19 or 20 carbon atoms. Preferably, an alicyclic group has from 3 to 15, more
35 preferably from 3 to 12, even more preferably from 3 to 10 , even more preferably from 3
                                                       7

   to 8 carbon atoms. The term "alicyclic" encompasses cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl and
   cycloalkynyl groups. It will be appreciated that the alicyclic group may comprise an
   alicyclic ring bearing one or more linking or non-linking alkyl substitutents, such as -CH    2
   cyclohexyl.
 5 Cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl and cycloalkynyl groups have from 3 to 20 carbon atoms. The
   cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl and cycloalkynyl groups therefore have 3 ,4 ,5 ,6 ,7 ,8 ,9 ,10 ,11
   ,12 ,13 ,14 ,15 ,16 ,17 ,18 ,19 or 20 carbon atoms. Cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl and
   cycloalkynyl groups preferably have from 3 to 15, more preferably from 3 to 12, even more
   preferably from 3 to 10, even more preferably from 3 to 8 carbon atoms. When an
10 alicyclic group has from 3 to 8 carbon atoms, this means that the alicyclic group has 3, 4,
   5, 6, 7 or 8 carbon atoms. Specifically, examples of the C3-20 cycloalkyl group include
   cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, cycloheptyl, adamantyl and cyclooctyl.
   A heteroalicyclic group is an alicyclic group as defined above which has, in addition to
   carbon atoms, one or more ring heteroatoms, which are preferably selected from 0, S, N,
15 P and Si. Heteroalicyclic groups preferably contain from one to four heteroatoms, which
   may be the same or different. Heterocyclic groups preferably contain from 4 to 20 atoms,
   more preferably from 4 to 14 atoms, even more preferably from 4 to 12 atoms.
   An aryl group is a monocyclic or polycyclic ring system having from 5 to 20 carbon atoms.
   An aryl group is preferably a   "C6-12 aryl group" and is an aryl group constituted by 6, 7, 8,
20 9, 10, 11 or 12 carbon atoms and includes condensed ring groups such as monocyclic
   ring group, or bicyclic ring group and the like. Specifically, examples of   "C6-10 aryl group"
   include phenyl group, biphenyl group, indenyl group, naphthyl group or azulenyl group
   and the like. It should be noted that condensed rings such as indan and tetrahydro
   naphthalene are also included in the aryl group.
25 A heteroaryl group is an aryl group having, in addition to carbon atoms, from one to four
   ring heteroatoms which are preferably selected from 0, S, N, P and Si. A heteroaryl
   group preferably has from 5 to 20, more preferably from 5 to 14 ring atoms. Specifically,
   examples of a heteroaryl group includes pyridine, imidazole, N-methylimidazole and 4
   dimethylaminopyridine.
30 Examples of alicyclic, heteroalicyclic, aryl and heteroaryl groups include but are not limited
   to cyclohexyl, phenyl, acridine, benzimidazole, benzofuran, benzothiophene, benzoxazole,
   benzothiazole, carbazole, cinnoline, dioxin, dioxane, dioxolane, dithiane, dithiazine,
   dithiazole, dithiolane, furan, imidazole, imidazoline, imidazolidine, indole, indoline,
   indolizine, indazole, isoindole, isoquinoline, isoxazole, isothiazole, morpholine,
                                                    8

   napthyridine, oxazole, oxadiazole, oxathiazole, oxathiazolidine, oxazine, oxadiazine,
   phenazine, phenothiazine, phenoxazine, phthalazine, piperazine, piperidine, pteridine,
   purine, pyran, pyrazine, pyrazole, pyrazoline, pyrazolidine, pyridazine, pyridine,
   pyrimidine, pyrrole, pyrrolidine, pyrroline, quinoline, quinoxaline, quinazoline, quinolizine,
 5 tetrahydrofuran, tetrazine, tetrazole, thiophene, thiadiazine, thiadiazole, thiatriazole,
   thiazine, thiazole, thiomorpholine, thianaphthalene, thiopyran, triazine, triazole, and
   trithiane.
   The term "halide" or "halogen" are used interchangeably and, as used herein mean a
10 fluorine atom, a chlorine atom, a bromine atom, an iodine atom and the like, preferably a
   fluorine atom, a bromine atom or a chlorine atom, and more preferably a fluorine atom or
   a bromine atom.
   A haloalkyl group is preferably a     "C1-20  haloalkyl group", more preferably a "Cl-1s haloalkyl
   group", more preferably a    "C1-12  haloalkyl group", more preferably a "C1o haloalkyl group",
15 even more preferably a     "C18 haloalkyl group", even more preferably a "C-6 haloalkyl
   group" and is a C1-20 alkyl, a C1-15 alkyl, a    C1-12 alkyl, a C1.10 alkyl, a C18 alkyl, or a C16
   alkyl group, respectively, as described above substituted with at least one halogen atom,
   preferably 1, 2 or 3 halogen atom(s). Specifically, examples of          "C1-2o haloalkyl group"
   include fluoromethyl group, difluoromethyl group, trifluoromethyl group, fluoroethyl group,
20 difluroethyl group, trifluoroethyl group, chloromethyl group, bromomethyl group,
   iodomethyl group and the like.
   An alkoxy group is preferably a     "C1-20   alkoxy group", more preferably a "C15 alkoxy
   group", more preferably a    "C1-12 alkoxy group", more preferably a "C1.1o alkoxy group",
   even more preferably a     "C18 alkoxy group", even more preferably a           "C16  alkoxy group"
25 and is an oxy group that is bonded to the previously defined C1-20 alkyl, C115 alkyl, C1-12
   alkyl, C1o alkyl, C18 alkyl, or C16 alkyl group respectively. Specifically, examples of "C_
   20 alkoxy group" include methoxy group, ethoxy group, n-propoxy group, iso-propoxy
   group, n-butoxy group, iso-butoxy group, sec-butoxy group, tert-butoxy group, n-pentyloxy
   group, iso-pentyloxy group, sec-pentyloxy group, n-hexyloxy group, iso-hexyloxy group, ,
30 n-hexyloxy group, n-heptyloxy group, n-octyloxy group, n-nonyloxy group, n-decyloxy
   group, n-undecyloxy group, n-dodecyloxy group, n-tridecyloxy group, n-tetradecyloxy
   group, n-pentadecyloxy group, n-hexadecyloxy group, n-heptadecyloxy group, n
   octadecyloxy group, n-nonadecyloxy group, n-eicosyloxy group, 1,1 -dimethylpropoxy
   group, 1,2-dimethylpropoxy group, 2,2-dimethylpropoxy group, 2-methylbutoxy group, 1
35 ethyl-2-methylpropoxy group, 1,1,2-trimethylpropoxy group, 1,1 -dimethylbutoxy group,
                                                        9

   1,2-dimethylbutoxy group, 2,2-dimethylbutoxy group, 2,3-dimethylbutoxy group, 1,3
   dimethylbutoxy group, 2-ethylbutoxy group, 2-methylpentyloxy group, 3-methylpentyloxy
   group and the like.
   An alkylthio group is preferably a     "C1-20 alkylthio group", more preferably a "C15 alkylthio
 5 group", more preferably a "C1-12 alkylthio group", more preferably a "Cl-1o alkylthio group",
   even more preferably a "C-8 alkylthio group", even more preferably a "C-6 alkylthio
   group" and is a thio (-S-) group that is bonded to the previously defined C1-20 alkyl, C115
   alkyl, C1-12 alkyl, Cl10o alkyl, C18 alkyl, or C1-6 alkyl group respectively.
   An alkylaryl group can comprise any of the alkyl or aryl groups discussed above.
10 Preferably the alkylaryl group is a "C6-12 aryl C1-20 alkyl group", more preferably a
   preferably a "C6-12 aryl Cl1 16 alkyl group", even more preferably a    "C6-12 aryl C1 -6 alkyl
   group" and is an aryl group as defined above bonded at any position to an alkyl group as
   defined above. The point of attachment of the alkylaryl group to a molecule may be via the
   alkyl portion and thus, preferably, the alkylaryl group is -CH 2-Ph or -CH 2CH2 -Ph. An
15 alkylaryl group can also be referred to as "aralkyl".
   An alkylheteroaryl group can comprise any of the alkyl or heteroaryl groups discussed
   above. Preferably the alkylheteroaryl group is a "heteroaryl C1-20 alkyl group", more
   preferably a preferably a "heteroaryl C 1 16 alkyl group", even more preferably a "heteroaryl
   C1 -6 alkyl group" and is a heteroaryl group as defined above bonded at any position to an
20 alkyl group as defined above. The point of attachment of the alkylheteroaryl group to a
   molecule may be via the alkyl portion. An alkylheteroaryl group can also be referred to as
   "heteroaralkyl".
   An ether group is preferably a group OR6 wherein R6 can be an aliphatic, heteroaliphatic,
   alicyclic, heteroalicyclic, aryl or heteroaryl group as defined above. In certain
25 embodiments, R6 can be an unsubstituted aliphatic, alicyclic or aryl. Preferably, R6 is an
   alkyl group selected from methyl, ethyl or propyl. A thioether group is preferably a group
   SR6 wherein R6 is as defined above.
   A silyl group is preferably a group -Si(R 7)3 , wherein each R7 can be independently an
   aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic, aryl or heteroaryl group as defined
30 above. In certain embodiments, each R7 is independently an unsubstituted aliphatic,
   alicyclic or aryl. Preferably, each R7 is an alkyl group selected from methyl, ethyl or propyl.
   A silyl ether group is preferably a group OSi(R8 )3 wherein each R8 can be independently
   an aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic, aryl or heteroaryl group as defined
                                                      10

   above. In certain embodiments, each R8 can be independently an unsubstituted aliphatic,
   alicyclic or aryl. Preferably, each R8 is an alkyl group selected from methyl, ethyl or
   propyl.
   A nitrile group is a group CN.
 5 An azide group is a group -N 3.
   An imine group is a group -CRNR, preferably a group -CHNR              9 wherein R9 is an aliphatic,
   heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic, aryl or heteroaryl group as defined above. In
   certain embodiments, R9 is unsubstituted aliphatic, alicyclic or aryl. Preferably R9 is an
   alkyl group selected from methyl, ethyl or propyl.
10 An acetylide group contains a triple bond -C=C-Rao, preferably wherein R10 can be an
   aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic, aryl or heteroaryl group as defined
   above. For the purposes of the invention when R10 is alkyl, the triple bond can be present
   at any position along the alkyl chain. In certain embodiments, R10 is unsubstituted
   aliphatic, alicyclic or aryl. Preferably R10 is methyl, ethyl, propyl or phenyl.
15 An amino group is preferably -NH 2, -NHR 1 or -N(R,1 )2 wherein R11 can be an aliphatic,
   heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic, , a silylalkyl, aryl or heteroaryl group as defined
   above. It will be appreciated that when the amino group is N(R,1 )2 , each R11 group can be
   independently selected from an aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic a
   silylalkyl group, heteroaryl or an aryl group as defined above. In certain embodiments,
20 each R11 is independently an unsubstituted aliphatic, alicyclic or aryl. Preferably R11 is
   methyl, ethyl, propyl, SiMe 3 or phenyl. Where W of the chain transfer agent is amine, the
   amine is preferably NH2 or NHR 11 .
   An alkylamino group may be a group -NHR 1 or -N(R,1 )2 as defined above.
   An amido group is preferably -NR      12 C(O)-  or -C(O)-NR    12- wherein R12 can be hydrogen,
25 an aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic, aryl or heteroaryl group as defined
   above. In certain embodiments, R12 is unsubstituted aliphatic, alicyclic or aryl. Preferably
   R12 is hydrogen, methyl, ethyl, propyl or phenyl.
   An ester group is preferably -OC(O)R       13- or -C(O)OR    13- wherein  R1 3 can be hydrogen, an
   aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic, aryl or heteroaryl group as defined
30 above. In certain embodiments, R13 is unsubstituted aliphatic, alicyclic or aryl. Preferably
   R13 is hydrogen, methyl, ethyl, propyl or phenyl.
                                                      11

   A sulfoxide is preferably -SOR       4, a sulfonate group is preferably -OS(O)  2 R14 , a sulfinate
   group is preferably -S(O)O-R      14 , wherein  R14 can be hydrogen, an aliphatic,
   heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic, aryl or heteroaryl group as defined above. In
   certain embodiments, R14 is unsubstituted aliphatic, alicyclic or aryl. Preferably R14 is
 5 hydrogen, methyl, ethyl, propyl or phenyl.
   A carboxylate group is preferably OC(O)R 5 , wherein R15 can be hydrogen, an aliphatic,
   heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic, aryl or heteroaryl group as defined above. In
   certain embodiments, R15 is unsubstituted aliphatic, alicyclic or aryl. Preferably R15 is
   hydrogen, methyl, ethyl, propyl, butyl (for example n-butyl, isobutyl or tert-butyl), phenyl,
10 pentafluorophenyl, pentyl, hexyl, heptyl, octyl, nonyl, decyl, undecyl, dodecyl, tridecyl,
   tetradecyl, pentadecyl, hexadecyl, heptadecyl, octadecyl, nonadecyl, eicosyl,
   trifluoromethyl or adamantyl.
   An acetamide is preferably MeC(O)N(Rl 6 ) 2 wherein R16 can be hydrogen, an aliphatic,
   heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic, aryl or heteroaryl group as defined above. In
15 certain embodiments, R16 is unsubstituted aliphatic, alicyclic or aryl. Preferably R16 is
   hydrogen, methyl, ethyl, propyl or phenyl.
   A phosphinate group is preferably a group -OP(O)(Rl 7 )2 wherein each R17 is
   independently selected from hydrogen, or an aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic,
   heteroalicyclic, aryl or heteroaryl group as defined above. In certain embodiments, R17 is
20 aliphatic, alicyclic or aryl, which are optionally substituted by aliphatic, alicyclic, aryl or Cj
   6alkoxy.   Preferably R17 is optionally substituted aryl or Ca-20 alkyl, more preferably phenyl
   optionally substituted by C1-6 alkoxy (preferably methoxy) or unsubstituted Ca- 20 alkyl (such
   as hexyl, octyl, decyl, dodecyl, tetradecyl, hexadecyl, stearyl).
   It will be appreciated that where any of the above groups are present in a Lewis base G,
25 one or more additional RG groups may be present, as appropriate, to complete the
   valency. For example, in the context of an ether an additional RG group may be present to
   give RGOR 6., wherein RG is hydrogen, an optionally substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic,
   alicyclic, heteroalicyclic, aryl or heteroaryl group as defined above. Preferably, RG is
   hydrogen or aliphatic, alicyclic or aryl.
30 Any of the aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic, aryl, heteroaryl, haloalkyl,
   alkoxy, alkylthio, alkylaryl, ether, ester, sulfoxide, sulfonate, sulfinate, carboxylate, silyl
   ether, imine, acetylide, amino, alkylamino, phosphinate or amido groups wherever
   mentioned in the definitions above, may optionally be substituted by halogen, hydroxyl,
   nitro, carbonate, alkoxy, aryloxy, heteroaryloxy, amino, alkylamino, imine, nitrile, acetylide,
                                                      12

   or optionally substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic, aryl or
   heteroaryl groups (for example, optionally substituted by halogen, hydroxyl, nitro,
   carbonate, alkoxy, amino, alkylamino, imine, nitrile or acetylide).
   For the purposes of all aspects of the present invention, the epoxide, anhydride, lactide
 5 and lactone substrates are not limited.
   The term epoxide therefore relates to any compound comprising an epoxide moiety. In
   preferred embodiments, the epoxides which are useful in the present invention have the
   following formula:
            0
    Rei--/           R*4
        Re2      Re3
10 Wherein each Re', Re2, Re3 and R*4 is independently selected from hydrogen, halogen,
   hydroxyl, nitro, alkoxy, aryloxy, heteroaryloxy, amino, alkylamino, imine, nitrile, acetylide,
   carboxylate or optionally substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic,
   aryl, heteroaryl, alkylaryl or alkylheteroaryl, or a polymeric species (e.g. polybis(phenol)A);
   or two or more of Rel, Re2, Re3 and R* 4 can be taken together to form a saturated, partially
15 saturated or unsaturated 3 to 12 membered, optionally substituted ring system, optionally
   containing one or more heteroatoms.
   Preferred examples of epoxides for the purposes of the present invention include
   propylene oxide, cyclohexene oxide, substituted cyclohexene oxides (such as limonene
20 oxide, CloH 160 or 2-(3,4-epoxycyclohexyl)ethyltrimethoxysilane, C11 H2 2 0), alkylene oxides
   (such as ethylene oxide and substituted ethylene oxides), substituted oxiranes (such as
   epichlorohydrin, 1,2-epoxybutane, glycidyl ethers), styrene oxide or substituted styrene
   oxides. For example, epoxides, may have the following structures:
                                                 0
                      0                 0
                                                         .        CI             OH
25              ,
                                                    13

   The term anhydride relates to any compound comprising an anhydride moiety in a ring
   system (i.e. a cyclic anhydride). In preferred embodiments, the anhydrides which are
   useful in the present invention have the following formula:
                0
    o                      0
              -- -Q   M
          Ra          Ra2
 5 Wherein m" is 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 (preferably 1 or 2), each Ra1, Ra2, Ra3 and Ra4 is
   independently selected from hydrogen, halogen, hydroxyl, nitro, alkoxy, aryloxy,
   heteroaryloxy, amino, alkylamino, imine, nitrile, acetylide, carboxylate or optionally
   substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic, aryl, heteroaryl, alkylaryl or
   alkylheteroaryl, or a polymeric species (e.g. polybis(phenol)A); or two or more of Re", Re2
10 Re3 and R* 4 can be taken together to form a saturated, partially saturated or unsaturated 3
   to 12 membered, optionally substituted ring system, optionally containing one or more
   heteroatoms, or can be taken together to form a double bond. Each Q is independently C,
   0, N or S, preferably C, wherein Ra3 and Ra4 are either present, or absent, and =-              can
   either be =          or         , according to the valency of Q. It will be appreciated that when
15 Q is C, and =-           is =     , Ra3 and Ra4 (or two Ra4 on adjacent carbon atoms) are absent.
   Preferable anhydrides are set out below.
                                          0        o     O    O       0       0     0
                                          o o         o0                              0         0,
    o               o                  0
                              0
        0   ~~                    0                  0     0
                                             O-z00                                ,
                                         o      o    0
   o*Z      o     0       0     0
20
   The term lactone relates to any cyclic compound comprising a-C(O)O- moiety in the ring.
   In preferred embodiments, the lactones which are useful in the present invention have the
   following formula:
                                                        14

                 0
    0
            m
               2
      RL1   RL
   Wherein m is 1 to 20 (e.g. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19 or
   20), preferably 2, 4, or 5; and RLl and RL2 are independently selected from hydrogen,
   halogen, hydroxyl, nitro, alkoxy, aryloxy, heteroaryloxy, amino, alkylamino, imine, nitrile,
 5 acetylide, carboxylate or optionally substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic,
   heteroalicyclic, aryl, heteroaryl, alkylaryl or alkylheteroaryl. Two or more of RLl and RL2
   can be taken together to form a saturated, partially saturated or unsaturated 3 to 12
   membered, optionally substituted ring system, optionally containing one or more
   heteroatoms. When m is 2 or more, the RLl and RL2 on each carbon atom may be the
10 same or different. Preferably RLl and RL2 are selected from hydrogen or alkyl. Preferably,
   the lactone has the following structure:
      0                                                  0
                            0O
                               0
                 o     O   ZO                      O        0
   The term lactide is a cyclic compound containing two ester groups. In preferred
15 embodiments, the lactides which are useful in the present invention have the following
   formula:
             4     3
           RL    RL
    0,m
                  M
          0
                       M10
               3     4
            RL    RL
   Wherein m' is 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 or 10, (preferably 1 or 2, more preferably, 1) and RL3
   and RL4 are independently selected from hydrogen, halogen, hydroxyl, nitro, alkoxy,
20 aryloxy, heteroaryloxy, amino, alkylamino, imine, nitrile, acetylide, carboxylate or
   optionally substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic, aryl, heteroaryl,
   alkylaryl or alkylheteroaryl. Two or more of RL3 and RL4 can be taken together to form a
   saturated, partially saturated or unsaturated 3 to 12 membered, optionally substituted ring
   system, optionally containing one or more heteroatoms, When m' is 2 or more, the RL3
25 and RL4 on each carbon atom may be the same or different or one or more RL3 and RL4 on
   adjacent carbon atoms can be absent, thereby forming a double or triple bond. It will be
                                                    15

   appreciated that while the compound has two moieties represented by (-CRL3 RL 4 )m', both
   moieties will be identical. In particularly preferred embodiments, m' is 1, RL4 is H, and RL3
   is H, hydroxyl or a C1 -6 alkyl, preferably methyl. The stereochemistry of the moiety
   represented by (-CRL3 RL 4 )m'can either be the same (for example RR-lactide or SS
 5 lactide), or different (for example, meso-lactide). The lactide may be a racemic mixture, or
   may be an optically pure isomer. Preferably, the lactide has the following formula:
       0              0             0
         0 'Y0                       0
         0      ,       0       or   0
   The term "lactone and/or lactide" used herein encompasses a lactone, a lactide and a
10 combination of a lactone and a lactide. Preferably, the term "lactone and/or lactide" means
   a latone or a lactide.
   Preferred optional substituents of the groups Re', Re2, Res, R**, Ra1 , Ra2, Ras, Ra4, R , R",
   RL3 and RL4 include halogen, nitro, hydroxyl, unsubstituted aliphatic, unsubstituted
15 heteroaliphatic unsubstituted aryl, unsubstituted heteroaryl, alkoxy, aryloxy, heteroaryloxy,
   amino, alkylamino, imine, nitrile, acetylide, and carboxylate.
   Detailed description
   In a first aspect, the present invention provides a method for preparing a block copolymer,
20 using a single catalytic system, wherein the single catalytic system comprises a catalyst of
   formula (1):
        Z-      M
    R                (1)
   Wherein:
   [M] is a metal complex having at least one metal atom M coordinated by a ligand system;
25 M is Zn, Cr, Co, Mn, Mg, Fe, Ti, Ca, Ge, Al, Mo, W, Ru, Ni or V;
   Z is absent, or is independently selected from -E-, -EX(E)-, or -EX(E)E-,
   each E is independently selected from 0, S or NRz, wherein Rz is H, or optionally
   substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic, aryl, heteroaryl, alkylaryl or
   alkylheteroaryl;
30 XisCorS
                                                   16

   R is hydrogen, or optionally substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic,
   aryl, heteroaryl, alkylaryl, alkylheteroaryl, silyl or a polymer; and when Z is absent, R may
   additionally be selected from halide, phosphinate, azide and nitrate;
 5 the method comprising the steps of:
   d) forming a first block by polymerising a first monomer or combination of monomers
        selected from the groups (i) to (iii):
        Group (i): a lactide and/or a lactone,
        Group (ii): an epoxide and an anhydride, or
10      Group (iii): an epoxide and carbon dioxide,
   e) optionally contacting the catalyst of formula (1)with a compound [Y] which is capable
        converting the group -Z-R, wherein Z is absent or a group selected from -E-X(E)- or
        E-X(E)E-, to a group -Z-R wherein Z is -E-;
   f) forming a second block by polymerising a second monomer or combination of
15      monomers selected from a different group (i) to (iii) to that selected for the first
        monomer or combination of monomers:
        Group (i): a lactide and/or a lactone,
        Group (ii): an epoxide and an anhydride, or
        Group (iii): an epoxide and carbon dioxide,
20 wherein when the first monomer or combination of monomers is Group (i), Z is -E-; and
   wherein when the first monomer or combination of monomers is Group (ii) or Group (iii) ,
   and the second monomer or combination of monomers is Group (i), step b) is performed
   after step a).
   It will be appreciated that the definition of the catalyst system for use in the method of the
25 present invention is not limiting and encompasses any catalyst of formula (1), in particular
   any catalyst of formula (1)suitable for polymerisation of an epoxide with carbon dioxide, or
   an anhydride, to form a polycarbonate polyol or polyester polyol respectively.
   Such known catalyst systems generally comprise a metal, and a ligand. The metal can be
30 selected from Zn, Ni, Ru, Mo, Fe, Mn, Mo, Cr, V, Co, Ti, W, Al, Ca, Ge or Mg. In preferred
   embodiments, the metal is Zn, Mg, or Co, more preferably Mg or Zn. The catalyst can
   comprises one or more metal atoms, such as two metal atoms. The ligand can be a
                                                     17

   monodentate or poly dentate ligand, such as a bi-dentate, tri-dentate or tetradentate
   ligand.
   In particular, the methods of the present invention can use a metal co-ordination
 5 compound comprising the following tetradentate ligands as disclosed in W02010/028362,
   the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference: salen derivatives; derivatives
   of salan ligands; bis-2-hydroxybenzamido derivatives; derivatives of the Trost ligand;
   porphyrin derivatives; derivatives of tetrabenzoporphyrin ligands; derivatives of corrole
   ligands; phthalocyaninate derivatives; and dibenzotetramethyltetraaza[14]annulene
10 derivatives.
   The invention relates to catalysts comprising metal complexes comprising two or metal
   atoms complexed to one or more multidentate ligand(s) as disclosed in W02012/037282,
   the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
15
   The invention further encompasses the use of catalysts comprising bulky p-diiminate
   (BDI) ligands for example (BDI)-ZnO'Pr as disclosed in Coates et al, J.A.C.S., (2001), 123,
   3229-3238, the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. An additional
   example of such a catalyst includes the salen Co(Ill)X/onium salt catalyst system as
20 disclosed in Lu et al, J.A.C.S., (2012), 134, 17739 - 17745, the contents of which are
   incorporated herein by reference.
   The invention further encompasses, and preferably relates to, catalysts comprising two
   metal atoms complexed to a multidentate ligand system as disclosed in W02009/130470
25 and W02013/034750, the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
   Other examples of known catalyst systems for use in the method of the present invention
   include (BDI)Zn-OAc as disclosed in R.C. Jeske, A.M. DiCiccio, G.W. Coates, J. Am.
   Chem. Soc. 2007, 129, 11330-11331, (salen)Cr-CI as disclosed in D.J. Darensbourg, R.R.
30 Poland, C. Escobedo, Marcomolecules 2012, 45, 2242-2248, (salen)M-CI, where M is Cr,
   Al, Co or Mn, as disclosed in C. Robert, F. De Montigny, C.M. Thomas, Nature Comm.
   2011, 2, 586, (salen)-Co-0 2CPH as disclosed in M. DiCicco, G.W. Coates, J. Am. Soc.
   2011, 133, 10724-10727, (Tp-porph)A-CI as disclosed in T. Aida, S. Inoue, J. Am. Chem.
   Soc. 1985, 107,1358-1364 and T. Aida, K. Sanuki, S. Inoue, Marcomolecules 1985, 18,
35 1049; (sal*)MCI where M is Al, Cr or Co as disclosed in E. Hosseini Nejad, C.G.W. van
   Melis, T.J. Vermeer, C.E. Koning, R. Duchateau, Macromolecules, 2012, 45, 1770-1776,
   (Ph-salen)Cr-CI as disclosed in E. Hosseini Nejad, A. Paoniasari, C.E. Koning, R.
                                                 18

   Duchateau, Polym. Chem, 2012, 3, 1308, the contents of all of which are incorporated
   herein by reference.
   In preferred embodiments of the first aspect, the catalyst of formula (1) is preferably a
 5 complex of formula (IA):
                   R,
        R<R      2       R
                 RI   G
                          NR4
                   E2
         RN
          RN       E2           R3N
               G       R
              R5           R5
             R2        R2
                   R1               (IA)
   wherein
   R, and R2 are independently hydrogen, halide, a nitro group, a nitrile group, an imine, an
   amine, an ether group, a silyl ether group, a thioether group, a sulfoxide group, a sulfinate
10 group, or an acetylide group or an optionally substituted alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, haloalkyl,
   aryl, heteroaryl, alicyclic or heteroalicyclic;
   R3 is optionally substituted alkylene, alkenylene, alkynylene, heteroalkylene,
   heteroalkenylene, heteroalkynylene, arylene, heteroarylene or cycloalkylene, wherein
   alkylene, alkenylene, alkynylene, heteroalkylene, heteroalkenylene and heteroalkynylene
15 may optionally be interrupted by aryl, heteroaryl, alicyclic or heteroalicyclic;
   R4 is H, or optionally substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic, aryl,
   heteroaryl, alkylheteroaryl or alkylaryl;
   R5 is H, or optionally substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic, aryl,
   heteroaryl, alkylheteroaryl or alkylaryl;
20 El isC, E2 isO, SorNHorEj is N and E2 isO;
   Z is absent, or is selected from -E-, -EX(E)-, or -EX(E)E-;
   X is C or S;
   E is -0-, -S-, or NRz, wherein is H, or optionally substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic,
   alicyclic, heteroalicyclic, aryl, heteroaryl, alkylaryl or alkylheteroaryl;
25 R is hydrogen, or optionally substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic,
   aryl, heteroaryl, alkylaryl, alkylheteroaryl, silyl or a polymer; and when Z is absent, R may
   additionally be selected from halide, phonsphinate, azide and nitro;
                                                     19

   each G is independently absent or a neutral or anionic donor ligand which is a Lewis
   base; and
   M is Zn(II), Cr(II), Co(II), Mn(II), Mg(II), Fe(II), Ti(II), Cr(Ill)-Z-R, Co(Ill)-Z-R, Mn (III)-Z-R,
   Fe(Ill)-Z-R, Ca(II), Ge(II), AI(Ill)-Z-R, Ti(Ill)-Z-R, V(Ill)-Z-R, Ge(IV)-(-Z-R) 2 or Ti(IV)-(-Z-R) 2.
 5
   R, and R2 are independently hydrogen, halide, a nitro group, a nitrile group, an mine,             an
   amine, an ether group, a silyl ether group, a thioether group, a sulfoxide group, a sulfinate
   group, or an acetylide group or optionally substituted alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, haloalkyl, aryl,
   heteroaryl, alicyclic or heteroalicyclic. R, and R2 may be the same or different. R, and R2
10 are preferably independently selected from hydrogen, tBu, Me, CF 3 , phenyl, F, Cl, Br, I,
   NMe 2 , NEt 2 , NO2 , OMe, OSiEt3 , CNMe, CN or CCPh, more preferably hydrogen, OMe,
   Me, NO2 , halogen or tBu (e.g. hydrogen or tBu). In certain embodiments, R2 is hydrogen
   and R, is any one of the groups defined above, preferably NO2, halogen, tBu, OMe or Me,
   more preferably tBu, OMe or Me.
15 R3 is a disubstituted alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, heteroalkyl, heteroalkenyl or heteroalkynyl
   group which may optionally be interrupted by an aryl, heteroaryl, alicyclic or heterolicyclic
   group, or may be a disubstituted aryl or cycloalkyl group which acts as a bridging group
   between two nitrogen centres in the catalyst of formula (IA). Thus, where R3 is a alkylene
   group, such as dimethylpropylene, the R3 group has the structure -CH 2 -C(CH 3 )2 -CH 2 -.
20 The definitions of the alkyl, aryl, cycloalkyl etc groups set out above therefore also relate
   respectively to the alkylene, arylene, cycloalkylene etc groups set out for R3. In certain
   embodiments, R3 is optionally substituted alkylene, alkenylene, alkynylene,
   heteroalkylene, heteroalkenylene, heteroalkynylene, arylene, heteroarylene or
   cycloalkylene; wherein alkylene, alkenylene, alkynylene, heteroalkylene, heteroalkenylene
25 and heteroalkynylene may optionally be interrupted by aryl, heteroaryl, alicyclic or
   heteroalicyclic. In particularly preferred embodiments, R3 is a propylene group which is
   optionally substituted by aliphatic (preferably C1 -6 alkyl) or aryl groups. Preferably R3 is
   ethylene, 2,2-dimethylpropylene, propylene, butylene, phenylene, cyclohexylene or
   biphenylene, more preferably 2,2-dimethylpropylene. When R3 is cyclohexylene, it can be
30 the racemic, RR- or SS- forms.
   R4 is H, or optionally substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic, aryl,
   heteroaryl, alkylheteroaryl or alkylaryl. Preferably R4 is independently selected from
   hydrogen, or optionally substituted alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, aryl or heteroaryl.           Exemplary
   options for R4 include H, Me, Et, Bn, iPr, tBu or Ph. More preferably, R4 is hydrogen.
                                                      20

   R5 is H, or optionally substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic, aryl,
   heteroaryl, alkylheteroaryl or alkylaryl. Preferably R5 is independently selected from
   hydrogen, or optionally substituted aliphatic or aryl. More preferably, R5 is selected from
   hydrogen, alkyl or aryl.     Exemplary R5 groups include hydrogen, methyl, trifluoromethyl,
 5 ethyl and phenyl (preferably hydrogen, trifluoromethyl and methyl).             In particularly
   preferred embodiments, all instances of R5 are hydrogen.
   In certain embodiments, R1 , R2 , R3 , R4 and R5 are each independently optionally
   substituted by halogen, hydroxyl, nitro, carbonate, alkoxy, aryloxy, heteroaryloxy, amino,
   alkylamino, imine, nitrile, acetylide, or unsubstituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic,
10 heteroalicyclic, aryl or heteroaryl.        Preferably R1 , R2, R3 , R4 and R5 are each
   independently optionally substituted by halogen, hydroxyl, nitro, carbonate, alkoxy,
   aryloxy, imine, nitrile, acetylide, unsubstituted aliphatic, unsubstituted alicyclic and
   unsubstituted aryl.
   In certain embodiments, El is C, E2 is 0, S or NH, and preferably E2 is 0.            In other
15 embodiments, El is N and E2 is 0. In particularly preferred embodiments, El is C and E2 is
   0.
   G is either present or absent. When G is not absent, it is a group which is capable of
   donating a lone pair of electrons (i.e. a Lewis base). In certain embodiments, G is a
   nitrogen containing Lewis base.         Each G may independently be neutral or negatively
20 charged.     If G is negatively charged, then one or more positive counterions will be
   required to balance out the change of the complex. Suitable positive counterions include
   group 1 metal ions (Na*, K', etc), group 2 metal ions (Mg2*, Ca 2 ,, etc), imidazolium ions,
   positively charged optionally substituted heteroaryl, heteroalicyclic or heteroaliphatic
   groups, ammonium ions (i.e. N(R 12 ) 4 +), iminium ions (i.e. (R12) 2C=N(R12 ) 2 ', such as
25 bis(triphenylphosphine)iminium ions) or phosphonium ions (P(R12 )4 +), wherein each R12 is
   independently selected from hydrogen or optionally substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic,
   alicyclic, heteroalicyclic, aryl or heteroaryl. Exemplary counterions include [H-B]* wherein
   B is selected from triethylamine, 1,8-diazabicyclo[5.4.0]undec-7-ene and 7-methyl-1,5,7
   triazabicyclo[4.4.0]dec-5-ene.
30 G is preferably independently selected from an optionally substituted heteroaliphatic
   group, an optionally substituted heteroalicyclic group, an optionally substituted heteroaryl
   group, a halide, hydroxide, hydride, a carboxylate, an ether, a thioether, carbene, a
   phosphine, a phosphine oxide, an amine, an acetamide, acetonitrile, an ester, a sulfoxide,
   a sulfonate and water. More preferably, G is independently selected from water, an
                                                   21

   alcohol, a substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl (imidazole, methyl imidazole, pyridine, 4
   dimethylaminopyridine, pyrrole, pyrazole, etc), an ether (dimethyl ether, diethylether,
   cyclic ethers, etc), a thioether, carbene, a phosphine, a phosphine oxide, a substituted or
   unsubstituted          heteroalicyclic         (morpholine,       piperidine,    tetrahydrofuran,
 5 tetrahydrothiophene, etc), an amine, an alkyl amine (trimethylamine, triethylamine, etc),
   acetonitrile, an ester (ethyl acetate, etc), an acetamide (dimethylacetamide, etc), a
   sulfoxide (dimethylsulf oxide, etc), a carboxylate, a hydroxide, hydride, a halide, a nitrate, a
   sulfonate, etc. In some embodiments, one or both instances of G is independently
   selected from optionally substituted heteroaryl, optionally substituted heteroaliphatic,
10 optionally substituted heteroalicyclic, halide, hydroxide, hydride, an ether, a thioether,
   carbene, a phosphine, a phosphine oxide, an amine, an alkyl amine, acetonitrile, an ester,
   an acetamide, a sulfoxide, a carboxylate, a nitrate or a sulfonate. In certain embodiments,
   G may be a halide; hydroxide; hydride; water; a heteroaryl, heteroalicyclic or carboxylate
   group which are optionally substituted by alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, alkoxy, halogen, hydroxyl,
15 nitro or nitrile. In preferred embodiments, G is independently selected from halide; water;
   a heteroaryl optionally substituted by alkyl (e.g. methyl, ethyl etc), alkenyl, alkynyl, alkoxy
   (preferably methoxy), halogen, hydroxyl, nitro or nitrile. In some embodiments, one or both
   instances of G is negatively charged (for example, halide). In further embodiments, one
   or both instances of G is an optionally substituted heteroaryl. Exemplary G groups include
20 chloride, bromide, pyridine, methylimidazole (for example N-methyl imidazole) and
   dimethylaminopyridine (for example, 4-methylaminopyridine).
   Preferably G is absent.
   It will be appreciated that when a G group is present, the G group may be associated with
   a single M metal centre as shown in formula (IA), or the G group may be associated with
25 both metal centres and form a bridge between the two metal centres.
   Preferably M is Zn(II), Cr(III), Cr(II), Co(Ill), Co(II), Mn(III), Mn(II), Mg(II), Fe(II), Fe(III),
   Ca(II), Ge(II), Ti(II), A(III), Ti(III), V(Ill), Ge(IV) or Ti(IV), more preferably Zn(II), Cr(III),
   Co(II), Mn(II), Mg(II), Fe(II) or Fe(III), and most preferably Zn(II) or Mg(II).        It will be
   appreciated that when M is Cr(III), Co(Ill), Mn(III) or Fe(III), the catalyst of formula (IA) will
30 contain an additional -Z-R group co-ordinated to the metal centre, wherein -R-R is as
   defined herein. It will also be appreciated that when M is Ge(IV) or Ti(IV), the catalyst of
   formula (IA) will contain two additional -Z-R groups co-ordinated to the metal centre,
   wherein -Z-R is as defined above. In certain embodiments, when M is Ge(IV) or Ti(IV),
   both G may be absent.
                                                      22

   The skilled person will also appreciate that each M may be the same (for example, both M
   may be Mg, Zn, Fe or Co) or each M may be different and can be present in any
   combination (for example, Fe and Zn, Co and Zn, Mg and Fe, Co and Fe, Mg and Co, Cr
   and Mg, Cr and Zn, Mn and Mg, Mn and Zn, Mn and Fe, Cr and Fe, Cr and Co, Al and
 5 Mg, Al and Zn etc). When M is the same metal, it will be appreciated that each M may be
   in the same oxidation state (for example both M may be Co(II), Fe(II) or Fe(Ill)), or in a
   different oxidation state (for example, one M may be Co(II) and the other M may be
   Co(Ill), one M may be Fe(II) and the other M may be Fe(Ill), or one M may be Cr(II) and
   the other M may be Cr(Ill)).
10 -Z- is either absent or selected from -E-, -E-X(E)- or -E-X(E)-E-.
   X is C or S, preferably C.
   E is 0, S, or NRz.
   When Z is -E-X(E)-, -E-X(E)- is preferably -O-(CO)-, -NRz-C(O)-, -O-C(=NRz)-, -0-C(S)-,
   O-S(O)-, -NRz-S(O)- or -O-S(=NRz)_.
15 When Z is -E-X(E)-E-,      -E-X(E)-E-.   is preferably -O-(CO)-O, -NRz-C(O)-O-, -NRz-C(O)
   NRz, -O-C(=NRz)-O-, -O-C(=NRz)-NRz-,           -O-C(S)-O-,    -O-C(O)-NRz, -O-S(O)-O-, -NRz_
   S(O)-O-, -O-S(O)-NRz.
   Preferably, each occurrence of E is 0.
   In certain embodiments, each E is 0 and X is C.
20 Each NRz is independently H, or optionally substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic,
   heteroalicyclic, aryl, heteroaryl, alkylaryl or alkylheteroaryl. Preferably NRz is hydrogen or
   C1 -6 alkyl.
   R is hydrogen, or optionally substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic,
   aryl, heteroaryl, alkylaryl, alkylheteroaryl or silyl. Preferably, R is an optionally substituted
25 alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, aryl, alkylaryl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, cycloalkynyl, heteroaryl,
   cycloheteroalkyl, alkylheteroaryl or silyl. More preferably, R is C112 alkyl, cycloalkyl or aryl
   (for example, methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, isopropyl, n-butyl, tert-butyl, phenyl, cyclohexyl etc).
   When -Z- is absent, in addition to the above groups, R may also be a halide, phosphinate,
   azide or nitrate.
                                                   23

   Preferably, R may be substituted by halogen, hydroxyl, nitro, unsubstituted aryl,
   unsubstituted alkyl, unsubstituted alkenyl, unsubstituted alkoxy and unsubstituted aryloxy.
   For example, R may be an alkyl group substituted by halogen, for instance R may be CF 3 .
   It will also be appreciated that R can be a polymer chain. For example, R may be a
 5 polycarbonate or a polyester.
   The catalyst of formula (IA) has two or more occurrences of -Z-R, depending on the
   oxidation state of the metal M. Each -Z-R may be the same, or different.
   The skilled person will also understand that the moiety in the group -R which is attached
   to the group -Z- will not be a heteroatom (for example, 0, S or N) or a group C=E', where
10 E' is a heteroatom (for example 0, S, or N).
   In particularly preferred embodiments, R,        and R2 are independently hydrogen, or
   optionally substituted alkyl, alkenyl, halogen, hydroxyl, nitro, alkoxy, aryl, heteroaryl,
   alkylaryl and alkylheteroaryl; R3 is optionally substituted alkylene or arylene; R4 is
   hydrogen, or optionally substituted alkyl or heteroaryl; R5 is hydrogen or optionaly
15 substituted alkyl; El is C and E2 is 0; M is Mg, Zn, Fe or Co; Z is either absent or selected
   from -O-R, O-C(O)-R or -OC(O)-O-R; R is optionally substituted alkyl, alkenyl, cycloalkyl,
   aryl, heteroaryl, alkylaryl or alkylheteroaryl; or when Z is absent, R is phosphinate or
   halide; G is either absent, or is selected from optionally substituted heteroaryl or halide. It
   will be appreciated that when G is a halogen, a counterion must be present. Preferably,
20 the    counterion   is   [H-B]*, wherein    B is   preferably  selected    from   NEt 3 , 1,8
   diazabicyclo[5.4.0]undec-7-ene (DBU)       and 7-methyl- 1,5,7-triazabicyclo[4.4.O]dec-5-ene
   (MTBD).
   Exemplary catalysts of formula (IA) are as follows:
                                                 24

     OAc             N
    Mg        Mg
NH            OA     N
   [L 4Mg 2 (OAc) 2]
                       25

   OAc                   QAc
NH      0     Z NH   NH      O       NH
   Zn        Zn          Zn      Zn
NH     0       NH    NH      0     NH
             QAc                 QAc
 [L 1Zn 2 (OAc) 2]    [L2 Zn 2(OAc) 2]
       OMe
   QOAc                  OAc
NH      0 ZNH
           \    ,, \ NH\     0 ,     NH
   Zn        Zn
NH     0       NH    NH      0     NH
             QAc                 QAc
       OMe
 [L3Zn 2(OAc) 2]     [L1Mg 2(OAc) 2]
                              26

                                                                              C1
                                  Ci
                       N NHAX
                           Co
                                  O
                                      H , /"
                                        Co HN
                                               i "
                                                                   N C,OH          Co  N I:
                                                                   H
                                                                   NH   _     0     E HN
                       NH         O        HN
                                                                        6      61Nu
                          [L C0 2C13] [B-H]+                          [L'Co2Cl 2 Nu]
      [B-H]+ represents any counterion, for example,            Nu = N-methylimidazole
      B may be NEt3 , 1,8-diazabicyclo[5.4.0]undec-7-ene (DBU),    = pyridine
      7-methyl-1,5,7-triazabicyclo[4.4.0]dec-5-ene (MTBD), etc     = dimethylaminopyridine
   [L' Mg 2 CI 2 (methylimidazole)],
   [L1 Mg2CI 2(dimethylaminopyridine)],
   [L1 Mg2 Br2(dimethylaminopyridine)],
 5 [L'Zn 2 (F 3CCOO) 2 ],
   [L'Zn 2(OOCC(CH 3)3 )2],
   [L'Zn2 (OC6 H5 ) 2],
   [L1 Fe2CI 4],
   [L1 Co 2(OAc) 3],
10 [L 1Zn 2 (adamantyl carbonate) 2],
   [L1Zn 2 (pentafluorobenzoate) 2],
   [L1Zn 2 (diphenylphosphinate) 2],
   [L1Zn 2 (bis(4-methoxy)phenyl phosphinate) 2],
   [L1Zn 2 (hexanoate) 2],
15 [L 1Zn 2(octanoate) 2],
   [L1Zn 2 (dodecanoate) 2],
                                                           27

   [L1 Mg2 (F 3CCOO) 2],
   [L1 Mg2 Br 2],
   [L 1Zn 2 (C6 F5 ) 2],
   [L 1Zn 2 (C6 H5 )2] and
 5 [L1Zn 2 (OiPr) 2].
   The compound [Y] which can be used in the first aspect of the present invention must be
   capable of converting the group -Z-R, wherein Z is absent or a group selected from -E
   C(E)- or -E-C(E)E-, to a group -Z-R wherein Z is -E-. In other words, the compound [Y]
10 must be capable of inserting into the bond between the metal atom in the metal complex
   [M] and the group -Z-R in order to switch the ligand attached to the metal atom from -R,
   E-C(E)-R or E-C(E)-E-R to -E-R.
   The compound [Y] may be a compound having a three, four or five membered saturated
15 ring and at least one heteroatom selected from 0, S or N. In preferred embodiments, the
   compound [Y] may be an epoxide, an aziridine, an episulfide, an oxetane, a thietane, an
   azetidine, a saturated furan, a saturated thiophene or a pyrrolidine.
   In certain embodiments, the compound [Y] has the following formula:
     RA1
                     A
    RA2
             3
20       RA         RA
   Wherein
   A is 0, S or NRA; (preferably A is 0)
   j is 1, 2, or 3;
   RA is hydrogen, halogen, hydroxyl, alkoxy, aryloxy, heteroaryloxy, or aliphatic,
25 heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic, aryl, heteroaryl, alkylaryl or alkylheteroaryl;
   Each RAl, RA2 , RA    3
                           and RA4 is independently selected hydrogen, halogen, hydroxyl, nitro,
   alkoxy, aryloxy, heteroaryloxy, amino, alkylamino, imine, nitrile, acetylide, carboxylate or
   optionally substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic, aryl, heteroaryl,
                                                             2
   alkylaryl or alkylheteroaryl; or two or more of RA1, RA     , RA3 and RA4 can be taken together
30 to form a saturated, partially saturated or unsaturated 3 to 12 membered, optionally
   substituted ring system, optionally containing one or more heteroatoms. For example,
   each RAl, RA2 , RA3 and RA4 may be H; RAl, RA2 and RA        3
                                                                  may be H and one or more RA4
   may be aryl or aliphatic, preferably phenyl or alkyl; RA1 and RA4 may be H, and RA2 and
                                                    28

   RA3 may be taken together to form a six to 10 membered carbon ring (saturated,
   unsaturated or partially saturated. For example, the compound [Y] may be:
                                                0
         0    0                                                        0
                    /~~~c   \   -                                        -     OH
                  oO                      0                          O
                                                                                             0
 5
   Preferred optional substituents of the groups RAl, RA2 , RA3 and RA4 include halogen, nitro,
   hydroxyl, unsubstituted aliphatic, unsubstituted heteroaliphatic unsubstituted aryl,
   unsubstituted heteroaryl, alkoxy, aryloxy, heteroaryloxy, amino, alkylamino, imine, nitrile,
   acetylide, and carboxylate.
10
   In preferred embodiments, the compound [Y] is an epoxide. When the compound [Y] is an
   epoxide, it will be appreciated that it may be the same, or different, to the epoxide
   monomer to be polymerised. In highly preferred embodiments, the compound [Y] is an
   epoxide which is the same as the epoxide to be polymerised by the method of the first
15 aspect.
   The polymerisation of an epoxide and carbon dioxide has been performed in the presence
   of various catalysts of formula (1), for example, the catalysts described in W02009/130470
   and WO 2013/034750 (each of which are herein incorporated by reference in their
20 entirety). The reaction between the monomers, carbon dioxide and the epoxide, at the
   metal atom M proceeds by the following pathway in which the carbon dioxide inserts into
   the bond between the metal atom and the labile ligand -E-R (represented below by -O-R)
   to form a carbonate group attached to the metal atom, followed by the insertion of an
   epoxide between the carbonate group and the metal atom, in order to regenerate the
25 group -O-R:
                                                  29

                             CO2
                                                  O     M
                                         R -0
    RP/0      M
                            epoxide
   Scheme 1: copolymerisation of an epoxide and carbon dioxide
   The skilled person will understand that RP represents the growing polymer chain and will
 5 therefore increase in size after each addition of C0 2/epoxide monomer.
   The polycarbonates produced by the reaction between an epoxide and carbon dioxide in
   the presence of a catalyst of formula (1)may be represented as follows:
               0
    Re     l            R*4         CO 2  -0
        Re2        RRe3
                                                             R e2     Re3 Re
10 Wherein nj is 1 to 1,000,000, for example 10 to 100,000, such as 100 to 10,000, e.g. 10 to
   1,000.
   It will be understood that the moiety attached to the metal atom M will either be -E-R or
   E-X(E)-R (i.e. E is 0 and R is RP). As the copolymerisation of carbon dioxide and an
15 epoxide is generally carried out using a vast excess of carbon dioxide (due to the low cost
   and availability of this reagent, and to ensure entire consumption of the epoxide
   monomer), the moiety attached to the metal complex [M] will predominantly be -0-C(O)
   O-R once the reaction has terminated.
20 It has been surprisingly found that the catalysts as described in WO 2009/130470 and WO
   2013/034750 are also capable of polymerising an epoxide and an anhydride. This reaction
   is as set out in the fourth aspect of the application below, with the catalysts defined as
   catalysts of formula (IA).
                                                  30

   The reaction between the anhydride and the epoxide monomers at the metal complex [M]
   proceeds by the following pathway in which the anhydride inserts into the bond between
   the metal atom and the labile ligand -E-R (represented below by -O-RP) to form an ester
   group attached to the metal atom, followed by the insertion of an epoxide between the
 5 ester group and the metal atom, in order to regenerate the group -O-RP:
                           anhydride
                                               RP      0     M   ]
    RP  O     M    ]
                                                   0
                             epoxide
   Scheme 2: Copolymerisation of epoxide and anhydride monomers
   RP represents the growing polymer chain, and therefore increases in size upon the
10 addition of each epoxide/anhydride monomer.
   The polyesters produced by the reaction between an epoxide and an anhydride in the
   presence of a catalyst of formula (1)may be represented as follows:
           00                         0                                    0        0
    ReR          3
                    R     RaO    O       nO
                                                           0                /
                                3
15                            R     Ra4 RR                     2
                                                                   Re
                                                                      3
                                                                        RR    Ra4 RaRa1    Wh
   erein n2 is 1 to 1,000,000, for example 10 to 100,000, such as 100 to 10,000, e.g. 10 to
   1,000.
   The inventors have found that, in the copolymerisation of an epoxide and an anhydride,
20 the moiety attached to the metal complex [M] will either be -O-C(O)-R or -O-R. When the
   reaction terminates, the moiety attached to the metal complex will depend on which of the
   monomers is in excess.
                                                31

   The present invention further provides the use of catalysts of formula (IA) for initiating the
   ring opening of lactide and/or lactone monomers. When used in this manner, it is required
   that the labile ligand is -Z-R is -O-R, S-R or -NRz-R.
 5 The ring opening of a lactide and a lactone in the presence of a catalyst system having a
   catalyst of formula (1)may be represented as follows:
                     0                                0
    0
     RL1
             m
            RL
               2
                                      -k    RL1
                                                    m
                                                   RL2
   Scheme 3: Ring opening of a lactone
                 4        3
              RL       RL
                                                                  0
                         O"IX
    1/2                m'                             -     N
                                                                        n4
                                                          3       4
                              0                         RL      RL
                        m
                   3        4
10             RL       RL
   Scheme 4: Ring opening of a lactide
   In the above schemes, n3 and n4 are independently selected from 1 to 10,000, for
   example, 1 to 5000, such as 10 to 1000.
15
   The inventive methods described herein can therefore be used to ring open a lactide
   and/or a lactone in order to make timers, trimers, tetramers, penatmers etc (i.e. when n3
   or n4 = 2, 3, 4, 5) or polymers (i.e. when n3 or n4  = 1 to 10,000). This method is described
   in the third aspect of the present invention.
20
   The complexes of formula (1), in particular compounds of formula (IA), retain their active
   centres after the initial polymerisation has proceeded to completion. In other words, the
   metal complex [M] at the end of the polymer chain is a "dormant" catalytic species once
   one or more of the initial monomer species has been used up. This means that
25 propagation may resume upon the introduction of additional monomer(s).
   In a particular embodiment of the first aspect of the invention, there is provided a method
   for producing a polycarbonate-polyester block copolymer, the method comprising initially
                                                  32

   polymerising carbon dioxide and an epoxide in the presence of a single catalytic system
   having a catalyst of formula (1)to form a polycarbonate block and, adding anhydride (and
   optionally further epoxide, which may be the same or different to the epoxide used to
   produce the first block) to the reaction mixture. This reaction may be represented as
 5 follows:
                                               0"0                0
                    0                                                               0                 0       0
      Ri   R     C
                                                   R     a           R    I    R      ni
                                                                                                                  n2
                                     Re2 Re                               Re Rd            R,2 R"  R  RIR   a   l
                                                (R*-     -      R-)F
                                                     Re      R"
   In an alternative embodiment, there is provided a method for producing a polyester
   polycarbonate block copolymer, the method comprising initially polymerising an epoxide
10 and an anhydride epoxide in the presence of a single catalytic system having a catalyst of
   formula (1)to form a polyester block, and subsequently adding carbon dioxide (and
   optionally further epoxide, which may be the same or different to the epoxide used to
   produce the first block) to the reaction mixture. This reaction may be represented as
   follows:
15
          0       R          0           0                             0       0
     RB        R         --   I)&I/Q                                      P           2
                     2
                       l         R             el'R1Qe     RFO RRe4Raj
                           3
                     R    a      RRR3                                  R a4 Ral
                                 C02                                 0       0                           0
                                              am000
                                                                                                  0
                                                                                  1
                                            R R         R     *         a4R  aR  a       R         e4      n
                             R)
   In both of the above reactions, it will be appreciated that further epoxide will need to be
   added to the reaction mixture in order to produce the second block if all of the epoxide has
20 been consumed in the production of the first block.
                                                       33

   As discussed above, the moiety attached to the metal complex [M] after the
   copolymerisation of an anhydride or carbon dioxide with an epoxide has taken place will
   be an ester group (-OC(O)-R) or a carbonate group (-OC(O)-O-R), respectively, if the
   reaction is carried out with an excess of carbon dioxide/anhydride.
 5
   The inventors have recognised that, in order to use lactides and/or lactones in the method
   of the first aspect, it is necessary to specifically tailor the group attached to the metal
   complex [M] so that ring opening polymerisation can proceed.
10 The inventors have found that it is possible to "convert" the moiety attached to the metal
   complex [M] by adding a compound [Y] to the single catalytic system comprising a catalyst
   of formula (1). The compound [Y] is capable converting the group -Z-R, wherein Z is
   absent or a group selected from -E-X(E)- or -E-X(E)E-                        (for example, -O-C(O)-R or -0
   C(O)-O-R), to a group -E-R (for example, -O-R). The compound [Y] inserts in between the
15 metal complex [M] and the group -R, -E-X(E)-R or -E-X(E)-E-R, thereby ensuring that
   the moiety attached to the metal complex [M] is -E-R.
   In an alternative embodiment of the first aspect, there is provided a method for producing
   a polyester-polyester, or a polycarbonate-polyester block copolymer, the method
20 comprising initially polymerising an epoxide and an anhydride, or an epoxide and carbon
   dioxide, using a single catalyst system having a catalyst of formula (1)to form a first
   polyester block or a polycarbonate block, respectively, converting the moiety attached to
   the metal complex [M] at the end of the polymer chain from an ester group (-OC(O)-) or a
   carbonate group (-OC(O)-O-), to a group -E- (for example an alkoxy group, and alkylthio
25 group or a primary or secondary amine group) using a compound [Y], and then adding a
   lactide and/or a lactone. These reactions maybe represented as follows:
            0
                                                                             0
       Rl    V         R   -   C  2   -     .  .        0
                                                                        0
      R02           3
                 R           *    C
                                                             2
                                                           Re     R63
                  4      3
               RL      RU
          0,                                        0
                         rn0
                               and/or
               0                              I
                                                 2
                                0       RL1   RL                              O          O
                    3      4
                 RL     R'-
                                                   go   0               0_        0
                      Compound [Y]                    t Or              O3/4
                                                                                    13  24
                                                             R>"G                RL/   RL
                                                            Re2 R2    3          R               ; or
                                                                    34

           0                   0        0
         2     3
       Re    Re            R     Q   IdR                     ~   R /~ n
                                   R R1                               R
                    4      3
                  RL     RL
                      0                      0
                                     m   nl0                          00
                      3      4
                  RL      RL                               O               0
                                                                           O         n3/n*
                                                 1   2   3                     3  24
                        Compound [Y]           R*  R   R     4 R       ,a1 RL1   R /
   The skilled person will appreciate that the compound [Y] may be added after the first block
   has been prepared. Alternatively, it will be appreciated that if all of the epoxide is not
 5 consumed in the formation of the first block, the remaining epoxide monomer will insert
   into the bond between the complex [M] and the ester group -OC(O)-R or the carbonate
   group -O-C(O)O-R, thereby functioning as the compound [Y]. Therefore, the compound
   [Y] may be present in the initial reaction mixture, for example, in the form of an excess of
   epoxide.
10
   The lactide and/or lactone may be added at the same time as, or after, the addition of
   compound [Y] to the single catalytic system.
   In an alternative embodiment of the first aspect, there is provided a method for producing
15 a polyester-polyester, or polyester-polycarbonate block copolymer, the method comprising
   ring opening a lactide and/or a lactone, and subsequently adding an epoxide and carbon
   dioxide or an epoxide and an anhydride. It will be appreciated that if the first block is
   prepared by ring opening of a lactide and/or a lactone, the catalyst system must contain a
   catalyst of formula (1), where the labile ligand -Z-R is -E-R.
20
   It is possible that the epoxide monomer used to produce the second block may be added
   to the single catalytic system at the same time as the anhydride/carbon dioxide, or it may
   be present in the single catalytic system prior to the production of the first block.
25 This reaction can be represented as follows:
                                                         35

                      4
                   RL       RL3
              o,                                              0                             0
                            0o and/or                           OO
                                                   1                               3        24
                                      O          RL      R                    RL1/        RL /
                                4
                     RL3     RL
             0
                                                     rn/rnReR
      Re2       O R3        ORR                                      Rel     Re4                       24
        R    Re    Ra2                  0                         0                       0              ; or
                        4         3
                     RL       RL
                              0a        nd / or                    OO            [
                                                                                         3         2 4
                                0n       O           RL1     RR                      RL1/       IRL
                        o'0                                                                         0
                          3         4
                      RL       RL
              0
     R1                 R               aind/or 0
                                                                                     0         O
                                               3           24
                                          RL1/          RL /         R   Re2   R  3
                                                                                     R"
                                                                                      L            L2
 5
   It will be appreciated that when the first block is prepared by ring opening a lactide and/or
   a lactone, a compound [Y] can be used to transform catalysts of formula (1)where -Z-R is
   not -E-R into catalysts where -Z-R is -E-R.
10 Alternatively, catalysts of formula (1)where -Z-R is -R (i.e. wherein E is absent) can be
   transformed into catalysts formula (1)where -Z-R is -E-R by contacting the catalyst of
                                                                  36

   formula (1)with compound containing an alcohol, a thiol or a primary or secondary amine.
   For example, the compound may an aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, aryl, heteroaryl, alicyclic or
   heteroalicyclic group which is substituted by one or more (e.g. two or more) -OH, -SH, or
   -NHRz groups. For instance, the compound may be isopropyl alcohol, 1, 2
 5 cyclohenanediol, 1,2-ethylene glycol, 1,2-propylene glycol, 1,3-propylene glycol, benzyl
   alcohol, ethanol, methanol, n-propanol, a hexose, a pentose, poly(ethyleneglycol), etc.
   Thus, it is possible to produce the desired catalyst for step a) of the first aspect in situ.
   In certain embodiments, the method of the first aspect further comprises the step of
10 forming a third block by polymerising a third monomer or combination of monomers
   selected from the groups:
            Group (1): a lactide and/or a lactone;
            Group (ii): an epoxide and an anhydride; and
15          Group (iii): an epoxide and carbon dioxide.
   If Group (i) is added to the single catalytic system, the method may also comprise the step
   of contacting the single catalytic system with a compound [Y]. This may be done prior to,
   or at the same time as, contacting the single catalytic system with the third monomer or
20 combination of monomers.
   In certain embodiments, the third monomer or combination of monomers is different from
   the Group of monomer used to produce the first and second blocks. In other
   embodiments, the third monomer or combination of monomers is selected from the same
25 group of monomer or combination of monomers used to produce the first block.
   The tri-block copolymer produced may be an ABC block copolymer, i.e. each of the blocks
   is different. Alternatively, the tri-block copolymer may be an ABA block copolymer, i.e.
   when the first and the third blocks are the same.
30
   The skilled person will also appreciate that the method according to the first aspect can
   also be used to produce block copolymers having four, five, six, seven, etc blocks, and
   that the order and identity of the blocks can be tailored accordingly. For example, the
   method of the first aspect may be used to produce block copolymers having alternating
35 blocks, such as ABABA, or ABCABC. Alternatively, each of the blocks may be different.
                                                    37

   It will be appreciated that for each of the various embodiments described for the first
   aspect, the single catalytic system may comprise any compound according to formula (1),
   and preferably comprises a compound of formula (IA).
 5 In a second aspect, the present invention provides a method for producing a block
   copolymer, said block copolymer having a first and second block, using a single catalytic
   system, wherein the single catalytic system comprises a catalyst of formula (1):
         Z-       M
    R           -       (1)
   Wherein:
10 [M] is a metal complex having at least one metal atom M coordinated by a ligand system;
   M is Zn, Cr, Co, Mn, Mg, Fe, Ti, Ca, Ge, Al, Mo, W, Ru, Ni or V;
   Z is absent, or is independently selected from -E-, -EX(E)-, or -EX(E)E-,
   each E is independently selected from 0, S or NRz, wherein Rz is H, or optionally
   substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic, aryl, heteroaryl, alkylaryl or
15 alkylheteroaryl;
   Xis C or S
   R is hydrogen, or optionally substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic,
   aryl, heteroaryl, alkylaryl, alkylheteroaryl, silyl or a polymer; and when Z is absent, R may
   also be selected from halide, phosphinate, azide and nitrate;
20
   the method comprising the steps of:
   c) providing a mixture comprising:
             1.   an epoxide;
           II.    a first monomer or combination of monomers selected from a group (i) to (iii):
25                         Monomer (i): a lactide and/or a lactone,
                           Monomer (ii): an anhydride, or
                           Monomer (iii): carbon dioxide, and
          Ill.    a second monomer or combination of monomers selected from a different
                  group (i) to (iii) to that selected for the first monomer or combination of
30                monomers:
                                                        38

                        Monomer (i): a lactide and/or a lactone,
                        Monomer (ii): an anhydride, or
                        Monomer (iii): carbon dioxide; and
   d) contacting the mixture with the single catalytic system;
 5 wherein the rate of insertion of the first monomer or combination of monomers into the
   bond between the metal complex [M] and the ligand -Z-R is faster than the rate of
   insertion of the second monomer or combination of monomers into the bond between the
   metal complex [M] and the ligand -Z-R.
   When the first monomer or combination of monomers is Group (i), either -Z-R is -E-R, or
10 the mixture comprises a compound [Y].
   When the second monomer or combination of monomers is Group (i), the mixture
   comprises a compound [Y].
   By "one-pot", it is meant that the block copolymers are formed in situ, in the presence of
   the single catalytic system, without any sequential addition of monomer. In other words, all
15 of the monomers are added to the reaction mixture, with the single catalyst system
   comprising a catalyst of formula (1), at the start of the reaction. The reaction will then
   selectively form block copolymers from the pool of monomers available, with exquisite
   selectivity.
   The catalyst system can comprise a catalyst of formula (IA) as defined in the first aspect.
20 The compound [Y] is as defined in the first aspect.
   The inventors have discovered that nature of the polymer block formed will depend on the
   moiety at the end of the growing polymer chain attached to the metal complex [M], as well
   as the relative rates (r) at which each of the monomers insert into the bond between the
   metal complex and the ligand -Z-R. r depends on the rate constant of the monomer and
25 the concentration of each of the components in the reaction mixture. The relative rates of
   insertion of the monomers can be determined by exposing one or more of the monomers
   to a catalyst of formula (1),and monitoring the rate at which the monomer(s) is consumed,
   or the rate at which polymer is produced. This can be done, for example, using
   quantitative spectroscopic or analytic techniques which are well known in the art, such as
30 attenuated total reflectance IR spectroscopy (ATRIR), NMR, optical absorption
   spectroscopy, IR, or titration.
                                                  39

   For example, when -Z-R is a group which is capable of polymerising a lactide and/or a
   lactone, an epoxide and carbon dioxide, and an epoxide and an anhydride (i.e. -E-R, in
   particular -O-R) the different rates of insertion may be represented as follows:
                                                                     CO2]
        [M]            lactone/                                rCo2               O       O
                       lactide                                                         O
    RP0                 rIac1/lac2                                                RP
                                                      [M]
                                                       0
                                                  R
                                                                                epoxide
                                                                                   repox.
         lactone/
         lactide
            riac1/a2                   anhydride                   epoxide
                                             ranh                     repmx
                                                          [M]
                                                   0'      0
                                                       RP
 5 It will be appreciated that RP represents the growing polymer chain, and its' structure will
   depend on the identity of the monomers being polymerised. It will be understood that the
   relative rates of insertion will affect the order in which the blocks are produced.
   In certain instances,            ranh   may be faster than r 0 2. Alternatively, rc0        2 may be faster than     ranh.
10 In certain instances,            rIacl/lac2  is slower than both   ranh  and r 0 2 , and faster than repox, and
   repox". However,         riacl/lac2  may be faster than     ranh, r 0 2 , repox and repox'. For the catalysts of the
   present invention, repox will be the same as, or similar to, repox-, and both will be slower
   than    riacl/lac2, ranh  and rc0     2.
15 In certain embodiments, for example, when the catalyst of formula (1)is a catalyst of
   formula (IA) as defined in the first aspect of the invention,                     ranh>  rc0 2 > riac1/1ac2 > repox=
    repox"
   In such embodiments of the second aspect, the first monomer or combination of
20 monomers is an anhydride, and the second monomer or combination of monomers is
   carbon dioxide. In this case, the single catalyst system will initially selectively form a
   polyester block (a first block) by polymerising the epoxide and the anhydride. Once the
   anhydride has been consumed, the metal complex [M] at the end of the polyester chains
   can polymerise the carbon dioxide with any remaining epoxide to form a polycarbonate
                                                                 40

   block (a second block). For a polyester block and a polycarbonate block to form, it is
   preferable for the initial reaction mixture to comprise a greater number of molar
   equivalents of epoxide than the number of molar equivalents of anhydride. In preferred
   embodiments, the number of molar equivalents of epoxide is 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 or 10
 5 times greater than the number of molar equivalents of anhydride.
   In an alternative of such embodiment, the first monomer or combination of monomers is
   an anhydride, and the second monomer or combination of monomers is a lactide and/or a
   lactone, in which case, the catalyst system will initially selectively form a polyester block (a
10 first block) by polymerising the epoxide and the anhydride. The ring opening
   polymerisation will proceed to form a second block once the anhydride monomer has
   been consumed, and the moiety attached to the metal complex [M] has been converted
   from an ester (-OC(O)-R) to a group -E-R (preferably -O-R), by using a compound [Y].
   The second block will also be a polyester, which is different to the first polyester block. For
15 the above di-block polyester to form, it is preferable for the number of molar equivalents of
   epoxide, plus the number of molar equivalents of the compound [Y] to be greater than the
   number of molar equivalents of anhydride. The compound [Y] is preferably an epoxide
   (which is preferably the same as the epoxide monomer used in the formation of the first
   block).
20
   In a further alternative of such embodiment, the first monomer or combination of
   monomers is carbon dioxide and the second monomer or combination of monomers is a
   lactide and/or a lactone. In this instance, the catalyst system will initially selectively form a
   polycarbonate block (a first block) by polymerising the epoxide and the carbon dioxide.
25 The ring opening polymerisation can proceed (thereby forming the second block, which is
   a polyester) once the carbon dioxide monomer has been consumed (or removed, for
   example, by the application of a vacuum), and the moiety attached to the metal complex
   [M] has been converted from a carbonate (-OC(O)O-R) to a group -E-R (preferably -O
   R), by using a compound [Y]. Preferably, the number of molar equivalents of epoxide, plus
30 the number of molar equivalents of the compound [Y] is greater than the number of molar
   equivalents of carbon dioxide. The compound [Y] is preferably an epoxide (which is
   preferably the same as the epoxide monomer used in the formation of the first block).
   In a further alternative embodiment, the first monomer or combination of monomers is
35 carbon dioxide and the second monomer or combination of monomers is an anhydride, in
   which case, the single catalytic system will initially selectively form a polycarbonate block
   first, before forming the polyester block (the second block). The initial reaction mixture
                                                   41

   preferably comprises a greater number of molar equivalents of epoxide than the number
   of molar equivalents of carbon dioxide.
   In a further alternative embodiment, the first monomer or combination of monomers is a
 5 lactide and/or a lactone and the second monomer or combination of monomers is carbon
   dioxide or an anhydride. In this case, the single catalytic system will initially selectively
   form a first polyester block by ring opening the lactide and/or latone. Once the lactide
   and/or lactone has been consumed, the single catalytic system can polymerise the
   epoxide and the carbon dioxide or anhydride in order to form a second block which is a
10 polycarbonate or a polyester (which is different to the first block), respectively.
   In a further embodiment of the second aspect, the reaction mixture comprises a third
   monomer or combination of monomers selected from a group which is different from the
   first and second monomers or combination of monomers:
15          Monomer (i): a lactide and/or a lactone,
            Monomer (ii): an anhydride, or
            Monomer (iii): carbon dioxide.
   Where the rate of insertion of the first and second monomers are as previously described,
   and where the rate of insertion of the third monomer or combination of monomers into the
20 bond between the metal complex [M] and the ligand -Z-R is slower than both the rate of
   insertion of the first monomer or combination of monomers into the bond between the
   metal complex [M] and the ligand -Z-R, and the rate of insertion of the second monomer
   or combination of monomers into the bond between the metal complex [M] and the ligand
   -Z-R.
25 When the third monomer or combination of monomers is Monomer (i), the reaction
   mixture will comprise a compound [Y].
   In certain embodiments, when the first monomer or combination of monomers is an
   anhydride, the second monomer or combination of monomers is carbon dioxide and the
   third monomer or combination of monomers is a lactide and/or a lactone, the single
30 catalytic system will initially selectively form a first block (which is a polyester) from the
   pool of monomers by polymerising the anhydride and the epoxide. Once the anhydride
   has been consumed, the catalytic system can selectively polymerise the remaining
   epoxide and the carbon dioxide, thereby forming a second block, which is a
   polycarbonate. The ring opening of the lactide and/or lactone can proceed to form a third
35 block once the carbon dioxide monomer has been consumed (or removed, for example by
                                                    42

   the application of a vacuum), and the moiety attached to the metal complex [M] has been
   converted from a carbonate (-OC(O)O-R) to a group -E-R (preferably -O-R), by using a
   compound [Y]. It will be appreciated that the third block will be a polyester, which is
   different to the first block. The number of molar equivalents of epoxide, plus the number of
 5 molar equivalents of the compound [Y] is preferably greater than the number of molar
   equivalents of anhydride, plus the number of molar equivalents of carbon dioxide. The
   compound [Y] is preferably an epoxide (which is preferably the same as the epoxide
   monomer used in the formation of the first and second blocks).
10 In an alternative embodiment, the first monomer or combination of monomers is carbon
   dioxide, the second monomer or combination of monomers is an anhydride and the third
   monomer or combination of monomers is a lactide and/or a lactone, in which case the
   single catalytic system will initially selectively form a first block (which is a polycarbonate)
   from the pool of monomers by polymerising the carbon dioxide and the epoxide. Once the
15 carbon dioxide has been consumed (or removed, for example by application of a
   vacuum), the catalytic system can selectively polymerise the remaining epoxide and the
   anhydride, thereby forming a second block, which is a polyester. The ring opening of the
   lactide and/or lactone will then proceed to form a third block after the anhydride monomer
   has been consumed, and the moiety attached to the metal complex [M] has been
20 converted from a carbonate (-OC(O)O-R) to a group -E-R (preferably -O-R), by using a
   compound [Y]. Preferably, the number of molar equivalents of epoxide, plus the number of
   molar equivalents of the compound [Y] is preferably greater than the number of molar
   equivalents of anhydride, plus the number of molar equivalents of carbon dioxide. The
   compound [Y] is preferably an epoxide (which is preferably the same as the epoxide
25 monomer used in the formation of the first and second blocks).
   In a further alternative embodiment, first monomer or combination of monomers is a
   lactide and/or a lactone, the second monomer or combination of monomers is carbon
   dioxide and the third monomer or combination of monomers is an anhydride, in which
30 case the single catalytic system will initially ring open the lactide and/or lactone in order to
   form a polyester block (a first block). Once the lactide and/or lactone has been consumer,
   the single catalytic system can polymerise the epoxide and the carbon dioxide, thereby
   forming a polycarbonate block (a second block). After the carbon dioxide has been
   consumed (or removed, for example by application of a vacuum), the catalytic system can
35 selectively polymerise the remaining epoxide and the anhydride, thereby forming a third
   block, which is a polyester that is different from the first block. Preferably, the number of
                                                    43

   molar equivalents of epoxide is greater than the number of molar equivalents of carbon
   dioxide.
   In a further alternative embodiment, first monomer or combination of monomers is a
 5 lactide and/or a lactone, the second monomer or combination of monomers is an
   anhydride and the third monomer or combination of monomers is carbon dioxide, in which
   case the single catalytic system will initially ring open the lactide and/or lactone in order to
   form a polyester block (a first block). Once the lactide and/or lactone has been consumed,
   the single catalytic system can polymerise the epoxide and the anhydride, thereby forming
10 a second block which is a polyester that is different from the first block. Once the
   anhydride has been consumed, the catalytic system can selectively polymerise the
   remaining epoxide and the carbon dioxide, thereby forming a third block, which is a
   polycarbonate.
15 In particularly preferred embodiments:
        " the first monomer or combination of monomers is anhydride and the second
             monomer or combination of monomers is carbon dioxide;
        " the first monomer or combination of monomers is an anhydride and the second
             monomer or combination of monomers is a lactide and/or lactone;
20      e the first monomer or combination of monomers is carbon dioxide and the second
             monomer or combination of monomers is a lactide and/or lactone; and
        * the first monomer or combination of monomers is anhydride, the second monomer
             or combination of monomers is carbon dioxide, and the third monomer or
            combination of monomers is a lactide and/or lactone.
25
   In each of the above embodiments of the second aspect, the anhydride is preferably
   phthalic anhydride, the epoxide is preferably cyclohexeneoxide, the lactide and/or lactone
   is preferably caprolactone and the compound [Y] is preferably cyclohexeneoxide.
   Furthermore, the single catalytic system preferably comprises a catalyst of formula (IA),
30 more preferably, [L1Zn 2 (OAc) 2] or [L1Zn 2(OiPr) 2].
   In a third aspect of the invention, there is provided a method for producing a polyester,
   comprising contacting a lactone and/or a lactide with a catalyst system having a catalyst
                                                    44

   of formula (IA):
                   R,
                  R2    R2
                 RI    G
           N       E2       NR4
          RN       E2  Z        R3
               G         R
             R2          R2
                   R1              (IA)
   wherein
   R, and R2 are independently hydrogen, halide, a nitro group, a nitrile group, an mine,             an
 5 amine, an ether group, a silyl ether group, a thioether group, a sulfoxide group, a sulfinate
   group, or an acetylide group or an optionally substituted alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, haloalkyl,
   aryl, heteroaryl, alicyclic or heteroalicyclic;
   R3 is optionally substituted alkylene, alkenylene, alkynylene, heteroalkylene,
   heteroalkenylene, heteroalkynylene, arylene, heteroarylene or cycloalkylene, wherein
10 alkylene, alkenylene, alkynylene, heteroalkylene, heteroalkenylene and heteroalkynylene
   may optionally be interrupted by aryl, heteroaryl, alicyclic or heteroalicyclic;
   R4 is H, or optionally substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic, aryl,
   heteroaryl, alkylheteroaryl or alkylaryl;
   R5 is H, or optionally substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic, aryl,
15 heteroaryl, alkylheteroaryl or alkylaryl;
   El is C, E2 is O, S or NH or Ej is N and E2 is 0;
   R is hydrogen, or optionally substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic,
   aryl, heteroaryl, alkylaryl, alkylheteroaryl silyl, or a polymer;
   Z is -E-;
20 E is -0-, -S-, or NRz, wherein is H, or optionally substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic,
   alicyclic, heteroalicyclic, aryl, heteroaryl, alkylaryl or alkylheteroaryl;
   each G is independently absent or a neutral or anionic donor ligand which is a Lewis
   base; and
   M is Zn(II), Cr(II), Co(II), Mn(II), Mg(II), Fe(II), Ti(II), Cr(Ill)-Z-R, Co(Ill)-Z-R, Mn (III)-Z-R,
25 Fe(Ill)-Z-R, Ca(II), Ge(II), AI(Ill)-Z-R, Ti(Ill)-Z-R, V(Ill)-Z-R, Ge(IV)-(-Z-R) 2 or Ti(IV)-(-Z-R) 2.
   In a fourth aspect of the invention, there is provided method for producing a polyester,
   comprising contacting an anhydride and an epoxide with a catalyst system having a
                                                      45

   catalyst of formula (IA):
                    R,
             R2         R2
                  RI   G
         R5N        E2      NR4
           N        E2 Z        R3
                G        R
             R2          R2
                    R1             (IA)
   wherein
   R, and R2 are independently hydrogen, halide, a nitro group, a nitrile group, an mine,             an
 5 amine, an ether group, a silyl ether group, a thioether group, a sulfoxide group, a sulfinate
   group, or an acetylide group or an optionally substituted alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, haloalkyl,
   aryl, heteroaryl, alicyclic or heteroalicyclic;
   R3 is optionally substituted alkylene, alkenylene, alkynylene, heteroalkylene,
   heteroalkenylene, heteroalkynylene, arylene, heteroarylene or cycloalkylene, wherein
10 alkylene, alkenylene, alkynylene, heteroalkylene, heteroalkenylene and heteroalkynylene
   may optionally be interrupted by aryl, heteroaryl, alicyclic or heteroalicyclic;
   R4 is H, or optionally substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic, aryl,
   heteroaryl, alkylheteroaryl or alkylaryl;
   R5 is H, or optionally substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic, aryl,
15 heteroaryl, alkylheteroaryl or alkylaryl;
   El is C, E2 is O, S or NH or Ej is N and E2 is 0;
   Z is absent, or is selected from -E-, -EX(E)-, or -EX(E)E-;
   X is S or C;
   E is -0-, -S-, or NRz, wherein is H, or optionally substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic,
20 alicyclic, heteroalicyclic, aryl, heteroaryl, alkylaryl or alkylheteroaryl;
   R is hydrogen, or optionally substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic,
   aryl, heteroaryl, alkylaryl, alkylheteroaryl, or silyl, or a polymer; and when Z is absent, R
   may additional be selected from halide, phosphinate, azide and nitrate;
   each G is independently absent or a neutral or anionic donor ligand which is a Lewis
25 base; and
   M is Zn(ll), Cr(ll), Co(II), Mn(ll), Mg(ll), Fe(ll), Ti(ll), Cr(Ill)-Z-R, Co(Ill)-Z-R, Mn (Ill)-Z-R,
   Fe(Ill)-Z-R, Ca(ll), Ge(ll), AI(Ill)-Z-R, Ti(Ill)-Z-R, V(Ill)-Z-R, Ge(IV)-(-Z-R) 2 or Ti(IV)-(-Z-R) 2.
                                                      46

   The preferred embodiments of the complex of formula (IA) described in the first aspect
   apply equally to the second, third and fourth aspects.
   The preferred embodiments of the compound [Y] as described in the first aspect apply
   equally to the second aspect.
 5 The methods of the first, second, third and fourth aspects may be carried out in the
   presence of a solvent. Examples of solvents useful in the first, second, third and fourth
   aspects include toluene, diethyl carbonate, dimethyl carbonate, dioxane, dichlorobenzene,
   methylene chloride, propylene carbonate, ethylene carbonate, etc.
   In each of the methods of the first, second, third and fourth aspects, the catalyst system
10 may comprise a chain transfer agent.
   The chain transfer agent may be any chain transfer agent as defined in WO 2013/034750,
   the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference. Exemplary chain
   transfer agents include water, an amine, an alcohol, a thiol, a phosphinate and a
   carboxylic acid.
15 The chain transfer agent may be present in a molar ratio of at least 1:1 relative to the
   metal complex (catalyst of formula (1)). For example, the chain transfer agent is present in
   a molar ratio of at least 2:1, at least 4:1, at least 8:1, at least 16:1, at least 32:1 or at least
   64:1 relative to the metal complex.
   The chain transfer agent may be used to control the molecular weight (M,) of the polymers
20 produced by the process of the first, second, third and fourth aspects. Preferably, the
   molecular weight (M,) of the polymers is from about 1,000 g/mol to about 100,000 g/mol.
   The molecular weight of the polymers produced can be measured by Gel Permeation
   Chromatography (GPC) using, for example, a GPC-60 manufactured by Polymer Labs,
   using THF as the eluent at a flow rate of 1 ml/min on Mixed B columns, manufactured by
25 Polymer Labs. Narrow molecular weight polystyrene standards can be used to calibrate
   the instrument.
   The chain transfer agent may also be used to form polymers produced by the process of
   first, second, third and fourth aspects which are terminated by hydroxyl groups (i.e. polyol
   polycarbonates/polyesters). The hydroxyl terminated polymers may be used to produce
30 other polymeric products, such as polyurethane.
   In certain embodiments of the first, second, third and fourth aspects, the monomers (i.e.
   the epoxide, anhydride, lactide and/or lactone) may be purified, for example by distillation,
                                                    47

   such as over calcium hydride, prior to being used of the methods according to the first,
   second, third and fourth aspects.
   The method of the first, second third and fourth aspects of the invention may be carried
   out at a temperature of about 0C to about 2002C, for example, from about 252C to about
 5 1402C, such as from about 50C to about 140C preferably from about 60'C to about
   10C. The duration of the process may be up to 168 hours preferably 1 to 24 hours.
   The method of the first, second, third and fourth aspects of the invention may be carried
   out at low catalytic loading, for example, the catalytic loading for the process is preferably
   in the range of 1:1,000-100,000 catalyst:monomer, more preferably in the region of
10 1:1,000-50,000 catalyst:monomer, even more preferably in the region of 1:1,1000-10,000,
   and most preferably in the region of 1:10,000 catalyst:monomer.
   The methods of the first, second, third and fourth aspects may be carried out in the
   presence of a gas. For example, when the inventive methods comprise C02 as a reagent,
   the C02 may be present alone, or in combination with another gas, such as nitrogen. The
15 methods may be carried out at low pressures, such as 1atm gas (e.g. 1 atm C02).
   However, the methods may also be carried out at pressures above 1atm, such as 40 atm
   gas (e.g. 40 atm C02).
   In a fifth aspect of the invention, there is provided a polymer obtainable from the method
   according to the first, second, third or fourth aspects.
20 It will be appreciated that the various preferred features described above for formula (IA)
   may be present in combination mutatis mutandis.
   Brief description of Figures
   Figure 1: ATR-IR analysis of PCL-PCHC formation, showing normalised peak intensities
   for absorptions at 694, 1738 and 1750 cm-1 against time/ min.
25 Figure 2: GPC traces of PCHPE-b-PCL and PCHPE block copolymer. Curves a - d
   correspond to entries 1 - 4 in Table 2, respectively.
   Figure 3: 'H NMR spectrum (CDCl 3, 298 K) of PCHPE-PCL copolymer. The plot illustrates
   the formation of both PCPE and PCL blocks.
   Figure 4: M, and Mw/M, vs mol % of E-CL conversion of PCL homopolymer catalysed by
30 [L1Zn 2 (OAc) 2]/CHO system at 80    0C.
                                                   48

   Figure 5: Plot of ln{[LA]o/[LA]t} vs time, showing a polymerisation kinetics with a first-order
   dependence on lactide concentration, initiated by [L1Mg2 OAc 2] /CHO system (cat/CHO/LA
   = 1/10/100, 1000C).
   Figure 6: 'H NMR spectrum (CDCl 3, 298 K) of PCL-PCHC copolymer. The plot illustrates
 5 the formation of both PCHC and PCL blocks.
   Figure 7: ATR-IR analysis of "one-pot" reaction between phthalic anhydride (PA),
   cyclohexeneoxide (CHO), and carbon dioxide.
   Figure 8: 'H NMR spectra for terpolymerization reaction using L1Zn 2(OAc) 2. Spectra show
   that PA is fully consumed before PCHC is formed.
10 Figure 9: 'H NMR spectrum (CDCl 3, 298 K) showing formation of PCHC in the presence of
   c-CL, with no formation of PCL (4.00 ppm) or ether linkages (3.45 ppm).
   Figure 10: ATR-IR analysis of "one-pot" reaction between phthalic anhydride (PA),
   cyclohexeneoxide (CHO) and caprolactone (E-CL).
   Figure 11: 'H NMR spectrum (CDCl 3 , 298 K) showing formation of PCL in the presence of
15 CHO, without polymerization of CHO (absence of (poly)ether linkage at 3.45 ppm).
   Figure 12: SEC stack plot showing the analysis of PCHC-PCL formation. The "PCHC"
   trace shows the analysis of an aliquot removed after 4 h, which showed 10% CHO
   conversion and PCHC formation, with M, 530 g/mol. At this point, the CO 2 was removed
   leading to E-CL ROP. After 2 h, a second aliquot was removed showing >99% conversion
20 of E-CL and formation of PCHC-PCL of M, 2350 g/mol.
   Figure 13: Plot of changes in intensity of IR resonances where PCHC-PCL is formed by:
   1) by ROCOP of CHO/CO 2 , 2) removal of CO 2 and 3) ROP of CL.
   Figure 14: SEC trace showing the molecular weight distribution PCHC and purified PCL
   PCHC-PCL as described in Table 14, Entry 1.
25 Figure 15: 'H NMR spectrum showing the carbonate content of crude PCL-PCHC-PCL
   and purified PCL-PCHC-PCL.
   Figure 16: SEC trace showing the molecular weight distribution PCHC and crude PCL
   PCHC-PCL as described in Table 14, Entry 2.
                                                  49

   Figure 17: MALDI TOF mass spectra of PCL obtained in neat CHO in the absence of
   ethylene glycol.
   Figure 18: MALDI TOF mass spectra of PCL obtained in toluene in the presence of
   ethylene glycol.
 5 Examples
   Example 1: Rinq opening polymerisation of a lactone and copolymerisation of an
   anhydride and an epoxide
   Previous studies have shown that complex 1 is an excellent catalyst for the
   copolymerization of carbon dioxide and cyclohexene oxide (CHO) to yield
10 poly(cyclohexylene carbonate) (PCHC), with a high fidelity (>95%) of carbonate repeat
   units. Complex 2 was selected as a pre-catalyst from which a range of different catalysts
   could be prepared by reaction between the phenyl substituents and protic reagents. For
   example, the reaction between complex 2 and iPrOH yields the di-zinc di-i-propoxide
   complex, in situ, with release of benzene.
                       tBu
         H\                ZR /H
                               N
                         O V
        X    N
              N/Z n        n\  _
                  ZR
         H                       H
                       tBu
     ZR = OAc = Complex 1
15   ZR = Ph = Complex 2
   Complex 2 is capable of copolymerising CHO/CO 2 , yielding PCHC with an equivalent
   TON and TOF to 1 (~ 400, 20, respectively), and >99% of carbonate linkages in the
   copolymer. The copolymerization is also highly efficient, yielding 98% polymer, with just
   2% cyclohexene carbonate by-product.
20 Catalyst 2, in combination with four equivalents of iPrOH, is an excellent catalyst system
   for caprolactone (i-CL) ring-opening polymerisation (ROP), producing poly(caprolactone)
                                                50

   (PCL) with a high TON (460)/TOF (2300 h-1), as complex 2 reacts with iPrOH in situ to
   form [L1Zn 2 (O'Pr) 2].
   The PCL has an Mn of 30,000 g/mol.
   In contrast, the ROP of caprolactone does not proceed at all using catalyst 1, when E -CL
 5 is used alone, or in combination with iso-propyl alcohol. Furthermore, exposure of the
   initiating system 2/'PrOH and E-CL to 1 bar pressure of C02 completely deactivates the
   catalyst and prevents any ROP occurring.
   Thus, it can be seen that for E -CL ROP alkoxide groups can initiate polymerization,
   whereas carbonate and carboxylate groups cannot.
10 Complexes 1 and 2 are also efficient catalyst for the copolymerization of CHO and
   phthalic anhydride (PA), yielding the polyester poly(cyclohexylene phthalic)ester
   (PCHPE), with a high TON (1000) /TOF (50 h-1 ) and high proportion of ester chain
   linkages (>99%).
             Table 1: Performance of Catalysts 1 and 2 for Polyester and Polycarbonate
15           Formation
                                                                                              Mnc>
                                                           Time                   TOFb)
                Monomers                Catalyst                      TONa>             1    (g.mol-      PDIc)
                                                            (h)                     (h)          1)
                CHO/CO 2d)                  1                24        439           18       6200         1.19
                CHO/CO 2d)                  2                20        408           20       5035         1.08
                   C-CLe)              1 + iPrOH             24          -            -          -
                                                                       460
                   E-CLe)             2 + iPrOH             0.2                    2300      30,000        1.47
                                                                      (92%)
   a) Turn-over-number (TON) = moles monomer consumed/moles catalyst added, where moles monomer consumed is
   determined from the % conversion observed in the 1H NMR spectrum of the crude polymer. b) Turn-over-frequency
   (TOF)    TON/time (h), c) Determined by size exclusion chromatography, calibrated against narrow Mw Polystyrene
   standards (see ESI). d) Polymerization conducted at 80 'C, 1 bar CO 2 pressure, 0.1 mole% catalyst in neat CHO. e)
20 Polymerization conducted at 80 'C, 0.2 mole % catalyst, 0.8 mole% iPrOH (4 eq.) in neat c-CL. f) Polymerization
   conducted at 100 'C, 0.1 mole% catalyst in 1:9 mixture of pthalic anhydride: cyclohexene oxide. g) based on PA
   conversion.
   The PCHPE has an M, of 4000 g/mol, and a narrow PDI (1.33).
   Example 2: Preparinq a poly(caprolactone-co-cyclohexylene carbonate) block copolymer
25 by sequential monomer addition
                                                              51

   Reacting complex 2 (as set out in Example 1), with 4 eq. iPrOH, results in a catalyst
   having a zinc alkoxide propagating species. E-CL dissolved in CHO is exposed to this
   catalyst system, resulting in formation of PCL. After 120 minutes, 1 bar pressure of C02 is
   added to the polymerization system.
       0             0
                          (i) 2, iPrOH 'Pro
                                                            O)[Zn]
    CHO                                       PCL
                                                 (ii) CO2
                                         0
                                             Ok
                                    'PrO                  O    O
                                                            O     O}-H
                                            PCL-co-CHC
 5
   Scheme 5: Synthesis of block poly(caprolactone-co-cyclohexylene carbonate) PCL-co
   PCHC. Reagents and Conditions: i) 0.1 mol% 2, 0.4 mol% iPrOH in neat E-CL: CHO, 1:9,
   80 C, 2 h. ii) 1 bar CO 2 pressure, 20 h.
   Figure 1 illustrates the ATR-IR analysis of the polymerization. Initially, E-CL is
10 polymerized; this can be observed the sharp decrease in intensity of the absorptions at
   694 and 1750 cm-1 (inset Fig. 1) due to E-CL. The complete consumption of E-CL occurs
   over just 20 minutes. After 120 minutes, (> 5 half-life), 1 bar pressure of CO 2 is added to
   the polymerization system. The ATR-IR analysis shows the immediate formation of
   polycarbonate, as observed by the increasing intensity of signals at 1750 and 1738 cm-1 .
15 The polymerization was stopped after 24 h, the only product was poly(caprolactone-co
   cyclohexylene carbonate) PCL-PCHC by GPC. The TON and TOF for the carbonate
   block formation are 460 and 23 h-1, respectively and the carbonate block shows a very
   high fidelity of carbonate repeat units(>99%).
   The block copolymer has Mn of 5170 g/mol, PDI = 1.27. Analysis of the integrals for the
20 PCHC vs PCL blocks, in the 'H NMR spectrum, shows an approximate composition of
   3:1, PCHC:PCL, which matches well with the composition predicted on the basis of
   stoichiometry (3.5:1).
   Example 3: Preparinq a poly(caprolactone-co-cyclohexylene carbonate) block copolymer
   by sequential monomer addition
                                                     52

   Cyclohexene oxide (2.2 mL, 21.5 mmol), 8-caprolactone (277 ptL, 2.5 mmol) and complex
   1 (20 mg, 25.0 pmol) were added to a Schlenk tube. The vessel was heated at 353 K,
   under N2 , for 1 h then de-gassed and 1 bar of C02 was added. The vessel was heated for
   20 h. A sample of the crude product was analysed by 'H NMR spectroscopy to determine
 5 the conversion and selectivity. Any unreacted monomers were removed, in vacuo, to
   yield the product as a white powder. Mn = 4,810, PDI = 1.28.
   Example 4: Production of di-block and tri-block copolymers
   It can be seen from Example 2 that catalyst 2 can selectively polymerize E-CL, in the
   presence of CHO, to produce PCL with good control of the M. Removal of an aliquot
10 from the polymerization after 120 mins, shows complete consumption of the E-CL
   monomer and formation of PCL of M, 6950 g/mol (PDI: 1.51).
   The zinc-alkoxide polymer chain end can be further reacted with 50 eq. of phthalic
   anhydride (vs. 800 equivalents of CHO) to produce a block copolyester (PCL-CHPE).
   Removal of an aliquot from the reaction mixture after 400 mins shows the complete
15 consumption of PA has occurred yielding a diblock copolyester with M, 7360 g/mol (PDI:
   1.62). Using an excess of CHO ensures that the growing polymer chain end is a zinc
   alkoxide species (vs. a zinc carboxylate which would be formed if excess PA were
   applied). This zinc alkoxide species was reacted with a further 200 equivalents of s-CL to
   produce an ABA type triblock copolyester (PCL-PCHPE-PCL). The triblock copolymer
20 has an Mn 12680 g/mol (PDI: 1.70).
   An ABC type block copolyester carbonate is produced by reacting E-CL with catalyst
   2/iPrOH catalyst system, in CHO, to produce a zinc alkoxide chain terminated PCL
   dissolved in CHO. This PCL is then reacted with 50 eq. of PA, and the zinc alkoxide
   species initiates the copolymerization of CHO and PA. Because CHO is present in excess
25 and the reaction is run to complete consumption of PA, the growing polymer chain is
   terminated by a zinc alkoxide species. The diblock polymer is then exposed to 1 bar
   pressure of carbon dioxide, and the copolymerization of carbon dioxide and CHO
   progresses to form a PCL-PCHPE-PCHC, an ABC type copolymer.
                                                53

                                   (i) 2, iPrOH       0
            CHO                                         PCL O
                                                              O       PA
                                             0
                                    PrO            5     00        O  Zn]
                                                  PCL-co-CHPE           ii) CO 2
                   O                         iv) E-CL                                   O
                 0n  0 0Pr                                                       0K    t  0* P
   'Prok 1'PO ' 5    00    O OW             5                 iPrO     50 n         0
                    PCL-co-CHPE-co-CL                               PCL-co-CHPE-co-CHC
   Scheme 6: Illustrates the synthesis of various block copolymers, including PCL-co-CHPE,
   PCL-co-CHPE-co-CL (ABA) and PCL-co-CHPE-co-CHC (ABC). Reagents and
   conditions: (i) 0.1 mol% catalyst 2 (0.4 mol% iPrOH) in neat E-CL:CHO, 1:4, 100 C. (ii) 50
 5 eq. PA, 100 C. (iii) 1 bar C02, 100 C, (iv) 200 eq. E-CL, 100 0C.
   Example 5: Production of di-block usinq complex 1
   Complex 1 (10.0 mg, 1.25 x 10-2 mmol), phthalic anhydride (37.0 mg, 0.25 mmol) and E
   CL (210.0 pL, 1.88 mmol) were dissolved in CHO (505.0 pL, 5.00 mmol) under N2
   protection in a screw vial charged with a stir bar. The mixture was then heated to 100 0C
10 and left to react under inert atmosphere for 2 h. The relative molar ratio of [Zinc
   cat.]/[CHO]/[PA]/[ E-CL] were as described in Table 2. The obtained block copolymers
   were precipitated using cold MeOH.
                            0           0      [L1Zn 2(OAc) ]
                                             6
                                                            2
                                                               >   PCHPE-b-PCL
                                                            0
15 Scheme 7: Synthesis route of PCHPE-b-PCL using mixed monomer feedstock..
                                                        54

   Table 2: Synthesis of PCHPE-b-PCL from a mixed monomer feedstock of CHO, PA and
   E-CL.
                 Entry    [cat.]/[CHO]/[PA]/[E-CL]               TOFofPA(h1)         Mn (kDa)    MIMn
                     1                1/500/20/100                      ~ 13            12.2      1.42
                     2                1/500/20/150                      ~ 13            15.8      1.43
                     3                1/500/20/200                      ~ 13            18.7      1.57
                     4                1/500/10/150                      ~ 10            22.5      1.46
                                                                                        28.0      1.52
                     5                1/500/40/150                      ~14
                                                                                         3.9      1.03
   Figure 2 shows GPC traces of PCHPE-b-PCL and PCHPE blocks. Curves a - d
 5 correspond to entries 1 - 4 in Table 2, respectively.
   Figure 3 shows 'H NMR spectrum (CDCl 3 , 298 K) of the PCHPE-PCL copolymer. The plot
   illustrates the formation of both PCHPE and PCL blocks.
   Example 6: Rinq opening of cyclic esters
10 The following reactions demonstrate the ring opening of lactides and lactones using the
   catalysts of the invention.
            0
                                                                             0
                 0        1
                        L Zn2 X2
                       iA    (n eq.)
                            neat
          e-CL                                      Polycaprolactone (PCL)
              0
                                                                    0
                                1
               0              L Zn2 X 2
                   0          PA (n eq.)                        O
                                                               0Y              )
                                                    0
           ----  y                ~neat
              o                                         Poly Lactic Acid (PLA)
        rac-lactide
            Table 3: Polyester formation via ROP of cyclic esters.
                     X    Monomer           cat./'PA/M         T       Time      Conv.a      Mnb  PDlb
                                                               55

                                               (OC)      (h)    (%)      (g.mol
                                                                            1)
              OAc        E-CL        1/4/500    80     2h30      0          -
              OAc       rac-LA       1/4/500    80      24h      0          -
             C6 H5       E-CL'       1/4/500    80              91.7      29970   1.47
                                                       1Omn
             C6 H5       E-CL        1/4/500    r.t.    23he    >99       41480   1.40
             C6 H5     rac-LAd       1/4/200    80      15h*    >99       12585   1.30
             C6 H5      rac-LA       1/4/200    r.t.     2h     96.6      11125   1.16
             C6 H5      rac-LA       1/-/200    r.t.     2h     92.6      28185   1.49
         Reaction conditions: [M]o = IM, DCM as solvent; a) Determined by 1H NMR
         spectroscopy; b) Determined by GPC with polystyrene standards; c) neat, E
         CL as solvent; d) toluene as solvent; e) non-optimized time.
   Example 7: Rinq opening of cyclic esters initiated by complex 1 / epoxide system
 5 The following reactions demonstrate the ring opening of lactides and lactones using the
   catalysts of the invention in the presence of epoxide.
      i.   Controlled polymerization of E-CL initiated by complex 1 / epoxide system
   Cyclohexene oxide (2.55 mL, 25 mmol), E-caprolactone (0.831 mL, 7.5 mmol) and
   L1Zn 2OAc 2 (10 mg, 0.0125 mmol) were added to a Schlenk tube. The vessel was heated
10 at 800C as described in Table 4. The unreacted monomers were removed in vacuo.
   Table 4: Polyester formation via ROP of cyclic esters
                          Time          Conv.a          Mnb
                                                                      PDIb
                          (min)            (%)       (g.mol 1 )
                            20             9.8         6,000          1.23
                            30            26.5        17,500          1.25
                            34            33.3        19,100          1.19
                                                 56

                             38            53.8         35,900       1.28
                             42            66.5         44,500       1.38
                             46              86         59,000       1.33
                             56            93.0         65,600       1.34
   Reaction conditions: Mixed monomer as solvent, 800C, L1Zn2(OAc) 2 as catalyst,
   cat/CHO/eCL = 1/2000/600; 'Conversion of monomer determined by 'H NMR
   spectroscopy; b Experimental Mn determined by GPC in THF, using polystyrene standards
   and times correction factor 0.54 for PLA to determine absolute molecular weight.
 5 Figure 4 shows M, and Mw/M, vs mol % of E-CL conversion of PCL homopolymer
   catalyzed by [L1Zn 2 (OAc) 2]/CHO system at 80     0C.
      ii.   Variation of ratio catalyst/epoxide for e-CL ROP.
   L1Zn 2OAc 2 (15 mg, 0.0188 mmol), cyclohexene oxide, E- caprolactone and toluene were
   added to a Schlenk tube (molar ratio cat/CHO/F-CL as described in Table 5). The vessel
10 was heated at 800C as described in Table 5. The unreacted monomers were removed in
   vacuo.
   Table 5: eCL polymerisation initiated by catalyst / epoxide systems
        Cat      cat./CHO/eCL         Temp.      Conc.     Time    Conv"        Mb     PIDId
                                        (OC)                (h)     (%)      (g/mol)
   L1Zn 2OAc 2        1/0/100            80        1M        5        0          -
   L1Zn 2OAc 2        1/5/100            80        1M        5       88       11500    1.41
   L1Zn 2OAc 2       1/10/100            80        1M        5       86       10500    1.25
   L1Zn 2OAc 2       1/20/100            80        1M        5       88        8300    1.36
   L1Zn 2OAc 2       1/50/100            80        1M        5       87        7300    1.31
   L1 Mg 2 OAc 2     1/10/100             80       1M         5      100       8150     1.25
   L1 Mg 2 OAc 2     1/20/100             80       1M         5      100       6300     1.66
                                                   57

   L1 Mg 2 OAc 2     1/50/100            80         1M          5         93        4500   1.41
   aConversion    of monomer determined by 1H NMR spectroscopy; 'Experimental Mn
   determined by GPC in THF, using polystyrene standards and times correction factor 0.56
   for eCL to determine absolute molecular weight; c Calculated Mn value obtained from the
   relation [eCL]/[cat.] x conv x 114/2 (Assuming two polymer chains formed per catalyst);  d
 5 Mw/Mn; eCalculated Mn value obtained from the relation [eCL]/[cat.] x conv x 114
     iii.    Polymerization of rac-lactide initiated by catalyst/epoxide systems
   L1Zn 2 OAc2 (15 mg, 0.0188 mmol), cyclohexene oxide, rac-lactide and toluene were added
   to a Schlenk tube (molar ratio cat/CHO/LA as described in Table 6). The vessel was
   heated at 800C as described in Table 6. The unreacted monomers were removed in
10  vacuo.
    Table 6: Polymerization of rac-lactide initiated by catalyst/ epoxide systems
        Cat.      cat./CHO/LA        Temp.       Conc.     Time       Conva        Mnb   PDId
                                      (OC)                   (h)       (%)       (g/mol)
    L1Zn2 OAc 2      1/10/100           80         1M         5         31        3700   1.26
    L1Zn2 OAc 2      1/10/100          100         1M         5         97        4100   2.07
    L1Zn2 OAc 2       1/0/100          100         1M         5          0           -
    L1Zn2 OAc 2       1/1/100          100         1M         5         3.4        210   1.21
    L1Zn2 OAc 2       1/2/100          100         1M         5         25        1150   1.20
    L1Zn2 OAc 2       1/5/100          100         1M         5         44        3500   1.25
    L1Zn2 OAc 2      1/20/100          100         1M         5         98        6900   1.33
   L1Mg 2OAc 2        1/2/100          100         1M         2          6         260   1.00
   L1Mg 2OAc 2        1/5/100          100         1M         2         91        2800   1.95
   L1Mg 2OAc 2       1/20/100          100         1M         2         98        3100   1.80
   L1Mg 2OAc 2       1/50/100          100         1M         2         78        2400   1.29
                                                    58

    aConversion    of monomer determined by 'H NMR spectroscopy; 'Experimental Mn
    determined by GPC in THF, using polystyrene standards and times correction factor 0.58
    for LA to determine absolute molecular weight;        C Mv/Mn.
    Figure 5 features a plot of In{[LA]o/[LA]t} vs time showing a polymerisation kinetics with a
 5  first-order dependence on lactide concentration, initiated by L'Mg 2 OAc 2/CHO system
    (cat/CHO/LA = 1/10/100, 100*C).
    Example 8: copolymerisation of and epoxide and an anhydride
    The following reactions demonstrate the copolymerisation of and epoxide and an
    anhydride using the catalysts of the invention.
                                                                 0   o
                                   0 0      0        cat.          00
                                                  t,1o *C                   O
10                               PA       cHO                       PE
     Table 7: Polyester synthesis via CHO / anhydride copolymerization.
                    CHO/anhyd                         T     Time    Con        oMn
      Catalyst           rie            Solvent                      V.                        PDIc
                                                    (*C)     (h)      *)a, polyester (g/mol)
                     (eq. / eq.)                                      b       rsb
                                        Toluene
                     CHO / MA                                                         12700,   1.09
   L'Zn 2 (OAc) 2                      [M] = 2.4     100      18     92        67      4330       '
                      100/100                                                                  1.03
                                            M
                                        Toluene
                                        CHO PA5100,                                            1.07
   L'Zn 2 (OAc) 2                                    100      22     27       90
                      100/100          [M] 0=1.25                                      2000    1.07
                                            M
                      CHO / PA
   L'Zn 2 (OAc) 2                         neat       100     2 0 d  >99e      >99      4000    1.33
                      800 / 100
   Ll Mg 2 (OAc) 2    CHO / PA            neat       100       6     52       88
                                                      59

                      800 / 100
                     CHO / PA         Toluene
   1
  L Mg 2 (OAc) 2                       [M] 0 =     100   22     19        83       2570   1.20
                      100/100           2.5M
                     CHO /PA                                                      12670,
   1
  L Mg 2 (OAc) 2                        neat       100    1     97e      >99
                      800/ 100                                                     5470
   a) Determined by 1H NMR spectroscopy; b) Estimated on CHO consumption, c)
   Determined by GPC with polystyrene standards; d) Non-optimized time; e) Estimated on
   PA consumption.
          Table 8: Polyester synthesis via styrene oxide (SO)/anhydride copolymerization.
                                                       Con                 Mnc
                              SO/anhydrie      Time     V.        *
               Catalyst                                                           PD1c
                                (eq. / eq.)     (h)    Na,   polymer'     (g/mo
                                                        b                    I)
                                 SO / MA
              L1Zn 2(OAc) 2                     16 '   >95       81        3400   1.90
                                 200 / 200
                                 SO / MA
               1
              L Zn 2(OAc) 2                      6*    >95       74        2980   1.51
                                 500 / 500
                                  SO / PA
               1
              L Zn 2(OAc) 2                     2 2d   >95       77        2340   1.49
                                 200 / 200
5         Reaction conditions: reaction in toluene, 100 C, [M]o = 2.5M, a) Determined by
          'H NMR spectroscopy; b) Estimated on SO consumption, c) Determined by
          GPC with polystyrene standards; d) Non-optimized time; e) Monitored by A TR
          IR.
   Example 9: Synthesis of polyester-polycarbonate block polymers
                                                    60

  PCL-PCHC
             0       cat./ PA                  o   +       +C02,1 atm.,                O
             +tj,        8000                                t2,88000
     E-CL      CHO                     PCL                                     PCL-PCHC
              Table 9: PCL-PCHC via step polymerization procedure.
                          Cat  Co-cat                E-CL
                                            t1                         CH2               TOF
         E-CL  / CHO     (eq.)   (eq.)                                 CHO       TON
                                           (h)      conv.   (h)     conv. (%)a           (h-')
                                                     (%)a
                           2      iPA
          500/500                          0.5        94    20          23.2      115     5.8
                                (4 eq)
                           2      iPA
          100/900                            3        94    16          34.4      310    19.4
                                (4 eq)
                           2      iPA
          100/900                           2         93    16          66.5      698    37.4
                                (4 eq)
                           2      iPA
          100/900                           2          -    20          51.3      461    23.1
                                (4 eq)
          100/900          1        -        1       >99    21           53       477    22.7
              Reaction conditions: L'Zn2 Ph2 (1 eq.) in the presence of iPA (4 eq.),
5             801C, desired time, neat (monomer mix as solvent). a) Determined
             by 1H NMR spectroscopy.
  Figure 6: 1H NMR spectrum (CDC13 , 298 K) of PCL-PCHC copolymer. The plot illustrates
  the formation of both PCHC and PCL blocks when initiated by cat 1 (Table 9, entry 5).
     Table 10: PCL-b-PCHC bloc polymer characterization.
                        Mna                                 Mna
           E-CL /
                                PDIa    polycarbona       (g.mor       PDIa    polycarbona
           CHO       (g.mol.
                          1)                    te           1)                     teb
                                                   61

          500/500     20782      1.43         8.6
          100/900      4808      1.65         57           7572       1.16       30.5
          100/900      4355      1.34         71
          100/900      5170      1.27         76
          100/900      4810      1.38         74
   a) Determined by GPC with polystyrene standards, b) Determined by 'H NMR
   spectroscopy by comparison of PCL and PCHC signals, respectively.
   PE-PCHC ("one-pot" procedure)
                                                       0    0          0
                          000     001
                                        C     tm .)         / O\    O    O
                        PA     CHO                               PE-PCHC
 5    Table 11: Polyester-polycarbonate bloc polymers obtained via one-pot polymerization
      procedure.
   E-CL /
              t                           %               %                 TOF
    CHO            CHO conv. (%)a                                      TON          Mnb  PDlb
                                      polymer       polycarbonate           (h-)
    (eq.)    (h)
    100/
            21.8           15             81              75           134   6.1    3965 1.33
     900
    200/
            22.2           18             91              96           362  16.5    4290 1.12
    2000
      Reaction conditions: L1Zn2 (OAc) 2 (1 eq.), 1 atm C0 2, 100 C, desired time, neat
      (CHO as solvent). a) Determined by 'H NMR spectroscopy, b) Determined by GPC
      with polystyrene standards.
10 The second reaction in Table 11 was monitored by ATR-IR spectroscopy (see Figure 7).
   Figure 7 shows that anhydride is consumed as the polyester first block is produced.
                                                 62

   Polyester formation terminates and polycarbonate second block formation begins once all
   anhydride monomer has been consumed.
   Figure 8 features 'H NMR spectra for the terpolymerization reaction using the complex
   L'Zn2 (OAc)2 Reaction conditions: 1:100:800. Cat:PA:CHO, 100      0C   under 1 bar C02.
 5 Spectra show that PA is fully consumed before PCHC is formed. Thus, aliquot after 4h
   shows almost complete consumption of PA (by 1H NMR spectroscopy) and no formation
   of PCHC. At the end of the recation (24h), aliquot show formation of PCHC.
   Example 9: Preparation polymers from epoxide, carbon dioxide, anhydride and lactone
   monomers
                             002                  0N                      2
            PCHC            8C                                       80C        )   PCL
                         LZn 2 (OAc) 2                            LZn 2 (OAc) 2
                                                 CHO     E-CL
                                                          00
                                             800C
                                          LZn 2 (OAc)2
                                                            +PA
10                                                PCHPE-PCL
   Table 12: Polyester, polycarbonate and polycarbonate-polyester block copolymers
   obtained via one-pot polymerization procedure
                                         T          t    Conv.    Mn
   CHO     E-CL      CO 2       PA                                           PDI
                                       (0c)        (h)     (%)  (g/mol)
    900     100     1 atm.       -      80        15h      12.4  1040       1.08
    400     200        -        50     100        10h      Full  8140       2.00
     20     200        -         -      80         2h      Full 21040       1.41
                                                      63

   Formation of PCHC in the presence of E-CL: Cyclohexene oxide (1.1 mL, 10.75 mmol),
   E-caprolactone (138.6 pL, 1.2 mmol) and L1Zn 2OAc 2 (10 mg, 0.012 mmol) were added to a
   Schlenk tube. The vessel was degased then C02 was added and let under stirring for 30
   mn at r.t. The vessel was then heated at 800C under C02 atmosphere (1 atm.) for 15h.
 5 The unreacted monomers were removed in vacuo (Mn = 1040 g/mol, PDI = 1.08).
   Figure 9: 'H NMR spectrum (CDCl 3, 298 K) showing formation of PCHC in the presence of
   E-CL, with no formation of PCL (4.00 ppm) or ether linkages (3.45 ppm) (Table 12, Entry
   1).
   PCHPE-PCL formation: Cyclohexene oxide (1 mL, 10.0 mmol), E-caprolactone (554 pL,
10 5.0 mmol), phtallic anhydride (185.2 mg, 0.625 mmol) and L1Zn 2OAc 2 (20 mg, 0.025
   mmol) were added to a Schlenk tube. The vessel was heated at 100 C under stirring for
   1Oh (monitored by ATR-IR). The unreacted monomers were removed in vacuo (Mn        =
   8140 g/mol, PDI = 2.00).
   Figure 10 shows an ATR-IR trace for PCHPE-PCL formation. This figure shows that the
15 anhydride is consumed as the polyester block forms. When all of the anhydride is
   consumed, ring opening of the lactone occurs.
   PCL formation (in the presence of 10 mol % of CHO): Cyclohexene oxide (25 pL, 0.25
   mmol), E-caprolactone (277 pL, 2.5 mmol) and L1Zn 2 OAc 2 (10 mg, 0.0125 mmol) were
   added to a Schlenk tube. The vessel was heated at 800C under stirring for 2h. The
20 unreacted monomers were removed in vacuo (Mn = 21040 g/mol, PDI = 1.41).
   Figure 11 is a 'H NMR spectrum (CDCl 3 , 298 K) showing formation of PCL in the
   presence of CHO, without polymerization of CHO (absence of (poly)ether linkage at 3.45
   ppm).
   Example 10: Preparinq a poly(cyclohexylene carbonate-co-caprolactone) block copolymer
25 by sequential monomer addition
       A) Cyclohexene oxide (2.3 mL, 22.5 mmol), c-caprolactone (277 [L, 2.5 mmol), and 1
           (40 mg, 50.0 pimol) were added to a Schlenk tube. The vessel was degassed at
           298 K, then C02 was added. The vessel was left under a C02 atmosphere, at 298
           K, for a few minutes and was then heated to 353 K, with continuous reaction
30         stirring, for 3.5 h. Then, the C02 was removed from the reaction via 6 vacuum
           nitrogen cycles, over a period of 15 min. The vessel was maintained at 353 K for 3
           h. A sample of the crude product was analysed by 'H NMR spectroscopy to
                                                64

           determine the conversion and selectivity. Any unreacted monomers              were
           removed, in vacuo, to yield the product as an oily white wax. Mn = 3,490 g/mol,
           PDI = 1.48.
 5     B) Cyclohexene oxide (2.3 mL, 22.5 mmol), c-caprolactone (277 ptL, 2.5 mmol), and 1
           (40 mg, 50.0 ptmol) were added to a Schlenk tube. The vessel was degassed at
           298 K, then C02 was added. The vessel was left under a C02 atmosphere, at 298
           K, for a few minutes and was then heated to 353 K, with continuous reaction
           stirring, for 4 h. Then, the C02 was removed from the reaction via 6 vacuum
10         nitrogen cycles, over a period of 15 min. The vessel was maintained at 353 K for 2
           h. A sample of the crude product was analysed by 'H NMR spectroscopy to
           determine the conversion and selectivity. Any unreacted monomers              were
           removed, in vacuo, to yield the product as an oily white wax. Mn = 2,349 g/mol,
           PDI = 1.49.
15 Figure 12 features a SEC stack plot showing the analysis of PCHC-PCL formation
   according to the conditions described in example 10-B. The "PCHC" trace shows the
   analysis of an aliquot removed after 4 h, which showed 10% CHO conversion and PCHC
   formation, with Mn 530 g/mol. At this point, the C02 was removed leading to CL ROP.
   After 2 h, a second aliquot was removed was >99% conversion of CL and formation of
20 PCHC-PCL of Mn 2350 g/mol.
   Figure 13 shows changes in intensity of IR resonances where PCHC-PCL is formed by: 1)
   by ROCOP (ring opening copolymerisation) of CHO/CO 2 , 2) removal of C02 and 3) ROP
   of CL.
25 Example 9: Use of various epoxides as switch reaqent for PCL production.
   LZn 2 (OAc) 2 (1 eq), E-caprolactone (200 eq), and epoxide (800 eq) were added to a
   schlenk tube. The mixture was heated to 800C for 3 hours. After 3 hours a NMR aliquot
   was taken to determine conversion and the excess epoxide was removed by vacuum. The
   polymer was precipitated from THF by methanol.
30    Table 13: Ring-opening polymerization of E-CL initiated by a catalyst/epoxide system'
                                                           Conversion        Mnb
        Cat/Epoxide/e-CL        Epoxide       Solvent                                PDIb
                                                                (%)        (g/mol)
                                                  65

             1/800/200            SO              Neat'               99           5336      1.28
             1/800/200         VCHO               Neat'               90           9486       1.4
                                                Toluene
              1/10/100            SO                                  99         21040        1.6
                                             [e-CL] = 1 M
                                                Toluene
              1/10/100         VCHO                                   90          13470       1.5
                                             [e-CL] = 1 M
   a) Reaction conditions: 80 0C, 3hr; b) Determined by 1H NMR spectroscopy; c)
   Determined by GPC calibrated with polystyrene standards; c) Mixed epoxide used as
   solvent. VCHO = 4-vinylcyclohexene oxide; SO = styrene oxide.
   Example 10: Formation of triblock PCL-PCHC-PCL
                               0
                                         <00                                           0        0
     0                 HO              0)-
                                        OH                     H 00                  O<O          H
            C   ( a2 )    jH      O  j       + s-CL, toluene  H O0O
                                                                 (
                                                                                          kO O)O
 5                            PCHC                                              PCL-PCHC-PCL
   L1Zn 2 (TFA)2 and CHO were added to a Schlenk tube. The cyclohexene oxide was
   degassed before being left to stir under 1 atm of C02 at 800C for 16 h. The carbon dioxide
   was removed and replaced with nitrogen. Toluene was added to dissolve the PCHC, the
10 desired quantity of E-caprolactone was then added. Upon completion, the solvent was
   removed by vacuum and the polymer precipitated from THF by the addition of excess
   methanol.
   Table 14: Formation of triblock PCL-PCHC-PCL
                                             Conversionb                    Mn (PDI)'
                CHO     s-CL
       Entry                     [E-CL]a           (%)                       (g/mol)
                 (eq.)  (eq.)
                                             CHO         E-CL       PCHC        PCL-PCHC-PCLd
                                                                                  22,165 (1.78)
         1       1000   400         5          32         100   7,697 (1.12)
                                                                                  29,313 (1.53)*
                                                     66

         2      1000       400         1      36      87    5,644 (1.09)           15,000 (1.28)
   Reaction conditions: i): L1Zn2 (TFA) 2, 18 h, latm CO 2 , 800 C; ii): addition of toluene and &
   CL, 3 h, N2 a) Concentration of E-CL in toluene; b) Determined by 'H NMR spectroscopy;
   c) Determined by GPC calibrated with polystyrene standards, d) Crude polymer before
   purification, e) after purification THF/methanoL TFA = trifuoroacetate (OCOCF).
 5 Figure 14 shows an SEC trace showing the molecular weight distribution PCHC and
   purified PCL-PCHC-PCL as described in Table 14, Entry 1.
   Figure 15 shows the 'H NMR spectrum showing the carbonate content of crude PCL
   PCHC-PCL and purified PCL-PCHC-PCL. There is no significant difference in relative
   intensities (carbonate content) consistent with block copolymer formation.
10 Figure 16 shows an SEC trace showing the molecular weight distribution PCHC and crude
   PCL-PCHC-PCL as described in Table 14, Entry 2.
   Example 11: E-CL polymerization in the presence of chain transfer agent (CTA).
   e-CL polymerization with CHO as solvent in the presence of ethylene glycol (EG):
   Catalyst, cyclohexene oxide (1000 eq), E-caprolactone (200 eq) and ethylene glycol (10
15 eq) were added to a Schlenk tube. The mixture was heated to 800C for 2 hours and then,
   the excess cyclohexene oxide was removed by vacuum. The polymer was precipitated
   from THF by methanol.
   e-CL polymerization with toluene as solvent in the presence of ethylene glycol (EG):
   Catalyst, cyclohexene oxide (40 eq), E-caprolactone (400 eq), ethylene glycol (30 eq) and
20 toluene were added to a Schlenk tube. The mixture was heated to 800C for 2 hours. After
   2 hours the excess cyclohexene oxide removed by vacuum. The polymer was precipitated
   from THF by methanol.
   Table 15: Polymerization of e-CL in the presence of CTA.
                        E-CL      CHO      EG     [e-CL]a    Conv.b
              Entry                                                       Mn(exp)0     PDIc
                        (eq.)     (eq.)   (eq.)   (mol/L)     (%)
              P10        100      1000      -        -        100         2779         1.36
              P14        200      1000     10        -        100         4272         1.26
                                                 67

              P17      400       20       10         5         100       4319         1.30
              P24      200      1000      30         -         100       9069         1.35
              P29      400        10      30         5         93        2754         1.18
   Reaction conditions: 80 0C, 2 h; a) concentration of --CL in toluene; b) Determined by 'H
   NMR spectroscopy; d) determined by GPC calibrated with polystyrene standards.
   Figure 17 shows a MALDI TOF mass spectra of PCL obtained in neat CHO in the
   absence of EG (Table 15, P10). Polyol series calculated for [(C6 H, 0O 2 )n+C6 H1 2 O 2 +K]* =
 5 [(114.07),+116.16+39.1]*
   Figure 18 shows a MALDI TOF mass spectra of PCL obtained in toluene in the presence
   of EG (Table 15, P29). Square series calculated for [(C6 H, 0 O2 )n+C2 H6 O 2 +K]* =
   [(114.07),+63.04+39.1]'; circular series calculated for [(C6 H, 0O2 )n+C6 H1 2O2 +K]*  =
   [(114.07),+116.16+39.1]*.
10 Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context requires
   otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and "comprising", will
   be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or
   steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
   The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived from it),
15 or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an acknowledgment or
   admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or information derived from
   it) or known matter forms part of the common general knowledge in the field of endeavour
   to which this specification relates.
20
                                                 68

   THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS
   1.       A method for producing a polyester, comprising contacting a lactone and/or a
   lactide with a catalyst system having a catalyst of formula (IA):
                    R1
             R2            R2
                  Rj     G
                IV E2         NR4
   R      RN
          R      z     KM'-,/    1
           N        E2   Z    N
                G          R
               R5              R5
             R2            R2
                    R1             (IA)
 5 wherein
   R, and R2 are independently hydrogen, halide, a nitro group, a nitrile group, an imine, an
   amine, an ether group, a silyl ether group, a thioether group, a sulfoxide group, a sulfinate
   group, or an acetylide group or an optionally substituted alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, haloalkyl,
   aryl, heteroaryl, alicyclic or heteroalicyclic;
10 R3 is optionally substituted alkylene, alkenylene, alkynylene, heteroalkylene,
   heteroalkenylene, heteroalkynylene, arylene, heteroarylene or cycloalkylene, wherein
   alkylene, alkenylene, alkynylene, heteroalkylene, heteroalkenylene and heteroalkynylene
   may optionally be interrupted by aryl, heteroaryl, alicyclic or heteroalicyclic;
   R4 is H, or optionally substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic, aryl,
15 heteroaryl, alkylheteroaryl or alkylaryl;
   R5 is H, or optionally substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic, aryl,
   heteroaryl, alkylheteroaryl or alkylaryl;
   El is C, E2 is O, S or NH or Ej is N and E2 is 0;
   R is hydrogen, or optionally substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic,
20 aryl, heteroaryl, alkylaryl, alkylheteroaryl, silyl or a polymer;
   Z is -E-;
   E is -0-, -S-, or NRz, wherein is H, or optionally substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic,
   alicyclic, heteroalicyclic, aryl, heteroaryl, alkylaryl or alkylheteroaryl;
   each G is independently absent or a neutral or anionic donor ligand which is a Lewis
25 base; and
   M is Zn(ll), Cr(ll), Co(II), Mn(ll), Mg(ll), Fe(ll), Ti(ll), Cr(Ill)-Z-R, Co(Ill)-Z-R, Mn (Ill)-Z-R,
   Fe(Ill)-Z-R, Ca(ll), Ge(ll), AI(Ill)-Z-R, Ti(Ill)-Z-R, V(Ill)-Z-R, Ge(IV)-(-Z-R) 2 or Ti(IV)-(-Z-R) 2.
                                                      69

   2.       A method for producing a polyester, comprising contacting an anhydride and an
   epoxide with a catalyst system having a catalyst of formula (IA):
                      R1
             R2            R2
                       E
                  ,R      G
                      E2      NR4
                I
        3",E/ - I       z I\R 4 , R3
         RN          E2   Z N
                G          'R
               R5              R5
             R2            R2
                      R1             (IA)
   wherein
 5 R, and R2 are independently hydrogen, halide, a nitro group, a nitrile group, an imine, an
   amine, an ether group, a silyl ether group, a thioether group, a sulfoxide group, a sulfinate
   group, or an acetylide group or an optionally substituted alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, haloalkyl,
   aryl, heteroaryl, alicyclic or heteroalicyclic;
   R3 is optionally substituted alkylene, alkenylene, alkynylene, heteroalkylene,
10 heteroalkenylene, heteroalkynylene, arylene, heteroarylene or cycloalkylene, wherein
   alkylene, alkenylene, alkynylene, heteroalkylene, heteroalkenylene and heteroalkynylene
   may optionally be interrupted by aryl, heteroaryl, alicyclic or heteroalicyclic;
   R4 is H, or optionally substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic, aryl,
   heteroaryl, alkylheteroaryl or alkylaryl;
15 R5 is H, or optionally substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic, aryl,
   heteroaryl, alkylheteroaryl or alkylaryl;
   El is C, E2 is O, S or NH or Ej is N and E2 is 0;
   Z is absent, or is selected from -E-, -EX(E)-, or -EX(E)E-;
   X is C or S;
20 E is -0-, -S-, or NRz, wherein is H, or optionally substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic,
   alicyclic, heteroalicyclic, aryl, heteroaryl, alkylaryl or alkylheteroaryl;
   R is hydrogen, or optionally substituted aliphatic, heteroaliphatic, alicyclic, heteroalicyclic,
   aryl, heteroaryl, alkylaryl, alkylheteroaryl, or a polymer; and when Z is absent, R is
   additionally selected form halide, phosphinate, azide and nitro;
25 each G is independently absent or a neutral or anionic donor ligand which is a Lewis
   base; and
   M is Zn(ll), Cr(ll), Co(II), Mn(ll), Mg(ll), Fe(ll), Ti(ll), Cr(Ill)-Z-R, Co(Ill)-Z-R, Mn (Ill)-Z-R,
   Fe(Ill)-Z-R, Ca(ll), Ge(ll), AI(Ill)-Z-R, Ti(Ill)-Z-R, V(Ill)-Z-R, Ge(IV)-(-Z-R) 2 or Ti(IV)-(-Z-R) 2.
                                                      70

   3.       The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein each E is 0.
   4.       The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein M is selected
 5 from Zn(II), Mg(ll), Co(II), Co(Ill)-Z-R, Cr(II), Cr(Ill)-Z-R, Mn(II), Mn(Ill)-Z-R, AI(Ill)-Z-R,
   Fe(II), and Fe(Ill)-Z-R.
   5.       The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein M is Zn(II) or
   Mg(II).
10
   6.       The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein El is C and E2
   isO.
   7.       The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein R, is hydrogen,
15 halide, an amine, an ether group, a thioether group, or an optionally substituted alkyl,
   alkenyl, alkynyl, haloalkyl, aryl, heteroaryl, alicyclic or heteroalicyclic.
   8.       The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein R2 is hydrogen
   or optionally substituted alkyl, aryl or heteroaryl.
20
   9.       The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein R4 is H or
   optionally substituted aliphatic, heteroalkyl, aryl or heteroaryl.
   10.      The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein R5 is hydrogen
25 or optionally substituted aliphatic, heteroalkyl, aryl or heteroaryl.
   11.      The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein R3 is optionally
   substituted alkylene, heteroalkylene, arylene or cycloalkylene.
                                                     71

12.    The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the catalyst is
selected from:
             OAc
         H         O         H
             Mg        Mg
         NH  NH    O    OAc NN x
              4
                Mg 2(OAc) 2]
                                         72

          OAc               Ac
NH        0      , NH NH       0      NH
    Zn        Zn          Zn     Zn
NH        0      NH   NH      O     NH
              CAc                CAc
 [L 1Zn2 (0Ac) 2]      [L 2 Zn2(0Ac) 2]
          OMe
 [      OAc           [ Ac
NH        0        NH NHQ\ ,O\0       N
                                      N
  \    /,   \
    Zn        Zn                 m
NH        0      NH   NH      0    NH
              CAc                CAc
          OMe
 [L 3 Zn2(0Ac) 2]     [LlMg 2(0Ac) 2]
                                73

                                                                              C1
                                  C1
                       N          O        HN                      H   \        A
                           Co                                         Co           Co
                  C    NH                -OHNu
                                                                   N
                                                                   NH         O      N HN
                          [LiCo 2C13 ] [B-H]+                         [L'Co2 Cl2 Nu]
      [B-H]+ represents any counterion, for example,            Nu = N-methylimidazole
      B may be NEt3 , 1,8-diazabicyclo[5.4.0]undec-7-ene (DBU),    = pyridine
      7-methyl-1,5,7-triazabicyclo[4.4.0]dec-5-ene (MTBD), etc     = dimethylaminopyridine
   [L1 Mg 2Cl 2(methylimidazole)],
   [Lj Mg 2CI 2(dimethylaminopyridine)],
   [L Mg 2Br2(dimethylaminopyridine)],
 5 [L 1Zn 2 (F3 CCOO) 2],
   [L1Zn 2 (OOCC(CH 3) 3)2],
   [L 1Zn 2 (OC6 H5 ) 2],
   [L1 Fe 2CI 4],
   [L1 Co 2(OAc) 3],
10 [L 1Zn 2 (adamantyl carbonate) 2],
   [L1Zn 2 (pentafluorobenzoate) 2],
   [L1Zn 2 (diphenylphosphinate)2],
   [L1Zn 2 (bis(4-methoxy)phenyl phosphinate) 2],
   [L 1Zn 2 (hexanoate) 2],
15 [L 1Zn 2 (octanoate) 2],
   [L 1Zn 2 (dodecanoate) 2],
   [L1 Mg 2(F 3CCOO) 2],
   [L1 Mg 2Br 2],
                                                           74

  [L 1Zn 2 (C6 F5 ) 2],
  [L 1Zn 2 (C6 H5 )2] and
  [L 1Zn 2 (OiPr) 2].
5 13.       The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the catalyst
  system comprises a chain transfer agent.
  14.       A polyester as produced by the method according to any one of the preceding
  claims.
                                               75

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
