                                      ABSTRACT
      An outdoor lamp capable of changing colors includes a support member, a lamp
holder disposed on the support member, and an LED light module disposed in the lamp
holder. The LED light module includes at least one PCBA (printed circuit board
assembly) arrayed with a plurality of LED groups. Each of the LED groups is composed
of at least one white/warm white LED and at least one RGB LED adjacent to each other.
Each of the white/warm white LED and the RGB LED can emit light simultaneously or
individually. When the RGB LED emits light to change colors, the luminous flux of the
entire LED light module can be improved by the aid of the white/warm white LED, and
a color gradient effect is generated.
                                          10

                                      5/5
             __42b
40b(
                      //
   440b'
         42b     41b
                  42b    \-
         42b2               lbb7'
                                  FI-

              OUTDOOR LAMP CAPABLE OF CHANGING COLORS
                             FIELD OF THE INVENTION
      [0001]    The present invention relates to an LED outdoor lamp, and more
particularly to an outdoor lamp capable of changing colors. The outdoor lamp comprises
an LED light module. The LED light module includes at least one PCBA (printed
circuit board assembly) arrayed with a plurality of LED groups. Each of the LED
groups is composed of at least one white/warm white LED and at least one RGB LED
adjacent to each other. The luminous flux of the entire LED light module is improved
through the white/warm white LED to assist the RGB LED.
                          BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
      [0002]    Light emitting diodes (LEDs) are widely used in various types of lighting
fixtures due to the characters of energy saving, light weight, and compactness. In recent
years, high-power LED, white/warm white LED and RGB LED technology have been
developed, gradually replacing traditional light-emitting devices. LEDs have been
applied to industry, home lighting, traffic roads, etc.
      [0003]    In recent years, most of outdoor lamps used in gardens, homes, outdoor
restaurants or outdoor recreation sites use RGB LEDs as a light-emitting module,
namely, color-changing outdoor lamps. During operation, different colors can be
changed through RGB LEDs to generate different visual effects.
      [0004]    The above-mentioned color-changing outdoor lamp has the effect of
changing colors. The RGB LED uses the principle of mixing red, green and blue to
change colors. When the RGB LED is driven with a high luminous flux to emit colored
light, the color is not obvious. Only when the luminous flux is low, the RGB LED can
generate a more obvious color-changing effect.
      [0005]    In other words, the luminous flux must be low for the outdoor lamp with
RGB LEDs to generate a more obvious color-changing effect. This is the shortcoming
of the color-changing outdoor lamp. Accordingly, the inventor of the present invention
has devoted himself based on his many years of practical experiences to solve these
problems.
                                              1

                           SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
      [0006]    An embodiment of the present invention seeks to provide an outdoor
lamp capable of changing colors. Advantageously, the outdoor lamp not only solves the
problem that the luminous flux of the outdoor lamp is not enough but also allows the
outdoor lamp to have a color gradient effect when changing colors.
      [0007]    Additionally or alternatively, an embodiment of the present invention
seeks to at least provide the public with a useful choice.
      [0008]    The present invention provides an outdoor lamp capable of changing
colors comprising a support member, a lamp holder disposed on the support member,
and an LED light module disposed in the lamp holder. The LED light module includes
at least one PCBA (printed circuit board assembly) arrayed with a plurality of LED
groups. The PCBA is electrically connected to an LED driver. Each of the LED groups
is composed of at least one white/warm white LED and at least one RGB LED adjacent
to each other. The LED driver drives and controls each of the white/warm white LED
and the RGB LED to emit light simultaneously or individually. When the LED driver
drives and controls the RGB LED to emit light in a fixed color manner or in a
color-changing manner, the luminous flux of the LED light module is increased through
the white light/warm white light emitted by the white/warm white LED, and the LED
light module generates a color gradient effect.
      [0009]    Compared with the prior art, in the outdoor lamp according to an
embodiment of the present invention, each of the LED groups of the LED light module
is composed of at least one white/warm white LED and at least one RGB LED adjacent
to each other. When the RGB LED emits light in a fixed color manner or in a
color-changing manner, the luminous flux of the LED light module is increased through
the white light/warm white light emitted by the white/warm white LED, thereby
overcoming the problem of dusk because the luminous flux of the conventional outdoor
lamp is not enough. With the configuration of the number of white/warm white LEDs
and RGB LEDs, the colored light is presented in a gradient effect.
                                              2

                    BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
      [0010]    FIG. 1 is an exploded view in accordance with a preferred embodiment
of the present invention;
      [0011]    FIG. 2 is a cross-sectional view in accordance with the preferred
embodiment of the present invention;
      [0012]    FIG. 3 is an exploded view of the outdoor lamp in accordance with
another embodiment of the present invention;
      [0013]    FIG. 4 is a schematic view showing the LED groups arranged in a
rectangular array on the first PCBA of the present invention; and
      [0014]    FIG. 5 is a schematic view showing the LED groups arranged in an
annular array on the second PCBA of the present invention.
       DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
      [0015]    Embodiments of the present invention will now be described, by way of
example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings.
      [0016]    As shown in FIG. 1 and FIG. 2, an outdoor lamp capable of changing
colors in accordance with the present invention comprises a support member 10, a lamp
holder 20 disposed on the support member 10, and an LED light module 30 disposed in
the lamp holder 20. The LED light module 30 includes at least one PCBA (printed
circuit board assembly) 50 arrayed with a plurality of LED groups 40. The PCBA 50 is
electrically connected to an LED driver 60 and driven by the LED driver 60, enabling
the plurality of LED groups 40 on the PCBA 50 to emit light.
      [0017]    As shown in the figures, the support member 10 has a bottom portion in
the form of a rod to be fixed to the ground. The lamp holder 20 includes a light-pervious
lampshade 21 disposed on the top of the support member 10 and a cover 22 that covers
the top of the light-pervious lampshade 21. In practice, the lamp holder 20 may be
mounted to a bracket (not shown) on a wall or hung on a building or other objects,
without using the support member 10.
      [0018]    In order to save energy and facilitate installation, the top of the cover 22
is provided with a solar panel 23, so that the LED light module 30 does not need to be
                                             3

connected with a power cable. However, the LED light module 30 may be connected
with a power cable (not shown) to meet the needs of the installation site. In addition, the
LED driver 60 is disposed between the top of the light-pervious lampshade 21 and the
cover 22 in a hidden manner to avoid affecting the appearance.
      [0019]     The PCBA 50 of the LED light module 30 is disposed in the
light-pervious lampshade 21 and located at the center of the light-pervious lampshade
21 or above the light-pervious lampshade 21. When the PCBA 50 is implemented, the
PCBA 50 is made into a suitable shape corresponding to the shape and internal space of
a different lamp holder 20, such as a ring, a strip, a disk, a triangle, or a non-geometry.
As shown in FIG. 1 and FIG. 2, the PCBA 50 is in the form of a strip, as an example.
      [0020]     As shown in FIG. 3 to FIG. 5, the LED light module 30 may include two
PCBAs, defined as a first PCBA 50a located at the center of the light-pervious
lampshade 21 and a second PCBA 50b disposed above the first PCBA 50a. Both the
first PCBA 50a and the second PCBA 50b may be simultaneously installed, or one of
them may be selected in conjunction with the design of the outdoor lamp. In addition, as
shown in FIG. 3 to FIG. 5, the first PCBA 50a is in the form of a strip and the second
PCBA 50b is in the form of a ring, as an example. But, the actual implementation of the
first PCBA 50a and the second PCBA 50b can be respectively formed into suitable
shapes according to the shapes and the internal spaces of different lamp holders.
      [0021]     Wherein,   the first PCBA 50a is installed at the center of the
light-pervious lampshade 21 of the lamp holder 20 in an upright manner. Both sides of
the first PCBA 50a are provided with a plurality of LED groups 40a. When the LED
groups 40a on both sides of the first PCBA 50a emit light, the light is scattered 360
degrees around the entire light-pervious lampshade 21 through a light guide structure in
the light-pervious lampshade 21. Alternatively, a light guide pillar 51 is provided
between the outside of the first PCBA 50a and the light-pervious lampshade 21. The
light is scattered 360-degree through the light guide pillar 51. The light guide structure
or the light guide pillar 51 in the light-pervious lampshade 21 is a general technique and
won't be further described hereinafter.
                                               4

      [0022]    As shown in the figures, the second PCBA 50b of the LED light module
30 is transversely disposed under the cover 22 of the lamp holder 20, that is, above the
first PCBA 50a. A plurality of LED groups 40b are disposed on the underside of the
second PCBA 50b to emit light toward the light-pervious lampshade 21. If the second
PCBA 50b is separately provided, a plurality of LED groups 40b are provided on both
sides of the second PCBA 50b, enabling both sides of the second PCBA 50b to emit
light. In cooperation with the two embodiments of the PCBA, the implementation of the
LED groups of the present invention is as follows:
      [0023]    As shown in FIG. 4, the first PCBA 50a is in the form of a strip, and the
plurality of LED groups 40a are arranged in a rectangular array. Wherein, each LED
group 40a is composed of at least one white/warm white LED 41 a and at least one RGB
LED 42a adjacent to each other. The LED driver can drive and control each of the
white/warm white LED 41a and the RGB LED 42a to emit light simultaneously or
individually. When the RGB LED 42a emits light in a fixed color manner or in a
color-changing manner, the luminous flux of the entire LED light module 30 is
increased through the white light/warm white light emitted by each white/warm white
LED 41a.
      [0024]    It is worth mentioning that the number of at least one white/warm white
LED 41 a and at least one RGB LED 42a of the LED group 40a may be configured in
different numbers depending on the needs of the lighting effect. For example, as shown
in FIG. 4, the white/warm white LEDs 41a and the RGB LEDs 42a of the LED groups
40a are arranged from the left to the right of the figure: two white/warm white LEDs
41a in cooperation with one RGB LED 42a, one white/warm white LED 41a in
cooperation with one RGB LED 42a, one white/warm white LED 41a in cooperation
with two RGB LEDs 42a, etc., or many white/warm white LEDs 41a in cooperation
with many RGB LEDs 42a, thereby enabling the colored light emitted by the entire
LED light module 30 to have a color gradient effect.
                                             5

      [0025]    As shown in FIG. 5, the LED groups 40b on the second PCBA 50b are
arranged in an annular array. Each LED group 40b is composed of at least one
white/warm white LED 41b and at least one RGB LED 42b adjacent to each other. As
for the configuration of the white/warm white LED 41b and the RGB LED 42b, the
RGB LED 42b can be configured to increase in number from the outside to the inside.
The luminous flux of the entire LED light module 30 can be increased through the white
light/warm white light emitted by each white/warm white LED 41b. Through the
change in number, the colored light emitted by the entire LED light module 30 may
have a color gradient effect.
      [0026]    For example, the LED groups 40b arranged in an annular array as shown
in the figure, the number of white/warm white LEDs 41b is one or more from the
outside to the inside, but the number of RGB LEDs 42b gradually increases from the
outside to the inside. Through the control of the LED driver, it is possible to generate a
color gradient effect in which the color gradually becomes richer from the outside to the
inside.
      [0027]    Although particular embodiments of the present invention have been
described in detail for purposes of illustration, various modifications and enhancements
may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention.
Accordingly, the present invention is not to be limited except as by the appended
claims.
      [0028]    The term 'comprising' as used in this specification and claims means
'consisting at least in part of.  When interpreting statements in this specification and
claims which include the term 'comprising', other features besides the features prefaced
by this term in each statement can also be present.      Related terms such as 'comprise'
and 'comprised' are to be interpreted in similar manner.
      [0029]    In this specification where reference has been made to patent
specifications, other external documents, or other sources of information, this is
generally for the purpose of providing a context for discussing the features of the
invention. Unless specifically stated otherwise, reference to such external documents
                                              6

is not to be construed as an admission that such documents, or such sources of
information, in any jurisdiction, are prior art, or form part of the common general
knowledge in the art.
                                           7

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
      1. An outdoor lamp capable of changing colors, comprising a support member, a
lamp holder disposed on the support member and an LED light module disposed in the
lamp holder, the LED light module including at least one PCBA (printed circuit board
assembly) arrayed with a plurality of LED groups, the PCBA being electrically
connected to an LED driver;
      each of the LED groups being composed of at least one white/warm white LED
and at least one RGB LED adjacent to each other, the LED driver driving and
controlling each of the white/warm white LED and the RGB LED to emit light
simultaneously or individually; wherein when the LED driver drives and controls the
RGB LED to emit light in a fixed color manner or in a color-changing manner,
luminous flux of the LED light module is increased through white light/warm white
light emitted by the white/warm white LED.
      2. The outdoor lamp capable of changing colors as claimed in claim 1, wherein the
support member has a bottom portion in the form of a rod to be fixed to the ground, the
lamp holder includes a light-pervious lampshade disposed on a top of the support
member and a cover configured to cover a top of the light-pervious lampshade.
      3. The outdoor lamp capable of changing colors as claimed in claim 1, wherein a
top of the cover is provided with a solar panel, the LED driver is disposed between a top
of the light-pervious lampshade and the cover, and the PCBA is in the form of a ring, a
strip, a disk, a triangle or a non-geometry disposed in the light-pervious lampshade or
under the cover.
      4. The outdoor lamp capable of changing colors as claimed in any one of claims
 1-3, wherein the PCBA is disposed in the lamp holder in an upright manner, the
plurality of LED groups are arranged in a rectangular array on one side or two sides of
the PCBA, enabling the side or the two sides of the PCBA to emit light; or the PCBA is
transversely disposed in the lamp holder, the plurality of LED groups are arranged in an
annular array on one side or two sides of the PCBA; the number of the RGB LED in
                                             8

each of the LED groups of the annular array gradually increases from the outside to the
inside to generate a color gradient effect.
      5. The outdoor lamp capable of changing colors as claimed in any one of claims
 1-3, wherein the PCBA includes a first PCBA and a second PCBA, the first PCBA is
disposed in the lamp holder in an upright manner, the plurality of LED groups are
arranged in a rectangular array on two sides of the first PCBA, enabling the two sides of
the first PCBA to emit light; the second PCBA is transversely disposed above the first
PCBA, and the plurality of LED groups are arranged in an annular array on an
underside of the second PCBA.
                                            9

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
