ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
        A method for controlling access to a wireless Access Network (AN) (25) by a
wireless communication device (23, 31, 41). The device stores a Device Access Priority
(DAP) level based on characteristics of the device. When the device has data to send,
the device receives an overhead message (26) from the AN containing a Network
Access Priority (NAP) parameter defining a minimum priority level for initiating
network access. The device determines whether its DAP level is equal to or greater than
the NAP parameter.        If not, the device periodically repeats the receiving and
determining steps until the stored DAP level is determined to be equal to or greater than
the NAP parameter received from the AN. When the stored DAP level is equal to or
greater than the NAP parameter, the device initiates network access. The device may
perform and pass a Persistence Test before transmitting the data on an access channel
(ACH).

                         1/8
               Configure UE with DAP level
                   for storing in the UE
           AN sets NAP parameter based on             12
              loading/congestion conditions
                                                       13
           AN broadcasts overhead message
                   with NAP parameter
        UE with data to send receives overhead             14
         message and detects NAP parameter
         (or receives message and stores NAP
          parameter until there is data to send)
                                      15
                   No         IsYe
16                      DAP 2 NAP
  UE starts timer                          UE performs
              ~Persistence                            Test
                  17
N       met                                                19
     Expired                                     E
                                         YE   Passes
              Yes                                 No      20
                                21
                                            UE waits for
                UE transmits data         Backoff period
                     on ACH
                            FIG. 1

                                             -1
         METHOD AND COMMUNICATION DEVICE FOR CONTROLLING
                    ACCESS TO A WIRELESS ACCESS NETWORK
   CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
 5         This application claims the priority benefit under 35 U.S.C. §119(e) of U.S.
   Provisional Application No. 61/625,157, filed on April 17, 2012, the disclosure of
   which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
   TECHNICAL FIELD
10         The present disclosure relates to wireless communication networks. More
   particularly, and not by way of limitation, particular embodiments of the present
   disclosure are directed to a method and wireless communication device for controlling
   access to a wireless Access Network (AN) by wireless communication devices,
   particularly Machine-to-Machine (M2M) communication devices.
15
   BACKGROUND
           In current wireless Access Networks (ANs), a wireless communication device
   sends a signaling message or data over an Access Channel (ACH) before the network
   grants the device access with a dedicated channel. The ACH is usually shared among
20 wireless devices, and congestion may occur on the ACH if many devices attempt to
   access the network within a short period of time. In order to minimize congestion on
   the ACH, most wireless technologies utilize "Persistence            Test with Backoff'
   mechanism referred to herein for simplicity as the "Persistence Test".
           When utilizing the Persistence Test, the wireless network usually defines a
25 number of device classes. Each device class is assigned a persistence value, which is
   usually broadcast by the AN.     Each device is configured to associate with a device
   class. When a device attempts to send data to the AN through the ACH, the device
   must perform and pass the Persistence Test before the device can send any data to the
   AN.     The device generates a random persistence value and is considered to have
30 passed the test when the random persistence value it generated is equal to or larger than
   the persistence value assigned to the device's associated class. If the test is not passed,
   the device waits for a "Backoff" time period and then performs another Persistence

                                                -2
   Test with a new random value. Thus, the test essentially acts as a throttle. Even though
   a large number of devices attempt to send data within a short period of time, this test
   can help to reduce potential ACH collisions and hence reduce the congestion.
            The Persistence Test with Backoff mechanism works well most of the time in
 5 existing wireless networks such as Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM)
   and Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA) networks where most of the calls are
   voice-call related or are packet-data calls that require human intervention. However,
   wireless     communications      are    changing,   and     Machine-to-Machine     (M2M)
   communication is gaining traction.        M2M communications involve communication
10 (using wired or wireless means, or a combination of both) between two machines
   without human intervention. It is noted here that the term "M2M communication" is
   also referred to as "Machine Type Communication (MTC)" in certain literature.
   However, for the sake of consistency, only the term "M2M communication" is used in
   the discussion herein. Some examples of M2M communications are: smart metering
15 (e.g., remote reading of a utility meter), healthcare monitoring (e.g., remote monitoring
   of a patient's heart rate), agricultural monitoring (e.g., monitoring of a crop condition),
   fleet management tracking (e.g., monitoring current status of trucks on road), security
   surveillance (e.g., automatic, real-time monitoring of a building or complex), billing
   transactions, inventory management (e.g., through monitoring of Point of Sale (POS)
20 transactions in a supermarket) etc. These M2M communications typically use M2M
   communications-capable       sensors or diagnostic devices (which may perform the
   metering, monitoring, etc., mentioned earlier) on one end and an M2M user device or
   receiver on the other end to receive data (e.g., wirelessly via a cellular Access Network
   as discussed below with reference to FIG. 1) from the sensor devices and process the
25 data as per desired M2M service (e.g., utility metering service, healthcare monitoring
   service, billing preparation service, etc.).
            With M2M communication and M2M-type devices introduced to the market,
   the number of wireless devices an access network needs to support has grown
   exponentially. There are many different types of M2M devices.              Some are delay
30 tolerant while some are time critical; some may only send data once a month while
   others send data more frequently; some may be fixed while others are mobile. In fact,
   unlike a legacy wireless device (i.e., a mobile phone including smart phone), there can

                                              -3
   be many different M2M device types, each with different characteristics and access
   requirements.
            One of the potential M2M         device types has the time/delay       tolerance
   characteristic.   For example, a utility meter with wireless access can be this type of
 5 M2M device. Depending on the application, there many such devices may be deployed
   within a small geographic area (e.g., gas meter, electricity meter).      During normal
   operation, this type of device may only need to send data to the network once a day or
   less often. The service provider of these devices can also schedule the network access
   for these devices during off-peak hours so that normal wireless communication is not
10 impacted.
           During normal operation, the existing Persistence Test mechanism and the
   configured communication schedule enables the network to handle a large number of
   M2M devices and does not add much burden to the network (i.e. congestion issue). But
   the Persistence Test mechanism is still not enough to handle possible congestion under
15 some external events such as recovery after a power outage. These external events may
   trigger a large number of M2M devices (for example, time tolerant devices such as
   utility meters) to reconnect with the network simultaneously. Even with the Persistence
   Test mechanism in place, there can be large number of devices trying to connect to the
   network through the ACH at the same time, which causes collisions and leads to RF
20 congestion. Large scale RF-congestion may also lead to core network congestion.
   SUMMARY
           As described above, the Persistence Test mechanism essentially acts as a
   throttle for a device access class. Any devices belong to this access class have to be
25 under the control of the persistence value for this access class. The persistence value
   does not discriminate with respect to device access priority.       There can be many
   devices assigned to same device access class, but depending on the application
   associated with each device, the access priority of these devices could be different. For
   example, an M2M device for a water meter may have lower access priority compared
30 to the access priority of an M2M device for an alarm sensor even though both devices
   belong to same device access class.      During the congestion situation, adjusting the
   persistence value can control the overall congestion situation of the access channel, but

                                                -4
   it does not discriminate whether a device should have higher or lower access priority
   from the application perspective.
           To better control RF-congestion and network overload problem especially
   during    some special     events,   the  present    disclosure provides   the following
 5 enhancements:
                    Define "Device Access Priority" (DAP) levels.         The DAP may be
           assigned to M2M devices to identify each device's access priority from a
           network perspective.       Different levels may be assigned to different M2M
           device types based on the device characteristics and functionality. For example,
10         the DAP level for an alarm sensor may typically be higher than the DAP level
           of a water meter.
                    Define "Network Access Priority" (NAP) parameter. This parameter
           identifies the access priority level that is allowed to access the network. If an
           M2M device's DAP level is less than the NAP parameter broadcast by a serving
15         base station, the M2M device is not allowed to initiate a network access for a
           period of time. If the M2M device's DAP level is equal to or larger than the
           broadcast NAP parameter, the device is allowed to access the network, and the
           Persistence Test may be used to determine when the device is allowed to send
           data over the ACH.
20                  The NAP parameter is broadcast by the network.           When the NAP
           parameter is not broadcast by the network, or is set to a default value (for
           example, 0), the prioritization feature is disabled.
                    The network may change the value of the NAP parameter (for example,
           there may be j levels for the NAP parameter) based on the loading/congestion
25         conditions.
           The DAP level for each M2M device is either pre-configured in the M2M
   device or assigned by the network through other means (for example, during session
   establishment or update, over-the-air provisioning, and the like). Devices that do not
   have a DAP level assigned may be viewed as having the feature disabled (i.e., the
30 device does not need to compare a DAP level with the NAP parameter to determine
   whether the device is allowed to access the network based on access priority checking).

                                                -5
           Optionally, a DAP/NAP timer may also be implemented to function as a
   backoff mechanism such that if the device's configured DAP level is less than the NAP
   parameter broadcast by the network, the M2M device is not allowed to initiate a
   network access for a random period (or configured period) of time before re-scanning
 5 the NAP parameter broadcast by the network. It should be noted that instead of using a
   timer, the device may simply keep monitoring the broadcast messages that carry the
   NAP parameter.
           After re-scanning, the M2M device is allowed to initiate a network access (for
   example, by performing the Persistence Test) if its configured DAP level is equal to or
10 larger than the current broadcast NAP parameter, or if the current NAP parameter
   indicates the prioritization feature is disabled. If the configured DAP level is less than
   the current broadcast NAP parameter, the M2M device is still not allowed to initiate a
   network access.
           Alternatively, the prioritization feature may be implemented in the following
15 manner:
           The DAP level may be set for different class values where each class
   corresponds to different M2M device characteristics.           Thus, each M2M device is
   configured to be a DAP class depending on each device's characteristics.
           The network may broadcast one or more NAP classes in a broadcast overhead
20 message. If the M2M device's configured DAP class is equal to one of the NAP classes
   broadcast in the overhead message, the device is not allowed to initiate network access
   for a period of time as mentioned above.             Alternatively, if the M2M device's
   configured DAP class is equal to one of the NAP classes broadcast in the overhead
   message, the device is allowed to initiate network access; otherwise not.
25         In a special case, if the device has data classified as "emergency" (for example a
   "911" call or a call from an eHealth monitoring device reporting a life-threatening
   event), the NAP/DAP checking mechanism may be bypassed, and the device proceeds
   directly to persistence checking or is provided with priority access.
           The disclosed network access priority control method can help to reduce or
30 prevent an overload/congestion condition due to sudden external events. The disclosed
   method is a complement to the existing Persistence Test mechanism, and when utilized
   together, forms a two-step process for network access.         The first step (the disclosed

                                              -6
   method) is to disqualify certain devices and disallow these devices from initiating
   network access. Those devices that pass the first step are allowed to initiate network
   access and apply the Persistence Test mechanism to further mitigate potential
   collision/congestion.
 5          The disclosed method is applicable to any wireless communication devices, but
   it is especially useful for M2M devices, and particularly those that are time/delay
   tolerant.   This type of device (for example, a utility meter) usually does not have
   critical data to send and can tolerate longer delays before sending its data to the
   network
10          In one embodiment, the present disclosure is directed to a method of controlling
   access to a wireless Access Network (AN) by a wireless communication device. The
   method includes the steps of storing in a non-transitory memory in the wireless
   communication device, a Device Access Priority (DAP) level based on characteristics
   of the wireless communication device; and when the wireless communication device
15 has data to send, receiving by a radio receiver in the wireless communication device, a
   message from the AN containing a Network Access Priority (NAP) parameter, which
   defines a minimum priority level that the wireless communication device must meet to
   be allowed to initiate network access.     The method also includes determining by a
   processor in the wireless communication device, whether the stored DAP level is equal
20 to or greater than the NAP parameter received from the AN. When the stored DAP
   level is determined to be less than the NAP parameter received from the AN, the device
   periodically repeats the receiving and determining steps until the stored DAP level is
   determined to be equal to or greater than the NAP parameter received from the AN.
   When the stored DAP level is determined to be equal to or greater than the NAP
25 parameter received from the AN, the device initiates network access. The initiating
   step may include performing the Persistence Test and transmitting the data on an access
   channel (ACH) when the Persistence Test is passed.
            In another embodiment, the present disclosure is directed to a wireless
   communication device configured to control access to a wireless AN. The wireless
30 communication device includes a non-transitory memory configured to store a DAP
   level, wherein the DAP level is based on characteristics of the wireless communication
   device; and a radio receiver configured to receive a message from the AN containing a

                                               -7
   NAP parameter when the wireless communication device has data to send. The NAP
   parameter defines a minimum priority level that the wireless communication device
   must meet to be allowed to initiate network access.        The device also includes a
   processor configured to determine whether the stored DAP level is equal to or greater
 5 than the NAP parameter received from the AN.           When the stored DAP level is
   determined to be less than the NAP parameter received from the AN, the device is
   configured to periodically receive additional messages from the AN with new NAP
   parameters, and to determine whether the stored DAP level is equal to or greater than
   one of the new NAP parameters received from the AN. When the stored DAP level is
10 determined to be equal to or greater than the NAP parameter received from the AN, the
   device is configured to initiate network access.
           The device may be configured to initiate network access by performing the
   Persistence Test in which the processor generates a random persistence value and
   determines that the device passed the Persistence Test when the generated random
15 persistence value is equal to or larger than a persistence value assigned by the AN.
   When the wireless communication device passes the Persistence Test, a radio
   transmitter in the wireless communication device is configured to transmit on an access
   channel, the data the device has to send.
           In a further embodiment, the present disclosure is directed to a wireless Access
20 Network (AN) configured to control access to the AN by a wireless communication
   device, wherein the AN includes a processor coupled to a non-transitory memory,
   wherein when the processor executes computer program instructions stored in the
   memory, the processor causes the AN to obtain traffic loading and congestion
   information for the AN; determine a value of a NAP parameter based on the traffic
25 loading and congestion information; and broadcast, utilizing a radio transmitter, an
   overhead message to the wireless communication device, the overhead message
   containing the NAP parameter. The NAP parameter defines a minimum priority level
   that the wireless communication device must meet to be allowed to initiate network
   access.
30         In a further embodiment, the present disclosure is directed to a method of
   controlling access to a wireless AN by a wireless communication device. The method
   includes the steps of storing in a non-transitory memory in the wireless communication

                                               -8
   device, a DAP class depending on characteristics of the wireless communication
   device; and when the wireless communication device has data to send, receiving by a
   radio receiver in the wireless communication device, a message from the AN
   containing one or more prohibited NAP classes.           A processor in the wireless
 5 communication device determines whether the stored DAP class is equal to any of the
   prohibited NAP classes received from the AN. When the stored DAP class is equal to
   one of the prohibited NAP classes received from the AN, the device periodically
   repeats the receiving and determining steps until it is determined that the stored DAP
   class does not equal any of the prohibited NAP classes received from the AN. When
10 the stored DAP class does not equal any of the prohibited NAP classes received from
   the AN, the wireless communication device initiates network access.
           In a further embodiment, the present disclosure is directed to a method of
   controlling access to a wireless AN by a wireless communication device. The method
   includes the steps of storing in a non-transitory memory in the wireless communication
15 device, a DAP class depending on characteristics of the wireless communication
   device; and when the wireless communication device has data to send, receiving by a
   radio receiver in the wireless communication device, a message from the AN
   containing one or more allowed NAP classes.              A processor in the wireless
   communication device determines whether the stored DAP class is equal to any of the
20 allowed NAP classes received from the AN. When the stored DAP class does not equal
   any of the allowed NAP classes received from the AN, the device periodically repeats
   the receiving and determining steps until it is determined that the stored DAP class is
   equal to one of the allowed NAP classes received from the AN. When the stored DAP
   class is equal to one of the allowed NAP classes received from the AN, the wireless
25 communication device initiates network access.
           Advantageously, the present disclosure improves on the existing Persistence
   Test with Backoff by also discriminating whether a device should have higher or lower
   access priority from the application perspective. Additionally, instead of letting a
   device application determine its priority or access class, the solution provides full
30 network control to address the congestion/overload condition. The network operator or
   service operator can use knowledge of different M2M device characteristics and
   potential impact on network congestion to optimally control network access priorities.

                                               -9
   The solution provides full network control and enough flexibility to mitigate network
   congestion situations when very large numbers of devices are deployed in the coverage
   area.
 5 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           In the following section, the present disclosure will be described with reference
   to exemplary embodiments illustrated in the figures, in which:
           FIG. 1 is a flow chart illustrating an exemplary embodiment of the method of
   the present invention;
10         FIG. 2 is a signaling diagram illustrating another exemplary embodiment of the
   method of the present invention;
           FIG. 3 is a signaling diagram illustrating another exemplary embodiment of the
   method of the present invention;
           FIG. 4 is a signaling diagram illustrating another exemplary embodiment of the
15 method of the present invention;
           FIG. 5 is a flow chart illustrating an alternative exemplary embodiment of the
   method of the present invention;
           FIG. 6 is a flow chart illustrating another alternative exemplary embodiment of
   the method of the present invention;
20         FIG. 7 is a simplified block diagram of a wireless communication device in an
   exemplary embodiment of the present invention; and
           FIG. 8 is a simplified block diagram of a Network Access Priority (NAP)
   mechanism in the Access Network (AN) in an exemplary embodiment of the present
   invention.
25
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
           In the following detailed description, numerous specific details are set forth in
   order to provide a thorough understanding of the disclosure. However, it will be
   understood by those skilled in the art that the present disclosure may be practiced
30 without these specific details. In other instances, well-known methods, procedures,
   components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the
   present disclosure. It should be understood that the disclosure is described primarily in

                                               -10
   the context of a 3GPP cellular telephone/data network, but it can be implemented in
   other forms of cellular wireless networks as well.
            This disclosure relates to a system and method for controlling access to a
   wireless Access Network (AN) by wireless communication devices, particularly
 5 Machine-to-Machine (M2M) communication devices.
            As noted above, the AN may broadcast the "Network Access Priority" (NAP)
   parameter in a Network overhead message. The exact structure of the message depends
   on the Radio Access Technology (RAT) utilized in each AN, but in each case the
   message includes a NAP field to indicate the NAP parameter. Examples of overhead
10 messages that may be modified to carry the NAP parameter include the System
   Information Block (SIB) message for Long Term Evolution (LTE) networks and the
   QuickConfig/SectorParameters message in High Rate Packet Data (HRPD) networks.
            The NAP parameter is essentially a threshold that a device's DAP must equal or
   exceed in order to attempt access. As the traffic load and the number of access attempts
15 increase, the operator may increase the value of the NAP parameter so that only higher
   priority devices are allowed to initiate network access.     As the traffic load and the
   number of access attempts decrease, the operator may decrease the value of the NAP
   parameter so that lower priority devices, which were barred from accessing the network
   during the period of high traffic load, are now allowed to initiate network access.
20          When network traffic is normal or light, the operator may choose to disable the
   prioritization feature entirely.   This may be done, for example, by broadcasting an
   overhead message that does not include a NAP parameter. Alternatively, the network
   may include the NAP parameter in the overhead message, but set it to a default value
   indicating the prioritization feature is disabled.    Subsequently, if the network load
25 increases and access congestion occurs, the network can enable the prioritization
   feature by broadcasting a non-default NAP value in the overhead message.
            It should be noted that wireless/M2M devices that do not have a Device Access
   Priority (DAP) level assigned ignore the NAP parameter.           The DAP level may be
   assigned to an M2M device at different points in time. For example, the DAP level
30 may be assigned to the device during a pre-configuration stage; the service provider
   may pre-install the DAP level in the device before deployment; the DAP level may be
   assigned to the device during session establishment or session update during the

                                              -11
   device's initial access to the network after installation; the M2M device may be
   configured with the DAP level through over-the-air provisioning or remote subscription
   management process; and the like.
           Any M2M device that has the DAP level configured compares its DAP level
 5 with the NAP parameter received from the network. If the device's DAP level is equal
   to or greater than the NAP parameter, the device is allowed to initiate network access,
   and the Persistence Test mechanism is then performed to further determine whether the
   device can send data on the ACH.
           If the device's DAP level is less than the NAP parameter received from the
10 network, the device is not allowed to initiate network access. The device may wait for
   a period of time (either a randomly generated time period or a pre-determined period of
   time) before rechecking the NAP parameter broadcast by the network and determining
   once again whether its DAP level is equal to or greater than the NAP parameter. The
   NAP and DAP is compared again to determine whether the device is allowed to initiate
15 network access.
           It should be noted that specification of the DAP level as being less than, equal
   to, or greater than the NAP parameter are described only for purposes of illustration.
   More generally, the AN utilizes the NAP parameter to set conditions that an accessing
   communication device must meet before the device is allowed to initiate network
20 access.
           FIG. 1 is a flow chart illustrating an exemplary embodiment of the method of
   the present invention. At step 11, the UE is configured with a DAP level identifying
   the UE's access priority from a network perspective. At step 12, the AN sets the value
   of the NAP parameter based on current loading/congestion conditions in the network. If
25 network loading/congestion conditions change, the AN may set a different value for the
   NAP parameter. At step 13, the AN broadcasts an overhead message such as a
   SIB/QuickConfig message with the NAP parameter. At step 14, the UE, which has
   data to send, receives the overhead message and detects the NAP parameter.
   Alternatively, the UE may receive the overhead message containing the NAP parameter
30 before having data to send. In this case, the UE may store the NAP parameter and
   when the UE has data to send, the UE compares the most current stored NAP parameter
   to the stored DAP value. This depends on the network design. For certain networks,

                                              -12
   the UE may not check the overhead message until it has data to send, while in networks
   using other access technologies, the UE will periodically receive overhead messages
   regardless of whether there is data to send.
           At step 15, the UE determines whether its configured DAP level is equal to or
 5 greater than the value of the NAP parameter received from the AN. If not, the method
   moves to step 16 where the UE may optionally start a timer defining either a predefined
   time period or a random time period. At step 17, it is determined whether the timer has
   expired. If not, the UE continues to wait until the timer expires at the end of the time
   period. When the timer expires, the method returns to step 14, where the UE receives
10 another overhead message.
           The timer may be explicitly defined or implicitly defined. When implicitly
   defined, the UE may periodically monitor the overhead message (or randomly based on
   an overhead message monitoring rule defined for the access technology) such that the
   "timer" in this case is the time between two received overhead messages.
15         If it is determined at step 15 that the UE's configured DAP level is equal to or
   greater than the value of the NAP parameter received from the AN, the method moves
   to step 18 where the UE performs the Persistence Test. At step 19, it is determined
   whether the UE passed the Persistence Test. If not, the UE waits for the Backoff period
   at step 20 and then performs the Persistence Test again.           If the UE passed the
20 Persistence Test, the method moves to step 21 where the UE sends its data on the ACH.
           FIG. 2 is a signaling diagram illustrating another exemplary embodiment of the
   method of the present invention. In this embodiment, a UE 23 does not have a DAP
   level configured. The UE is initially in Idle Mode as indicated at 24 when the UE
   receives from an AN 25, an overhead message 26 such as a SIB/QuickConfig message.
25 As indicated at 27, the UE later has data to send to the network. However, since the
   UE is not configured with a DAP level, the UE ignores the NAP parameter received
   from the AN and performs the Persistence Test at step 28. When the UE passes the
   Persistence Test, the UE sends its data on the ACH at step 29.
           FIG. 3 is a signaling diagram illustrating another exemplary embodiment of the
30 method of the present invention. In this embodiment, a UE 31 has a DAP level
   configured at level 3, and as indicated at 32, has data to send to the network. When the
   UE receives the overhead message 26 from the AN 25 indicating a NAP parameter with

                                               -13
   a value of 2, the UE determines at step 33 that its configured DAP level is greater than
   the received NAP parameter. Therefore, at step 34, the UE performs the Persistence
   Test. When the UE passes the Persistence Test, the UE sends its data on the ACH at
   step 35.
 5          FIG. 4 is a signaling diagram illustrating another exemplary embodiment of the
   method of the present invention. In this embodiment, a UE 41 has a DAP level
   configured at level 1, and as indicated at 42, has data to send to the network. When the
   UE receives the overhead message 26 from the AN 25 indicating a NAP parameter with
   a value of 2, the UE determines at step 43 that its configured DAP level is smaller than
10 the received NAP parameter, so the UE is not allowed to initiate network access for a
   period of time (for example, a timer is initiated and countdown started at step 44).
   When the time period expires, the UE receives another overhead message 45 from the
   AN 25 indicating a NAP parameter with a new value of 1. At step 46, the UE
   determines that its configured DAP level is equal to the new NAP parameter.
15 Therefore, at step 47, the UE performs the Persistence Test. When the UE passes the
   Persistence Test, the UE sends its data on the ACH at step 48.
            FIG. 5 is a flow chart illustrating an alternative exemplary embodiment of the
   method of the present invention. At step 51, the UE is configured with a DAP class.
   The DAP level may be set for different class values where different classes correspond
20 to different M2M device characteristics.        Thus, each M2M device is configured to
   belong to a DAP class depending on each device's characteristics. At step 52, the AN
   broadcasts an overhead message such as a SIB/QuickConfig message with one or more
   prohibited NAP classes based on current network loading/congestion conditions. When
   network loading/congestion increases, the AN may set additional NAP classes as
25 prohibited classes, and vice versa. At step 53, the UE, which has data to send, receives
   the overhead message and detects the prohibited NAP classes.
            At step 54, the UE determines whether its configured DAP class is equal to one
   of the prohibited NAP classes received from the AN. If so, the method moves to step
   55 where the UE waits for either a predefined time period or a randomly generated time
30 period. The method then returns to step 53 where, the UE receives another overhead
   message and detects the prohibited NAP classes.            If network loading/congestion
   conditions have changed, the AN may broadcast more prohibited NAP classes (if

                                              -14
   network loading/congestion has increased) or fewer prohibited NAP classes (if network
   loading/congestion has decreased) in the overhead message.
           However, if it is determined at step 54 that the UE's configured DAP class is
   not equal to any of the prohibited NAP classes received from the AN, the method
 5 moves to step 56 where the UE performs the Persistence Test.            At step 57, it is
   determined whether the UE passed the Persistence Test. If not, the UE waits for the
   Backoff period at step 58 and then performs the Persistence Test again. If the UE
   passed the Persistence Test, the method moves to step 59 where the UE sends its data
   on the ACH.
10         FIG. 6 is a flow chart illustrating an alternative exemplary embodiment of the
   method of the present invention. At step 61, the UE is configured with a DAP class as
   described in relation to FIG. 5 above. At step 62, the AN broadcasts an overhead
   message such as a SIB/QuickConfig message with one or more allowed NAP classes
   based on network loading/congestion conditions. When network loading/congestion
15 increases, the AN may set fewer NAP classes as allowed classes, and vice versa. At
   step 63, the UE, which has data to send, receives the overhead message and detects the
   allowed NAP classes.
           At step 64, the UE determines whether its configured DAP class is equal to any
   of the allowed NAP classes received from the AN. If not, the method moves to step 65
20 where the UE waits for either a predefined time period or a randomly generated time
   period. The method then returns to step 63 where, the UE receives another overhead
   message and detects the allowed NAP classes.              If network loading/congestion
   conditions have changed, the AN may broadcast fewer allowed NAP classes (if
   network loading/congestion has increased) or additional allowed NAP classes (if
25 network loading/congestion has decreased) in the overhead message.
           However, if it is determined at step 64 that the UE's configured DAP class is
   equal to one of the allowed NAP classes received from the AN, the method moves to
   step 66 where the UE performs the Persistence Test. At step 67, it is determined
   whether the UE passed the Persistence Test. If not, the UE waits for the Backoff period
30 at step 68 and then performs the Persistence Test again.          If the UE passed the
   Persistence Test, the method moves to step 69 where the UE sends its data on the ACH.

                                             -15
           FIG. 7 is a simplified block diagram of a wireless communication device such
   as UE 23, 31, 41 in an exemplary embodiment of the present invention. The operation
   of the UE may be controlled by a processor 71 executing computer program
   instructions stored on a non-transitory memory. A radio receiver (RX) 72 receives the
 5 overhead message 26 containing the NAP parameter from the AN 25 and supplies the
   NAP parameter to the processor. The processor reads the stored DAP level from a
   memory 73 and compares the stored DAP level with the received NAP parameter in a
   DAP/NAP comparison unit 74. In accordance with the method embodiments described
   above, if the DAP does not meet the NAP conditions, the UE is not allowed to make an
10 access attempt. A DAP/NAP timer 75 determines when the UE can receive another
   overhead message and perform the DAP/NAP comparison again.
           When the UE determines the DAP level meets the NAP parameter conditions
   (for example, the DAP level is equal to or greater than the NAP parameter), the
   processor 71 causes a Persistence Test unit 76 to perform the Persistence Test. If the
15 test is not passed, a Backoff timer 77 determines when the UE can perform the
   Persistence Test again.   When the Persistence Test is passed, the processor causes a
   radio transmitter (TX) 78 to transmit the UE's data on the ACH 79 to the AN 25.
           FIG. 8 is a simplified block diagram of a NAP mechanism 80 in the AN 25 in
   an exemplary embodiment of the present invention. The NAP mechanism is illustrated
20 in this example as being implemented in a Radio Base Station (RBS) 81, but may be
   implemented in other ways as well.        For example, the NAP mechanism may be
   implemented in a Base Station Controller (BSC) (not shown), may be distributed across
   several AN nodes, or may be implemented as a standalone AN component.
           Operation of the NAP mechanism may be controlled by a processor 82
25 executing computer program instructions stored on a non-transitory memory.          A
   Loading/Congestion     determining unit 83 provides information to the processor
   regarding the network traffic loading and congestion on the ACH 79. The processor
   may control a NAP determining unit 84 to determine an appropriate NAP parameter
   based on the network loading/congestion. The processor sends the NAP parameter to a
30 radio transmitter (TX) 85, which transmits the NAP parameter in the overhead message
   26.   Once the UE has successfully performed the DAP/NAP comparison and the
   Persistence Test, a radio receiver (RX) 86 in the RBS receives the UE's data on the

                                            -16
   ACH and supplies it to the processor 82. The processor may forward the data to other
   nodes in the AN for handling.
           If the device has data classified as "emergency", the NAP/DAP checking
   mechanism may be bypassed in any of the above embodiments.
 5         As will be recognized by those skilled in the art, the innovative concepts
   described in the present application can be modified and varied over a wide range of
   applications. Accordingly, the scope of patented subject matter should not be limited to
   any of the specific exemplary teachings discussed above, but is instead defined by the
   following claims.
10

                                            -17
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
 1.     A method of controlling access to a wireless Access Network (AN) by a
wireless communication device, the method comprising the steps of:
         storing in a non-transitory memory in the wireless communication device, a
Device Access Priority (DAP)          level based on characteristics     of the wireless
communication device;
        when the wireless communication device has data to send, receiving by a radio
receiver in the wireless communication device, a message from the AN containing a
Network Access Priority (NAP) parameter, which defines a minimum priority level that
the wireless communication device must meet to be allowed to initiate network access;
         determining by a processor in the wireless communication device, whether the
stored DAP level is equal to or greater than the NAP parameter received from the AN;
        when the stored DAP level is determined to be less than the NAP parameter
received from the AN, periodically repeating the receiving and determining steps until
the stored DAP level is determined to be equal to or greater than the NAP parameter
received from the AN;
        refraining from initiating network access by the wireless communication device;
and
        periodically repeating the receiving and determining steps until the stored DAP
level is determined to be equal to or greater than the NAP parameter received from the
AN, wherein the AN controls the number of access requests received by the AN by
periodically changing a value of the NAP parameter based on current network loading
or congestion conditions, wherein the AN sets a higher value for the NAP parameter
when the network loading or congestion conditions increase, and the AN sets a lower
value for the NAP parameter when the network loading or congestion conditions
decrease; and
        when the stored DAP level is determined to be equal to or greater than the NAP
parameter     received from the AN,        initiating network access by the      wireless
communication device.
2        The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the step of initiating network access
by the wireless communication device includes the steps of:

                                          -18
        performing a Persistence Test in which the processor generates a random
persistence value and determines that the device passed the Persistence Test when the
generated random persistence value is equal to or larger than a persistence value
assigned by the AN; and
        when the wireless      communication    device  passes the     Persistence Test,
transmitting on an access channel by a radio transmitter in the wireless communication
device, the data the device has to send.
3.      The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the wireless communication device is
a Machine-to-Machine (M2M) communication device.
4.      The method as recited in claim 1,
        wherein the AN is a Long Term Evolution (LTE) access network, and the
message received from the AN is a broadcast overhead message comprising a System
Information Block (SIB) message.
5.      The method recited in claim 1, wherein the AN is a High Rate Packet Data
(HRPD) network, and the message received from the AN is a broadcast overhead
message comprising a QuickConfig/SectorParameters message.
6.      A wireless communication device configured to control access to a wireless
Access Network (AN), the wireless communication device comprising:
        a non-transitory memory configured to store a Device Access Priority (DAP)
level, wherein the DAP level is based on characteristics of the wireless communication
device;
        radio receiver configured to receive a message from the AN containing a
Network Access Priority (NAP) parameter when the wireless communication device
has data to send, wherein the NAP parameter defines a minimum priority level that the
wireless communication device must meet to be allowed to initiate network access; and
        a processor configured to determine whether the stored DAP level is equal to or
greater than the NAP parameter received from the AN;

                                          -19
        wherein when the stored DAP level is determined to be less than the NAP
parameter received from the AN, the device is configured to:
refrain from initiating network access by the wireless communication device; and
        periodically receive additional messages from the AN           with new NAP
parameters, and to determine whether the stored DAP level is equal to or greater than
one of the new NAP parameters received from the AN, wherein the AN controls the
number of access requests received by the AN by periodically changing a value of the
NAP parameter based on current network loading or congestion conditions, wherein the
AN sets a higher value for the NAP parameter when the network loading or congestion
conditions increase, and the AN sets a lower value for the NAP parameter when the
network loading or congestion conditions decrease; and
        wherein when the stored DAP level is determined to be equal to or greater than
the NAP parameter received from the AN, the device is configured to initiate network
access.
7.       The wireless communication device as recited in claim 6, wherein the device is
configured to:
         initiate network access by performing a Persistence Test in which the processor
generates a random persistence value and determines that the device passed the
Persistence test when the generated random persistence value is equal to or larger than
a persistence value assigned by the AN; and
        when the wireless communication device passes the Persistence Test, transmit
on an access channel by a radio transmitter in the wireless communication device, the
data the device has to send.
8.       The communication device as recited in claim 6, wherein the wireless
communication device is a Machine-to-Machine (M2M) communication device.
9.      A wireless Access Network (AN) configured to control access to the AN by a
wireless communication device , wherein the AN includes a processor coupled to a
non-transitory memory, wherein when the processor executes computer program
instructions stored in the memory, the processor causes the AN to:

                                           -20
         determine current traffic loading and congestion conditions for the AN;
         determine a value of a Network Access Priority (NAP) parameter based on the
current traffic loading and congestion conditions, the NAP parameter defining a
minimum priority level that the wireless communication device must be allowed to
initiate network access, wherein the AN controls the number of access requests
received by the AN by periodically changing the value of the NAP parameter based on
the current network loading or congestion conditions, wherein the AN sets a higher
value for the NAP parameter when the current network loading or congestion
conditions increase, and the AN sets a lower value for the NAP parameter when the
current network loading or congestion conditions decrease;
        broadcast, utilizing a radio transmitter, an overhead message to the wireless
communication device, the overhead message containing the NAP parameter; and
        receive an access request from the wireless communication device only when a
Device Access Priority (DAP) level stored in the wireless communication device is
equal to or greater than the NAP parameter.
 10.     The AN as recited in claim 9, wherein a NAP determining unit is configured to
set the NAP parameter to zero or omit the NAP parameter from the overhead message
when the network loading is light.
 11.     The AN as recited in claim 7, wherein the AN is a Long Term Evolution (LTE)
access network, and the overhead message comprises a System Information Block
(SIB) message.
 12.     The AN as recited in claim 9, wherein the AN is a High Rate Packet Data
(HRPD)         network,      and      the     overhead      message       comprises  a
QuickConfig/SectorParameters message.

                                           -21
 13.     A method of controlling access to a wireless Access Network (AN) by a
wireless communication device, the method comprising the steps of:
         storing in a non-transitory memory in the wireless communication device, a
Device Access Priority (DAP) class depending on characteristics of the wireless
communication device;
         when the wireless communication device has data to send, receiving by a radio
receiver in the wireless communication device, a message from the AN containing one
or more allowed Network Access Priority (NAP) classes;
         determining by a processor in the wireless communication device, whether the
stored DAP class is equal to any of the allowed NAP classes received from the AN;
         when the stored DAP class does not equal any of the allowed NAP classes
received from the AN, periodically repeating the receiving and determining steps until
it is determined that the stored DAP class is equal to one of the allowed NAP classes
received from the AN;
         refraining from initiating network access by the wireless communication device;
and
         periodically repeating the receiving and determining steps until it is determined
that the stored DAP class is equal to one of the allowed NAP classes received from the
AN, wherein the AN controls the number of access requests received by the AN by
periodically changing the number of allowed NAP classes based on the current network
loading or congestion conditions, wherein the AN sets fewer allowed NAP classes
when the current network loading or congestion conditions increase, and the AN sets
additional allowed NAP classes when the current network loading or congestion
conditions decrease; and
         when the stored DAP class is equal to one of the allowed NAP classes received
from the AN, initiating network access by the wireless communication device.
 14.     The method as recited in claim 13, further comprising detecting by the wireless
access device that the AN has changed the allowed NAP classes based on current
network loading or congestion conditions.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
