                                                  31
                                            ABSTRACT
         A system and method for the sale, purchase, and reuse of tickets previously purchased is
provided. The system and method provide a tertiary market for used ticket by enabling the
tickets of "early exits" to be resold to later attendees who wish to attend the remaining duration
of the event. The system and method can be applied to any event in which tickets or passes of
some sort are sold, both single-day and multi-day, including but not limited to: sporting events;
concerts; festivals; and conferences. Tickets are made available through an electronic system
that captures the ticket information either upon departure, or soon after. Upon recapture, tickets
are then made available to a new consumer through the same process.

            17/20
track when the ticket
holder has left the event
500
offer the ticket for resale
to a third party 510
process the resale of the
ticket 520
transmit to the third party
a resale ticket 530
transmit to the-venue a
record of the resale ticket
540
         Figure 12A

                                                   1
    SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING A TERTIARY MARKET FOR USED
                                             TICKETS
Field of the Invention
[0001]   The field of the invention relates to event ticketing, and computer implemented methods
for implementing the same.
Background of the Invention
[0002]   Any discussion of the background art throughout the specification should in no way be
considered as an admission that such background art is prior art, nor that such background art is
widely known or forms part of the common general knowledge in the field in Australia or
worldwide.
[0003]   All references, including any patents or patent applications, cited in this specification
are hereby incorporated by reference. No admission is made that any reference constitutes prior
art. The discussion of the references states what their authors assert, and the Applicants reserve
the right to challenge the accuracy and pertinence of the cited documents. It will be clearly
understood that, although a number of prior art publications are referred to herein, this reference
does not constitute an admission that any of these documents forms part of the common general
knowledge in the art, in Australia or in any other country.
[0004]   Events such as sports, concerts, and business conferences provide myriad revenue
opportunities to the parties involved.     These parties include performers, managers, booking
agents, promoters, and venues.      Sources of revenue above and beyond the revenue from the
primary    marketing    ticket  sales   may    include   advertising  revenue,    concessions,  and
merchandising.
[0005]   Early exits of attendees from venues represent lost revenue, both in the form of
decreased advertising impressions as well as concessions and merchandising revenue. Given this
decline in revenue per seat, it is in the interest of all parties within the ticketing ecosystem to
keep seat filled as long as possible.
[0006]   The traditional way that venues specifically and events more generally have maximized
seat time is through promotions before and after the event. One example is after-game fireworks
common at many minor and even major league baseball games

                                                    2
[0007]    However, when an attendee exits early, there is no current way in order for that "lost"
seat revenue to be reclaimed. The advertising impressions and concessions sales walk out the
door with them.
Summary of the Invention
[0008]    It is an object of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate at least one or more of
the disadvantages of the prior art, or to provide a useful alternative.
[0009]    Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the words
 "comprise", "comprises" and "comprising" will be understood to imply the inclusion of a
stated step or element or group of steps or elements but not the exclusion of any other step or
element or group of steps or elements.
[0010]    Any one of the terms "including" or "which includes" or "that includes" as used
herein is also an open term that also means including at least the elements/features that follow
the term, but not excluding others.          Thus, "including" is synonymous with and means
 "comprising".
[0011]    The terms "program" or "software " are used herein in a generic sense to refer to any
type of computer code or set of computer-executable instructions that can be employed to
program a computer or other processor to implement various aspects of embodiments as
discussed above. Additionally, it should be appreciated that according to one aspect, one or
more computer programs that when executed perform methods of the present invention need not
reside on a single computer or processor, but may be distributed in a modular fashion amongst a
number of different computers or processors to implement various aspects of the present
invention.
[0012]    Computer-executable instructions may be in many forms, such as program modules,
executed by one or more computers or other devices.            Generally, program modules include
routines, programs, objects, components, data structures, etc. that perform particular tasks or
implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the program modules
may be combined or distributed as desired in various embodiments.
[0013]    Various methods and systems for selling new event tickets are known in the art. The
secondary ticket market is rife with many entities that offer the ability for ticket owners to sell
their tickets to other people before an event is over. This practice is sometimes referred to as

                                                  3
 "scalping" when the resale ticket price is higher than the original cost of the ticket. StubHub,
RazorGator and Vivid Seats are all examples of sources for ticket resales. However, these ticket
resellers have one thing in common-they sell tickets before they have been used. Tickets refer
to something that provides a customer access to an event venue, for example physical printed
tickets, wristbands, QR codes, barcodes, RFID, or RF.
[0014] An event ticket is actually just a license to use a seat. Once a patron exits a venue, the
promoter considers the use license as terminated, as reentry is typically not allowed at events.
There are multi-day events, such as music festivals or sports tournaments where patrons can
purchase multi-day passes that allow for reentry, but those passes cannot be legitimately
transferred to a different user. When patrons exit a venue after using their ticket, the space or
seat that they occupied generally goes unused for the remainder of the event. There are options
for upgrades that may be offered where a vacated seat would provide preferred locations to those
already in the venue, however, those options all require that upgrades only be available to
patrons that are already in the venue and therefore already had an entry ticket into the venue.
None of these prior art offerings provide a legitimate path to fill space and seats that have been
vacated with patrons that are not in the venue, and did not have tickets to enter the venue.
[0015]    Opportunities for significant revenue are lost because the vacated seats and spaces go
unused for the remainder of an event. Promoters and venue operators miss significant revenue
from concession and merchandise sales that would be generated if those vacated seats and spaces
were filled. This highlights a major problem with current ticket upgrade platforms-moving
patrons that are already in a venue to better seats does not drive any additional sales of
concessions or merchandise. Promoters and ticketing companies also miss substantial revenue
opportunities from a failure to sell to a pent-up market demand for access to sold-out events.
Embodiments of the present invention described herein address the failures of the known
platforms and prior art and provide a solution through a system and method for enabling the sale
of vacated seats and space to patrons that are not currently in the venue. Embodiments of the
present invention described herein provide a path to increased revenues, increased fan
engagement, and increased demand for events where there is currently no solution to allow for a
viable market for the resale of previously used seats or space.
[0016]    Further opportunities for significant revenue generation comes from the ability to serve
targeted advertising to departing patrons based upon GPS tracking. By tracking where patrons
that participate in the system of the present invention described herein go after they have
departed an event venue, advertising can be directed to the individual patron. Additionally,

                                                   4
advertising can be directed at groups of patrons remaining in the venue, based upon the location
data collected from departed patrons.
[0017]    In accordance with various embodiments of the present invention, this missed revenue
can be captured through the creation of a system and method which provides a market for the
resale of previously seats and space at an event, while that event is still in process. These resales
happen during the course of an event, allowing promoters and the venue to generate significant
missed revenue. Seat and space resales create new ticket revenue, as well as new revenue in the
form of concessions, merchandising, and advertising events.         It also provides a strategy for
venues and events to effectively oversell sold-out events,            exceeding previous revenue
limitations.
[0018]    In accordance with a first embodiment of the present invention, a system and method is
provided which, upon the departure of a ticket holder from an event while the event is in
progress, provides for the resale of the vacated seat or space to a third party for the remainder of
the event.    The departure of the ticket holder may be through both passive and active means.
Passive is defined as the act of leaving an event for any reason other than receiving an
inducement to exit the event early. Active is defined as the act of leaving an event for an
inducement to exit. The inducement may be a monetary payment or non-monetary item whose
offering is a cause for exiting an event prior to event completion.
[0019]    The system tracks when a ticket holder has left an event for the purposes of creating the
ability to resell the previously occupied seat or space before the completion of the
aforementioned event. The system may use manual or automated processes to capture the exit
information. The system may use technology such as GPS or other location tools to verify the
location of a patron that has left a venue, so as to ensure the integrity of the overall system.
When the exit data is captured a third party will have the ability to purchase a ticket for the
previously occupied seat or space.
[0020]    The original ticket holder may be offered an inducement to leave an event early ("active
exit"). The inducement may come from the use of the system to specify either a monetary or
monetary equivalent that the original ticket holder will be willing to accept to exit an event
before the completion of said event.       Inducements may be varied through various incentive
programs to promote, for example, donations to an alumni association, or to receive a credit for a
future purchase, although other incentive programs are certainly envisioned.
[0021]    A potential buyer that is interested in purchasing a ticket to an event for a previously

                                                   5
occupied seat or space may have various options to view and purchase the inventory that has
been made available by the exit of the original ticket holder.         Those options, which can be
defined by the system, may include the ability to offer a price for specific seating sections prior
to inventory having been made available; paying a fixed fee for inventory that has become
available; paying a dynamically adjusting fee based on a predefined algorithm, or bidding on
inventory that may become available. The purchaser of a ticket to use the previously occupied
seat or space will present a newly issued ticket to gain entry to the event prior to completion of
the event. The new ticket may be in the form of a physical ticket, for example like a wristband
or other printed ticket, or through electronic means, for example through a bar code, QR code,
RF signal or other electronic means that is readable by an electronic reader.
[0022]    In accordance with a second embodiment of the present invention, a system and method
is provided which, upon the departure of a ticket holder from an event that allows reentry while
the event is in progress, allows for the resale of the ticket to a third party while the event is in
progress. In particular, the system tracks when the ticket holder has left the event, and thereafter
allows the ticket to be resold to a third party. Preferably, the system allows a ticketholder
leaving an event in progress to offer their ticket for the remaining portion of the event for resale
through the use of a software application accessible through a mobile device such as a smart
phone, tablet, or watch. When the ticket holder leaves the venue, the resold ticket becomes valid
for entry, or a new ticket is issued in place of the original ticket. A potential buyer can choose to
purchase the ticket using their mobile device, and obtain an electronic ticket which allows entry
into the event, or the original physical ticket may be transferred. Also provided are computer
readable media, having stored thereon, computer executable process steps operable to control a
computer or computers to perform the methods described herein.
[0023]    The system and method in accordance with the various embodiments described herein
may provide an additional source of value to venues. In order to provide analytics regarding
sales and purchases of tickets and vacated seats or space, in certain embodiments of the present
invention, the system and method captures data about departures including when as well as why
and to where early departures are leaving. Understanding why and when people are leaving
provides venues useful insights to help them consider improvements to encourage attendees to
stay longer. Additionally, knowing to where attendees go next after an event provides myriad
opportunities for affiliate marketing, partnerships, co-branding, and advertising.         For some
events, especially multi-day events, tracking departures also allows venues to sell "vacated
inventory" (i.e., no longer used seats/passes).

                                                    6
[0024]    In accordance with a third embodiment of the present invention, a computerized method
for providing a market for resale of vacated seats or space at a venue upon the departure of a
ticket holder from an event while the event is in progress at a venue, the method comprises,
using one or more computers: electronically tracking when the original ticket holder has left the
event; electronically offering a ticket to the vacated seat or space to a third party; electronically
processing the sale of the ticket for access to the vacated seat or space; electronically
transmitting to the third party a ticket to access the vacated seat or space while the event is still in
progress; and electronically transmitting to the venue a record of the transaction. Computer
readable media may also be provided, having stored thereon, computer executable process steps
sufficient to control one or more computers to provide a market for resale of vacated seats and
spaces upon the departure of a ticket holder from an event while the event is in progress at a
venue by performing the steps of the method of the third embodiment.
[0025]    In accordance with a fourth embodiment of the present invention, a system for
providing a market for resale of vacated seats and spaces upon the departure of a ticket holder
from an event while the event is in progress comprising a server, the server receiving a
notification that the ticket holder has left the event; and in response to said notification,
transmitting an offer to sell a ticket for that vacated seat or space to a plurality of mobile apps
executing on respective mobile devices of a plurality of prospective buyers; the server receiving
a request to purchase the ticket from at least one of the plurality of mobile apps, the server
electronically processing the resale of the ticket; the server transmitting to said one mobile app a
resale ticket and electronically transmitting to the venue a record of the resale ticket.
[0026]    In accordance with a further embodiment of the present invention, a system and method
is provided which, upon the departure of a ticket holder from an event, the location of the ticket
holder is tracked so as to gather information regarding where event attendees are likely to go
after departing the event. In particular, the system uploads the location information of the
departed ticket holder to a server. Based upon the data collected from one or more departed
ticket holders, the system directs advertising to event attendees that are still in attendance at the
event. Also provided are computer readable media, having stored thereon, computer executable
process steps operable to control a computer or computers to perform the methods described
herein.
[0027]    In accordance with further variants of the embodiments described above, the following
steps may be provided, alone or in any combination in accordance with the computerized
method, the system, and/or computer readable media:

                                                   7
          wherein potential buyers are provided with a non-activated wristband tickets prior to the
event, and such non-activated wristband tickets are activated remotely upon the purchase of
previously vacated seats or space;
          wherein the step of electronically tracking comprises scanning, at an exit of the venue,
the ticket, with a hand-held scanning device or scanning kiosk;
          wherein the step of electronically tracking comprises tracking with a geolocation
system, the geolocation system being one of a geofencing system, a GPS system, and a beacon
system;
          wherein the step of electronically offering the ticket for resale further comprises the
ticket holder offering the ticket for resale using a hand-held computing device;
          wherein the handheld computing device and/or hand-held scanning device is a mobile
phone, a watch, or a tablet;
          wherein the step of electronically offering includes receiving, at a server, information
from the handheld device sufficient to indicate the offer for resale and transmitting, from the
server, the offer for resale to a plurality of users; and the step of electronically processing
includes receiving, from one of the plurality of users, information sufficient to process the resale
of the ticket;
          wherein the plurality of users may be ranked based on any number of criteria, including,
but not limited to time of registration, membership at a premium level, loyalty incentive program
or other rankings, such that the offers for resale will be made to different groups within the
plurality of users at different times;
          wherein the price for resale may be set utilizing an algorithm that considers factors
including at least one of the current weather at the venue, the current score of the event, and the
upcoming performers;
          wherein prior to the electronically offering step, the method includes prompting the
original ticket holder to resell their seat or space and receiving authorization to resell the seat or
space;
          wherein when a purchase is completed by one of the plurality of users, the original
ticket for the seat or space is deactivated or otherwise indicated in the event ticketing system as
no longer being valid for entry to the venue; and/or
          wherein the step of transmitting to the third party further includes transmitting a
scannable barcode image of the resale ticket to the third party.

                                                   8
Brief Description of the Drawings
[0028]    It should be noted in the following description that like or the same reference numerals
in different embodiments denote the same or similar features.
[0029] Notwithstanding any other embodiments that may fall within the scope of the present
invention, an embodiment of the present invention will now be described, by way of example
only, with reference to the accompanying Figures.
[0030]    Various embodiments of the present invention are described below by reference to the
following drawings, in which:
          Figure 1 is a schematic diagram showing the components of the desired system
including a mobile application, a web site, the internet, and a back end system including a ticket
transaction server and a user database;
          Figure 2 is a schematic diagram showing a ticket holder and late arriver connected
through the software application;
          Figure 3 is a schematic diagram showing that while inside the venue, the ticket holder
has ownership of the ticket information;
          Figure 4 is a schematic diagram showing that upon or prior to exit of the venue, the
ticket holder will provide ticket information to the software application;
          Figure 5 is a schematic diagram showing that shows that once the ticket holder leaves
the venue, the software application will have ownership of the ticket information;
          Figure 6 is a schematic diagram that shows how the late arrival is able to search for
available tickets inside the software application;
          Figure 7 is a schematic diagram that shows the software application sending a push
notification to the late arriver of tickets representing vacated seats or space available for events
they may be interested in;
          Figure 8 is a schematic diagram that shows the late arriver purchasing a ticket for the
previously used seat or space from within the software application;
          Figure 9 is a schematic diagram that shows that at the venue gate, the gate staff

                                                  9
verifying the purchase of the ticket;
          Figure 10 is a schematic diagram that shows that the ticket information will belong to
the late arriver;
          Figure 11 A illustrates a screen display with which users create an account via a web
site;
          Figure 11 B illustrates a screen display with which users create an account on via a
mobile device;
          Figure 11 C illustrates a screen display on a phone or other mobile device showing a
potential "late arrival" being notified of an event that meets her/his preferences;
          Figure 1ID illustrates a screen display on a phone or other mobile device showing a
likely "early exit" being asked to confirm if they did in fact leave;
          Figure 11 E illustrates a screen display on a phone or other mobile device showing
events being recommended to a user;
          Figure 11 F illustrates a screen display on a phone or other mobile device showing an
alert that an event is coming up that may be of interest to a user;
          Figure 11 G illustrates a screen display on a phone or other mobile device showing an
alert to a potential active seller to ask how much they might be induced to sell their ticket for;
and
          Figures 12A through 12D are flow charts which illustrates process steps in accordance
with embodiments of the present invention.
Detailed Description
[0031]    Throughout the specification and the claims that follow, unless the context requires
otherwise, the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be
understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers but not the exclusion of
any other integer or group of integers.
[0032]    Furthermore, throughout the specification and the claims that follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "include" or variations such as "includes" or "including", will be

                                                  10
understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers but not the exclusion of
any other integer or group of integers.
[0033]    The words used in the specification are words of description rather than limitation, and
it is to be understood that various changes may be made without departing from the spirit and
scope of the invention. Those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that a wide variety of
modifications, variations, alterations, and combinations can be made with respect to the above
described embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention, and that
such modifications, variations, alterations, and combinations are to be viewed as falling within
the ambit of the inventive concept.
[0034]    The process, methods, and systems in accordance with various embodiments of the
present invention create a tertiary market for previously occupied seats and space. In accordance
with these embodiments, a method is provided for selling tickets for seats and space that have
been previously be occupied. A ticket is sold when a seller (an "early exit") who may intend to
leave, or already has left a venue early, so notifies the system, so that a buyer (the "later
arriver"), who is interested in attending the event for the remaining duration of the event, can
make a purchase of the right to use the previously occupied seat or space.
[0035]    Preferably, but not necessarily, several operating assumptions may include:
          (i)      tickets for previously used seats or space sold through system are not resold for
                   more than the face value of the original ticket; and
          (ii)     it is expected that some potential buyers may choose to purchase tickets for
                   previously used seats or space for a portion of an event instead of purchasing
                   other tickets available through the primary or secondary resale markets
                   (i.e., some consumers will accept missing a portion of an event rather than
                   paying inflated resale prices for unused tickets).
[0036]    Data and analytics about the motivations, timing, and destination of those who leave
early may be of value to venues, promoters, and artists.              Presently events, venues, and
conferences may have difficulty tracking when attendees leave events despite the commercial
value of such information.
[0037]    In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention, a computerized method is
provided for providing a tertiary market for resale of a previously occupied seat or space upon

                                                   11
the departure of an original ticket holder from an event while the event is in progress at a venue,
as well as a computerized system for implementing this method.                 The method includes
electronically tracking when the original ticket holder has left the event; preferably electronically
communicating with the original ticket holder to confirm exit; electronically offering a ticket for
the previously occupied seat or space to a third party that is not in the venue; electronically
processing the sale of the ticket for the previously occupied seat or space; electronically
transmitting to the third party a ticket; and electronically transmitting to the venue a record of the
ticket for the use of the previously occupied seat or space.             In this regard, the step of
electronically tracking may further comprise scanning, at an exit of the venue, the original ticket,
with a hand-held device (such as a hand-held scanner held by a gate attendant) or at a scanning
kiosk located at the venue exit. The step of electronically tracking may alternatively or further
comprise the use of geolocation technologies such as but not limited to GPS, Beacons, ibeacon T M
location and proximity detection technology, and other networked and static systems for
identifying location of both the original ticket holder and a third party. The step of electronically
offering a ticket for the resale of the right to occupy a previously vacated seat or space may
further comprise the original ticket holder offering their occupied seat or space for resale using a
hand-held device such as a mobile phone, a watch, or a tablet.             The step of electronically
processing the resale of the right to occupy a previously vacated seat or space may further
comprise receiving, at a server, information from the original ticket holder's handheld device
sufficient to indicate the offer for resale, transmitting, from the server, the offer for resale to a
plurality of third party users (e.g., to a user's mobile phone); and receiving, from one of the
plurality of third party users, information sufficient to process the resale of the right to occupy a
previously vacated seat or space.
[0038]    Embodiments of the subject matter described herein may be implemented in digital
electronic circuitry, or in computer software, firmware, or hardware, or in combinations of one
or more of them. Embodiments of the subject matter described herein can be implemented as
one or more computer programs, for example, one or more modules of computer program
instructions, encoded on computer storage medium for execution by, or to control the operation
of, data processing apparatus. A computer storage medium can for example, be, or be included
in, a computer-readable storage device, a computer-readable storage substrate, a random or serial
access memory array or device, or a combination of one or more of them.
[0039]    The process steps and operations described herein can be implemented as operations
performed by a data processing apparatus on data stored on one or more computer-readable

                                                12
storage devices or received from other sources. As used herein, "data processing apparatus"
encompasses all kinds of apparatus, devices, and machines for processing data, including by way
of example a programmable processor, a computer, a system on a chip, or multiple ones, or
combinations thereof.     The apparatus can include, or even consist of, special purpose logic
circuitry, e.g., an FPGA (field programmable gate array), state machines, sequencers, or an ASIC
(application-specific integrated circuit).
[0040]    A computer program (for example, a program, software, software application,
application, script, or code) can be written in any form of programming language, including
compiled or interpreted languages, declarative or procedural languages, and it can be deployed in
any form, including as a stand-alone program or as a module, component, subroutine, object, or
other unit suitable for use in a computing environment.      As used herein, the term "app" or
 "mobile app" is meant broadly to include, for example, an executable binary that is installed and
runs on a mobile device, or a web site that the user navigates to within a web browser on the
mobile device, or a combination of them. An "app" may also refer to multiple executable
binaries that work in conjunction on a mobile device to perform one or more functions; for
example, an AndroidTM service and an Android            application that communicate with one
another.
[0041]    The process steps described herein can be performed by one or more programmable
processors executing one or more computer programs to perform actions by operating on input
data and generating output. The processes can also be performed by, and apparatus can also be
implemented as, special purpose logic circuitry, e.g., an FPGA (field programmable gate array),
a sequencer, a state machine, or an ASIC (application-specific integrated circuit).
User Experience
[0042]    The various embodiments of the present invention can be viewed from the perspective
of the late-arrival ticket holder/buyer and from the perspective of the early-leaver ticket
holder/seller.
"Late Arrival" Ticket Holder User Experience
[0043]    The "late arrival" ticket buyer is a fundamental user of the process described herein.
The "late arrival" may introduce new value into the ticket and event ecosystem by:
          (1)       buying the unwanted/unused time from the "early exit";

                                                   13
          (2)      buying additional concessions or merchandise the "early leaver" would not
                   have otherwise bought;
          (3)      exposing themselves to advertising impressions; and
          (4)      paying fees to participate in the ecosystem.
[0044]    The late arrival may be a person who:
          (i)      values a ticket or a certain class of tickets in the event highly enough that they
                   choose not to buy tickets available at face value (primary market) or above face
                   value (secondary resale market), instead trading time for seat preference;
          (ii)     is making an impulse purchase based on factors such as proximity (i.e., they
                   are near the arena) and/or interest (e.g., a close game);
          (iii)    wanted to attend an event but, was closed out due to a sold out situation; and/or
          (iv)     is issued an invitation to attend the event based on factors such as proximity
                   and user interest.
[0045]    In each of these scenarios, the late arrival ticket holder's interest in an event does not
end once an event begins and he/she is willing to enter an event after it has started.
[0046]     In accordance with various embodiments of the present invention, the late arrival user
may indicate his/her interest in an event in a number of ways.
[0047]    For example, the late arrival user may indicate interest in various events or classes or
types of events as part of their user-profile when they initially register on the system, for
example by entering registration data into the system over the intemet from a computer, smart
phone, tablet or other computing device. The profile can later be updated by the user in the same
manner to indicate interest in different or additional events or classes or types of events.
[0048]    The late-arrival user may have tried to acquire tickets to an event from the primary
ticket source, only to learn that the event was sold out. The user may then be directed to connect
with the system of the current invention to register as a person that is interested in that specific
event, should seats or space become vacated. The system of the current invention would provide
a path for the user to attend an event that has already commenced, as an alternative to having to
pay secondary market prices for original tickets, which are often much higher than face value of

                                                  14
the original ticket. The system server may also notify the user of vacated seats or space at that
event, either through the mobile app or via a text message as illustrated in Figure 1 IF.
[0049]    The late-arrival user may also or alternatively be notified by the system of an event. For
example, a data processing device such as a system server may transmit notifications of events to
the late-arrival user via a mobile app on the late-arrival users smart phone, tablet, or other
computing device, via text message, or via email. For example, the mobile app could display
upcoming events on the display screen of the user's phone as illustrated in Figure 11 E, and the
user could respond by clicking (or otherwise entering via the phone interface) "interested", and
this interest would then be transmitted via the mobile app to the system server.         The system
server may also notify the user of an individual event prior to the event, either through the
mobile app or via a text message as illustrated in in Figure 1 IF. In this example, the user can
indicate interest, for example by clicking (entering) "Yes ". The user may also search through a
listing of events in geographic proximity to late arrival's current location either via the mobile
app or on a website.
[0050]    In certain embodiments, prospective "late arrivals" use a mobile app, system website,
or other application to select local events that they'd like to attend, optionally coupled with
information such as preferred music genres, bands, and sports teams.            This preferred event
information is stored in a user profile data store with the system and is optionally used as an
input to the algorithm used to suggest events. As an example, a system website, for example as
illustrated in Figure 11 A, may prompt the user to enter data into data fields such as name,
username, password, email, mobile phone number, payment information, preferred music genres,
bands, and sports teams. This data can be entered in any conventional manner, such as through
key entry, radio boxes, drop down menus, and the like.            The user would then submit the
registration, for example, by clicking on a "submit registration" button. The data can also be
entered via a mobile app in the same manner as illustrated in Figure 11 B.
[0051]    Based on these user preferences, the system, for example via an application(s) on the
system server, will propose a list of current and upcoming events that are happening within a
user defined radius of his/her current location, and transmit that information to the user via a
mobile app, email, and/or text.
[0052]    Further, using the notifications functionality of both iOS and Android subsystems, users
may also elect to be notified of events that meet their specific criteria (time range, distance, and
event type). The application may utilize current and future geolocation technologies including

                                                  15
GPS, beacons, etc.
[0053]     For example, when a ticket for a vacated seat or space becomes available, a push
notification through services including SMS, Email, Instant Message, Direct Message, etc. can
be sent to the mobile device of a potential late arrival through the mobile app. Alternatively,
such notification could be pushed to a mobile device of a late arriver, without regard for whether
a mobile app has been installed on the mobile device. When the push notification is received,
the late arriver can purchase the ticket through the mobile app and the ticket is made valid for
their entry. Alternatively, the push notification could, for example, include a URL link to a
system website which, in turn, will prompt the user to enter information sufficient to purchase
the ticket.
[0054]     When the late arriver arrives at the venue, they will utilize use their mobile device to
enter.     Their valid ticket can be captured, for example, through UPC, RFID, or NFC
communications through an electronic scanner as they enter. Alternatively, the late arriver may
have received a previously unenabled RFID enabled wristband, in which case at the time of
purchase, the RFID wristband would be enabled, and the RFID wristband possessed by the
original ticket holder would be deactivated.
[0055]     The process, methods and system of the present invention may use integration with the
venue or promoter or event's access control or ticketing system to ensure the validity of the
ticket.   In other words, the system may validate the validity of the original ticket through
communication with the venue, the issuer of the original ticket, or their agents and partners.
"Early Exit" Ticket Holder User Experience
[0056]     The early exit ticket holder is the source of tickets for the late arrival ticket holder.
Ticket inventory available for purchase by "late arrivals" can be made available through a
number of methods.
[0057]    As an "early exit" ticket holder leaves an event in progress, he or she may scan out at
an electronic kiosk or via an exit RFID or NFC scanner. The "early leaver" will scan her/his
ticket upon exit at a kiosk or scanner that will enter their ticket into the system. These kiosks
may be located outside of the secured area where incoming tickets are scanned. Once the early
leaver scans out, the system can immediately make available a ticket to the event in progress.
[0058]     The "early exit" ticket holder can also be identified through any geolocation technology

                                                  16
such as Venue or Event's access control system or GPS, beacons, and the like to record the exit.
The early leaver may also be asked to confirm their exit, for example, via a mobile app on a
mobile device such as a phone or tablet.
[0059]   The exit of the early exit ticket holder can also be identified implicitly as ticket exit data
scanned through UPC, RFID, or NFC communications.
[0060]   The early exit ticket holder can also be identified shortly after an "early exit" leaves an
event. This can be done, for example, via geolocation technology establishing location or "early
exit" and a notification sent via the mobile app asking an "early exit" if they have left an event.
[0061]   The system described herein allows venues to make or use any or all of the above
methods of making ticket inventory available for purchase by "late arrivals".
[0062] As outlined above, one scenario is for "early exits" to explicitly indicate their departure
through active means when they leave the arena. This approach may minimize the time between
departure and the availability of a ticket for sale based on a vacated seat or space. It also
provides an opportunity to capture the departure event, as well as, optionally, some information
about why and to where the early exits are going.
[0063]   The system and process additionally enables passive recapture of seat and space
inventory through tracking exits.      Passive exits, in some cases based on various venue and
market conditions, may not be compensated for subsequent sales of their used tickets.              The
aggregate preferred embodiments allow early exits to leave the arena (i.e., passive exits through
means such as NFC (Near Field Communication), RFID ID, and location based services).
[0064]   In accordance with certain embodiments of the present invention, the system provides
rewards to the early exit ticket holders in order to induce them to make tickets available.
[0065]   The early exit ticket holder may have his ticket registered in the system in a number of
ways. For example, as part of the ticket purchase process, the user can register with the system
or provide their usemame and password so that the purchased ticket is associated with their
email address and/or cell phone number so that they can actively participate in the system and
obtain rewards. An early exit ticket holder may be provided with a downstream incentive to
encourage registration at the time of purchase, such as increased revenue sharing possibilities, or
bonus loyalty rewards. However, it is also possible for a venue to recapture tickets when a
ticketholder leaves a venue with a no re-entry policy (either actively, for example, by scanning

                                                    17
by a gate agent, or passively, for example via geolocation technologies) and resell the vacated
seat or space without the knowledge or participation of the early exit ticket holder.
[0066]    Reward options and inducements made possible through the systems and processes may
include, but are not limited to:
          (i)       credited "event time" that may be stored for use towards future events or
                    tickets;
          (ii)       "points" that can be redeemed towards the purchase of merchandise or
                    exclusive offers (which has the potential to increase revenue for the venue
                    and/or system provider);
          (iii)     cash refund for partial unused time;
          (iv)      special offers from third parties; and
          (v)       donations made to charitable organizations.
[0067]    Finally, the system may provide the option for the user to set a desired cash price for
sale of their vacated seat or space through the system. For example, a potential early exit ticket
holder may indicate through the mobile app that he or she is willing to leave the venue and make
the seat or space available for $15.00. The system could then, for example charge a processing
fee to the late arrival user (for example $2.00).
System Overview
[0068]    In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the components of
the system include a mobile app, a web site, the internet, a back-end server system in which user
information is stored and transaction processing occurs at least in part, and a ticketing system
server, which may or may not function, at least in part, as the transaction processing server.
[0069]    Following discovery by consumers of the application a new user registers. Registration
can be implemented in a number of ways.            For example, a user can register on a web site,
accessed through a computer or mobile device (Figure 11 A). Alternatively, after downloading
the application from locations such as the iTunesTM store for iOSTM devices or Google PlayTM for
Android TM devices (Figure 11B).
[0070]    In a preferred embodiment, during registration, users provide some or all of the

                                                 18
following information:
         Data to Create an Account
         (a)      Email.
         (b)      Password.
         (c)      Users may also be provided with the option to authenticate via OAuth
                  providers accessed by the system via mechanisms such as RESTful APIs and
                  secure HTTP.
         Demographic Data
         (a)      Name.
         (b)      Street Address.
         (c)      City and State.
         (d)      Zip.
         (e)      Mobile Phone.
         Communications Preferences
         (a)      Opt-in-Text.
         (b)      Opt-in-Email.
         Optional Profile Information
         (a)      Default Payment Type.
         (b)      Event Type Preferences.
         (c)      Arena Preferences.
         (d)      Favorite Sports and Teams.
         (e)      Music Preferences.
         (f)      Season Ticket Ownership.
         (g)      Geographic Tolerance Threshold.
        Notification Types and Method [Alters, Banner, Email, Text]
         (a)      Upcoming event.
         (b)      Buy opportunity during event.
         (c)      Sell opportunity during event.

                                                    19
          Intended Uses (Users May Select Both)
          (a)       Buyer (the user intends to be a "late arriver" who will buy used tickets).
          (b)       Seller (the user intends to be an "early exit" who will sell used ticket).
Pre-Event
[0071]    The embodiments allow the system to track interest in both selling and buying tickets
for vacated seats or space.
[0072]    In a set interval, for example between seven and one day(s), before an event, the system,
in its role of market maker, estimates potential buyer (late arrival) and seller (early exit) interest
based on explicit interest through the application, and heuristics based on user profile data. This
data becomes:
          (1)       an input to pricing and;
          (2)       is used to prompt sellers and buyer during the event itself with customized
                    notifications.
[0073] As illustrated in Figure 11 E, the same screen may be used to both collect potential
buying interest as well as to record those users who already hold tickets, and hence may be
potential sellers. This data can be used to estimate potential buyer (late arrival) and seller (early
exit) interest using conventional statistical methods.
[0074]    The system, in its role of market maker, allows users to register interest of attendance
and at what price, prior to the event start.
In-Event
[0075]    During an event, registered users who have also identified themselves as ticket holders
may be prompted with reminders, through notifications wirelessly transmitted to their wireless
devices of the opportunity to leave early and resell their vacated seats or space, including
reminders of any venue or third party inducements offered for leaving early exits. Venue
inducements are at the discretion of the venue alone.            Notifications may also include the
announcement of a bid from a Late Arrival seeking entrance to the event.
[0076]    In one embodiment, the system proposes a suggested price to ticket holders at which
they should consider vacating their seats and posting their seat or space as being available. This
is the initial ask price and is set algorithmically based on, or as a function of, one, some or all of

                                                   20
the following inputs:
          (a)      Whether the event is sold out (Higher demand correlates to a higher proposed
                   initial price).
          (b)      Number of other system users in the venue who have identified themselves as
                   being potential early exits (Less interest in correlates to a higher proposed
                   initial price).
          (c)      Number of potential late arrivals (More interest correlates to a higher proposed
                   initial price).
          (d)      Weather at the time of the event.
          (e)      The score of the event if it is a sporting event.
          (f)      Time left in the event (More time remaining) correlates to a higher proposed
                   initial price).
          (g)      As the event continues, the algorithm to create the suggested selling price may
                   also incorporate as variable the number of transactions for the same event that
                   have closed within the last 5 minutes.
[0077]    The ticket holder may also be able to override the suggested price and input any price
they desire within system and event level parameters.
[0078]    The system enables any ticket holder who has left a predetermined geolocation
boundary or geofence for a certain amount of time or distance from geofence, to be notified of
opportunity to post their tickets.     This early exit may be done actively through the RFID
wristband scanning at a kiosk or through any venue or event ticketing or access control system.
[0079]    Early Exits may be identified and messaged through integration with a venue's ticketing
and access control system, and/or through any and all geolocation technology including
geofencing, GPS, beacons, etc. that can be utilized to detect a user's entrance and egresses from
a venue. Data captured on Early Exits may include Gate location of exit, time of exit, direction
of exit and location heading next.
[0080]    Concurrently during events, potential buyers (late arrivals) are sent notifications as seats
and space are vacated and tickets become available that meet their interests and are in their

                                                   21
geographic tolerance threshold.
[0081]    In this way, through prompting via notifications to potential sellers and buyers, the
system may continuously and iteratively making the market for tertiary tickets. In alternative
embodiments, no notifications are required and all activity occurs as a "pull" by potential sellers
and buyers.
[0082]    The desired embodiments also enable venues to release unused inventory to the tertiary
market after a certain cut off period (e.g., the end of half time in a football or basketball game).
Transaction-Matching of Buyers and Sellers
[0083]    Referring to Figure 2, tickets made available through the system belong to the initial
ticket holder 101 (the "seller" or "early exit") and will have been redeemed for use at event
201. The method and/or channel through which ticket holder 101 initially obtained the ticket are
irrelevant so long as the ticket is valid and can be authenticated inside ticket verification system
305.
[0084]    The systems and processes described may enable a number of transaction flow variants.
Venues may choose which variant to enable. Common to both variants is that:
          (a)      Users of the system, both early exits and late arrivals, install the application
                   and register for an account before a transaction occurs;
          (b)      Prospective Early Exits have registered that they hold tickets to an event;
          (c)      Prospective Early Exits indicate that they have arrived at an event, or the
                   system identifies they have arrived at an event through an integration with the
                   venue or event's ticket or access control system;
          (d)      Early Exits are prompted to set a minimum price at which they would be
                   willing to sell a ticket; or they are notified of the amount they will receive or
                   inducement they will receive if they leave the event prior to conclusion if a
                   Late Arrival purchase a ticket for their vacated seat or space; and
          (e)      Late Arrivals are prompted to set a maximum price at which they would be
                   willing to buy a ticket or to select from a listing of tickets at a certain price
                   point, which may be dynamically changing.

                                                    22
[0085]    A first scenario is a direct, synchronous ticket to ticket transfer from early exit to later
arrival. In this scenario the license to use a seat or space is passed directly from seller to buyer.
[0086]    A second scenario is an asynchronous transfer of the license to use a seat or space at an
event whereby the ticket is sold to the late arrival at the same time that the previously issued
original ticket is cancelled or deauthorized for entry.        In this scenario, the seller and buyer
payment processing are asynchronous or close in time.
[0087]    In both scenarios the flow of system enabled activities may include the following:
          (a)      User has downloaded app;
          (b)      User opens app and sees list of events in progress;
          (c)      User clicks on an event; and
          (d)      User registers for an account if they do not already have one.
          If a Ticket is Available
          (a)      The ticket buyer can accept price and complete the transaction, OR
          (b)      They can provide a new bid, OR
          (c)      They can disregard and continue browsing.
[0088]    A user can purchase multiple tickets and share these tickets with friends or other Users,
including possibly through SMS/Email/IM.
[0089]    A user may link to a webpage the renders a new ticket QR code or registers mobile
device for RFID or other mobile technology.
[0090]    The new entrance ticket code may include branding and sponsor messaging and will
preferably have a high error tolerance threshold.
[0091]    For the early exit, the flow of system enabled activities may be as follows:
          (i)      The early exiter is notified of a potential price for the ticket sale;
          (ii)     The inventory is updated to reflect the availability of vacated seats or space;
                   and
          (iii)    If the early exiter is leaving, they may scan the ticket at the kiosk, via barcode,
                   QR code, or RFID to confirm departure.

                                                    23
[0092]    Both scenarios commence with the original ticket holder (the early exit) leaving the
event. Referring to Figure 4, when the ticket holder 101 decides to leave the event 201 before
the event is complete, the ticket is made available through the ticket transaction system 301 on
the ticket holder's mobile phone 311.
[0093]    Figure 5 illustrates a possible procedure for ticket holder 100 to make their vacated seat
or space available for resale. Ticket holder 100 will open the software application 300 on the
ticket holder's mobile device 310 and look up his ticket information 321 through a process that
uses ticket verification system 320. Once the ticket information 321 has been located, the ticket
holder associates that ticket with his/her account and marks the ticket as available. Ticket holder
then leaves event 200 and the vacated seat or space is then available for purchase.
[0094]    Figure 6 illustrates that a late arrival may use the software application to locate vacated
seats or space made available for resale. Figure 7 illustrates that the software application may
send a push notification to the late arrival of tickets available for events in which they may have
interest.
[0095]    The late arriver may purchase tickets (Figure 8) through the application and will be
allowed entry into the event using the remaining time available on the ticket holder's original
purchase (Figure 9).
Revenue Model
[0096]    An exemplary revenue model is based on selling this service as an optional add-on or
 "upsell" during the initial ticket buying experience.      By participating in the service, a ticket
buyer can earn back a portion of their purchase price in the event that the depart an event early
and a late arriver purchases a ticket for their vacated seat or space. A per ticket or per order fee
may be charged as part of the same transaction or a separate, distinct transaction. Any ticket
holder who purchases this service is either registered automatically or is provided a notification
or link or email to download and register for this service in order to have opportunity to post
tickets upon Early Exit.
Exemplary Process Flows
[0097]    An exemplary process flow of the system can be illustrated with reference to Figures 1
through 10. An exemplary system includes mobile apps 302 executing on phones, tablets or
other mobile computing devices, a system website 301 and a backend system which may include

                                                   24
a ticket transaction system or server 303 and user database 304. The website 301 and mobile
apps 302 communicate with the backend system over the internet as shown.                  The ticket
transaction server 303 may communicate with the database 304 over the internet, or can be
connected directly or through a local area network, or otherwise.
[0098]    A User can register with the system as described above either through the mobile app
302 or through the website 301.
[0099]    The system software applications 301-304 allow a ticket holder 101 at an event at venue
201 to indirectly connect to a prospective late arriver 102 (Figure 2). While inside the venue
201, the ticket holder 101 has ownership of the ticket information 401 (Figure 3). Upon or prior
to exit of the venue, the ticket holder 101 will provide ticket information 401 to the software
application 301-304 (Figure 4) or authorize the original ticketing entity to provide the
information. For example, the ticket holder 101 may indicate, through the mobile app 301, that
they are willing to leave the venue for a given incentive. Once the ticket holder 101 leaves the
venue 201, the software application 301-304 takes ownership of the ticket information 401
(Figure 5).   This change in ownership can occur actively, for example by scanning the ticket
(paper or electronic) at a kiosk or by a gate agent; or can occur passively, for example using
geolocation technologies such as but not limited to GPS, Beacons, ibeaconTM location and
proximity detection technology, and other networked and static systems for identifying location
of both ticket holder and third party. Change in ownership refers to the right of the software
application to offer for sale a ticket for the vacated seat or space. In some instances, the original
ticket issuer may create a new ticket and the application will merely be presenting that the new
ticket for the vacated seat or space is available for purchase.
[00100] A late arriver 102 is able to search for available tickets 401 owned by the software
application 301-304 (Figure 6). Alternatively, or additionally, the software application 301-304
will send a push notification to the late arriver 102 through the mobile app 302 of tickets 401
available for events they're interested in (Figure 7). Using the mobile app 302, the late arriver
102 can purchase the ticket for the previously occupied seat or space within the software
application 301-304.     In this regard, the mobile app 302 communicates with the ticketing
transaction server 302 to purchase the ticket. When the later arriver 102 arrives at the venue
gate, the late arriver 102 will show the electronic receipt 403 on his mobile device to the gate
staff 402, and the gate staff 402 will verify that the ticket 401 is valid by communicating with the
software 301-304, or an electronic wallet that previously obtained the ticket information from the
software, for example, via a computing device (Figure 9).             The electronic receipt, which

                                                  25
preferably includes a barcode, serves as a ticket for the resold seat or space. As used herein, a
barcode is an optical, machine-readable, representation of data which is sufficient to uniquely
identify the ticket to the venue. For example, the barcode could be, for example, linear or matrix
barcodes. The gate staff 402 may use a scanner connected to a mobile app to communicate with
the ticket transaction server 303 to confirm the validity of the resale ticket.
[00101] Preferably, only once the purchase is confirmed, does ownership of the ticket
information pass to the late arriver (Figure 10). In this regard, the system can set a time limit on
the validity of the late arriver ticket. In this instance, ownership refers to the right of the late
arriver to use the ticket to access the previously occupied seat or space. Alternatively, ownership
of the ticket information can pass to the late arriver upon purchase.
[00102] Figure 12A is a flow chat which illustrates process steps in accordance with an
embodiment of the present invention. At step 500, while an event is in progress, the system
electronically tracks when a ticket holder has left the event.            At step 510, the system
electronically offers the ticket for resale to a third party. At step 520, the system electronically
processes the resale of the ticket, and at step 530, the system electronically transmitting to the
third party a resale ticket; and electronically transmits to the venue a record of the resale ticket.
Alternatively, a new ticket may be issued representing a resale of the right to occupy the
previously vacated seat or space.
[00103] Referring to Figure 12A, step 500 may include scanning, at an exit of the venue, the
ticket, with a hand-held scanning device or scanning kiosk, or through geolocation technologies
as described above. Further, referring to Figure 12B, in embodiments in which the ticket holder
is incentivized to leave the venue and resell the ticket, step 500 may further include prompting
the ticket holder to resell the ticket (step 501), which may for example, include a push
notification message as shown in Figure 11G.            The method may then include receiving
authorization to resell the ticket (step 502), which in turn may include selection of a price
through the mobile app 302 (Figure 1 IG), and then receiving notification that ticket holder has
left venue (step 503), which in turn may for example, include scanning, at an exit of the venue,
the ticket, with a hand-held scanning device or scanning kiosk, or through geolocation
technologies as described above, followed by transmission of this information to the ticket
transaction server 303. The account of the ticket holder is thereafter credited for the resale of the
ticket. This crediting preferably occurs after the ticket has been resold to the third party (solid
arrow in Figure 12B).        However, if the venue or system wishes to provide the incentive
independent of any resale to a third party, the ticket holder's account may be credited prior to

                                                    26
any resale (dashed arrow in Figure 12B).
[00104] Independent of whether or not the embodiment provides incentives for resale, the
system may prompt the ticket holder to confirm that they have left the event and are not
returning (Figure 1 ID).
[00105] Referring to Figure 12C, step 510 may include, in step 511, identifying potential late
arrivals from users based on user preferences, user indication (e.g., Figure 1 IF) and/or user
location, and broadcasting to potential late arrivals that ticket is available (step 512), for example
as shown in Figure 1 IC or 11 E.        Further, step 520 may include receiving a request for an
available resale ticket (step 521), for example by sending information sufficient to process the
resale from the mobile app 302 to the ticket transaction server 303, and then debiting the account
of the late arrival ticket holder for the ticket (step 522), for example, through conventional debit
or credit card processing techniques.
[00106] Further, referring to Figure 12D, when a ticket holder leaves an event in progress, step
500 may further include tracking the ticket holder for a period of time via the GPS function on
their mobile device (step 531), transmitting that GPS information to a server (step 532), and then
a computer routine on the server determining what businesses or locations that the ticket holder
has entered or passed by (step 533). The method may then include transmitting advertisements
related to such businesses or locations to the ticket holder's mobile device (step 534), or in
addition to, or alternatively, based on data showing that several ticket holders entered or passed
by the same businesses or places (step 535) , transmitting advertisements to the mobile devices
of those still attending the event (step 536), so that those attendees are shown advertisements for
businesses or places they are likely to enter or pass by when they leave the event at a later time.
[00107] In the preceding specification, the invention has been described with reference to
specific exemplary embodiments and examples thereof. It will, however, be evident that various
modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and
scope of invention as set forth in the claims that follow. The specification and drawings are
accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative manner rather than a restrictive sense.

                                                   27
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.        A computerized method for providing a market for resale of a right to occupy a vacated
seat or space at an event upon the departure of a ticket holder from an event while the event is in
progress at a venue, comprises, using one or more computers:
          electronically tracking when the ticket holder has left the event;
          electronically offering for resale the right to occupy a previously vacated seat or space
to a third party that is not in the venue;
          electronically processing the resale of the right to occupy a previously vacated seat or
space;
          electronically transmitting to the third party that is not in the venue a ticket representing
the resold right to occupy a previously vacated seat or space; and
          electronically transmitting to the venue a record of the ticket representing the resold
right to occupy a previously vacated seat or space.
2.        The method of Claim 1, wherein the step of electronically tracking comprises scanning,
at an exit of the venue, the ticket, with a hand-held scanning device or scanning kiosk.
3.        The method of Claim 1, wherein the step of electronically tracking comprises tracking
with a geolocation system, the geolocation system being one of a geofencing system, a GPS
system, and a beacon system.
4.        The method of Claim 1, wherein the step of electronically offering resale further
comprises the ticket holder offering the use of their seat or space for resale using a hand-held
computing device.
5.        The method of Claim 4, wherein the handheld device is a mobile phone, a watch, or a
tablet.
6.        The method of Claim 4, wherein the step of electronically offering includes:
          receiving, at a server, information from the handheld device sufficient to indicate the
offer for resale and transmitting, from the server, the offer for resale to a plurality of users; and
          the step of electronically processing includes receiving, from one of the plurality of
users, information sufficient to process the resale of the right to occupy a previously vacated seat
or space.
7.        The method of Claim 1, wherein prior to the electronically offering step, the method

                                                   28
includes prompting the ticket holder to resell the right to occupy their seat or space and receiving
authorization to resell the right to occupy a previously vacated seat or space.
8.        The method of Claim 8, wherein the step of transmitting to the third party further
includes transmitting a scannable barcode image of a ticket representing the right to occupy a
previously vacated seat or space to the third party.
9.        Computer readable media, having stored thereon, computer executable process steps
sufficient to control one or more computers to provide a market for resale of a right to occupy a
previously vacated seat or space upon the departure of a ticket holder from an event while the
event is in progress at a venue by performing steps comprising:
          electronically tracking when the ticket holder has left the event;
          electronically offering for resale the right to occupy a previously vacated seat or space
to a third party that is not in the venue;
          electronically verifying that the third party is not located in the venue;
          electronically processing the resale of the right to occupy a previously vacated seat or
space;
          electronically transmitting to the third party that is not in the venue a resale ticket; and
          electronically transmitting to the venue a record of the resale ticket.
10.       A system for providing a market for resale of the right to occupy a previously vacated
seat or space upon the departure of a ticket holder from an event while the event is in progress
comprising:
          a server, the server receiving a notification that the ticket holder has left the event and in
response to said notification, transmitting an offer to sell a resale ticket for a resale of the right to
occupy a previously vacated seat or space to a plurality of mobile apps executing on respective
mobile devices of a plurality of prospective buyers that are not in the venue;
          the server receiving a request to purchase the resale ticket from one of the plurality of
mobile apps, the server electronically processing the resale ticket; and
          the server transmitting to said one mobile app a resale ticket and electronically
transmitting to the venue a record of the resale ticket.
11.       A computerized method for providing a market for resale of a right to occupy a vacated
seat or space at an event upon the departure of an original ticket holder from an event while the
event is in progress at a venue, comprises, using one or more computers:
          electronically activating a new ticket for a previously occupied seat at an event such that

                                                  29
a third party can enter into a venue to see the event; and
          deactivating an old ticket held by the previous occupant of the seat for the event such
that the holder of the old ticket can no longer gain entry into the venue with the old ticket.
12.       A computer program product for instructing a computer to perform the method of:
          electronically activating a new ticket for a previously occupied seat at an event such that
a third party that is outside of a venue can enter into the venue to see that event; and
          deactivating an old ticket held by the previous occupant of the seat for the event such
that the holder of the old ticket can no longer gain entry into the venue with the old ticket.
13.       The computer program product of Claim 12, further instructing a computer to perform
the method with the additional steps of activating the new ticket by requesting that a signal be
sent to an RFID enabled wristband.
14.       The computer program product of Claim 12, further instructing a computer to perform
the method with the additional steps of activating the new ticket by requesting that a signal be
sent to an RFID enabled wristband.
15.       The computer program product of Claim 12, further instructing a computer to perform
the method with the additional steps of activating the new ticket by requesting that a signal be
sent to a wristband with a radio receiver.
16.       A server for use in a system for providing a market for resale of the right to occupy a
previously vacated seat or space upon the departure of a ticket holder from an event while the
event is in progress, comprising:
          a processor;
          computer executable code that in response to receiving a notification that the ticket
holder has left the event, transmits an offer to sell a resale ticket for a resale of the right to
occupy a previously vacated seat or space to a plurality of mobile apps executing on respective
mobile devices of a plurality of prospective buyers that are not in the venue;
          computer executable code that upon receiving a request to purchase the resale ticket
from one of the plurality of mobile apps, electronically processes the resale ticket; and
          computer executable code that transmits to said one mobile app a resale ticket and
electronically transmits to the venue a record of the resale ticket.
17.       The server of Claim 16, wherein the server receives, from a mobile app executing on a
mobile device of the ticket holder:

                                                  30
          information sufficient to indicate an offer to resell the right to occupy a previously
vacated seat or space in return for an incentive;
          wherein the server credits an account of the ticket holder with the incentive after the
resale is processed.
18.       The server of Claim 16, wherein the server receives the notification that the ticket
holder has left the event from the mobile app executing on the mobile device of the ticket holder.
19.       The server of Claim 16, wherein the server receives the notification that the ticket
holder has left the event from a geolocation system, the geolocation system being one of a
geofencing system, a GPS system, and a beacon system.
20.       The server of Claim 16, where the server receives a confirmation of the location of the
prospective buyer from the mobile app.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      1/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      2/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      3/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      4/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      5/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      6/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      7/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      8/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      9/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      10/20

<removed-date>
                11/20
<removed-apn>
              Figure 11A

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      12/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      13/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      14/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      15/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      16/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      17/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      18/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      19/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      20/20

