INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINE SYSTEM AND CONTROL METHOD
FOR INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINE
ABSTRACT
An electronic control unit (50) is configured to select a first cam as a driving cam of an intake
valve in a first operation range where a target value of an EGR rate is set to a specified EGR rate,
and is configured to select a second cam as the driving cam in a second operation range smaller
in valve duration and lift amount than the first cam. Accordingly, in most of the operation
regions, the first cam is selected, and the second cam is selected only in a high-torque and high
speed region. When the second cam is selected in the high-torque and high-speed region, the
state where an actual compression ratio is high can be eliminated, and suction efficiency can be
decreased. Therefore, decrease in a knocking limit can be suppressed.

                                                  7/10
                                                                             IZT        co          00
                                                                     I      CD         0
                                                                            LU                     <
                                                                                       ct) LU
                                                                                       cf) !e
                                                                                       [LIU  0     <
                                                                                       Q-FU)       or
                                                                                          E
                                                                            CD                     0
                                                                            LU         0
                                                                             CD         C14         IZT
                                                                             LO         LO          LO
                                                                             C/)        C/)         C/)
                                                   0
                                         C14
                                         C/)
                                                                 U)                          LU    <
                                                         LU c-   LU         LU
                                                                            F-         LU          C)
                                                     Co LU                             <     0
                                                         -::t Co                       F-    [If
                                                         (D                            =     F-    <
                                                     (D                     CD         -     U)
                                                                            LU                     U)
                                                                        ----------------
                                                                            co          00
                                                                            CY)         CY)
                                      U)                                    C/)         C/)         C/)
                                      LU                                   - ---- --- -- -
                           C14
                           C/)                                                         0           <
                                   LU         Cl-                           LU         u) LU       C-)
                                   =) CD      =                             F-         U) !e
                                   Cy-LUO
                               (DC)f =LUF                                   <          LIU 0       <
                                   o M= OU-)  Lu                                       0- F-             I
                                   F- <       [If                                         E U)
                                                                            CD         0           0=
                                                                            LU                           p
                                                                        ---------------
                                                                            IZT        co           00
                                                                            C14        C14          C14
                                                                            C/)        C/)          C/)
                                                                            -ztf       0
                                                                                       u)           <
                                                                                       U)LU!e       C)
                                                                            w
                                                                            bi         LU
                                                                                       [If   0[If   <
                                                                             zt        0- F
                                                                            Of                U)
                                                                            Of
                                                                                       C) I
                                                                                       0
                                                                        ----------------
                                                                            LUC
                                                                            (=)        C14
                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                   IZT
                                                                            CY)        CY)         CY)
                                                                            C/)
                                                   0
                                         C14
                                         C14
                                         C/)
                                                                 U)
                                                        LU C--   LU         Co         LULU         <
                                                        (n CD    >- I        ..          e
                                                    Co LU                   LU         <
                                                        -t Co       I       F-zt       F- 0[If
                                                    -t (D                   Of                F--   <
                                                                            Of                U)
                                                                                                    U)   I
                                                                        - - -- -- - - - - - -- -- - -*
                                                                            co         00
                                                                                                   C14
                                      U)                                                           co
           0                          LU
    C/)
                       cf) C/)     LU        cl                                        0            <    I
F-          Co Cl.     LU                                           2I                 U)     LU    I-)
[If          zt otf CD >-        . =) LD q                                   ..
                                                                            LU         cf)
<        zt CD F- LU
                                   o=LUO  LU -                              F-
F-      CD or f; C->               [If    Cl (D                      I                 LU 0O'f      <
                                                                                                           F
U)          (D
            LU Lu
                in CD              0
                                   F-  <
                                          U) LU                                               F-
                                                                                              U)
                                                                                                           LU
                                                                            Of                      Orf
                                                                            C-D        0            0
                                                                                       C-)
                                                                                    - - - - - - -- - - -
                                                                                                    LU
                                                                       C)f      F-        0         >
                                                                       LU F               F
                                                                       fl-                          <
                                                                                C)f       C)
                                                                                          LU        >

                                                   1
INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINE SYSTEM AND CONTROL METHOD
FOR INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINE
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001] The present invention relates to internal combustion engine systems and control methods
for internal combustion engines, and relates more specifically to an internal combustion engine
system and a control method for an internal combustion engine that control engine output by
changing operational characteristics of an intake valve.
DESCRIPTION OF RELATED ART
[0002] Disclosed in Japanese Patent Application Publication No. 6-108860 is a controller of an
internal combustion engine, the controller being configured to change a closing time of an intake
valve by switching two types of intake cams in accordance with an operating state of an engine
with a supercharger. In this conventional controller, a low-speed intake cam is selected at a low
speed side of a high-load region, and a high-speed intake cam is selected at a high-speed side of
the high-load region. When the low-speed cam is selected, the intake valve is closed at a
prescribed time that is earlier than a bottom dead center. When the high-speed cam is selected,
the intake valve is closed at a time later than the prescribed time.
[0003] When the low-speed cam is used, the intake valve is closed earlier than the bottom dead
center, so that a compression end temperature lowers. This makes it possible to increase a
knocking limit. In addition, supercharging effects of the supercharger can also increase the
amount of air charged into a cylinder. Therefore, according to the conventional controller, the
engine output can be enhanced at the low-speed side of the high-load region. However, when
engine speed increases and the operating state shifts to the high-speed side of the high-load
region, a substantial intake term is shortened, and the amount of air charged into the cylinder
decreases. Moreover, when the amount of air sucked by the engine decreases relative to the
amount of air discharged from the supercharger, a supercharging pressure increases in
proportion to the decreased air amount. In such a situation, when the high-speed cam is used, the
intake valve can be closed later than the case of using the low-speed cam. Therefore, the
conventional controller can compensate the decrease in the amount of air charged to the cylinder

                                                  2
at the high-speed side of the high-load region. It is also possible to suppress excessive increase
in the supercharging pressure.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0004] The knocking limit can also be improved by introducing an external EGR gas into the
cylinder. Furthermore, when the external EGR gas is introduced, the knocking limit can be
improved without relying on early closing of the intake valve with use of the low-speed cam.
That is, when the external EGR gas is used, the amount of air charged to the cylinder can still be
increased even if closing of the intake valve is delayed by using the high-speed cam at the low
speed side of the high-load region. In addition, when the supercharger is driven, the
supercharging operation can further increase the amount of air changed to the cylinder.
Therefore, the output of the supercharged engine at the low-speed side of the high-load region
can further be enhanced.
[0005] However, an EGR rate expressed as a ratio of the external EGR gas to intake air is
generally designed such that an optimum target value is selected in accordance with the
operating state of the engine, as in the case of two types of intake cams described before. The
target EGR rate is generally set to a highest value in a middle-load region that is adjacent to the
high-load region. Accordingly, a problem arises when the operating state of the engine shifts
from the middle-load region to the high-load region. Specifically, the problem is a lowered
knocking limit due to reduction in the target EGR rate when the operating state of the engine
shifts from the middle-load region to the high-load region. Therefore, an improvement different
from the conventional improvement needs to be made in order to enhance the output of the
supercharged engine that combines switching of a plurality of types of intake cams with the
EGR rate.
[0006] The present invention suppresses decrease in engine output in a turbocharged engine
when an operating state shifts from an operating region where an EGR rate target value is high
to an operating region where the EGR rate target value is low, the turbocharged engine being
configured to enhance the engine output based on a combination of an intake cam selected in
accordance with the operating state and the EGR rate.
[0007] A first aspect of the present invention relates to an engine system. The internal
combustion engine system includes a turbocharged engine and an electronic control unit. The

                                                   3
turbocharged engine includes a plurality of intake cams different in cam profile, an EGR system,
and an ignition device. The intake cams are configured to drive an intake valve. The EGR
system is configured to introduce exhaust gas flowing through an exhaust system, as an external
EGR gas, into an intake system. The ignition device is configured to ignite an air-fuel mixture in
a cylinder. The electronic control unit is configured to set a target value of an EGR rate in
accordance with an operating state identified with engine torque and engine speed. The EGR
rate is expressed as a ratio of the external EGR gas to intake air. In a first operation region
where the target value of the EGR rate is set to a specified EGR rate, the electronic control unit
is configured to select a first cam as a driving cam of the intake valve and is configured to set
closing timing of the intake valve to a first crank angle section. The first crank angle section
includes a crank angle that offers a highest suction efficiency under a condition where the
engine speed and turbocharging pressure are fixed. In a second operation region, the electronic
control unit is configured to select a second cam as the driving cam, the second cam is smaller in
valve duration and lift amount than the first cam, and is configured to set the closing timing to a
second crank angle section and change the ignition timing of the ignition device to a more
advanced side than the ignition timing of the ignition device in the first operation region. The
second operation region is positioned closer to a high-speed side than the first operation region.
The second operation region has the target value of the EGR rate set to a value lower than the
specified EGR rate. The second crank angle section is positioned at a more advanced side than
the first crank angle section, and is lower in suction efficiency than the first crank angle section.
[0008] With the configuration, when the operating state is in the first operation region, the first
cam may be selected as the driving cam of the intake valve, and the intake valve may be closed
in the first crank angle section. When the operating state is in the first operation region, the high
target value of the EGR rate is set high, and therefore the knocking limit is high. The first crank
angle section includes a crank angle that offers the highest suction efficiency under the
condition where the engine speed and turbocharging pressure are fixed. Accordingly, the engine
output can be enhanced by selecting the first cam and closing the intake valve in the first crank
angle section.
[0009] With the configuration, when the operating state is in the second operation region, the
second cam may be selected as the driving cam of the intake valve, the intake valve may be
closed in the second crank angle section, and the air-fuel mixture may be ignited at ignition
timing more advanced than the ignition timing in the first operation region. When the operating

                                                    4
state is in the second operation region, the target value of the EGR rate is set lower than the
target value set when the operating state is in the first operation region. Accordingly, the
knocking limit lowers. In this regard, the second cam is smaller in valve duration and lift
amount than the first cam, and the second crank angle section is positioned at a more advanced
side than the first crank angle section and is lower in suction efficiency than the first crank angle
section. Accordingly, when the second cam is selected and the intake valve is closed in the
second crank angle section, the suction efficiency is lowered, and decrease in knocking limit can
be suppressed. Moreover, when the air-fuel mixture is ignited at the ignition timing more
advanced than the ignition timing in the first operation region, the decreased suction efficiency
can be compensated, and the decrease in knocking limit can be suppressed.
[0010] In the internal combustion engine system, the electronic control unit may be configured
to wait for the switching of the driving cam until change of an actual EGR rate is completed
when switching the driving cam from the first cam to the second cam with a shift of the
operating state from the first operation region to the second operation region.
[0011] When the target value of the EGR rate is changed, the change is reflected on an actual
EGR rate with a time lag. When the driving cam is switched while the actual EGR rate is
changing, combustion becomes unstable and torque fluctuation increases. With the
configuration, switching from the first cam to the second cam can be waited for the switching of
the driving cam until the change of the actual EGR rate is completed. Therefore, stable
combustion and less torque fluctuation can be achieved.
[0012] In the internal combustion engine system, the turbocharged engine may include an
injector that supplies fuel into a cylinder. The electronic control unit may be configured to
control the injector such that the fuel is injected in a compression stroke when the operating
state is in the first driving range. The electronic control unit may be configured to control the
injector such that the fuel is injected in an intake stroke when the operating state is in the second
driving range.
[0013] The second cam is smaller in valve duration and lift amount than the first cam.
Accordingly, when the second cam is selected as the driving cam, turbulence in the cylinder
becomes smaller than the turbulence generated when the first cam is selected as the driving cam,
which leads to decrease in combustion speed. With the configuration, the injector can be

                                                    5
controlled such that the fuel is injected in the intake stroke when the operating state is in the
second operation region. This promotes mixing of intake air and fuel, so that reduction in engine
output can be suppressed.
[0014] In the internal combustion engine system, the electronic control unit may be configured
to wait for the switching of the driving cam until change of injection timing of the injector is
completed when switching the driving cam from the first cam to the second cam with a shift of
the operating state from the first operation region to the second operation region.
[0015] When the driving cam is switched while the fuel injection timing of the injector is
changing, combustion becomes unstable, and torque fluctuation increases. With the
configuration, switching from the first cam to the second cam can be waited for until the change
of the fuel injection timing of the injector is completed. Therefore, stable combustion and less
torque fluctuation can be achieved.
[0016] In the internal combustion engine system, the turbocharged engine may include a
camshaft that supports the plurality of intake cams, and a rotation phase change mechanism that
changes a rotation phase of the camshaft relative to a crankshaft. When switching the driving
cam from the first cam to the second cam with a shift of the operating state from the first
operation region to the second operation region, the electronic control unit may be configured to
change the rotation phase such that the suction efficiencies before and after the switching of the
driving cam coincide, and wait for the switching of the driving cam until change of the rotation
phase is completed.
[0017] With the configuration, the rotation phase of the camshaft relative to the crankshaft can
be changed such that the suction efficiencies before and after the switching of the driving cam
coincide. The switching of the driving cam can be waited for until change of the rotation phase
is completed. Therefore, combustion before and after the switching of the driving cam can be
stabilized, and torque fluctuation can be decreased.
[0018] In the internal combustion engine system, the turbocharged engine may include a liquid
cooled intercooler that cools the intake air flowing through the intake system, and a heat
exchanger that shares a coolant with the intercooler. The electronic control unit may be
configured not to perform switching of the driving cam when following conditions i) and ii) are
bath satisfied, i) switching the driving cam from the first cam to the second cam with a shift of

                                                   6
the operating state from the first operation region to the second operation region, and ii)
temperature of the coolant fed to the intercooler and the heat exchanger is higher than a
specified temperature.
[0019] With the configuration, the switching of the driving cam itself can be prohibited when
the temperature of the coolant fed to the intercooler and to the heat exchanger is higher than the
specified temperature. Therefore, excessive temperature increase in the heat exchanger can be
suppressed.
[0020] In the internal combustion engine system, in a third operation region, the electronic
control unit may be configured to select a third cam as the driving cam, the third cam is smaller
in lift amount than the first cam and smaller in valve duration than the second cam, and may be
configured to set the closing timing to a third crank angle section and change the ignition timing
of the ignition device to a more advanced side than the ignition timing of the ignition device in
the first operation region. The third operation region may be positioned closer to a low speed
side than the first operation region. The third operation region may have the target value of the
EGR rate set to a value lower than the specified EGR rate. The third crank angle section may be
positioned at a more advanced side than the first crank angle section, and may be narrower than
the second crank angle section.
[0021] With the configuration, when the operating state is in the third operation region, the third
cam may be selected as the driving cam of the intake valve, the intake valve may be closed in
the third crank angle section, and the air-fuel mixture may be ignited at the ignition timing more
advanced than the ignition timing in the first operation region. When the operating state is in the
third operation region, the target value of the EGR rate is set lower than the target value set
when the operating state is in the first operation region. Accordingly, the knocking limit lowers.
In this regard, the third cam is smaller in lift amount than the first cam, and is smaller in valve
duration than the second cam. The third crank angle section is also positioned at a more
advanced side than the first crank angle section and is narrower than the second crank angle
section. Accordingly, when the third cam is selected and the intake valve is closed in the third
crank angle section, the suction efficiency can be lowered, and the decrease in knocking limit
can be suppressed. Moreover, when the air-fuel mixture is ignited at the ignition timing more
advanced than the ignition timing in the first operation region, the decreased suction efficiency
can be compensated, and the decrease in engine output can be suppressed.

                                                   7
[0022] In the internal combustion engine system, the turbocharged engine may have a geometric
compression ratio of 11 or more.
[0023] With the configuration, the engine output of the turbocharged engine having a geometric
compression ratio as high as 11 or more can be enhanced.
[0024] A second aspect of the present invention relates to a control method for an internal
combustion engine. The internal combustion engine includes a turbocharged engine and an
electronic control unit. The turbocharged engine includes a plurality of intake cams different in
cam profile, an EGR system, and an ignition device. The intake cams are configured to drive an
intake valve. The EGR system is configured to introduce exhaust gas flowing through an
exhaust system, as an external EGR gas, into an intake system. The ignition device is configured
to ignite an air-fuel mixture in a cylinder. The electronic control unit is configured to set a target
value of an EGR rate in accordance with an operating state identified with engine torque and
engine speed. The EGR rate is expressed as a ratio of the external EGR gas to intake air. The
control method includes, in a first operation region where the target value of the EGR rate is set
to a specified EGR rate, selecting, the electronic control unit, a first cam as a driving cam of the
intake valve, and setting, the electronic control unit, closing timing of the intake valve to a first
crank angle section including a crank angle that offers a highest suction efficiency under a
condition where the engine speed and turbocharging pressure are fixed, and in a second
operation region, selecting, the electronic control unit, a second cam as the driving cam, setting,
the electronic control unit, the closing timing to a second crank angle section positioned at a
more advanced side than the first crank angle section, and changing, the electronic control unit,
ignition timing of the ignition device to a more advanced side than the ignition timing of the
ignition device in the first operation region. The second operation region is positioned closer to
a high-speed side than the first operation region. The second operation region has the target
value of the EGR rate set to a value lower than the specified EGR rate. The second cam is
smaller in valve duration and lift amount than the first cam. The second crank angle section is
lower in suction efficiency than the first crank angle section,
[0025] With the configuration, when the operating state is in the first operation region, the first
cam may be selected as the driving cam of the intake valve, and the intake valve may be closed
in the first crank angle section. When the operating state is in the first operation region, the
target value of the EGR rate is set high, and therefore the knocking limit is high. The first crank

                                                  8
angle section includes a crank angle that offers the highest suction efficiency under the
condition where the engine speed and turbocharging pressure are fixed. Accordingly, the engine
output can be enhanced by selecting the first cam and closing the intake valve in the first crank
angle section.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0026] Features, advantages, and technical and industrial significance of exemplary
embodiments of the invention will be described below with reference to the accompanying
drawings, in which like numerals denote like elements, and wherein:
[0027] FIG. 1 is a schematic view illustrating a configuration example of a system according to
a first embodiment of the present invention;
[0028] FIG. 2 is an explanatory view illustrating one example of cam profiles of two types of
intake cams included in the system according to the first embodiment of the present invention;
[0029] FIG. 3 illustrates one example of a relation between an engine operation region and a
target EGR rate;
[0030] FIG. 4 illustrates one example of a relation between the engine operation region and the
cams that drive an intake valve;
[0031] FIG. 5 is an explanatory view illustrating one example of closing time of the intake
valve;
[0032] FIG. 6 is an explanatory view illustrating effects obtained by engine control in the first
embodiment of the present invention;
[0033] FIG. 7 illustrates one example of a relation between the closing time of the intake valve
and turbulence in a cylinder;
[0034] FIG. 8 is a time chart illustrating an engine control example of in the first embodiment of
the present invention;

                                                 9
[0035] FIG. 9 is an explanatory view illustrating one example of a relation between the valve
closing time of the intake valve and suction efficiency;
[0036] FIG. 10 illustrates one example of a processing routine executed by an ECU in the first
embodiment of the present invention;
[0037] FIG. 11 is an explanatory view illustrating one example of cam profiles of three types of
intake cams included in a system according to a second embodiment of the present invention;
[0038] FIG. 12 illustrates one example of a relation between the engine operation region and the
cams that drive the intake valve;
[0039] FIG. 13 is an explanatory view illustrating one example of the closing time of the intake
valve;
[0040] FIG. 14 is an explanatory view illustrating a cooling system in a system according to a
third embodiment of the present invention; and
[0041] FIG. 15 is an explanatory view illustrating the cooling system in the system according to
the third embodiment of the present invention.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[0042] Embodiments of the present invention will be described below based on the drawings.
Note that elements identical in each of the drawings are designated by identical reference signs
to omit redundant description. The following embodiments are not intended to limit the present
embodiment.
[0043] First, a first embodiment of the present invention will be described with reference to
FIGS. 1 through 10.
[0044] FIG. 1 is a schematic view illustrating a configuration example of a system according to
the first embodiment of the present invention. The system illustrated in FIG. 1 is a system for an
internal combustion engine mounted on a vehicle. The system illustrated in FIG. 1 includes an
internal combustion engine 10 as a driving source. The internal combustion engine 10 is a four-

                                                   10
stroke cycle reciprocating engine, and is also an inline three-cylinder engine. The number of
cylinders and cylinder arrangement of the internal combustion engine 10 are not particularly
limited. The internal combustion engine 10 has a relatively high geometric compression ratio of
11 or more. Each cylinder of the internal combustion engine 10 communicates with an intake
pipe 12 and an exhaust pipe 14.
[0045] A description is first given of an intake system of the internal combustion engine 10. In
the vicinity of an inlet of the intake pipe 12, an air cleaner 16 is attached. Provided downstream
of the air cleaner 16 is a compressor 18a of a turbocharger 18. The compressor 18a that is driven
by rotation of a turbine 18b provided in the exhaust pipe 14 compresses intake air. Provided
downstream of the compressor 18a is an electronically controlled throttle valve 20. Provided
downstream of the throttle valve 20 is an intake manifold 22 connected to an intake port of each
cylinder. The intake manifold 22 incorporates a liquid-cooled intercooler 24. The intake air
flowing into the intercooler 24 is cooled through heat exchange with a coolant flowing through a
cooling pipe 26.
[0046] A description is now given of an exhaust system of the internal combustion engine 10.
The exhaust pipe 14 is equipped with the turbine 18b of the turbocharger 18. The turbine 18b is
coupled with the compressor 18a. The turbine 18b rotates with the energy of exhaust gas
flowing through the exhaust pipe 14. In the middle of the exhaust pipe 14, a bypass pipe 28 that
bypasses the turbine 18b is provided. The bypass pipe 28 is provided with a waste gate valve
(WGV) 30. The WGV 30 is opened when an exhaust pipe pressure (back pressure) on the
upstream side of the turbine 18b becomes higher than a stipulated value. When the WGV 30 is
opened, some of the exhaust gas flowing an upstream portion of the turbine 18b flows through
the bypass pipe 28 into a downstream portion of the turbine 18b. Provided on the downstream of
the turbine 18b are catalysts 32, 34 for cleaning the exhaust gas.
[0047] Next, an EGR system of the internal combustion engine 10 will be described. The
internal combustion engine 10 includes a low pressure loop-EGR (LPL-EGR) system 36. The
LPL-EGR system 36 includes an EGR pipe 38 that connects a portion of the exhaust pipe 14
positioned between the catalyst 32 and the catalyst 34 to a portion of the intake pipe 12 on the
upstream side of the compressor 18a. In the middle of the EGR pipe 38, a liquid-cooled EGR
cooler 40 is provided. The exhaust gas (i.e., external EGR gas) flowing into the EGR cooler 40
is cooled through heat exchange with a coolant flowing through a condenser tube 42. Provided

                                                   11
on the downstream of the EGR cooler 40 is an electrically controlled EGR valve 44. When an
opening degree of the EGR valve 44 is changed, the flow rate of the external EGR gas flowing
from the EGR pipe 38 into the intake pipe 12 is changed. As the opening degree of the EGR
valve 44 becomes larger, the EGR rate becomes higher.
[0048] A description is now given of a valve system of the internal combustion engine 10. FIG.
2 is an explanatory view illustrating examples of the cam profiles (the cam profiles represent at
least one of a lift amount and valve duration, and this applies to the following description) of
two types of intake cams included in the system according to the first embodiment of the present
invention. Note that "valve duration" means the length of time, in degrees, that a valve is held
open. As illustrated in FIG. 2, the system according to the first embodiment includes two types
of intake cams: a normal cam; and a small cam. The small cam is smaller in valve duration and
lift amount than the normal cam. The normal cam and the small cam are supported by a
camshaft rotated in synchronization with a crankshaft. Two pairs of the normal and small cams
are supported in every cylinder. This is because two intake valves are provided in every
cylinder. However, the number of the intake valves per cylinder may be one, or may be three or
more in the present invention.
[0049] The camshaft that supports the normal cam and the small cam is provided with a variable
valve timing mechanism (VVT). The VVT is a mechanism that changes valve opening
characteristics of the intake valve by changing a rotation phase difference of the camshaft
relative to the crankshaft. The VVT includes a housing that is coupled with the crankshaft
through a timing chain and the like, and a vane body that is provided in the housing and attached
to an end portion of the camshaft. When hydraulic pressure is supplied to the inside of a
hydraulic pressure chamber sectioned by the housing and the vane body, the vane body can be
rotated relative to the housing. As a result, the rotation phase difference of the camshaft relative
to the crankshaft can be changed. The hydraulic pressure supplied to the VVT is controlled with
a hydraulic control valve provided in a hydraulic pressure supply line. The structure of the VVT
is publicly known. Since there are no restrictions on the configuration of the VVT in the present
invention, a further description about the VVT is omitted.
[0050] With reference again to FIG. 1, the configuration example of the system will be
described further. The system illustrated in FIG. 1 includes an electronic control unit (ECU) 50
as a controller. The ECU 50 includes a random-access memory (RAM), a read-only memory

                                                  12
(ROM), and a microprocessor (CPU). The ECU 50 takes in and processes signals of various
sensors mounted on the vehicle. The various sensors include an air flowmeter 52, a crank angle
sensor 54, a turbocharging pressure sensor 56, a coolant temperature sensor 58, a back pressure
sensor 60, and a gas temperature sensor 62. The air flowmeter 52 is provided in the vicinity of
the air cleaner 16 to detect the amount of suction air. The crank angle sensor 54 outputs a signal
corresponding to the rotation angle of the crankshaft. The turbocharging pressure sensor 56
detects the pressure of a portion of the intake pipe (turbocharging pressure) on the upstream side
of the throttle valve 20. The coolant temperature sensor 58 detects the temperature of the coolant
in the internal combustion engine 10. The back pressure sensor 60 detects the pressure of a
portion of the exhaust pipe (back pressure) on the upstream side of the turbine 18b. The gas
temperature sensor 62 detects the temperature of the exhaust gas at an outlet portion of the EGR
cooler 40.
[0051] The ECU 50 processes the taken-in signals of the various sensors, and operates various
actuators in accordance with specified control programs. The various actuators include the
throttle valve 20 and the WGV 30. The various actuators also include an injector 70 that injects
fuel into the cylinder, an ignition device 72 that ignites an air-fuel mixture in the cylinder, a
VVT 74, and a cam switching mechanism 76 that switches the intake cams (also referred to as
"driving cams" below) that drive the intake valve.
[0052] FIG. 3 illustrates one example of a relation between an engine operation region and a
target EGR rate (a target value of the EGR rate). The relation of FIG. 3 is prepared based on
prior simulation. As indicated by contour lines in FIG. 3, the target EGR rate is set to a highest
value in a middle-torque and middle-speed region. This is to enhance the EGR rate in the
middle-torque and middle-speed region that is particularly high in use frequency so as to
enhance thermal efficiency. Lower target EGR rates are set for peripheral regions more
distanced from the middle-torque and middle-speed region, the peripheral regions being
relatively low in use frequency. Specifically, in a high torque region and a low torque region, the
target EGR rate is set to a lower value than that of the middle torque region. Similarly, in a high
speed region or a low speed region, the target EGR rate is set to a lower value than that of the
middle speed region. In the first embodiment, the relation illustrated in FIG. 3 is stored in the
ROM of the ECU. The opening degree of the EGR valve is controlled by applying an actual
operating state to the relation.

                                                  13
[0053] In the first embodiment, in order to enhance the engine output, engine control that
combines the target EGR rate with the closing time of the intake valve is performed. FIG. 4
illustrates one example of a relation between the engine operation region and the cams that drive
the intake valve. As illustrated in FIG. 4, in most of the operation regions, the normal cam is
selected. The small cam is selected only in the high-torque and high-speed region. In the first
embodiment, the relation illustrated in FIG. 4 is stored in the ROM of the ECU. The switching
operation by the cam switching mechanism is controlled by applying an actual operating state to
the relation.
[0054] FIG. 5 is an explanatory view illustrating one example of the closing time of the intake
valve. As illustrated in FIG. 5, when the driving cam is the normal cam, the intake valve is
closed in a crank angle section CA1 that is later than a bottom dead center (ABDC     = 0). When
the driving cam is the small cam, the intake valve is closed early in the crank angle section CA2
that includes the bottom dead center. The crank angle sections CA1, CA2 illustrated in FIG. 5
have widths because the closing time of the intake valve is changed by the VVT. However,
when the normal cam with a large lift amount is used as the driving cam in order to enhance the
engine output in the frequently-used operation region, the crank angle section CAl is set so as to
include the crank angle that offers maximum suction efficiency. When the small cam with a
small lift amount is used as the driving cam, the crank angle section CA2 is set so as to exclude
the crank angle that offers the maximum suction efficiency. The suction efficiency illustrated in
FIG. 5 may be obtained under the operating condition where the engine speed and the
turbocharging pressure are fixed, for example.
[0055] In FIG. 5, the small cam is selected in the high-torque and high-speed region because
knocking tends to occur when the normal cam is selected in this operation region. The knocking
tends to occur in the range of the middle torque region to the high torque region. As described in
FIG. 3, in the middle-torque and middle-speed region, the target EGR rate is set to a high value.
This means that the knocking limit is increased. As described in FIG. 3, in the high-torque and
high-speed region, the target EGR rate is set to a value lower than that in the middle-torque and
middle-speed region. Accordingly, when the engine operating state shifts as indicated by an
operation line illustrated in FIG. 3, the target EGR rate gradually increases to a maximum value,
and then decreases to a current operation point. Therefore, if the normal cam should continue to
be selected over the period of the operation line, the state where an actual compression ratio is
high continues although the knocking limit decreases with the decrease in the target EGR rate.

                                                  14
Therefore, there is no other choice but to delay the ignition timing, and this leads to the situation
where decrease in engine output is unavoidable.
[0056] To cope with this situation, in the first embodiment, the small cam is selected in the
high-torque and high-speed region. Accordingly, the state where the actual compression ratio is
high can be eliminated, and the suction efficiency can be decreased. This makes it possible to
suppress the decrease in the knocking limit and to thereby avoid delay of the ignition timing. In
the high-torque and high-speed region, the back pressure is high. Accordingly, when the normal
cam is selected, the back pressure largely exceeds the stipulated value, and therefore the WGV
is opened. However, when the normal cam is switched to the small cam, the suction efficiency is
intentionally decreased, which leads to decrease in the back pressure. As a result, the opening
degree of the WGV is reduced as the back pressure becomes less than the stipulated value.
Consequently, it becomes possible to increase the turbocharging pressure and to thereby
compensate the decrease in the suction efficiency caused by selection of the small cam. This
makes it possible to enhance the engine output.
[0057] FIG. 6 is an explanatory view illustrating effects obtained by engine control in the first
embodiment of the present invention. As illustrated in FIG. 6, when the normal cam is
continuously selected when the EGR rate is decreased, the maximum engine output decreases
after the decrease in the EGR rate (dashed arrow line). In the first embodiment, since the normal
cam is switched to the small cam when the EGR rate is decreased, the decrease in the maximum
engine output can be suppressed (solid arrow line). The value of the decreased EGR rate may be
zero, or may be larger than zero.
[0058] Now, when the driving cam is switched from the normal cam to the small cam, and the
closing time of the intake valve is changed, not only the suction efficiency but also the
combustion speed decrease. FIG. 7 illustrates one example of a relation between the closing
time of the intake valve and turbulence in the cylinder. As illustrated in FIG. 7, when the driving
cam is the small cam, the turbulence in the cylinder becomes smaller than when the driving cam
is the normal cam. Accordingly, when the driving cam is switched from the normal cam to the
small cam, combustion speed may be slowed and the engine output may decrease. However, in
the internal combustion engine with a high geometric compression ratio as in the first
embodiment, increase in the turbocharging pressure relating to decrease in the suction efficiency
has a larger impact than the decrease in the combustion speed. As a result, the decrease in the

                                                  15
engine output is suppressed (see FIG. 6). In this connection, in general turbocharged engines
having a geometric compression ratio of about 10, the impact of the decrease in the combustion
speed becomes relatively larger. As a result, the engine output tends to be decreased.
[0059] Next, with reference to FIG. 8, a specific example of the engine control in the first
embodiment will be described. FIG. 8 is a time chart illustrating an example of the engine
control in the first embodiment of the present invention. The time chart of FIG. 8 depicts
transition of various physical values and control parameters when the operating state of the
engine shifts from a region high in the EGR rate (i.e., middle-torque and middle-speed region)
to a region low in the target EGR rate (i.e., high-torque and high-speed region) along the
operation line described in FIG. 3. Accordingly, an EGR rate illustrated in FIG. 8 decreases at
time tI, while the turbocharging pressure and the air amount in the cylinder illustrated in FIG. 3
continue to increase in general.
[0060] As illustrated in FIG. 8, the EGR rate decreases in a period from time tl to time t2. This
is because the opening degree of the EGR valve is changed to a closed side with decrease in the
target EGR rate described in FIG. 3. When the EGR rate decreases, the knocking limit lowers.
Accordingly, while the EGR rate is changing, the ignition timing continues to be changed to a
delayed side. With the ignition timing being delayed, a crank angle 0_Pmax at which the
pressure inside the cylinder becomes maximum moves to the delayed side.
[0061] In the first embodiment, the driving cam is not switched while the EGR rate is changing.
The reason is that combustion becomes unstable and torque fluctuation increases when the
driving cam is switched from the normal cam to the small cam concurrently with the change in
the actual EGR valve. Furthermore, switching of the driving cam is not yet started at time t2 at
which change of the EGR rate completes. The switching of the driving cam is in a standby state
up to time t3. At time t2, instead of switching the driving cam, the injection timing of fuel is
changed to an advanced side. The injection timing is changed from a crank angle in the
compression stroke to a crank angle in the intake stroke. The reason is that when the driving
cam is the normal cam, the turbulence in the cylinder can be secured and the engine output can
increase, whereas after the driving cam is switched to the small cam, the turbulence in the
cylinder decreases. Therefore, at time t2 when the injection timing is advanced and changed to
the crank angle in the intake stroke, mixing of intake air and fuel can be promoted, so that
decrease in the engine output can be suppressed.

                                                  16
[0062] In the first embodiment, the valve closing time of the intake valve starts to be changed to
the delayed side at time t2. The valve closing time is changed to the delayed side while the
driving cam is the normal cam by controlling the hydraulic control valve of the VVT such that
the suction efficiencies before and after the switching of the driving cam coincide. FIG. 9 is an
explanatory view illustrating one example of a relation between the valve closing time of the
intake valve and suction efficiency. As illustrated in FIG. 9, the suction efficiency demonstrates
the characteristics of being substantially symmetrical about the center of the crank angle in the
vicinity of the bottom dead center. The crank angle at the center of symmetry does not coincide
with the bottom dead center due to the influence of the turbocharging pressure. A difference in
valve duration between the normal cam and the small cam is already known in the design phase
of the cam. Accordingly, based on the characteristics illustrated in FIG. 9, the valve closing time
of the intake valve at which the suction efficiencies before and after the switching of the driving
cam coincide can be identified.
[0063] Switching of the driving cam is started at time t3 when the change in the valve closing
time of the intake valve by the VVT is completed. The reason is that combustion becomes
unstable and torque fluctuation increases when the driving cam is switched from the normal cam
to the small cam concurrently with the change in the injection timing or the change in the valve
closing timing of the intake valve. At time t3, the ignition timing is also changed to the
advanced side. An advance degree of the ignition timing at time t3 is set to a value that causes
the crank angle 0_Pmax that maximizes the pressure in the cylinder to be substantially equal to
the crank angle 0_Pmax at time tI. However, the ignition timing at time t3 is changed to be
more advanced than the ignition timing at time tI. By such a change in the ignition timing to the
advanced side, the decrease in the suction efficiency and combustion speed relating to switching
of the driving cam is compensated, and decrease in the engine output is suppressed.
[0064] As described before, when the small cam is selected in high-torque and high-speed
region, decrease in the knocking limit can be suppressed. Accordingly, the ignition timing
changed at time t3 continues to be changed further to the advanced side for a while after time t3.
After time t4 when switching to the small cam is completed, the opening degree of the WGV
reduces with intentional decrease in the suction efficiency. Accordingly, the turbocharging
pressure that tends to increase until time t3 further increases after t4. The air amount in the
cylinder also increases with increase of the turbocharging pressure after time t4. Therefore, as

                                                     17
illustrated in an uppermost column in FIG. 8, it becomes possible to continuously increase the
engine output before and after the switching from the normal cam to the small cam.
[0065] FIG. 10 illustrates one example of a processing routine executed by the ECU in the first
embodiment of the present invention. The present routine is executed in each prescribed control
period (for example, whenever the crankshaft rotates 1200).
[0066] In the routine illustrated in FIG. 10, whether or not the EGR gas can be introduced is
first determined (step S 10). Whether or not the EGR gas can be introduced is determined based
on a cooling restriction and a condensed water restriction of the EGR cooler, for example.
Examples of the cooling restriction of the EGR cooler include that a gas temperature at an outlet
portion of the EGR cooler, a coolant temperature at the outlet portion of the EGR cooler, or a
gas temperature in an upstream portion of the compressor is equal to or below a specified
temperature. Examples of the condensed water restriction include that the gas temperature at the
outlet portion of the intercooler is equal to or above a dew-point temperature. When the EGR
cooling restriction is not satisfied, it is determined that enhancement of the thermal efficiency by
introduction of the EGR gas is not expectable. When the condensed water restriction is not
satisfied, it is determined that condensed water is generated in the outlet portion of the
intercooler. Accordingly, when the cooling restriction or the condensed water restriction is not
satisfied, it is determined that there is a restriction on an external EGR gas, and processing of
step S12 and the subsequent processing are performed (described later in detail).
[0067] When the determination result of step S10 is positive, it is determined that there is a
restriction on the external EGR gas, and performs processing of step S14 and the subsequent
processing. In step S14, it is determined whether or not the operating state of the engine is in a
high-torque and high-speed region. The high-torque and high-speed region corresponds to the
operation region described in FIG. 4. When the determination result of step S14 is negative, the
upper limit of the target EGR rate is set to a maximum value (step S 16), the injection timing is
set to a crank angle in the compression stroke (step S 18), and the normal cam is selected as the
driving cam (step S20). Consequently, the engine control is performed in operation regions other
than the high-torque and high-speed region described in FIGS. 3 through 4.
[0068] When the determination result of step S14 is positive, whether or not the small cam can
be used is determined (step S22). Whether or not the small cam can be used is determined based

                                                    18
on a turbocharging work restriction, for example. Examples of the turbocharging work
restriction include that the atmospheric pressure is equal to or above a specified value or that the
back pressure is equal to or below a specified pressure. When the turbocharging work restriction
is not satisfied, it is determined that enhancement in the engine output is not expectable even
when the normal cam is switched to the small cam. Accordingly, when the turbocharging work
restriction is not satisfied, processing of step S24 and the subsequent processing is performed.
That is, the upper limit of the target EGR rate is set to a relatively small value (step S24), the
injection timing is set to the crank angle in the compression stroke (step S26), and the normal
cam is selected as the driving cam (step S28).
[0069] When the determination result of step S22 is positive, the upper limit of the target EGR
rate is set to a relatively small value (step S30), the injection timing is set to the crank angle in
the intake stroke (step S32), and the small cam is selected as the driving cam (step S34).
Consequently, the engine control is performed in the high-torque and high-speed region
described in FIGS. 3 through 4. When the operating state shifts from the middle-torque and
middle-speed region to the high-torque and high-speed region, the change of the target EGR rate
or other processing is performed in accordance with the procedure described in FIG. 9. That is,
before switching to the small cam, the target EGR rate and the injection timing are changed.
Then, when change of the valve closing time of the intake valve is completed, switching to the
small cam is started.
[0070] The processing of step S12 and the subsequent processing will be described. The
processing of step 12 is identical to that of step 14 described before. The processing of steps S36
to S54 subsequent to step S12 is basically identical to the processing of steps S16 to S34
described before. For the details of processing of steps S12, S36 to S54, see the description of
the corresponding steps. The processing details of steps S36, S44, S50 are different from those
of steps S16 to S34 in that the upper limit of the target EGR rate is set to zero. This is based on
the determination result of step S10.
[0071] As described in the foregoing, according to the routine illustrated in FIG. 10, when both
the condition on introduction of the EGR gas and the condition on use of the small cam are
satisfied, the engine control based on the operation regions described in FIGS. 3 through 4 can
be performed. Therefore, it becomes possible to suppress decrease in the engine output when the

                                                 19
operating state shifts from the middle-torque and middle-speed region to the high-torque and
high-speed region.
[0072] In the first embodiment described before, the LPL-EGR system 36 illustrated in FIG. 1 is
one example of "EGR system" in SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION. The middle-torque and
middle-speed region described in FIGS. 3 through 4 is one example of "first operation region" in
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION. The high-torque and high-speed region in FIGS. 3 through
4 is one example of "second operation region" in SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION. The
normal cam is one example of "first cam" in SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION. The small
cam is one example of "second cam" of SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION. The crank angle
section CA1 described in FIG. 5 is one example of "first crank angle section" in SUMMARY
OF THE INVENTION. The crank angle section CA2 is one example of "second crank angle
section" of SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION.
[0073] In the first embodiment described before, the VVT 74 illustrated in FIG. 1 is one
example of "rotation phase change mechanism" in SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION.
[0074] Next, a second embodiment of the present invention will be described with reference to
FIGS. 11 through 13. The fundamental configuration of a system of the second embodiment is
in common with the configuration example described in FIG. 1. Therefore, the description about
the common system configuration will be omitted.
[0075] FIG. 11 is an explanatory view illustrating one example of the cam profiles of three
types of intake cams included in the system according to the second embodiment of the present
invention. As illustrated in FIG. 11, the system according to the second embodiment includes
three types of intake cams: a normal cam; and two types of small cams. Two types of small
cams are smaller in valve duration and lift amount than the normal cam. However, one of the
small cams has the same valve duration and lift amount as the small cam of the first
embodiment. The other small cam is smaller in valve duration than the small cam of the first
embodiment, and has a lift amount equal to or above the lift amount of the small cam of the first
embodiment. Hereinafter, for the sake of description, the one small cam having the cam profile
as the small cam of the first embodiment is also called "small cam (large valve duration)." The
other small cam is also called "small cam (small valve duration)."

                                                  20
[0076] The normal cam, the small cam (large valve duration), and the small cam (small valve
duration) are supported by a camshaft rotating in synchronization with a crankshaft. The
camshaft is provided with a VVT as in the case of the first embodiment.
[0077] In the second embodiment, engine control using a combination of the target EGR rate
described in FIG. 3 and the closing time of the intake valve based on three types of intake cams
is performed. FIG. 12 illustrates one example of a relation between the engine operation region
and the cams that drive the intake valve. As illustrated in FIG. 12, in most of the operation
regions, the normal cam is selected. The small cam (large valve duration) is selected only in the
high-torque and high-speed region. The engine control so far is the same as the engine control of
the first embodiment. In the engine control of the second embodiment, the small cam (small
valve duration) is selected in the low speed region. More specifically, the small cam (small
valve duration) is selected in a high-torque and low-speed region, and a low-torque and low
speed region. In the second embodiment, the relation illustrated in FIG. 12 is stored in the ROM
of the ECU. The switching operation by the cam switching mechanism is controlled by applying
an actual operating state to the relation.
[0078] FIG. 13 is an explanatory view illustrating one example of the closing time of the intake
valve. As illustrated in FIG. 13, when the driving cam is the normal cam, the intake valve is
closed in the crank angle section CA1. When the driving cam is the small cam (large valve
duration), the intake valve is closed early in the crank angle section CA2. The engine control
operation is the same as the engine control of the first embodiment. In the engine control of the
second embodiment, when the driving cam is the small cam (small valve duration), the intake
valve is closed early in a crank angle section CA3 that is narrower than the crank angle section
CA2. The suction efficiency illustrated in FIG. 13 may be obtained under the operating
condition where the engine speed and the turbocharging pressure are fixed, for example. In the
case of the low engine speed, the crank angle that maximizes the suction efficiency is positioned
more advanced than that in the case of the high engine speed. Accordingly, although the length
of the section itself does not change, the crank angle section CA3 is positioned more advanced
in the case of the low engine speed than in the case of the high engine speed.
[0079] As described in the first embodiment, knocking tends to occur in the middle torque to the
high torque region. To cope with this situation, in the second embodiment, setting of the target
EGR rate is performed as described in FIG. 3. In addition, the small cam (large valve duration)

                                                 21
having the same cam profile as the small cam described in the first embodiment is selected in
the high-torque and high-speed region. Therefore, decrease in the knocking limit can be
suppressed in the high-torque and high-speed region. However, the fact that knocking tends to
occur in the high torque region signifies that the high-torque and low-speed region is also
included in the target region for suppressing the decrease in the knocking limit. Accordingly,
when the engine operating state shifts as indicated by an operation line illustrated in FIG. 12, the
target EGR rate reduces from the maximum value to a current operation point. Therefore, if the
normal cam should continue to be selected over the period of the operation line, the state where
an actual compression ratio is high continues although the knocking limit lowers with decrease
in the target EGR rate. Therefore, in order to avoid occurrence of knocking, there is no other
choice but to delay the ignition timing, and this leads to the situation where decrease in engine
output is unavoidable.
[0080] To cope with this situation, in the second embodiment, the small cam (small valve
duration) is selected in the high-torque and low-speed region, so that the state where the actual
compression ratio is high can be eliminated. As already described, the small cam (small valve
duration) is smaller in valve duration that the small cam (large valve duration). Accordingly,
when the small cam (small valve duration) is used as the driving cam, the intake valve can be
closed earlier than the case of using the small cam (large valve duration) as the driving cam, so
that the actual compression ratio and the suction efficiency can considerably be lowered.
Therefore, the decrease in the knocking limit can be suppressed. In the high-torque and low
speed region, the back pressure is less than the stipulated value. Accordingly, the WGV is
hardly opened before and after the switching to the small cam (small valve duration). That is, in
the high-torque and low-speed region, the suction efficiency is intentionally decreased and the
delay of the ignition timing is avoided by switching to the small cam (small valve duration), so
that the engine output is enhanced.
[0081] In the second embodiment, the small cam (small valve duration) is selected also in the
low-torque and low-speed region. Therefore, it is also possible to reduce pumping loss in the
low-torque and low-speed region and to thereby enhance the engine output in the operation
region.
[0082] A specific example of the engine control in which the small cam (large valve duration) is
selected in the high-torque and high-speed region can be described by replacing the term "small

                                                22
cam" with the term "small cam (large valve duration)" in the above description of FIGS. 8
through 10. A specific example of the engine control in which the small cam (small valve
duration) is selected in the high-torque and low-speed region can be described by replacing the
term "small cam" with the term "small cam (small valve duration)" in the above description of
FIGS. 8 through 10 and by further replacing the term "high-torque and high-speed region" with
the term "high-torque and low-speed region." A specific example of the engine control in which
the small cam (small valve duration) is selected in the low-torque and low-speed region can be
described by replacing the term "small cam" with the term "small cam (small valve duration)" in
the above description of FIGS. 8 through 10 and by further replacing the term "high-torque and
high-speed region" with the term "low-torque and low-speed region."
[0083] In the second embodiment described before, the high-torque and low-speed region
described in FIG. 12 is one example of "third operation region" in SUMMARY OF THE
INVENTION. The small cam (large valve duration) is one example of "second cam" of
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION. The small cam (small valve duration) is one example of
"third cam" of SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION. The crank angle section CA3 described in
FIG. 13 is one example of "third crank angle section" in SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION.
[0084] Next, a third embodiment of the present invention will be described with reference to
FIGS. 14 through 15. The fundamental configuration of a system of the third embodiment is in
common with the configuration example described in FIG. 1. Therefore, the description about
the common system configuration will be omitted.
[0085] The system of the third embodiment is a hybrid system including an internal combustion
engine and in addition, a motor-generator (MG) as a driving source of the vehicle. The hybrid
system includes publicly known configuration including a driving shaft, a power split device, a
power control unit (PCU), and a battery, other than the MG. Since the configuration of the
hybrid system is publicly known, and there are no limitations on the configuration in the present
invention, further description about the hybrid system is omitted.
[0086] FIGS. 14 through 15 are explanatory views illustrating a cooling system in the system
according to the third embodiment of the present invention. The system of the third embodiment
includes two cooling systems. The cooling system illustrated in FIG. 14 circulates a relatively
high-temperature coolant among the internal combustion engine 10, the EGR cooler 40, and a

                                                 23
radiator 78. In the cooling system, the coolant flowing into a water pump 80 from the radiator 78
is sent out to the internal combustion engine 10 and the EGR cooler 40, and is returned to the
radiator 78. The cooling system illustrated in FIG. 15 circulates a relatively low-temperature
coolant among an HV system device 82 (for example, a boost converter, and an inverter of the
PCU), the intercooler 24, and a radiator 84. In the cooling system, the coolant flowing into the
water pump 86 from the radiator 84 is sent out to the HV system device 82 and the intercooler
24, and is returned to the radiator 84.
[0087] As described in the first embodiment, when the driving cam is switched to the small cam
in the high-torque and high-speed region, the back pressure decreases with decrease in the
suction efficiency. Since the opening degree of the WGV reduces as the back pressure
decreases, it becomes possible to increase the turbocharging pressure. However, when the
turbocharging pressure increases, a cooling request in the intercooler increases in proportion.
Accordingly, in the case of the cooling system where the coolant is shared by the intercooler 24
and HV system device 82 as in the cooling system illustrated in FIG. 15, the HV system device
82 may be undercooled. Accordingly, in the third embodiment, a condition that the temperature
of the coolant fed to the cooling system illustrated in FIG. 15 is equal to or below a specified
temperature is added to the use condition of the small cam in the first embodiment described
before. When such use conditions are set for the small cam, it becomes possible to avoid
undercooling of the HV system device.
[0088] A specific example of the engine control in the third embodiment may be described by
adding determination about the temperature of the coolant fed to the cooling system illustrated
in FIG. 15 to the determination regarding the turbocharging work restriction in the processing of
step S22 in FIG. 10.
OTHER EMBODIMENTS
[0089] In the first through third embodiments, the turbocharger that rotates the turbine with
exhaust gas energy has been described as an example. However, the turbocharger may be
replaced with an electric supercharger that drives the compressor with a motor, or replaced with
a mechanical supercharger that drives the compressor with the internal combustion engine.
[0090] In the third embodiment, the cooling system where the intercooler and the HV system
device share the coolant has been described as an example. However, the heat exchanger that

                                                 24
shares the coolant with the intercooler is not limited to the HV system device. When other heat
exchangers are incorporated in the cooling system illustrated in FIG. 15, the configuration of the
third embodiment may be adopted, and the determination about the temperature of the coolant
fed to the cooling system illustrated in FIG. 15 may be added to the use conditions of the small
cam.

                                                   25
CLAIMS
1.     An internal combustion engine system, comprising:
       a turbocharged engine including a plurality of intake cams different in cam profile, an EGR
system, and an ignition device, the intake cams being configured to drive an intake valve, the
EGR system being configured to introduce exhaust gas flowing through an exhaust system, as
external EGR gas, into an intake system, the ignition device being configured to ignite an air-fuel
mixture in a cylinder; and
       an electronic control unit, the electronic control unit being configured to set a target value
of an EGR rate in accordance with an operating state identified with engine torque and engine
speed, the EGR rate being expressed as a ratio of the external EGR gas to intake air,
       in a first operation region where the target value of the EGR rate is set to a specified EGR
rate, the electronic control unit being configured to select a first cam as a driving cam of the
intake valve and being configured to set closing timing of the intake valve to a first crank angle
section, the first crank angle section including a crank angle that offers highest suction efficiency
under a condition where the engine speed and turbocharging pressure are fixed, and
       in a second operation region, the electronic control unit being configured to select a second
cam as the driving cam, the second cam being smaller in valve duration and lift amount than the
first cam, and being configured to set the closing timing to a second crank angle section and
change ignition timing of the ignition device to a more advanced side than the ignition timing of
the ignition device in the first operation region, the second operation region being positioned
closer to a high-speed side than the first operation region, the second operation region having the
target value of the EGR rate set to a value lower than the specified EGR rate, the second crank
angle section being positioned at a more advanced side than the first crank angle section and
being lower in suction efficiency than the first crank angle section.
2.     The internal combustion engine system according to claim 1, wherein:
       the electronic control unit is configured to wait for the switching of the driving cam until
change of an actual EGR rate is completed when switching the driving cam from the first cam to
the second cam with a shift of the operating state from the first operation region to the second
operation region.

                                                   26
3.     The internal combustion engine system according to claim 1 or 2, wherein:
       the turbocharged engine includes an injector that supplies fuel into the cylinder,
       the electronic control unit is configured to control the injector such that the fuel is injected
in a compression stroke when the operating state is in the first operation range, and
       the electronic control unit is configured to control the injector such that the fuel is injected
in an intake stroke when the operating state is in the second operation range.
4.     The internal combustion engine system according to claim 3, wherein:
       the electronic control unit is configured to wait for the switching of the driving cam until
change of injection timing of the injector is completed when switching the driving cam from the
first cam to the second cam with a shift of the operating state from the first operation region to
the second operation region.
5.     The internal combustion engine system according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein:
       the turbocharged engine includes a camshaft that supports the plurality of intake cams, and
a rotation phase change mechanism that changes a rotation phase of the camshaft relative to a
crankshaft, and
       when switching the driving cam from the first cam to the second cam with a shift of the
operating state from the first operation region to the second operation region, the electronic
control unit is configured to change the rotation phase such that the suction efficiencies before
and after the switching of the driving cam coincide and wait for the switching of the driving cam
until change of the rotation phase is completed.
6.     The internal combustion engine system according to any one of claims I to 5, wherein:
       the turbocharged engine includes a liquid-cooled intercooler that cools the intake air
flowing through the intake system, and a heat exchanger that shares a coolant with the
intercooler, and
       the electronic control unit is configured not to perform switching of the driving cam when
following conditions i) and ii) are bath satisfied,
       i) switching the driving cam from the first cam to the second cam with a shift of the
operating state from the first operation region to the second operation region, and
       ii) temperature of the coolant fed to the intercooler and the heat exchanger is higher than a
specified temperature.

                                                   27
7.     The internal combustion engine system according to any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein:
       in a third operation region, the electronic control unit is configured to select a third cam as
the driving cam, the third cam is smaller in lift amount than the first cam and smaller in valve
duration than the second cam, and is configured to set the closing timing to a third crank angle
section and change the ignition timing of the ignition device to a more advanced side than the
ignition timing of the ignition device in the first operation region, the third operation region
being positioned closer to a low speed side than the first operation region, the third operation
region having the target value of the EGR rate set to a value lower than the specified EGR rate,
the third crank angle section being positioned at a more advanced side than the first crank angle
section and being narrower than the second crank angle section.
8.     The internal combustion engine system according to any one of claims I to 7, wherein:
       the turbocharged engine has a geometric compression ratio defined as 11 or more.
9.     A control method for an internal combustion engine,
       the internal combustion engine including a turbocharged engine and an electronic control
unit,
       the turbocharged engine including a plurality of intake cams different in cam profile, an
EGR system, and an ignition device, the intake cams being configured to drive an intake valve,
the EGR system being configured to introduce exhaust gas flowing through an exhaust system,
as an external EGR gas, in to an intake system, the ignition device being configured to ignite an
air-fuel mixture in a cylinder,
       the electronic control unit being configured to set a target value of an EGR rate in
accordance with an operating state identified with engine torque and engine speed, the EGR rate
being expressed as a ratio of the external EGR gas to intake air,
       the control method comprising:
              in a first operation region where the target value of the EGR rate is set to a specified
       EGR rate, selecting, the electronic control unit, a first cam as a driving cam of the intake
       valve, and setting, the electronic control unit, closing timing of the intake valve to a first
       crank angle section including a crank angle that offers a highest suction efficiency under a
       condition where the engine speed and turbocharging pressure are fixed; and
              in a second operation region, selecting, the electronic control unit, a second cam as
       the driving cam, setting, the electronic control unit, the closing timing to a second crank
       angle section positioned at a more advanced side than the first crank angle section, and

                                                   28
       changing, the electronic control unit, ignition timing of the ignition device to a more
       advanced side than the ignition timing of the ignition device in the first operation region,
       the second operation region positioned closer to a high-speed side than the first operation
region, the second operation region having the target value of the EGR rate set to a value lower
than the specified EGR rate, the second cam being smaller in valve duration and lift amount than
the first cam, the second crank angle section being lower in suction efficiency than the first crank
angle section.
                                Toyota Jidosha Kabushiki Kaisha
                     Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                    SPRUSON & FERGUSON

                                                     <removed-apn>         <removed-date>
                              FIG. 1
                                 28   14    32       34
               22           30
                          14
     26                                             38
                                           18b           36
                                               18
                                           18a
20                       60                          42
                                           40                                         <U+2701> <U+2702>
           24            58
                                           62
             10
                    54                     12                 52   16
                                                     44
          56
                         12
                                  50
                               70 72 74 76

                                                 <U+2701> <U+2702>
                                                FIG. 2
<removed-date>
                                                           NORMAL CAM
<removed-apn>
                                                             SMALL CAM
                 LIFT AMOUNT
                        -150     -100     -50    0      50        100         150
                                          CRANK ANGLE [CA]
                                                FIG. 3
              TORQUE
                                                                          CURRENT
                                           HIGH EGR RATE                  OPERATION
                                                                          POINT
                                                               LOW EGR RATE
                               OPERATION LINE
                                                           ENGINE SPEED

                                                                  <U+2701><U+2701> <U+2702>
                                                                 FIG. 4
<removed-date>
              TORQUE
                                                                         SMALL CAM
                                                    NORMAL CAM
<removed-apn>
                                                                                            CURRENT
                                                                                            OPERATION
                                                                                            POINT
                                                OPERATION LINE
                                                                             ENGINE SPEED
                                                                 FIG. 5
                                                                                   NORMAL CAM
                  SUCTION EFFICIENCY vb
                                                 SMALL CAM
                                                                     CA2            CA1
                                                                               EARLY
                                                                               CLOSING
                                                                               REGION
                                          -60      -30       0       30       60      90    120
                                                                 IVC [ABDC]

                                                                 <U+2701> <U+2702>
                                                               FIG. 6
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                              MAXIMUM OUTPUT
                                               NORMAL CAM       SMALL CAM        NORMAL CAM
                                                        LOW EGR                   HIGH EGR
                                                          RATE                      RATE
                                                               FIG. 7
                                                                                 NORMAL CAM
              TURBULENCE IN CYLINDER
                                               SMALL CAM
                                                                            EARLY
                                                                            CLOSING
                                                                            REGION
                                       -60        -30      0       30       60      90       120
                                                               IVC [ABDC]

                                                   <U+2701><U+2701> <U+2702>
                                               FIG. 8
<removed-date>                  HIGH
                     OUTPUT
<removed-apn>
                                       NORMAL CAM                 SMALL CAM
                        DELAYED
                          IVC
                                 BDC
                      ADVANCED
               IGNITION TIMING
                      ADVANCED
              CYLINDER PRESSURE
               MAXIMUM POSITION
                     _Pmax
                             HIGH
                  EGR RATE
                      ADVANCED
              INJECTION TIMING
                             HIGH
              TURBOCHARGING
                 PRESSURE
                           LARGE
                AIR AMOUNT IN
                   CYLINDER
                                         t1   t2          t3 t4               TIME

                                                     <U+2701> <U+2702>
                                                 FIG. 9
<removed-date>
              SUCTION EFFICIENCY
<removed-apn>
                                         NORMAL CAM          BDC   SMALL CAM
                                   DELAYED CLOSING         IVC      EARLY CLOSING

                                                                                                      <removed-apn>                <removed-date>
                                                                   FIG. 10
              START
                         S10
               CAN
             EGR GAS        NO
             BE INTRO-
              DUCED?
                   YES
                         S14                                                              S12
                HIGH-                                                             HIGH-
             TORQUE                                                              TORQUE
             AND HIGH-      YES                                                 AND HIGH-    YES
               SPEED                              S22                             SPEED                            S42
              REGION?                                                            REGION?
                                      CAN SMALL    NO                                                  CAN SMALL    NO                             <U+2701> <U+2702>
                                       CAM BE                                                           CAM BE
                   NO                   USED?                                        NO                  USED?
                                           YES                                                              YES
 UPPER
  LIMIT    EGR RATE: HIGH      S16 EGR RATE: SMALL S30 EGR RATE: SMALL S24     EGR RATE: 0            EGR RATE: 0              EGR RATE: 0
EGR RATE                                                                                        S36                      S50                 S44
INJECTION COMPRESSION          S18    INTAKE            S32 COMPRESSION   S26 COMPRESSION       S38    INTAKE            S52 COMPRESSION     S46
            STROKE                    STROKE                   STROKE            STROKE                STROKE                    STROKE
  VALVE    NORMAL CAM          S20   SMALL CAM          S34 NORMAL CAM    S28 NORMAL CAM        S40   SMALL CAM          S54 NORMAL CAM      S48
             RETURN

                                             <U+2701> <U+2702>
                                           FIG. 11
<removed-date>
                                                        NORMAL CAM
                                                                 SMALL CAM
<removed-apn>
                                                                 (LARGE VALVE DURATION)
                LIFT AMOUNT
                                                                   SMALL CAM
                                                                   (SMALL VALVE DURATION)
                      -150    -100   -50       0         50      100       150
                                     CRANK ANGLE [CA]
                                           FIG. 12
                      TORQUE
                                       SMALL CAM
                                     (SMALL VALVE           SMALL CAM
                                       DURATION)          (LARGE VALVE
               CURRENT                                      DURATION)
              OPERATION
                POINT
                                                    OPERATION LINE
                                       SMALL CAM
                                     (SMALL VALVE             NORMAL CAM
                                       DURATION)
                                                              ENGINE SPEED

                                                                          <U+2701><U+2701> <U+2702>
                                                                     FIG. 13
<removed-date>                                       SMALL CAM
                                                                                      NORMAL CAM
                                            (LARGE VALVE DURATION)
                                              SMALL CAM
              SUCTION EFFICIENCY vb
                                            (SMALL VALVE
<removed-apn>
                                              DURATION)                                           HIGH ENGINE
                                                                                                     SPEED
                                               CA3                                                    LOW ENGINE
                                                                                                        SPEED
                                                                     CA3
                                                                      CA2              CA1
                                                                                  EARLY
                                                                                  CLOSING
                                                                                  REGION
                                      -60        -30        0        30          60          90     120
                                                                 IVC [ABDC]
                                                                     FIG. 14
                                                                                  40
                                                       80
                                                                                  10
                                                                     78
                                                                42

                         <U+2702><U+2701> <U+2702>
                        FIG. 15
<removed-date>
                                24
              86
<removed-apn>
                                82
                        84
                   26

