  Il:saf\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\SAF\ 6023528_ docx- 7/ I 2017
  ABSTRACT
  A screen for protecting an intercooler or radiator, the screen comprising a frame and a
  mesh extending between opposite portions of the frame, wherein the frame includes
  rounded or radius corner sections so that the frame defines a continuous channel with
5 rounded or radius comers in which the mesh can be received to secure it to the screen. One
  component of a hook and loop fastener set may be applied to the frame and arranged for
  engagement of a corresponding component applied to the intercooler, whereby the screen
  is releasably fixed against the intercooler.

 110                116        2/5
  112
                                      1116
                        112f                          12b
                              1147
   1121
             11616                            116  1g16b  b
110                          Figure 4      16
   112d
     112                                             16c
 110
        16d1                                      16c
                12c          Figure 6

   Hpxa, terwoven\NRortbl\DCC\PXAi 1206 8doex- 18/
                                                /016
                 SCREEN FOR PROTECTING AN INTERCOOLER OR RADIATOR
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
 5 The present invention relates to a screen for protecting an intercooler or radiator.
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   Modern vehicles are commonly turbocharged and intercooled to meet performance and
10 emissions criteria. The intercoolers and radiators of such vehicles can be vulnerable to
   damage or blockage by insects, bugs, grass seeds, stones or other foreign materials or
   particles, particularly when used in country or rural regions, highways, off road, or while
   attempting to clean or remove any foreign materials or particles. Foreign materials and
   particles can block and damage the fragile cooling fins, thereby damaging the intercooler
15 or radiator and reducing engine performance and efficiency, which can increase fuel
   consumption and be expensive to replace. It is therefore desirable to provide protective
   screening to intercoolers and radiators, and to provide a removable protection solution that
   protects the intercooler or radiator in use and which can be removed and cleaned so that
   high pressure washing equipment is not used near the intercooler or radiator.
20
   Examples of the invention seek to solve, or at least ameliorate, one or more disadvantages
   of previous screens for protecting an intercooler or radiator.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
25
   According to one aspect of the present invention, there is provided a screen for protecting
   an intercooler or radiator, the screen comprising a frame and a mesh extending between
   opposite portions of the frame, wherein the frame includes rounded corner sections so that
   the frame defines a continuous channel with rounded corners in which the mesh can be
30 received to secure it to the screen.

   Hpxa  trwoven\NRortblDCC\PXAil 2 06 doex-8/ 9/016
                                                     -2
   According to a preferred embodiment, the frame is formed of frame members defining
   sides of the screen and rounded or radius corner pieces defining the corners. Rounded or
   radius corners can significantly reduce the risk of stress cracks or failure at corners when
   used in an automotive application that requires movement and flexibility.
 5
   In some embodiments, the frame is formed with rebates within which a mounting structure
   of the intercooler or radiator can be received. The rebates can be formed of rounded or
   radius corner pieces.
10 Preferably, one component of a hook and loop fastener set is applied to the frame and
   arranged for engagement of a corresponding component applied to the intercooler or
   radiator, whereby the screen is releasably fixed against the intercooler or radiator. In some
   applications the screen may require additional fixing such as releasable fasteners or cable
   ties.
15
   According to one aspect of the present invention, there is provided a screen for protecting
   an intercooler, the screen comprising a frame formed of frame members and a mesh
   extending between opposite frame members, wherein one component of a hook and loop
   fastener set is applied to the frame and arranged for engagement of a corresponding
20 component applied to the intercooler, whereby the screen is releasably fixed against the
   intercooler.
   Preferably, the intercooler screen is configured for use with a horizontally mounted
   intercooler. Preferably, a surface of the frame which is uppermost in use is configured to
25 engage a rubber gasket of a seal of a bonnet scoop to provide a sealed flow path from the
   bonnet scoop through the screen.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
30 Preferred embodiments of the invention will be further described, by way of non-limiting
   example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:

   Hpxa trwoven\NRortbl\DCC\PXAil 2 068_doex-1 016
                                                     -3
               Figure 1 is a perspective view of an intercooler screen of one embodiment of the
   invention;
               Figure 2 is a front view of the screen;
               Figure 3 is a side view of the screen;
 5             Figure 4 is a perspective view of a radiator screen of one embodiment of the
   invention;
               Figure 5 is a front view of the screen of Figure 4;
               Figure 6 is a side view of the screen of Figure 4;
               Figure 7 is a perspective view of an engine having an intercooler fitted thereto;
10             Figure 8 is a perspective view of a screen of one embodiment of the invention fitted
   to the intercooler of Figure 7;
               Figure 9 is a photograph of debris collected in a conventional vehicle screen;
               Figure 10 is a photograph of debris collected in a screen of one embodiment of the
   invention; and
15             Figures 11 and 12 are photographs of a damaged intercooler.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   With reference to Figure 1, there is shown a screen 10 according to a preferred
20 embodiment of the invention.
   The screen 10 is configured for protecting an intercooler or radiator.             The screen 10
   comprises a frame 12 and a mesh 14 extending between opposite portions of the frame 12.
   The frame 12 includes rounded or radius corner sections 16.             In addition to providing
25 increased strength, rounded or radius corners can significantly reduce the risk of stress
   cracks or failure at corners when used in an automotive application that requires movement
   and flexibility.
   In some embodiments, but not necessarily all, the rounded or radius corner sections 16
30 define a continuous channel with rounded corners in which the mesh 14 can be received to
   secure it to the screen 10. In this regard, a channel (not shown) is formed in an underside

   H:\pxa\ntrwoven\NRortbl\DCC\PXA12068 doex-11016
                                                   -4
   of the frame 12 which allows a securement member (not shown) or spline to be pushed
   into the channel when the mesh 14 has been positioned against the frame 12, thereby
   drawing an edge portion of the mesh 14 into the channel to secure the mesh 14 to the
   frame 12. By providing rounded or radius corners and a continuous channel, the action of
 5 pushing the spline into the channel can be performed as a continuous operation which can
   be faster and easier for an operator performing the installation.
   In the illustrated embodiment, the frame 12 is generally rectangular and formed of frame
   members 12a, 12b, 12c, 12d, which define sides of the screen 10. The frame 12 is also
10 formed of rounded or radius corner pieces 16a, 16b, 16c, 16d which define the rounded or
   radius corners 16 of the screen 10. In addition to facilitating installation of the spline, the
   rounded corners can improve the strength of the screen 10 and enable it to more closely
   match the shape of conventional intercoolers, such as intercooler 20 illustrated in Figure 7.
   By closely matching the shape of the intercooler, or at least the air shroud or intake, the
15 screen can provide better sealing to that airflow into the intercooler is not compromised.
   The screen 10 is secured to the intercooler via a hook and loop fastener set or Velcro. One
   component of the hook and loop fastener set is applied to the frame 12 in such a position as
   to engage a corresponding component of the fastener set which has been applied to the
20 intercooler. Preferably, the components of the hook and loop fastener set are adhesive
   backed. This allows the screen 10 to be releasably fixed against the intercooler 20. By
   providing a screen 10 securable in this way, installation can be performed quickly and
   easily, while allowing the screen 10 to be easily removed for cleaning.
25 In the embodiment illustrated in Figure 7, the intercooler is a horizontally mounted
   intercooler fitted on top of an engine and the screen 10 is configured for use with the
   horizontally mounted intercooler. In such an application, an air scoop in provided in a
   bonnet of the vehicle, the scoop having a rubber sealing gasket to direct air from the scoop
   into the intercooler. An upper surface of the frame 10 is configured to engage the gasket to
30 provide a sealed flow path from the bonnet scoop through the screenlO. Advantageously,
   airflow into the intercooler is not compromised so that engine performance and efficiency

   Hpxa\Intrwoven\NR~ortbl\DCC\PXA 12 06_doex-'1/]/016
                                                           -5
   is not reduced.
   Figures 4 to 6 illustrate a screen 110 according to another embodiment of the invention.
   Screen 110 is configured for protecting a radiator.
 5
   Screen 110 comprises a frame 112 and a mesh 114 extending between opposite portions of
   the frame 112.                   The frame 112 includes rounded or radius corner sections 116. The
   frame 112 is formed a rebate 118 within which a mounting structure of an intercooler or
   radiator can be received. In this regard, radiators and/or intercoolers can be installed with
10 mounting brackets or bracing that obscures a part of the intercooler/radiator, necessitating
   that rebates be provided to allow fitment of the screen against the intercooler/radiator or in
   close proximity. Rebate 118 is formed of rounded or radius corner pieces 116e, 166f,
   11 6g, 11 6h with small straight sections 117 between the corner pieces.
15 Although illustrated as having a single rebate 118, it will be appreciated that multiple
   rebates can also be provided, depending on the particular vehicle application.
   In some embodiments, but not necessarily all, the rounded or radius corner sections 116
   define a continuous channel with rounded or radius corners in which the mesh 114 can be
20 received to secure it to the screen 110. In this regard, a channel (not shown) is formed in
   an underside of the frame 112 and allows a securement member (not shown) or spline to be
   pushed into the channel when the mesh 114 has been positioned against the frame 112,
   thereby drawing an edge portion of the mesh 114 into the channel to secure the mesh 114
   to the frame 112. By providing rounded or radius corners and a continuous channel, the
25 action of pushing the spline into the channel can be performed as a continuous operation
   which can be faster and easier.
   In the illustrated embodiment, the frame 112 is generally rectangular and formed of frame
   members 112a, 112b, 112c, 112d, which define sides of the screen 110. The frame 112 is
30 also formed of rounded corner pieces 116a, 116b, I 16c, 116d which define the rounded or
   radius corners 116 of the screen 110. In addition to facilitating installation of the spline,

   Hpxa trwoven\NRortbl\DCC\PXAil 2 068_doex-1 016
                                                            -6
   the rounded or radius corners can improve the strength of the screen 110 and enable it to
   more closely match the shape of a radiator.
   The screen 110 can be secured to the radiator via a hook and loop fastener set or Velcro, as
 5 detailed above, or with other releasable fasteners. In some embodiments, the screen 110
   can be secured to the radiator with cable ties.
   The described embodiments can allow for an easily removable screen to facilitate cleaning
   without causing damage to the intercooler/radiator. Figure 9 is illustrative of the type of
10 debris, in particular bugs, collected by a standard vehicle screen in offroad use and
   Figure 10 illustrates a screen of one embodiment of the invention with such debris
   collected therein.                The illustrated screen can be easily removed from the vehicle for
   cleaning without causing damage to the intercooler/radiator. Figures 11 and 12 illustrate
   the result of trying to clean debris from an intercooler with a high pressure hose, which is
15 commonly done, and the damage caused to fragile cooling fins.
   The embodiments have been described by way of example only and modifications are
   possible within the scope of the invention disclosed.

   I: \saf\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\SAF\ 6023528 _ docx- 17 I 2017
                                                                 -7
    CLAIMS
    1.             A screen for protecting an intercooler or radiator, the screen comprising a frame and
    a mesh extending between opposite portions of the frame, wherein the frame includes
 5 rounded or radius corner sections so that the frame defines a continuous channel with
   rounded or radius comers in which the mesh can be received to secure it to the screen.
   2.              A screen according to claim 1, wherein the frame is formed of frame members
    defining sides of the screen and rounded or radius corner pieces defining the rounded or
    radius corners.
10  3.             A screen according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the frame is formed with rebates
    within which a mounting structure of the intercooler or radiator can be received, and
    wherein the rebates are formed of rounded or radius comer pieces.
    4.             A screen according to any preceding claim, wherein one component of a hook and
    loop fastener set is applied to the frame and arranged for engagement of a corresponding
15  component applied to the intercooler, whereby the screen is releasably fixed against the
    intercooler or radiator.
    5.             A screen for protecting an intercooler, the screen comprising a frame formed of
    frame members and a mesh extending between opposite frame members, wherein one
    component of a hook and loop fastener set is applied to the frame and arranged for
20  engagement of a corresponding component applied to the intercooler, whereby the screen
    is releasably fixed against the intercooler.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
