                                    ABSTRACT
  A trifunctional molecule comprising a target-specific ligand, a ligand that binds
  a protein associated with the TCR complex and a T cell receptor signaling
5 domain polypeptide is provided. Engineering T cells with this novel receptor
  engenders antigen specific activation of numerous T cell functions, including
  cytokine production, degranulation and cytolysis.

                                              1
   TRIFUNCTIONAL T CELL-ANTIGEN COUPLER AND METHODS AND USES
                                         THEREOF
   RELATED APPLICATIONS
   [001]         This application claims priority to United States Provisional Patent
 5 Application No. 61/936,906 filed on February 7, 2014, the contents of which are
   hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.
   [001A]        This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No.
   2015213437, the entire contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.
   FIELD
10 [002]         The present disclosure relates to a method of treating cancer by
   engineering T-cells with high cytotoxicity against specific target cells and
   reduced off-target toxicity. In particular, the disclosure relates to engineering T
   cells to express novel biological agents which mimic the natural T-cell
   activation process.
15 BACKGROUND
   [003]          Cancer is a major health challenge, with over 150,000 cases of
   cancer expected to be diagnosed in Canada in 2013 alone. While patients with
   early stage disease can be treated effectively by conventional therapies
   (surgery, radiation, chemotherapy), few options are available to patients with
20 advanced disease and those options are typically palliative in nature. Active
   immunotherapy seeks to employ the patient's immune system to clear tumor
   deposits and offers an exciting option to patients who have failed conventional
   therapies    (Humphries,     2013).    Indeed,    several   clinical  studies   have
   demonstrated that immunotherapy with T cells can be curative in patients with
25 advanced melanoma, confirming the utility of this approach (Humphries, 2013).
   Additionally, patients suffering from chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and
   acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) have also been effectively treated and
   cured with T cell immunotherapy (Fry and Mackall, 2013)(Kochenderfer and
   Rosenberg, 2013). While there are several immunotherapy approaches, the
30 engineering of T cells with chimeric receptors allows any patient's immune cells

                                            2
   to be targeted against any desirable target in a major histocompatibility
   complex (MHC) independent manner. To date, the chimeric receptors used for
   engineering T cells consist of a targeting domain, usually a single-chain
   fragment variable (scFv); a transmembrane domain; and a cytosolic domain
 5 that contains signaling elements from the T cell receptor and associated
   proteins (Dotti et al., 2009). Such chimeric receptors have been referred to as
   "T-body", "Chimeric Antigen Receptor" (CAR) or "Chimeric Immune Receptor"
   (CIR) - currently, most researchers use the term "CAR" (Dotti et al., 2009).
   These CARs are considered in modular terms and scientists have spent
10 considerable time investigating the influence of different cytoplasmic signaling
   domains on CAR function. The first-generation CARs employed a single
   signaling domain from either CD3         or FcsRly. Second-generations CARs
   combined the signaling domain of CD3C with the cytoplasmic domain of
   costimulatory receptors from either the CD28 or TNFR family of receptors (Dotti
15 et al., 2009). Third-generation CARs combined multiple costimulatory domains,
   but there is concern that third-generation CARs may lose antigen-specificity
   (Han et al., 2013). Most CAR-engineered T cells that are being tested in the
   clinic employ second-generation CARs where CD3C is coupled to the
   cytoplasmic domain of either CD28 or CD137 (Han et al., 2013)(Finney et al.,
20 2004)(Milone et al., 2009).
   [004]           While CAR-engineered T cells have shown considerable promise
    in clinical application, they rely on a synthetic method for replacing the
   activation signal that is provided by the T cell receptor (TCR). Since this
    synthetic receptor does not deliver all of the signaling components associated
25 with the TCR (ex. CD3epsilon, Lck), it remains unclear whether the T cells are
    optimally activated by the CAR or how the CAR activation affects T cell
    differentiation (ex. progression to memory). Furthermore, since the CAR
    signaling domains are disconnected from their natural regulatory partners by
    the very nature of the CAR structure, there is also an inherent risk that CARs
30  may lead to a low-level of constitutive activation which could result in off-target
    toxicities.

                                               3
   [005]           Given these limitations, it is preferable to re-direct T cells to attack
   tumors via their natural TCR. To this end, a class of recombinant proteins
   termed "Bispecific T-cell Engagers" (BiTEs) has been created (Chames and
   Baty, 2009)(Portell et al., 2013). These proteins employ bispecific antibody
 5 fragments to crosslink T-cell TCR receptors with target antigens. This leads to
   efficient T-cell activation, triggering cytotoxicity. Similarly, bi-specific antibodies
   have been generated that accomplish this goal and some scientists have
   simply linked anti-CD3 antibodies to tumor-specific antibodies employing
   chemical linkage (Chames and Baty, 2009). While these bi-specific proteins
10 have demonstrated some activity in vitro, GMP production, short biological half
   lives and bioavailability represent significant challenges to the successful use of
   these molecules in cancer treatment. Additionally, these molecules also fail to
   properly recapitulate natural TCR signaling because they do not engage the
   TCR co-receptors (CD8 and CD4).
15 [006]           Accordingly, a need remains for T cell-antigen couplers with
   enhanced activity and safety compared to traditional CARs.
   SUMMARY
    [007]          The present inventors have demonstrated that a trifunctional T
   cell-antigen coupler that better mimics the natural signaling through the T cell
20  receptor (TCR), while retaining major histocompatibility complex unrestricted
   targeting, has enhanced activity and safety compared to traditional chimeric
    antigen receptors.
    [008]           Accordingly, one aspect of the disclosure provides a nucleic acid
    comprising:
25         a. a first polynucleotide encoding a target-specific ligand;
           b. a second polynucleotide encoding a ligand that binds a protein
    associated with the TCR complex; and
           c. a third polynucleotide encoding a T cell receptor signaling domain
           polypeptide.
30  [009]           Another aspect of the disclosure provides a polypeptide encoded
    by the nucleic acid described above.

                                             4
   [0010]          Another aspect of the disclosure provides an expression vector
   comprising the nucleic acid described above.
   [0011]          Yet another aspect of the disclosure provides a T-cell expressing
   the nucleic acid described above. Another aspect of the disclosure provides a
 5 pharmaceutical composition comprising the T cell and a carrier.
   [0012]          The disclosure also provides a use of a T cell for treating cancer
   in a subject in need thereof, wherein the T cell expresses a nucleic acid
   comprising:
           a. a first polynucleotide encoding a target-specific ligand;
10         b. a second polynucleotide encoding a ligand that binds a protein
   associated with the TCR complex; and
           c. a third polynucleotide encoding a T cell receptor signaling domain
   polypeptide.
   [0013]            In one embodiment, the target-specific ligand binds an antigen
15 on a cancerous cell.
    [0014]          In another embodiment, the target-specific ligand is a designed
   ankyrin repeat (DARPin) polypeptide or scFv.
    [0015]          In another embodiment, the protein associated with the TCR
    complex is CD3.
20  [0016]          In another embodiment, the ligand that binds a protein associated
   with the TCR complex is a single chain antibody.
    [0017]          In another embodiment, the ligand that binds a protein associated
    with the TCR complex is UCHT1, or a variant thereof.
    [0018]          In another embodiment, the T cell receptor signaling domain
25  polypeptide comprises a cytosolic domain and a transmembrane domain.
    [0019]          In another embodiment, the cytosolic domain is a CD4 cytosolic
    domain and the transmembrane domain is a CD4 transmembrane domain.
    [0020]          In another embodiment the first polynucleotide and third
    polynucleotide are fused to the second polynucleotide.
30  [0021]          In another embodiment, the second polynucleotide and third
    polynucleotide are fused to the first polynucleotide.
    [0022]          The disclosure also provides a vector construct comprising:

                                             5
           a. a first polynucleotide encoding a target-specific ligand;
           b. a second polynucleotide encoding a ligand that binds a protein
   associated with the TCR complex; and
           c. a third polynucleotide encoding a T cell receptor signaling domain
 5 polypeptide, and
           d. a promoter functional in a mammalian cell.
   [0023]           In one    embodiment,     the   first polynucleotide  and   third
   polynucleotide are fused to the second polynucleotide to provide a T cell
   antigen coupler fusion and the coding sequence of the T cell antigen coupler
10 fusion is operably connected to the promoter.
   [0024]           In another embodiment, the second polynucleotide and third
   polynucleotide are fused to the first polynucleotide to provide a T cell antigen
   coupler fusion and the coding sequence of the T cell antigen coupler fusion is
   operably connected to the promoter.
15 [0025]           The disclosure also provides an isolated T cell transfected with
   the vector construct.
   [0026]           Other features and advantages of the present disclosure will
   become apparent from the following detailed description. It should be
   understood, however, that the detailed description and the specific examples
20 while indicating preferred embodiments of the disclosure are given by way of
   illustration only, since various changes and modifications within the spirit and
   scope of the disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art from this
   detailed description.
    BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
25  [0027]          Figure 1 is a graphic summary of the trifunctional T cell-antigen
    coupler (Tri-TAC) in comparison with a conventional second-generation CAR. A
    schema of the constructs used in this work is included.
    [0028]          Figure 2 shows a surface expression analysis of the Tri-TAC
    variants and the classical CAR.
30  [0029]          Figure 3 shows an analysis of cell activation looking at the
    different markers IFN-y, TNF-a and CD107a.

                                           6
   [0030]         Figure 4 analyzes the killing of two different cell lines that either
   express (D2F2E2) or do not express (D2F2) the molecular target of the
   classical CAR and the Tri-TAC.
   [0031]         Figure 5 depicts natural T-cell initiation (A), two currently used
 5 artificial methods for T-cell activation (B and C), and the TAC activation
   technology (D).
   [0032]         Figure 6 depicts (A) configuration 1 of the TAC molecule and (B)
   configuration 2 of the TAC molecule.
   [0033]         Figure 7 shows the functionality of scFv CD4 TAC. (A) is a
10 histogram showing surface expression of the scFv CD4 TAC receptor relative
   to empty vector, (B) shows antigen specific activation of T-cells expressing
   either the scFv CD4 TAC (top) or scFV CAR (bottom) and (C) shows
   comparable killing of MCF-7 human tumour cell line (Her2 positive) by both
   scFv CD4 TAC and scFv CAR.
15 [0034]         Figure 8 characterizes the CD4-TAC configuration 2. (A) is a
    histogram showing surface expression of the DARPin CD4 TAC receptor
    relative to empty vector, (B) shows cytokine production and degranulation of T
    cell engineered with DARPin TAC configuration 2 exposed to Her2 antigen and
    (C) shows growth of CD4 TAC configuration 2 relative to empty vector control.
20  [0035]        Figure    9 shows the functionality of DARPin            CD4 TAC
    configuration 1. (A) shows the surface expression of DARPin CD4 YAC
    compared to DARPin CAR and the NGFR only control, (B) shows growth of
    CD4 TAC configuration 1 and (C) and (D) show the percentage of cells positive
    for various activation and degradation markers.
25  [0036]        Figure 10 shows the cytotoxicity and overall activity of TAC and
    CAR. Cells engineered with TAC, CAR or empty vector control were incubated
    in various human tumor cell lines.
    [0037]        Figure 11 shows receptor surface expression and activation of
    various TAC controls. (A) shows cell surface expression (left), degranulation

                                               7
    (middle) and cytokine production (right) and (B) shows that only full length
    CD4-TAC is able to elicit a cytotoxic response.
    [0038]           Figure 12 shows properties of various transmembrane TAC
    variants. (A) is an overview of various transmembrane domain constructs, (B)
  5 shows the surface of expression of various constructs engineered in CD8
    purified T cells and (C) shows testing of the various variants for degranulation
    and cytokine production.
    [0039]           Figure 13 shows Lck interaction with TAC variants. (A) shows the
    ability of full length TAC and the cytosolic deletion to pull down Lck and (B) is a
10  densitometry analysis of Lck detected in the pellets of (A).
    [0040]           Figure 14 shows CD4 TAC surface expression and activity
    compared to a BiTE like variant. (A) depicts surface expression of an NGFR
    only control, CD4 TAC and BiTE like variant and (B) compares cytotoxicity in
    various cell lines.
15  [0041]           Figure 15 shows wild type CD4 TAC compared to a random
    mutagen library of UCHT1. (A) shows the schematic representation of the
     mutant, (B) is a histogram showing surface expression of the library and (C)
    shows the ability of the library to activate T cells and produce cytokines.
     [0042]           Figure 16 shows enhanced surface expression of the A85V,
20   T161P mutant. (A) compares final CD/CD8 populations between CD4 TAC and
     A85V, T161P mutant, (B) shows enhanced surface expression of the A85V,
     T161P mutant and (C) shows that cytokine production is diminished in the
     A85V, T161 mutant.
     [0043]           Figure 17 shows A85V, T161P mutant cytotoxicity and growth. (A)
25   shows cytotoxicity of the A85V, T161P mutant in various cell lines and (B)
     shows cell growth in culture over 2 weeks.
     DETAILED DESCRIPTION
     (i) Definitions
      [0044]          The term "a cell" as used herein includes a single cell as well as a
 30   plurality of cells.

                                              8
   [0045]          The term "T cell" as used herein refers to a type of lymphocyte
   that plays a central role in cell-mediated immunity. T cells, also referred to as T
   lymphocytes, can be distinguished from other lymphocytes, such as B cells and
   natural killer cells, by the presence of a T-cell receptor (TCR) on the cell
 5 surface. There are several subsets of T cells with distinct functions, including
   but not limited to, T helper cells, cytotoxic T cells, memory T cells, regulatory T
   cells and natural killer T cells.
   [0046]          The term "T cell antigen coupler" as used herein refers to an
   engineered nucleic acid construct or polypeptide, that when expressed on a T
10 cell, targets the T cell to a particular antigen.
   [0047]          The term "polynucleotide" and/or "nucleic acid sequence" and/or
   "nucleic acid" as used herein refers to a sequence of nucleoside or nucleotide
   monomers consisting of bases, sugars and intersugar (backbone) linkages.
   The term also includes modified or substituted sequences comprising non
15 naturally occurring monomers or portions thereof. The nucleic acid sequences
   of the present application may be deoxyribonucleic acid sequences (DNA) or
   ribonucleic acid sequences (RNA) and may include naturally occurring bases
   including adenine, guanine, cytosine, thymidine and uracil. The sequences may
   also contain modified bases. Examples of such modified bases include aza and
20 deaza adenine, guanine, cytosine, thymidine and uracil; and xanthine and
    hypoxanthine. The nucleic acids of the present disclosure may be isolated from
    biological organisms, formed by laboratory methods of genetic recombination
    or obtained by chemical synthesis or other known protocols for creating nucleic
    acids.
25  [0048]         The term "isolated polynucleotide" or "isolated nucleic acid
    sequence" as used herein refers to a nucleic acid substantially free of cellular
    material or culture medium when produced by recombinant DNA techniques, or
    chemical precursors, or other chemicals when chemically synthesized. An
    isolated nucleic acid is also substantially free of sequences which naturally
30  flank the nucleic acid (i.e. sequences located at the 5' and 3' ends of the
    nucleic acid) from which the nucleic acid is derived. The term "nucleic acid" is

                                            9
   intended to include DNA and RNA and can be either double stranded or single
   stranded, and represents the sense or antisense strand. Further, the term
   "nucleic acid" includes the complementary nucleic acid sequences.
   [0049]         The term "recombinant nucleic acid" or "engineered nucleic acid"
 5 as used herein refers to a nucleic acid or polynucleotide that is not found in a
   biological organism. For example, recombinant nucleic acids may be formed by
   laboratory methods of genetic recombination (such as molecular cloning) to
   create sequences that would not otherwise be found in nature. Recombinant
   nucleic acids may also be created by chemical synthesis or other known
10 protocols for creating nucleic acids.
   [0050]          The term "polypeptide" or "protein" as used herein describes a
   chain of amino acids that correspond to those encoded by a nucleic acid. A
   polypeptide or protein of this disclosure can be a peptide, which usually
   describes a chain of amino acids of from two to about 30 amino acids. The term
15  protein as used herein also describes a chain of amino acids having more than
    30 amino acids and can be a fragment or domain of a protein or a full length
    protein. Furthermore, as used herein, the term protein can refer to a linear
    chain of amino acids or it can refer to a chain of amino acids that has been
    processed and folded into a functional protein. It is understood, however, that
20  30 is an arbitrary number with regard to distinguishing peptides and proteins
    and the terms can be used interchangeably for a chain of amino acids. The
    proteins of the present disclosure can be obtained by isolation and purification
    of the proteins from cells where they are produced naturally, by enzymatic
    (e.g., proteolytic) cleavage, and/or recombinantly by expression of nucleic acid
25  encoding the proteins or fragments of this disclosure. The proteins and/or
    fragments of this disclosure can also be obtained by chemical synthesis or
    other known protocols for producing proteins and fragments.
    [0051]         The term     "isolated  polypeptide" refers   to  a polypeptide
    substantially free of cellular material or culture medium when produced by
30   recombinant DNA techniques, or chemical precursors or other chemicals when
    chemically synthesized.

                                           10
   [0052]         The term "antibody" as used herein is intended to include
   monoclonal antibodies, polyclonal antibodies, single chain antibodies, chimeric
   antibodies and antibody fusions. The antibody may be from recombinant
   sources and/or produced in transgenic animals. The term "antibody fragment"
 5 as used herein is intended to include without limitations Fab, Fab', F(ab') 2,
   scFv, dsFv, ds-scFv, dimers, minibodies, diabodies, and multimers thereof,
   multispecific antibody fragments and Domain Antibodies.
   [0053]         The term "vector" as used herein refers to a polynucleotide that
   can be used to deliver a nucleic acid to the inside of a cell. In one embodiment,
10 a vector is an expression vector comprising expression control sequences (for
   example, a promoter) operatively linked to a nucleic acid to be expressed in a
   cell. Vectors known in the art include, but are not limited to, plasmids, phages,
   cosmids and viruses.
   (ii) Compositions
15 [0054]         The present inventors have developed a Trifunctional T cell
   antigen coupler (Tri-TAC) to better mimic the natural signaling through the T
   cell receptor (TCR), while retaining MHC unrestricted targeting. Specifically, the
   inventors created a molecule where the transmembrane and intracellular
    regions of the CD4 co-receptor, which localize to the lipid raft and bind Lck,
20  respectively, were fused to single-chain antibody that binds CD3. The construct
    is designed to draw the CD3 molecule and the TCR into regions of lipid rafts
    and bring Lck into the proximity of the TCR, similar to natural MHC binding. To
    target the chimeric receptor, a designed ankyrin repeat (DARPin) was linked to
   the CD4-UCHT1 chimera to generate a tri-functional T cell-antigen coupler (Tri
25  TAC).
    [0055]        Experimentally, human T cells were engineered to express either
    the prototype Tri-TAC or a conventional CAR with the same DARPin. It was
    determined that in all aspects, T cells engineered with the Tri-TAC
    demonstrated functionality equivalent to a conventional CAR. With regard to
30  two parameters (TNF-a production and CD107a mobilization), it was observed
    that the Tri-TAC was more active than a conventional CAR. Further, the data

                                            11
   shows that on a per molecule basis the Tri-TAC shows a significantly enhanced
   activity. Additionally the Tri-TAC offers enhanced safety compared to traditional
   CARs as no activation domains are part of the protein.
   [0056]         Accordingly, the present disclosure relates to a nucleic acid
 5 comprising:
                  a first polynucleotide encoding a target-specific ligand;
                  a second polynucleotide encoding a ligand that binds the TCR
   complex; and
                   a third polynucleotide encoding a T cell receptor signaling domain
10 polypeptide.
   [0057]          In one embodiment, the nucleic acid is a recombinant, or
   engineered, nucleic acid. In another embodiment, the first, second and/or third
   polynucleotides are recombinant, or engineered, polynucleotides.
   [0058]          The disclosure also relates to a polypeptide encoded by the
15 nucleic acid and a composition comprising the nucleic acid.
   [0059]          A nucleic acid comprising each of the first, second and third
   polynucleotides, and the polypeptide encoded by the nucleic acid is also
   referred to herein as a Trifunctional T cell-antigen coupler or Tri-TAC.
   Target-specific ligand
20 [0060]          The target-specific ligand directs the T cell-antigen coupler to a
   target cell. Accordingly, a target-specific ligand refers to any substance that
   binds, directly or indirectly, to a target cell. A target cell may be any cell
   associated with a disease state, including, but not limited to cancer. In one
   embodiment, the target specific ligand binds to an antigen (protein produced by
25 a cell that can elicit an immune response) on the target cell. The target-specific
   ligand can also be referred to as an antigen binding domain.
    [0061]          In one embodiment, a target cell is a tumor cell. Here, a target
    specific ligand can bind to a tumor antigen or tumor associated antigen on a
   tumor cell. Tumor antigens are well known in the art. The term "tumor antigen"

                                             12
   or "tumor associated antigen" as used herein means any antigenic substance
   produced in tumor cells that triggers an immune response in a host (e.g. which
   can be represented by MHC complexes). The tumor antigen when
   proteinaceous can for example be a sequence of 8 or more amino acids up to
 5 the full protein and any number of amino acids in between 8 and the full length
   protein which comprises at least one antigenic fragment of the full length
   protein that can be represented in a MHC complex. Examples of tumor
   antigens include, but are not limited to, HER2 (erbB-2), B-cell maturation
   antigen (BCMA), alphafetoprotein (AFP), carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), CA
10  125, MUC-1, epithelial tumor antigen (ETA), tyrosinase, melanoma-associated
   antigen (MAGE), prostate-specific antigen (PSA), glioma-associated antigen, 0
   human chorionic gonadotropin, thyroglobulin, RAGE-1, MN-CA IX, human
   telomerase reverse transcriptase, RU1, RU2 (AS), intestinal carboxyl esterase,
    mut hsp70-2, M-CSF, prostase, PAP, NY-ESO-1, LAGE-1a, p53, prostein,
15  PSMA, survivin and telomerase, prostate-carcinoma tumor antigen-1 (PCTA-1),
    ELF2M, neutrophil elastase, CD22, insulin growth factor (IGF)-I, IGF-II, IGF-1
    receptor and mesothelin.
    [0062]         Examples of target-specific ligands include antibodies and
   fragments thereof, for example single chain antibodies such as scFVs, or small
20  proteins that bind to the target cell and/or antigen.
    [0063]         One example of a target-specific ligand is a designed ankyrin
    repeat (DARPin) targeted to a specific cell and/or antigen. In one embodiment,
    the target-specific ligand is a DARPin targeted to HER2 (erbB-2). One example
    of a DARPin targeted to HER2 (erb-2) is provided herein as SEQ ID NO: 7 and
25  8.
    [0064]         Another example of a target-specific ligand is a scFV targeted to
    a specific cell and/or antigen. In one embodiment, the target-specific ligand is a
    scFv that binds HER2 (erb-2). One example of an scFv that binds HER2 (erb-2)
     is provided herein as SEQ ID NO: 22 and 23.
30

                                            13
   Ligand that binds the TCR complex
   [0065]         The T cell-antigen coupler is designed to recruit the T-Cell
   Receptor (TCR) in combination with co-receptor stimulation. Accordingly, the T
   cell antigen coupler includes a ligand that binds a protein associated with the T
 5 cell receptor complex.
   [0066]         The TCR (T-Cell Receptor) is a complex of integral membrane
   proteins that participates in the activation of T cells in response to the binding
   of an antigen. The TCR is a disulfide-linked membrane-anchored heterodimer
   normally consisting of the highly variable alpha (a) and beta (@) chains
10 expressed as part of a complex with the invariant CD3 (cluster of differentiation
   3) chain molecules. T cells expressing this receptor are referred to as a:s (or
   ap) T cells, though a minority of T cells express an alternate receptor, formed
   by variable gamma (y) and delta (6) chains, referred as y6 T cells. CD3 is a
   protein complex composed of four distinct chains. In mammals, the complex
15 contains a CD3y chain, a CD36 chain, and two CD3s chains.
   [0067]         As used herein, the term "ligand that binds a protein associated
   with the T-cell receptor complex" includes any substance that binds, directly or
   indirectly, to a protein of the TCR. Proteins associated with the TCR include,
   but are not limited to the TCR alpha (a) chain, TCR beta (P) chain, TCR
20 gamma (y) chain, TCR delta (6) chain, CD3y chain, CD36 chain and CD3E
   chains. In one embodiment, a ligand that binds a protein associated with the T
   cell receptor complex is an antibody to the TCR alpha (a) chain, TCR beta (P)
    chain, TCR gamma (y) chain, TCR delta (6) chain, CD3y chain, CD36 chain
    and/or CD3E chain.
25  [0068]        In one embodiment, the ligand is an antibody or a fragment
    thereof that binds CD3. Examples of CD3 antibodies are known in the art (for
    muromonab, otelixizumab, teplizumab and visilizumab). In one embodiment,
    the antibody that binds CD3 is a single chain antibody, for example a single
    chain variable fragment (scFv).
30  [0069]        Another example of a CD3 antibody is UCHT1 which targets
    CD3s. A sequence for UCHT1 is provided herein as SEQ ID NOs: 13 and 14.

                                            14
   T cell receptor signaling domain polypeptide
   [0070]        The T cell antigen coupler includes a T cell receptor signaling
   domain polypeptide. As used herein, the term "T cell receptor signaling domain"
   refers to a polypeptide that (a) localizes to the lipid raft and/or (b) binds Lck. A
 5 T cell receptor signaling domain polypeptide can include one or more protein
   domains including, but not limited to, a cytoplasmic domain and/or a
   transmembrane domain. As used herein, "protein domain" refers to a
   conserved part of a given protein sequence structure that can function and
   exist independently of the rest of the protein chain. In one embodiment, the T
10 cell receptor signaling domain polypeptide includes a cytoplasmic domain. In
   another embodiment, the T cell receptor signaling domain polypeptide includes
   a transmembrane domain. In a further embodiment, the T cell receptor
   signaling   domain     polypeptide   includes    both    a    cytoplasmic    and   a
   transmembrane domain.
15 [0071]        T cell receptor signaling domain polypeptides include TCR co
   receptors and co-stimulators and TCR co-receptor and co-stimulator protein
   domains.
   [0072]        A "TCR co-receptor" refers to a molecule that assists the T cell
   receptor (TCR) in communicating with an antigen-presenting cell. Examples of
20 TCR co-receptors include, but are not limited to, CD4, CD8, CD28, CD45, CD4,
   CD5, CDS, CD9, CD16, CD22, CD33, CD37, CD64, CD80, CD86, CD134, CDt
   37 and CD 154.
    [0073]       A "TCR co-stimulator" refers to a molecule that is required for the
    response of a T cell to an antigen. Examples of TCR co-stimulators include, but
25 are not limited to, PD-1, ICOS, CD27, CD28, 4-1BB (CD 137), OX40, CD30,
    CD40, lymphocyte fiction-associated antigen 1 (LFA-1), CD2, CD7, LIGHT,
    NKG2C, B7-H3, and a ligand that specifically binds CD83.
    [0074]        In one embodiment, the T cell receptor signaling domain
    polypeptide includes both a cytoplasmic domain and a transmembrane domain
30  of a TCR co-receptor or co-stimulator protein. The cytoplasmic domain and
    transmembrane domain may be from the same co-receptor or co-stimulator or

                                              15
   from different co-receptors or co-stimulators. The cytoplasmic domain and
   transmembrane domains are optionally joined by a linker.
   [0075]          In one embodiment, the T cell receptor signaling domain
   polypeptide comprises the transmembrane and cytoplasmic domains of the
 5 CD4 co-receptor (see for example SEQ ID NO: 17 and 18).
   [0076]          In another embodiment, the T cell receptor signaling domain
   polypeptide comprises the transmembrane and cytoplasmic domains of the
   CD8a co-receptor.
   [0077]           In other embodiment, the cytoplasmic and/or transmembrane
10 domain of the T cell receptor signaling domain polypeptide is synthetic. For
   example, the transmembrane             domain is optionally a synthetic, highly
   hydrophobic membrane domain.
   [0078]           In another example, the transmembrane domain is a glycophorine
   transmembrane domain. In yet another example the T cell receptor signaling
15 domain polypeptide includes a CD48 GPI signal sequence to attach the T-cell
   antigen coupler to the membrane using the GPI anchor.
    [0079]          In addition to the three components of the T cell antigen coupler
   described herein (target-specific ligand, ligand that binds the TCR complex and
   T cell receptor signaling domain polypeptide), it is contemplated that other
20  polypeptides could also be included. For example, the T cell antigen coupler
   optionally includes additional polypeptides that directly or indirectly act to target
    or activate the T cell.
    Linkers
    [0080]          The various components of the T cell antigen coupler can be
25  fused directly to each other, or they may be joined by at least one linker,
    optionally a peptide linker. The peptide linker can be of any size provided it
    does not interfere with the function of the individual linked components. In one
    embodiment, the peptide linker is from about 1 to about 15 amino acids in
    length, more specifically from about 1 to about 10 amino acids, and most
30  specifically from about 1 to about 6 amino acids.

                                              16
   [0081]           Examples of linkers useful in the T cell antigen coupler include
   the G4S 3 linker. Other examples of linkers are peptides corresponding to SEQ
   ID NOs: 11, 12, 15, 16, 19, 20 and 21 and variants and fragments thereof:
   Configuration
 5 [0082]           The    T cell-antigen   coupler may   be    present     in various
   configurations as will be readily appreciated by a person of skill in the art.
   [0083]           In one embodiment, the target specific ligand and the T cell
   receptor signaling domain polypeptide are both fused to the ligand that binds
   the TCR complex. For example, the N-DARPin TAC described here (also
10 referred to as configuration 1; SEQ ID NO: 1 and 2) includes, in order:
           i) N-Darpin Tri TAC leader sequence (secretion signal) (SEQ ID NO: 5
   and 6)
           ii) DARPin specific for Her2 antigen (SEQ ID NO: 7 and 8)
            iii) Myc tag (SEQ ID NO: 9 and 10)
15          iv) Linker 1 (SEQ ID NO: 11 and 12)
           v) UCHT1 (SEQ ID NO: 13 and 14)
           vi) Linker 2 (SEQ ID NO: 15 and 16)
            vii) CD4 (SEQ ID NO: 17 and 18)
    [0084]            In another embodiment, the DARPin is replaced with a scFV
20  ScFv specific for a Her2 antigen (SEQ ID NO: 22 and 23).
    [0085]           In another embodiment, the ligand that binds the TCR complex
    and the T cell receptor signaling domain polypeptide are both fused to the
    target specific ligand (C-DARPin TAC as described here (also referred to as
    configuration 1; SEQ ID NO: 3 and 4)). Alternative configurations will be readily
25  apparent to a person of skill in the art.
    Vector Constructs
    [0086]           A variety of delivery vectors and expression vehicles can be
    employed to introduce nucleic acids described herein into a cell. Accordingly,

                                              17
   the aforementioned polynucleotides are optionally comprised in a vector to
   provide a vector construct, also herein referred to as a vector.
   [0087]            Therefore, the present disclosure also relates to a vector
   comprising:
 5          a. a first polynucleotide encoding a target-specific ligand;
            b. a second polynucleotide encoding an antibody that binds CD3; and
            c. a third polynucleotide encoding a T cell receptor signaling domain
   polypeptide,
   and optionally a promoter functional in a mammalian cell.
10 [0088]            Promoters, regions of DNA that initiate transcription of a particular
   nucleic acid sequence, are well known in the art. A "promoter functional in a
   mammalian cell" refers to a promoter that drives expression of the associated
   nucleic acid sequence in a mammalian cell. A promoter that drives expression
   of a nucleic acid sequence may be referred to as being "operably connected" to
15 the nucleic acid sequence.
   [0089]            In  one    embodiment,    the   first  polynucleotide     and   third
   polynucleotide are fused to the second polynucleotide to provide a T cell
   antigen coupler fusion and the coding sequence of the T cell antigen coupler
   fusion is operably connected to the promoter.
20 [0090]            In another embodiment, the second polynucleotide and third
   polynucleotide are fused to the first polynucleotide to provide a T cell antigen
   coupler fusion and the coding sequence of the T cell antigen coupler fusion is
   operably connected to the promoter.
   [0091]            Optionally, the vector is designed for expression in mammalian
25 cells such as T cells. In one embodiment, the vector is a viral vector, optionally
   a retroviral vector.
   [0092]            Vectors   that   are  useful  comprise     vectors    derived    from
    lentiviruses, Murine Stem Cell Viruses (MSCV), pox viruses, oncoretroviruses,
   adenoviruses, and adeno-associated viruses. Other delivery vectors that are
30  useful comprise vectors derived from herpes simplex viruses, transposons,

                                             18
   vaccinia viruses, human papilloma virus, Simian immunodeficiency viruses,
   HTLV, human foamy virus and variants thereof. Further vectors that are useful
   comprise vectors derived from spumaviruses, mammalian type B retroviruses,
   mammalian type C retroviruses, avian type C retroviruses, mammalian type D
 5 retroviruses and HTLV/BLV type retroviruses. One example of a lentiviral
   vector useful in the disclosed compositions and methods is the pCCL vector.
   Variations of Polynucleotides and Polypeptides
   [0093]         Many     modifications may be made           to the polynucleotide
   sequences including vector sequences and polypeptides sequences disclosed
10 in this application and these will be apparent to one skilled in the art.
   Modifications include substitution, insertion or deletion of nucleotides or amino
   acids or altering the relative positions or order of nucleotides or amino acids.
   [0094]          In one embodiment, the polynucleotides described herein may be
   modified or mutated to optimize the function of the encoded polypeptide and/or
15 the function, activity and/or expression of the T cell antigen coupler.
   [0095]          It is shown herein that UCHT1 mutant can be generated that
   results in enhanced        surface expression of the TAC          (Figures  15-17).
   Accordingly, in one embodiment, the TAC comprises a modified or mutated
   ligand that binds the TCR complex, wherein the TAC comprising the modified
20 or mutated antibody has increased surface expression and/or activity compared
   to a TAC comprising a wild type, or non-modified or mutated ligand that binds
   the TCR complex. An example of a mutated or modified antibody that binds
   CD3 is the UCHT1 A85V, T161P mutant described herein (SEQ ID NO: 24 and
   25).
25 Sequence Identity
   [0096]          The polynucleotides of the application also include nucleic acid
   molecules (or a fragment thereof) having at least about: 70% identity, at least
   80% identity, at least 90% identity, at least 95% identity, at least 96% identity,
   at least 97% identity, at least 98% identity or, at least 99% or 99.5% identity to
30 a nucleic acid molecule of the application. The polypeptides of the application

                                             19
   also include polypeptides (or a fragment thereof) having at least about: 70%
   identity, at least 80% identity, at least 90% identity, at least 95% identity, at
   least 96% identity, at least 97% identity, at least 98% identity or, at least 99%
   or 99.5% identity to a polypeptide of the application. Identity refers to the
 5 similarity of two nucleotide or polypeptide sequences that are aligned so that
   the highest order match is obtained. Identity is calculated according to methods
   known in the art. For example, if a nucleotide sequence (called "Sequence A")
   has 90% identity to a portion of SEQ ID NO: 1, then Sequence A will be
   identical to the referenced portion of SEQ ID NO: 1 except that Sequence A
10 may include up to 10 point mutations (such as substitutions with other
    nucleotides) per each 100 nucleotides of the referenced portion of SEQ ID NO:
    1.
    [0097]         Sequence identity is preferably set at least about: 70% identity, at
    least 80% identity, at least 90% identity, at least 95% identity, at least 96%
15  identity, at least 97% identity, at least 98% identity or, most preferred, at least
    99% or 99.5% identity to the nucleotide sequences provided herein and/or its
    complementary sequence. Sequence identity is also preferably set at least
    about: 70% identity, at least 80% identity, at least 90% identity, at least 95%
    identity, at least 96% identity, at least 97% identity, at least 98% identity or,
20  most preferred, at least 99% or 99.5% identity to the polypeptide sequences
    provided herein. Sequence identity will preferably be calculated with the GCG
    program from Bioinformatics (University of Wisconsin). Other programs are
    also available to calculate sequence identity, such as the Clustal W program
    (preferably using default parameters; Thompson, J D et al., Nucleic Acid Res.
25  22:4673-4680).
     Hybridization
     [0098]         The application includes DNA that has a sequence with sufficient
     identity to a nucleic acid molecule described in this application to hybridize
     under stringent hybridization conditions (hybridization techniques are well
30   known in the art). The present application also includes nucleic acid molecules
     that hybridize to one or more of the sequences described herein and/or its

                                             20
   complementary sequence. Such nucleic acid molecules preferably hybridize
   under high stringency conditions (see Sambrook et al. Molecular Cloning: A
   Laboratory Manual, Most Recent Edition, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press,
   Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y.). High stringency washes have preferably have low
 5 salt (preferably about 0.2% SSC) and a temperature of about 50-65* C. and are
   optionally conducted for about 15 minutes.
   Expression in T cells
   [0099]         The T cell antigen coupler is designed for expression in T cells.
   Accordingly, one aspect of the disclosure provides a T cell expressing a T cell
10 antigen coupler. Another aspect of the disclosure relates to a T cell transduced
   or transfected with T cell antigen coupler or a vector comprising a T cell antigen
   coupler. Optionally, the T cell is an isolated T cell.
   [00100]        T cells can be obtained from a number of sources, including, but
   not limited to blood (for example, peripheral blood mononuclear cells), bone
15 marrow, thymus tissue, lymph node tissue, cord blood, thymus tissue, tissue
   from an infection site, spleen tissue, and tumors. In one embodiment, the T
   cells are autologous T cells. In another embodiment, the T cells are obtained
   from a cell line of T cells. Methods of culturing and maintaining T cells in vitro
   are well known in the art.
20 [00101]        Once obtained, the T cells are optionally enriched in vitro. As is
   well known in the art, a population of cells can be enriched by positive or
   negative selection. Further, the T cells can be optionally frozen or
   cryopreserved and then thawed at a later date.
   [00102]        Before or after introducing the T cell antigen coupler to the T
25 cells, the T cells are optionally activated and/or expanded using methods well
   known in the art. For example, the T cells can be expanded by contact with a
   surface having attached thereto an agent that stimulates a CD3/TCR complex
   associated signal and a ligand that stimulates a co-stimulator molecule on the
   surface of the T cells.

                                           21
   [00103]       Methods of transducing or transfecting T cells with nucleic acid
   sequences and expressing the transduced nucleic acids in the T cells are well
   known in the art. For example, a nucleic acid can be introduced into a cell by
   physical, chemical or biological means. Physical means include, but are not
 5 limited to, (microinjection, electroporation, particle bombardment, lipofection
   and calcium phosphate precipitation). Biological means include the use of DNA
   and RNA vectors.
   [00104]        In one embodiment, viral vectors, including retroviral vectors, are
   used to introduce and express a nucleic acid into a T cell. Viral vectors include
10 vectors derived from lentivirus, Murine Stem Cell Viruses (MSCV), pox viruses,
   herpes simplex virus I adenovirus and adeno-associated viruses. The vector
   optionally includes a promoter that drives expression of the transduced nucleic
   acid molecule in a T cell.
   [00105]       Various assays may be used to confirm the presence and/or
15 expression of the transduced nucleic acid sequence and/or the polypeptide
   encoded by the nucleic acid in the T cell. Assays include, but are not limited to
   Southern and Northern blotting, RT-PCR and PCR, ELISAs and Western
   blotting.
   [00106]        In one embodiment, a T cell expressing a T cell antigen coupler
20 has increased T cell activation in the presence of an antigen compared to a T
   cell not expressing a T cell antigen coupler and/or as compared to a T cell
   expressing a traditional CAR. Increased T cell activation can be ascertained by
   numerous methods, including but not limited to, increased tumor cell line killing,
   increased cytokine production, increased cytolysis, increased degranulation
25 and/or increased expression of activation markers such as CD107a, IFNy, 1L2
   or TNFa. Increases may be measured in an individual cell or in a population of
   cells.
    [00107]       The terms "increased" or "increasing" as used herein refer to at
    least a 2%, 5%, 10%, 25%, 50%, 100% or 200% increase in a T cell or
30  population of T cells expressing a T cell antigen coupler compared to a T cell or

                                              22
   population of T cells not expressing a T cell antigen coupler and/or as
   compared to a T cell or population of T cells expressing a traditional CAR.
   [00108]        T cells, optionally autologous T cells, expressing the T cell
   antigen coupler can be administered to a subject in need thereof. According, a
 5 T cell transduced with and/or expressing a T cell antigen coupler can be
   formulated in a pharmaceutical composition. Preferably, the T cells are
   formulated for intravenous administration.
   [00109]        A pharmaceutical composition can be prepared by per se known
   methods for the preparation of pharmaceutically acceptable compositions that
10 can be administered to subjects, such that an effective quantity of the T cells
   are combined in a mixture with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Suitable
   carriers are described, for example, in Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences
   (Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, 20th ed., Mack Publishing Company,
   Easton, Pa., USA, 2000). On this basis, the compositions include, albeit not
15 exclusively, solutions of the substances in association with one or more
   pharmaceutically acceptable carriers or diluents, and contained in buffered
   solutions with a suitable pH and iso-osmotic with the physiological fluids.
    [00110]        Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable carriers include essentially
   chemically inert and nontoxic compositions that do not interfere with the
20 effectiveness of the biological activity of the pharmaceutical composition.
    Examples of suitable pharmaceutical carriers include, but are not limited to,
   water,      saline    solutions,    glycerol    solutions,    ethanol,   N-(1(2,3
    dioleyloxy)propyl)N,N,N-trimethylammonium              chloride        (DOTMA),
    diolesylphosphotidyl-ethanolamine         (DOPE),   and    liposomes.       Such
25  compositions should contain a therapeutically effective amount of the
    compound, together with a suitable amount of carrier so as to provide the form
    for direct administration to the patient.
    [00111]        Pharmaceutical compositions may also include, without limitation,
    lyophilized powders or aqueous or non-aqueous sterile injectable solutions or
30  suspensions, which may further contain antioxidants, buffers, bacteriostats and
    solutes that render the compositions substantially compatible with the tissues

                                            23
   or the blood of an intended recipient. Other components that may be present in
   such compositions include water, surfactants (such as Tween), alcohols,
   polyols, glycerin and vegetable oils, for example. Extemporaneous injection
   solutions and suspensions may be prepared from sterile powders, granules,
 5 tablets, or concentrated solutions or suspensions.
   (iii) Methods and Uses
   [00112]        One aspect of the present disclosure provides the use of a
   Trifunctional T-cell antigen coupler to direct a T cell to a specific antigen.
   [00113]       Accordingly, the present disclosure also relates to the use of a
10 modified T cell for treating cancer in a subject in need thereof, wherein the
   modified T cell expresses a nucleic acid comprising a first polynucleotide
   encoding a target-specific ligand, a second polynucleotide encoding an ligand
   that binds the TCR complex; and a third polynucleotide encoding a T cell
   receptor signaling domain polypeptide. The disclosure also relates to methods
15 for treating cancer, comprising administering an effective amount of modified T
   cells to a subject in need thereof. Also disclosed is use of an effective amount
   of modified T cells for treating cancer in a subject in need thereof. Further
   disclosed is use of a modified T cell in the preparation of a medicament treating
   cancer in a subject in need thereof. Even further disclosed is a modified T cell
20 for use in treating cancer in a subject in need thereof. In one embodiment, the
   target-specific ligand binds an antigen on a cancerous cell, thereby targeting
    the modified T cell to the cancerous cell.
    [00114]       Cancers that may be treated include any form of neoplastic
    disease. Examples of cancers that may be treated include, but are not limited
25  to breast cancer, lung cancer and leukemia, for example mixed lineage
    leukemia (MLL), chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or acute lymphoblastic
    leukemia (ALL). Other cancers include carcinomas, blastomas, melonomas,
    sarcomas,    hematological    cancers, lymphoid       malignancies, benign    and
    malignant tumors, and malignancies. The cancer can comprise non-solid
30  tumors or solid tumors. Cancers that may be treated include tumors that are not

                                           24
   vascularized, or not yet substantially vascularized, as well as vascularized
   tumors.
   [00115]        The modified T cells and/or          pharmaceutical compositions
   described herein may be administered to, or used in, living organisms including
 5 humans, and animals. The term "subject" as used herein refers to any member
   of the animal kingdom, preferably a mammal, more preferably a human being.
   [00116]        Procedures for isolating, genetically modifying, and administering
   T cells to a subject in need thereof are known in the art. In particular, T cells
   are isolated from a mammal (preferably a human), optionally expanded and/or
10 activated as described herein and transduced or transfected with the nucleic
   acid molecules of the disclosure. The T cells can be autologous with respect to
   the subject. In another embodiment, the cells can be allogeneic, syngeneic or
   xenogeneic with respect to the subject.
   [00117]        The modified T cells can be administered either alone, or as a
15 pharmaceutical composition, as described herein. Compositions of the present
   disclosure are preferably formulated for intravenous administration.
   [00118]        Administration of an "effective amount" of the modified T cells
   and/or pharmaceutical compositions is defined as an amount effective, at
   dosages and- for periods of time necessary to achieve the desired result. For
20 example, an effective amount of a substance may vary according to factors
   such as the disease state, age, sex, and weight of the individual, and the ability
   of the recombinant protein to elicit a desired response in the individual. Dosage
   regime may be adjusted to provide the optimum therapeutic response. For
   example, several divided doses may be administered daily or the dose may be
25  proportionally reduced as indicated by the exigencies of the therapeutic
   situation.
    [00119]       For example, the       modified T cells and/or pharmaceutical
    compositions described herein may be administered at a dosage of 104 to 109
    cells per kg body weight, optionally 105 to 108 cells per kg body weight or 106 to
30  107 cells per kg body weight. The dosage can be administered a single time or
    multiple times.

                                               25
   [00120]        The modified T cells and/or pharmaceutical compositions may be
   administered by any method known in the art, including but not limited to,
   aerosol    inhalation,     injection,   ingestion,    transfusion,   implantation or
   transplantation. The modified T cells and/or pharmaceutical compositions may
 5 administered to a subject subcutaneously, intradennally, intratumorally,
   intranodally, intrameduliary, intramuscularly, by intravenous (i.v.) injection, or
   intraperitoneally. The modified T cells and/or pharmaceutical compositions
   thereof may be injected directly into a tumor, lymph node, or site of infection.
   [00121]        As used herein, and as well understood in the art, "to treat" or
10 "treatment" is an approach for obtaining beneficial or desired results, including
   clinical results. Beneficial or desired clinical results can include, but are not
   limited to, alleviation or amelioration of one or more symptoms or conditions,
   diminishment of extent of disease, stabilized (i.e. not worsening) state of
   disease, preventing spread of disease, delay or slowing of disease progression,
15 amelioration or palliation of the disease state, and remission (whether partial or
   total), whether detectable or undetectable. "Treatment" can also mean
   prolonging survival as compared to expected survival if not receiving treatment.
    In one embodiment, "treatment" includes preventing a disease or condition.
20
   Table 1. Table of Sequences
    SEQ ID NO            Description                           Nucleotide/Amino Acid
    SEQ ID NO: 1         N-Darpin Tri TAC                      Nucleotide
    SEQ ID NO: 2         N-Darpin Tri TAC                      Amino Acid
    SEQ ID NO: 3         C-Darpin Tri TAC                      Nucleotide
    SEQ ID NO: 4         C-Darpin Tri TAC                      Amino Acid
    SEQ ID NO: 5         N-Darpin      Tri TAC        leader Nucleotide
                         sequence (secretion signal)
    SEQ ID NO: 6         N-Darpin      Tri TAC leader Amino Acid
                         sequence (secretion signal)
    SEQ ID NO: 7         DARPin       specific for Her2        Nucleotide
                         antigen
    SEQ ID NO: 8         DARPin       specific    for   Her2   Amino Acid
                         antigen
    SEQ ID NO: 9         Myc Tag                               Nucleotide
    SEQ ID NO: 10        Myc Tag                               Amino Acid
    SEQ ID NO: 11        Linker 1                              Nucleotide

                                             26
   SEQ    ID NO:  12    Linker 1                            Amino Acid
   SEQ    ID NO:  13    UCHT1'                              Nucleotide
   SEQ    ID NO:  14    UCHT1 2                             Amino Acid
   SEQ    ID NO:  15    Linker 2                            Nucleotide
   SEQ    ID NO:  16    Linker 2                            Amino Acid
   SEQ    ID NO:  17    CD4 Domain'                         Nucleotide
   SEQ    ID NO:  18    CD4 Domain 4                        Amino Acid
   SEQ    ID NO:  19    Universal rigid linker              Amino Acid
   SEQ    ID NO:  20    CD28 based linker                   Amino Acid
   SEQ    ID NO:  21    CD4 based linker                    Amino Acid
   SEQ    ID NO:  22    ScFv specific for Her2 antigen      Nucleotide
   SEQ    ID NO:  23    ScFv specific for Her2 antigen      Amino Acid
   SEQ    ID NO:  24    UCHT1 (A85V, T161P)                 Nucleotide
   SEQ    ID NO:  25    UCHT1 (A85V, T161P)                 Amino Acid
   1  Light chain, nucleotides 1-324; Linker, nucleotides 325-387; Heavy chain,
   nucleotides 388-750
   2 Light chain, amino acids 1-108; Linker, amino acids 109-128; Heavy chain,
 5 amino acids 129-250
   3 Extracellular linker, nucleotides 1-66; Transmembrane domain, nucleotides
   67-132; Cytosolic domain, nucleotides 133-254
   4 Extracellular linker, amino acids 1-22; Transmembrane domain, amino acids
   23-44; Cytosolic domain, amino acids 45-84
10
   [00122]         The above disclosure generally describes the present application.
   A more complete understanding can be obtained by reference to the following
   specific examples. These examples are described solely for the purpose of
15 illustration and are not intended to limit the scope of the application. Changes in
   form and substitution of equivalents are contemplated as circumstances might
   suggest or render expedient. Although specific terms have been employed
   herein, such terms are intended in a descriptive sense and not for purposes of
   limitation.
20 [00123]         The following non-limiting examples are illustrative of the present
   application.

                                             27
   Examples
   Example 1.
   Background and Summary
   [00124]        A trifunctional T cell-antigen coupler (Tri-TAC) was developed to
 5 better recapitulate the natural signaling through the TCR, while retaining MHC
   unrestricted targeting. T-cell activation occurs following ligation of MHC by the
   TCR and co-receptor on the T cells (either CD4 or CD8) simultaneously bind to
   conserved regions within the MHC molecule (Yin et al., 2012)(Kuhns and
   Davis, 2012). The co-receptors are specifically located within "lipid rafts"
10 (Fragoso et al., 2003)(Arcaro et al., 2000), membrane micro domains that are
   particularly important for TCR signal complex formation (He and Marguet,
   2008). In addition to ensuring the correct microdomain localization of the TCR
   activation complex, these co-receptors also bind directly to Lck (Kim et al.,
   2003), a protein kinase that is crucial for T-cell activation (Methi et al.,
15 2005)(Acuto and Cantrell, 2000). As stated previously, none of the existing
   chimeric receptors or bi-functional proteins engage the co-receptor molecules
   or Lck. A molecule was created where the transmembrane and intracellular
   regions of the CD4 co-receptor, which localize to the lipid raft and bind Lck,
   respectively, were fused to single-chain antibody that binds CD3 (UCHT1; SEQ
20 ID NO: 13 and 14; sequence is also in the public domain). This construct is
   designed to draw the CD3 molecule and the TCR into regions of lipid rafts and
   bring Lck into the proximity of the TCR, similar to natural MHC binding. To
   target this chimeric receptor, a designed ankyrin repeat (DARPin) was linked to
   the CD4-UCHT1 chimera to generate a tri-functional T cell-antigen coupler (Tri
25 TAC). In this specific case, the DARPin was specific for the proto-oncogene,
   erbB-2.
   [00125]        Human T cells were engineered to express either the prototype
   Tri-TAC or a conventional CAR with the same DARPin. It was determined that
   in all aspects, T cells engineered with the Tri-TAC demonstrated functionality
30 equivalent to a conventional CAR. Interestingly, with regard to 2 parameters
   (TNF-ax production and CD107a mobilization), it was observed that the Tri-TAC

                                            28
   was more active than a conventional CAR. Further, the data shows that on a
   per molecule basis the Tri-TAC shows a significantly enhanced activity.
   Additionally the Tri-TAC offers enhanced safety compared to traditional CARs
   as no activation domains are part of the protein.
 5 [00126]         The traditional CAR is effective in stimulating T-cells by
   combining several signaling domains (Figure 1C). By comparison, the Tri-TAC
   (Figure 1 A/B) does not contain any signaling domains of its own. It relies
   purely on facilitating the proposed interactions between other key players
   (shown in grey) in an antigen dependent manner. To test this design
10 hypothesis, several variants of the full length N-Darpin Tri-TAC were generated
   (Figure 1D).
   [00127]         Previous work has established the consistent and significant cell
   surface expression of CAR molecules. It was found that the Darpin CAR shows
   robust surface expression (Figure 2). In contrast, Tri-TAC showed a much
15 lower surface expression. This was observed for all variants that had the
    UCHT1 domain. However, the Tri-TAC variant lacking the UCHT1 domain
   showed surface expression similar to the Darpin CAR.
    [00128]        T cells engineered to express the Tri-TAC, the Tri-TAC variants or
   the DARPin CAR were stimulated with plate-bound antigen.                The T cells
20  engineered to express the Tri-TAC and DARPin CAR could elaborate all
    measured     functions   (TNF-a production,     IFN-y    production and CD107a
    mobilization) (Figure 3A and 3B). Binding of the Tri-TAC to both CD3 and the
    target antigen was found to be critical for the T cells to elaborate their functions.
    In Figure 3, it is demonstrated that removal of UCHT1, which abolishes binding
25  to CD3, abrogates the function of the Tri-TAC. In other data, it was determined
    that removal of the DARPin from the Tri-TAC also abrogates function.
    [00129]        As expected, when these T-cells were tested for their cytotoxicity,
    Tri-TAC - UCHT1 -Darpin showed no ability to kill antigen expressing cells
    (Figure 4). N-Darpin Tri-TAC showed a high level of selective cytotoxicity that
30  was very similar to the classical DARPin-CAR. Interestingly, the T cells
    expressing the DARPin-CAR appear to display off-target killing at high T-cell:

                                            29
   target cell ratios (see killing on D2F2 in Figure 4) whereas the T cells
   expressing the Tri-TAC did not display these effects.
   Experimental
   [00130]        Figure 1 is a schematic overview. (A) Depicts N-Darpin Tri-TAC.
 5 The ankyrin repeat domain targeted against Her2 is fused to the single chain
   fragment variable (scFv) UCHT1 using a (G4S)3 linker. The scFv is then linked
   to the CD4 molecule. The CD4 contains the linker region and transmembrane
   region as well as the cytoplasmic anchoring region. Potential interactions are
   shown in faded gray. (B) Depicts the C-Darpin Tri-TAC. In this construct, the
10 scFv UCHT1 is switched with the Darpin domain. Potential interactions are
   again depicted in faded gray. (C) Model of a classical second generation CAR.
   The Darpin targeting domain is linked via a CD8a linker to the CD28 trans
   membrane domain. The CD3 zeta domain with its 3 activating ITAM motifs is
   then connected to the cytosolic portion of CD28. (D) Overview of the various
15 Tri-TAC controls, lacking either the Darpin targeting domain, the CD3 binding
   scFv moiety, or the cytosolic portion of the CD4 domain.
   [00131]        Figure 2 shows the phenotypic surface expression analysis of
   transduced T-cells with histograms of respective Tri-TAC variants. T-cells had
   been incubated with Her2Fc, which later was detected via flow cytometry. The
20 presented data was gated on CD8+ lymphocytes. The shown gates were
   chosen based on the untransduced control.
   [00132]        Figure 3 is a functional analysis of engineered T-cells. In (A), cells
   were stimulated for 4 hours with plate bound Her2Fc in media containing
   GolgiPlugTM . Cells were first stained for CD8+,         then permeabilized and
25 analyzed for TNF-a and IFN-y production. Initial gates were set for singlet
   CD8+ lymphocytes. The shown gates were set based on the untransduced
   control. In B), as before, cells were stimulated with plate bound Her2Fc. Media
    included   GolgiPlug TM as well      as an      anti-CD107a   antibody.    Actively
    degranulating cells were expected to have a higher rate of CD107a recycling,
30  and subsequently show a higher signal for anti-CD107a.

                                              30
   [00133]        Figure 4 shows engineered T-cell cytotoxicity. Two different
   adherent mouse tumor lines were plated 24 hours prior to T-cell addition.
   D2F2/E2 have been engineered to express human Her2, whereas the D2F2 do
   not. Indicated ratios of T-cells were added to tumor containing wells. Tumor
 5 cells were incubated for 6h with T-cells. T-cells were subsequently removed via
   washing. 10% Alamar blue containing media was added to each well for 3
   hours. The metabolic activity, as an indicator of cell survival, was determined
   via endpoint analysis. Wells without T-cells were defined as maximum
   survivability/ metabolic activity and set to 100%, whereas media incubated
10 without cells was set as 0% metabolic activity. Data presented is the average of
   3 replicates.
   Discussion
   [00134]        Using chimeric receptors to redirect T-cells towards specific
   targets in an MHC-independent manner is an attractive method to treat cancer
15 and may be applicable to infectious diseases where antigens from the
   pathogen are found on the plasma membrane. The chimeric receptor would
   result in: (1) specific cytotoxicity against the target cells and (2) minimal off
   target toxicity. Conventional CARs are limited in this regard because they rely
   upon a synthetic structure where signaling domains are located in unnatural
20 positions where they may not receive proper regulation and, thus, there is
   reduced cellular control of specific activity.
   [00135]        The Tri-TAC was designed to re-direct the signaling components
   of the natural TCR without employing ectopic localization of signaling domains.
   The Tri-TAC was designed with the following principles: (1) the chimeric
25  receptor should interact and facilitate ordered assembly of key activating
    protein complexes, (2) the chimeric receptor should take advantage of pre
   existing cellular adaptations, such as micro-domain environments and (3) the
    chimeric receptor should not possess any activating domains. The Tri-TAC is
    able to achieve this efficiently and, as the data demonstrates, at rates of
30  activation that are equal to, if not better than, that of a 2nd generation CAR.

                                             31
   [00136]         This Tri-TAC is thus ideally suited for further integration with
   additional designed co-receptors to further fine tune T-cell activation. Ultimately
   this should lead to much reduced off target effects without compromising on
   targeted cytotoxicity. Tri-TAC appears to exhibit lower toxicity than existing
 5 CARs. Darpin CARs show mild off target killing at high cell to target ratios,
   which may become problematic when used in therapies. However, Tri-TAC,
   which is as functional as the traditional CAR, did not display off-target effects.
   Since DARPins bind targets with high affinity, off-target effects may be more
   common on cells that express high levels of a chimeric receptor that employs a
10 DARPin. Therefore, without being bound by theory, the low surface expression
   of the Tri-TAC may be advantageous as it reduces the likelihood of such off
   target effects.
   [00137]          Ultimately, the modular nature of the Tri-TAC technology allows
   much more sophisticated fine tuning of the T-cell activation process. For
15 example, the recruitment of the TCR complex could be modulated by
   engineering Tri-TAC molecules with a lower CD3 affinity. This could be used to
   mimic the natural low TCR affinity (Chervin et al., 2009) while retaining a high
   affinity targeting domain to detect cancer targets. Unlike the classical CAR, the
   Tri-TAC technology can be engineered to more closely resemble this.
20 [00138]          In conclusion, the presented Tri-TAC technology is a highly
   efficient molecular tool that is able to (1) efficiently trigger T-cell activation and
   cytotoxicity, (2) is able to do this by mimicking natural T-cell activation and (3)
   does not require activation domains of its own.
    Example 2. Characterization of the Tri-TAC technology
25  [00139]         An overview of the Tri-TAC technology is provided in Figure 5.
    [00140]         Figure 5A shows an example of CD8 T-cell activation based on
   the co-assembly of different receptors and their associated protein partners.
    Initially, the major histocompatibility complex I is presenting an antigen (helix).
    This is recognized by a T cell receptor (TCR) complex capable of binding the
30  antigen. The TCR complex contains several individual subunits. The c:/p
    domains are able to interact directly with the antigen presented on MHC-l. The

                                            32
   a/p domains then interact with several other domains (s, y,S,and (), all of which
   participate in T-cell activation via various intracellular activation domains. The
   TCR complex interacts with MHC-1 concurrently with the CD8 co-receptor. The
   CD8 co-receptor binds to the MHC-l in an antigen independent manner. CD8
 5 directly interacts with Lck, a protein kinase important for activating the TCR
   receptor complex. The CD8 and Lck interaction also ensures their association
   with lipid rafts (membrane portion) microdomains, which are hypothesised to
   organize and encapsulate other relevant signalling moieties (dark spheres).
   Later stages of activation then lead to CD28 recruitment. If this interaction
10 cascade occurs several times in parallel, T-cells become activated and are able
   to exert their cytotoxic effects.
   [00141]        Figure 5B provides an overview of Chimeric Antigen Receptors
   (CAR). CARs seek to reproduce the complex mechanism of T-cell activation by
   combining several key activation domains, such as ( and CD28, in a single
15 synthetically engineered molecule. The CAR then directly interacts with an
   antigen of choice using specific binding domains. Depicted here is an ankyrin
   repeat protein (DARPin). It is believed that several such interactions occurring
   in parallel lead to T-cell activation.
   [00142]         Figure 5C depicts bispecific T-cell engager (BiTE) like molecules
20 which engage T-cells by directly cross linking the TCR complex to an antigen of
   choice. The BiTE like molecule depicted here contains two binding domains.
   The DARPin moiety is interacts with the target antigen. The single chain
   variable fragment domain (scFv) binds the TCR complex via its epsilon domain.
   Several such crosslinkings occurring in parallel lead to T-cell activation.
25 [00143]         Figure 5D is an overview of the TAC technology mimicking the
   natural activation process. The T-cell Antigen Coupler (TAC) is able to bind to
   its antigen via the DARPin binding domain. DARPin is then linked to a scFv
   able to bind the epsilon domain of the TCR complex. The TAC then associates
   with the CD4 transmembrane and cytosolic domain. CD4, like CD8, interacts
30 with Lck and is situated in lipid rafts. Thus, TACs combine TCR recruitment

                                            33
   with co-receptor stimulation. Without being bound by theory, it is believed that
   several such interactions happening in parallel lead to T-cell activation.
   [00144]        Different configurations of the TAC molecule are possible. Figure
   6A shows a model of the TAC molecule in configuration 1. The CD4-tail,
 5 transmembrane, and linker domains are combined with the TCR-epsilon
   specific scFv (UCHTI). The scFv is then linked to the antigen binding domain.
   This domain is exchangeable. In this proposal the antigen binding domains
   used are either a scFv or DARPin domain specific for the Her2 antigen. Figure
   6B shows a TAC molecule in configuration 2. Here, the CD4 domains first
10 interact with the antigen binding domain. This domain is then linked to the TCR
   recruiting scFv (UCHT1) domain.
   [00145]        Figure 7 shows the functionality of scFv CD4 TAC. Figure 7A is a
   histogram showing surface expression of the scFv CD4 TAC receptor relative
   to empty vector. Cells were stained using an FcHer2 antigen, which was in turn
15 detected using fluorescently labelled antibodies. Figure 7B shows antigen
   specific activation of T-cells expressing either the scFv CD4 TAC (top) or scFV
   CAR (bottom). T-cells expressing either the scFv CD4 TAC (top) or scFv CAR
   (bottom) were incubated with plate bound Her2 antigen. Both modified cells
   showed antigen specific activation. The DMSO negative control showed no
20 activity (Data not shown). Figure 7C shows comparable killing of MCF-7 human
   tumour cell line (Her2 positive) by both scFv CD4 TAC and scFv CAR. Both
    scFv CD4 TAC and scFv CAR were incubated with MCF-7 human tumour cell
    line (Her2 positive) and compared to an empty vector control.
    [00146]       Figure 8 is a characterization of CD4-TAC configuration 2. Figure
25  8A is a histogram of DARPin CD4-TAC configuration 2 relative to vector
    control. Surface expression was probed with the FcHer2 modified antigen.
    Cells expressing CD4-TAC configuration 2 show a distinct increase in FcHer2
    binding demonstrating high surface expression of the receptor. For clarity the
    model of CD4 TAC configuration 2 is shown. Figure 8B shows T-cells
30  engineered with DARPin TAC configuration 2 exposed to plate bound Her2
    antigen. Cytokine production and degranulation were measured. Data show

                                            34
   that DARPin TAC configuration 2 is a functional receptor. Treatment without
   antigen showed no T-cell activation (data not shown). Figure 8C shows growth
   of CD4 TAC configuration 2 relative to empty vector control. Cells were grown
   in 100u/ml 1L2 10ng/ml 1L7. Starting with 100,000 cells, growth was monitored
 5 by counting culture samples at predetermined intervals. Configuration 2 has a
   marked reduced growth rate relative to control.
   [00147]        Figure    9 shows     the  functionality of   DARPin     CD4   TAC
   configuration 1. Figure 9A shows surface expression of DARPin CD4 TAC (red)
   compared to DARPin CAR (green), and the NGFR only control (blue). Cells
10 were probed with receptor specific antigen FcHer2. Histogram shows that
   DARPin CD4 TAC is expressed well on the surface. However, its maximal
   surface expression is lower compared to the CAR construct. Figure 9B shows
   growth of CD4 TAC configuration 1. For two weeks culture growth was
   monitored by sampling and manually counting cells. The empty vector shows
15 similar growth as DARPin CAR. However TAC has reduced growth by
   comparison. Figures 9C and 9D show the percentage of cells positive for
   various activation and degradation markers. Empty vector, DARPin CD4 and
   DARPin CAR were incubated with either plate bound antigen Her2 or DMSO
   control. The results of three separate experiments are summarized using the
20 statistical analysis software SPICE. The scatter graph shows the percentage of
   cells positive for a set of activation markers. CD4-TAC show a higher
   percentage of cells, positive for degranulation markers. DARPin CAR cells are
   positive for a variety of activation markers with no significantly enriched
   population of degranulation markers. The pie chart represents the same data. It
25 demonstrates that CD4-TAC has a markedly higher population of cells focused
   on degranulation. CD4-TAC has a majority of activated cells degranulate with
   various levels of cytokine production. However, CARs show a more randomly
   distributed pattern of activation with degranulation constituting less than 50% of
   the total population. The pattern may be indicative of a less controlled T-cell
30 activation by CARs.
   [00148]        Figure 10 shows cytotoxicity and overall activity of TAC and CAR.
   Cells engineered with either TAC, CAR or empty vector control were incubated

                                            35
   with various human tumour cell lines. MDA MB 231, SK OV 3 and A549 all
   express the Her2 antigen. LOXIMV is Her2 negative. It was observed that in all
   cases, TAC shows enhanced cytotoxicity. The antigen negative cell line
   LOCIMVI is not being targeted, supporting that cytotoxicity is antigen specific.
 5 [00149]       Figure 11 shows receptor surface expression and activation of
   various TAC controls. Cell surface expression (left), degranulation (middle) and
   cytokine production (right) is shown in Figure 11A. Constructs lacking specific
   domains were made to determine the significance of these domains. From top
   to bottom the following domains were removed: DARPin antigen binding
10 domain and UCHT1 TCR binding domain, with the full length TAC being at the
   bottom. Surface expression of TAC without the UCHT1 domain resulted in
   enhanced surface expression relative to full length CD4 TAC. The DARPin
   negative mutant could not be detected using FcHer2 antigen. Degranulation
   (middle) was only observed in full length TAC. Both UCHT1 and DARPin
15 deletion resulted in no degranulation. Similarly, cytokine production was only
   observed in the full length TAC. Figure 11 B shows the mouse cell line D2F2
   was engineered to express the human Her2 antigen (D2F2/E2). Both cell lines
   were incubated with T-cells engineered with full length CD4-TAC or its deletion
   variants. The data show the Effector to Target ratio 4:1 endpoint. Only full
20 length CD4-TAC was able to elicit a cytotoxic response. This demonstrates that
   DARPin and UCHT1 domains are involved in receptor function.
   [00150]        Figure 12 shows properties of various transmembrane TAC
   variants. Figure 12A is an overview of the various transmembrane constructs.
   The first set of variants is lacking the cytosolic domain. The CD4 TAC -cytosol
25 has the entire cytosolic domain removed. The synthetic construct has the CD4
   TM replaced by a designed, highly hydrophobic membrane domain. The
   glycophorine variant replaces the CD4 transmembrane domain with the
   glycophorine transmembrane domain. The GPI anchor variant uses the CD48
   GPI signal sequenced to attach the TAC to the membrane using the GPI
30 anchor. The CD8A TAC variant replaced the transmembrane and cytosolic
   CD4 domain with the CD8a counterpart. Figure 12B shows CD8 purified T-cells
   were engineered with the various constructs. Surface expression of the various

                                            36
   receptors relative to full length TAC is shown. All data is relative to the median
   fluorescent intensity of the control. All variants have a significantly lower
   receptor surface expression compared to the full length CD4-TAC. The GPI
   anchor TAC variant is not detectable above background. Figure 12C depicts
 5 testing of the different variants for degranulation and cytokine production. Cells
   were incubated with plate pound Her2 antigen. The activity is presented as
   percent of cells positive for either the degranulation maker CD107a (left bar
   graph) or the percent of all cytokine producing cells taken together (TNFa, IFNg
   and TNFa/IFNg, right bar graph). GPI anchored or CD8a variants show
10 background levels of degranulation and cytokine production. Glycophorine,
   synthetic and -cytosol TAC variants show a moderate level of degranulation
   and a low level of cytokine production. In all cases the activity is well below full
   length CD4-TAC. Taken together this shows that anchoring TAC without its
   cytosolic domain leads to functional receptors with diminished activity.
15 [00151]        Figure 13 shows Lck interaction with TAC variants. In Figure 13A,
   Her2 antigen was covalently attached to magnetic beads. 293TM cells were
   engineered to express both the TAC and TAC cytosolic deletion variant as well
   as Lck. Beads were incubated with cell lysates over night and subsequently
   washed and western blotted. Lck was detected using an Lck antibody, TACs
20 were detected via Myc antibody. B-Actin was used as control. b-Actin was not
   pulled down and only detected in the supernatant (S). However both full length
   TAC and cytosolic deletion were efficiently pulled down and detected in the
   pellet fraction (B). Vector control and TAC without cytosolic domain show
   comparable levels of background Lck signal. Full length CD4 TAC however
25 shows a significant level of Lck relative to the total amount. Figure 13B shows
   densitometry analysis of the Lck detected in the pellet. Signal was corrected
   relative to the negative control. This data supports that Lck is able to interact
   with full length CD4-TAC.
   [00152]         In Figure 14, CD4 TAC surface expression and activity is
30 compared to a BiTE like variant. Figure 14A shows NGFR only control (left),
   CD4 TAC (middle) and BiTE like variant (right). Surface expression was tested
   using the transduction marker NGFR and the Her2 antigen. TAC shows much

                                             37
   lower surface expression compared to BiTEs. Most notably, BiTE seems to
   secrete enough coupling antibody to enable transduction negative cells
   (NGFR-) to show strong receptor expression. Both cytokine production and
   degranulation are higher in BiTE like cells compared to TAC engineered cells.
 5 Figure 14B compares cytotoxicity in various Her2 positive cell lines (MDA MB
   231, SK OV 3, A549). In contrast to cytokine production, TAC engineered cells
   show significantly enhanced cytotoxic activity.
   [00153]         Figure 15 shows comparison of CD4 TAC WT to a random
   mutagen library of UCHT1. To test the ability to change TAC properties, 24
10 amino acids found on the binding surface of UCHT1 and TCR epsilon were
   individually mutated. This gives rise to a theoretical number of 480 unique
   clones, all of which should be represented in this random library. Figure 15A
   shows the schematic representation of the mutant. Markings indicate the
   mutations which are all in the scFv-epsilon interface. Figure F5B is a histogram
15 of surface expression. Engineered cells were probed with FcHer2 antigen to
   detect surface expressed receptor. The library shows a much enhanced
   surface expression of the receptor. Figure 15C shows WT and Library CD4
   TAC cells incubated with plate bound antigen. Their ability to activate and
    produce cytokines is presented. The library has similar activity compared to the
20 WT. Without being bound by theory, this supports the idea that expression
    properties of TAC can be improved while retaining the original functional profile
    by altering the scFv domain.
    [00154]        Figure 16 shows enhanced surface expression of the A85V,
    T161P mutant. The library was propagated for an extended period of time to
25  select for mutants with a growth advantage over the WT. A selected mutant
    was analysed (A85V, T161P; numbering is based on the UCHT1 domain
    fragment). Figure 16A shows peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) were
    engineered with either WT CD4-TAC or the A85V, T161P mutant. The final
    CD4/CD8 populations between CD4 TAC (left) and A85V, T161P mutant (right)
30  are compared. Notably, WT CD4-TAC leads to a reduced population of CD4
    positive cells. This effect is not observed in the mutant cells. Figure 16B shows
    surface expression, as determined by NGFR transduction maker and FcHer2

                                            38
   positivity, and indicates enhanced surface expression of the A85V, T161P
   mutant. Figure 16C shows that A85V, T161P mutant cytokine production is
   diminished (DMSO controls showed no activity, data not shown). Degranulation
   between WT TAC and A85V, T161P mutant is comparable.
 5 [00155]         Figure 17 shows A85V, T161P mutant cytotoxicity and growth. In
   Figure 17A, T-cells engineered with WT CD4 TAC and A85V, T161P mutant
   were incubated with the Her2 antigen positive cell lines SK OV 3, MDA MB 231
   and A549. In all cases, the mutant displayed a reduced level of cytotoxicity; in
   the case of A549, no cytotoxicity was detected. In Figure 17B, cell growth in
10 culture starting with 100 000 cells was monitored over 2 weeks. Periodically
   samples were taken and cells were counted manually. The A85V, T161P
   mutant exhibits markedly improved growth compared to the WT variant. Taken
   together, this demonstrates that the library is likely to contain various mutants
   that enable the modification and optimization of several TAC functions. Thus,
15 UCHT1 can be used as a functional modulator.
   [00156]         While the present application has been described with reference
   to what are presently considered to be the preferred examples, it is to be
   understood that the application is not limited to the disclosed examples. To the
   contrary, the application is intended to cover various modifications and
20 equivalent arrangements included within the spirit and scope of the appended
   claims.
   [00157]         All publications, patents, and patent applications are herein
   incorporated by reference in their entirety to the same extent as if each
    individual publication, patent or patent application was specifically and
25  individually indicated to be incorporated by reference in its entirety.

                                            39
   References
   Acuto, 0., and Cantrell, D. (2000). T cell activation and the cytoskeleton. Annu.
   Rev. Immunol. 18,165-184.
   Arcaro, a, Gregoire, C., Boucheron, N., Stotz, S., Palmer, E., Malissen, B., and
 5 Luescher, I.F. (2000). Essential role of CD8 palmitoylation in CD8 coreceptor
   function. J. Immunol. 165, 2068-2076.
   Chames, P., and Baty, D. (2009). Bispecific antibodies for cancer therapy: the
   light at the end of the tunnel? MAbs 1, 539-547.
   Chervin, A.S., Stone, J.D., Holler, P.D., Bai, A., Chen, J., Eisen, H.N., and
10 Kranz, D.M. (2009). The impact of TCR-binding properties and antigen
   presentation format on T cell responsiveness. J. Immunol. 183, 1166-1178.
   Dotti, G., Savoldo, B., and Brenner, M. (2009). Fifteen years of gene therapy
   based on chimeric antigen receptors: "are we nearly there yet?". Hum. Gene
   Ther. 20,1229-1239.
15 Finney, H.M., Akbar, A.N., and Lawson, A.D.G. (2004). Activation of resting
   human primary T cells with chimeric receptors: costimulation from CD28,
   inducible costimulator, CD134, and CD137 in series with signals from the TCR
   zeta chain. J. Immunol. 172, 104-113.
    Fragoso, R., Ren, D., Zhang, X., Su, M.W.-C., Burakoff, S.J., and Jin, Y.-J.
20 (2003). Lipid raft distribution of CD4 depends on its palmitoylation and
   association with Lck, and evidence for CD4-induced lipid raft aggregation as an
   additional mechanism to enhance CD3 signaling. J. Immunol. 170, 913-921.
    Fry, T.J., and Mackall, C.L. (2013). T-cell adoptive immunotherapy for acute
    lymphoblastic leukemia. Hematology Am. Soc. Hematol. Educ. Program 2013,
25  348-353.
    Han, E.Q., Li, X., Wang, C., Li, T., and Han, S. (2013). Chimeric antigen
    receptor-engineered T cells for cancer immunotherapy: progress and
    challenges. J. Hematol. Oncol. 6, 47.
    He, H.-T., and Marguet, D. (2008). T-cell antigen receptor triggering and lipid
30  rafts: a matter of space and time scales. Talking Point on the involvement of
    lipid rafts in T-cell activation. EMBO Rep. 9, 525-530.
    Humphries, C. (2013). Adoptive cell therapy: Honing that killer instinct. Nature
    504, S13-5.
    Kim, P.W., Sun, Z.J., Blacklow, S.C., Wagner, G., and Eck, M.J. (2003). A zinc
35  clasp structure tethers Lck to T cell coreceptors CD4 and CD8. Science 301,
    1725-1728.

                                           40
   Kochenderfer, J.N., and Rosenberg, S.A. (2013). Treating B-cell cancer with T
   cells expressing anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptors. Nat. Rev. Clin. Oncol.
   10, 267-276.
   Kuhns, M.S., and Davis, M.M. (2012). TCR Signaling Emerges from the Sum of
 5 Many Parts. Front. Immunol. 3,159.
   Methi, T., Ngai, J., Mahic, M., Amarzguioui, M., Vang, T., and Tasken, K.
   (2005). Short-interfering RNA-mediated Lck knockdown results in augmented
   downstream T cell responses. J. Immunol. 175, 7398-7406.
   Milone, M.C., Fish, J.D., Carpenito, C., Carroll, R.G., Binder, G.K., Teachey, D.,
10 Samanta, M., Lakhal, M., Gloss, B., Danet-Desnoyers, G., et al. (2009).
   Chimeric receptors containing CD137 signal transduction domains mediate
   enhanced survival of T cells and increased antileukemic efficacy in vivo. Mol.
   Ther. 17, 1453-1464.
   Portell, C. a, Wenzell, C.M., and Advani, A.S. (2013). Clinical and
15 pharmacologic aspects of blinatumomab in the treatment of B-cell acute
   lymphoblastic leukemia. Clin. Pharmacol. 5, 5-11.
   Yin, Y., Wang, X.X., and Mariuzza, R. a (2012). Crystal structure of a complete
   ternary complex of T-cell receptor, peptide-MHC, and CD4. Proc. NatI. Acad.
   Sci. U. S. A. 109, 5405-5410.
20

                                            41
   CLAIMS:
   1.      A nucleic acid comprising:
           a. a first polynucleotide encoding a target-specific ligand;
 5         b. a second polynucleotide encoding a ligand that binds a protein
   associated with the TCR complex; and
           c. a third polynucleotide encoding a T cell receptor signaling domain
           polypeptide.
10 2.      The nucleic acid of claim 1, wherein the target-specific ligand binds a
   tumor antigen.
   3.      The nucleic acid of claim 1 or 2, wherein the target-specific ligand is a
   designed ankyrin repeat (DARPin) polypeptide or scFv.
15
   4.      The nucleic acid of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the protein
   associated with the TCR complex is CD3.
   5.      The nucleic acid of any one of claims 1-4, wherein the ligand that binds
20 a protein associated with the TCR complex is a single chain antibody.
   6.      The nucleic acid of any one of claims 1-5, wherein the ligand that binds
   a protein associated with the TCR complex is UCHT1, or a variant thereof.
25  7.     The nucleic acid of any one of claims 1-6, wherein the T cell receptor
    signaling domain polypeptide comprises a cytosolic domain and a
    transmembrane domain.
    8.     The nucleic acid of claim 7, wherein the cytosolic domain is a CD4
30  cytosolic domain and the transmembrane domain is a CD4 transmembrane
    domain.

                                             42
   9.     The nucleic acid of any one of claims 1-8, wherein the first
   polynucleotide and third polynucleotide are fused to the second polynucleotide.
   10.    The nucleic acid of any one of claims 1-8, wherein the second
 5 polynucleotide and third polynucleotide are fused to the first polynucleotide.
   11.    A polypeptide encoded by the nucleic acid of any one of claims 1-10.
   12.    An expression vector comprising the nucleic acid of any one of claims 1
10 10.
   13.    A T-cell expressing the nucleic acid of any one of claims 1-10.
   14.    A vector construct comprising:
15                a. a first polynucleotide encoding a target-specific ligand;
                  b. a second polynucleotide encoding a ligand that binds a protein
   associated with the TCR complex; and
                  c. a third polynucleotide encoding a T cell receptor signaling
   domain polypeptide, and
20                d. a promoter functional in a mammalian cell.
    15.    The vector construct of claim 14, wherein the first polynucleotide and
   third polynucleotide are fused to the second polynucleotide to provide a T cell
   antigen coupler fusion and the coding sequence of the T cell antigen coupler
25 fusion is operably connected to the promoter.
    16.    The vector construct of claim 14, wherein the second polynucleotide and
   third polynucleotide are fused to the first polynucleotide to provide a T cell
    antigen coupler fusion and the coding sequence of the T cell antigen coupler
30  fusion is operably connected to the promoter.

                                           43
   17.    The vector construct of any one of claims 14-16, wherein the target
   specific ligand binds a tumor antigen.
   18.    The vector construct of any one of claims 14-17, wherein the target
 5 specific ligand is a designed ankyrin repeat (DARPin) polypeptide or scFv.
   19.    The vector construct of any one of claims 14-18, wherein the protein
   associated with the TCR complex is CD3.
10 20.    The vector construct of any one of claims 14-19, wherein the ligand that
   binds a protein associated with the TCR complex is a single chain antibody.
   21.    The vector construct of any one of claims 14-20, wherein the ligand that
   binds a protein associated with the TCR complex is UCHT1, or a variant
15 thereof.
   22.    The vector construct of any one of claims 13-21, wherein the T cell
   receptor signaling domain polypeptide comprises a cytosolic domain and a
   transmembrane domain.
20
   23.    The vector construct of claim 22, wherein the cytosolic domain is a CD4
   cytosolic domain and the transmembrane domain is a CD4 transmembrane
   domain.
25 24.     The vector construct of any one of claims 14-23, wherein the first
   polynucleotide and third polynucleotides are fused to the second
   polynucleotide.
   25.     An isolated T cell transfected with the vector construct of any one of
30  claims 14-24.

                                            44
   26.    A pharmaceutical composition comprising the T cell of claim 13 or 25
   and a carrier.
   27.    A use of a T cell for treating cancer in a subject in need thereof, wherein
 5 the T cell expresses a nucleic acid comprising:
          a. a first polynucleotide encoding a target-specific ligand;
          b. a second polynucleotide encoding a ligand that binds a protein
   associated with the TCR complex; and
          c. a third polynucleotide encoding a T cell receptor signaling domain
10 polypeptide.
   28.    The use of claim 27, wherein the target-specific ligand binds an antigen
   on a cancerous cell.
15 29.    The use of claim 27 or 28, wherein the target-specific ligand is a
   designed ankyrin repeat (DARPin) polypeptide or scFv.
   30.    The use of any one of claims 27-29, wherein the protein associated with
   the TCR complex is CD3.
20
   31.    The use of any one of claims 27-30, wherein the ligand that binds a
   protein associated with the TCR complex is a single chain antibody.
   32.    The use of any one of claims 27-31, wherein the ligand that binds a
25 protein associated with the TCR complex is UCHT1, or a variant thereof.
   33.    The use of any one of claims 27-32, wherein the T cell receptor signaling
   domain polypeptide comprises a cytosolic domain and a transmembrane
   domain.
30
   34.    The use of claim 33, wherein the cytosolic domain is a CD4 cytosolic
   domain and the transmembrane domain is a CD4 transmembrane domain.

                                          45
  35.    The use of any one of claims 27-34, wherein the first polynucleotide and
  third polynucleotide are fused to the second polynucleotide.
5 36.    The use of any one of claims 27-34, wherein the second polynucleotide
  and third polynucleotide are fused to the first polynucleotide.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
