                                          ABSTRACT
        An integrated circuit, such as included as a portion of a sensor node, can include a
regulator circuit having an input coupleable to an energy harvesting transducer. The
integrated circuit can include a wireless receiver circuit coupled to the regulator circuit and
configured to wirelessly receive at least enough operating energy to establish operation of
the sensor node without requiring the energy harvesting transducer. The integrated circuit
can include a digital processor circuit coupled to the regulator circuit and a power
management processor circuit. The digital processor circuit or one or more other circuits can
include a subthreshold operational mode established by the power management processor
circuit based on the selected energy consumption level. For example, establishing the
subthreshold operational mode can include adjusting or selecting a supply voltage so as to
establish subthreshold operation of a field effect transistor (FET) in the digital processor
circuit or other circuits.

                                         1
                                 AUSTRALIA
                                PatentsAct 1990
        University of Virginia D/B/A University of Virginia Licensing
                               & Ventures Group
      University of Washington through its Center for Commercialization
        ORIGINAL COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                      STANDARD PATENT
Invention title:   Energy harvesting and control for sensor node
The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the
best method of performing it known to us:

                                                 2
      ENERGY HARVESTING AND CONTROL FOR SENSOR NODE
Related Applications
[0001]       This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No 2013221336,
which is the Australian national phase application corresponding to PCT/US2013/026390
filed 15 February 2013, which claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application
Serial Number 61/600,467, titled "Battery-less Energy Harvesting Sensor Node SoC and
Related Method thereof," filed on February 17, 2012, the entire contents of which are hereby
incorporated by cross-reference for all purposes
Background
[0002]       Embedded systems can be used in a variety of applications, including providing
monitoring, sensing, control, or security functions. Such embedded systems are generally
tailored to specific applications, according to relatively severe constraints on size, power
consumption, or environmental survivability.
[0003]       In particular, one class of embedded system can include sensor nodes, such as for
sensing or monitoring one or more physiologic parameters. A sensor node having wireless
communication capability can be referred to as a Wireless Sensor Node (WSN). Similarly, a
sensor node located on, nearby, or within a body of a subject can be referred to as a Body
Area Sensor node (BASN) or Body Sensor node (BSN). Sensor nodes can provide
significant benefit to care providers, such as enabling continuous monitoring, actuation, and
logging of physiologic information, facilitating automated or remote follow-up, or providing
one or more alerts in the presence of deteriorating physiologic status. The physiologic
information obtained using the sensor node can be transferred to other systems, such as used
to help diagnose, prevent, and respond to various illnesses such as diabetes, asthma, cardiac
conditions, or other illnesses or conditions.
[0004]       A sensor node can provide particular value to a subject or care giver if the sensor
node includes certain features such as long-term monitoring capability or wearability, for
example. A long lifetime for a sensor node without maintenance, replacement, or manual
recharging becomes ever more important as health care costs escalate or as more care
providers attempt to transition to remote patient follow-up and telemedicine. It is believed

                                                 3
that generally-available sensor nodes are precluded from widespread adoption because of a
lack of extended operational capability or wearability.
[0005]       For example, sensor nodes including a large primary or rechargeable battery can
be uncomfortable to wear, and a sensor node having a smaller battery is still undesirable
because patients or other users may not comply with the required recharging or replacement
interval. Similarly, sensor nodes requiring conductive data transfer interfaces are generally
cumbersome, because the wearer or care giver must manually connect a communication
interface cable to the node to transfer information to or from the node. Wireless
communication circuitry may reduce or eliminate the need for such cumbersome wired
interfaces. But, such wireless circuitry can consume substantial amounts of energy further
taxing a limited energy budget or limiting operating life of generally-available sensor nodes.
[0006]       Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like which
has been included in the present specification is solely for the purpose of providing a context
for the present invention. It is not to be taken as an admission that any or all of these matters
form part of the prior art base or were common general knowledge in the field relevant to the
present invention as it existed before the priority date of each claim of this specification.
Summary
[0007]       A first aspect of the present invention provides a sensor node, comprising:
             a regulator circuit including an input coupleable to an energy source that is
configured to drive the input of the regulator circuit with at least sufficient operating energy
to establish operation of the sensor node;
             a digital processor circuit coupled to the regulator circuit; and
             a power management processor circuit coupled to the digital processor circuit
and configured to select an energy consumption level of the sensor node based on
information related to the input and/or a system parameter of the sensor node;
             the digital processor circuit including a subthreshold operational mode
established by the power management processor circuit based on the selected energy
consumption level.
[0008]       A second aspect of the present invention provides a method, comprising:

                                                  4
             receiving, at an input of a regulator circuit of a sensor node, at least sufficient
operating energy to establish operation of the sensor node;
             selecting, by a power management processor circuit coupled to a digital
processor circuit of the sensor node, an energy consumption level of the sensor node based
on information related to (1) the input and/or (2) a system parameter of the sensor node,
             the digital processor circuit further coupled to the regulator circuit; and
             establishing, by the power management processor circuit, a subthreshold
operational mode of the digital processor circuit based on the selected energy consumption
level.
[0009]       A third aspect of the present invention provides a method, comprising:
             obtaining, at an analog input of a sensor node, information indicative of one or
more physiological signals;
             selecting an energy consumption level of the sensor node based on information
related to (1) available operating energy of the sensor node and/or (2) a system parameter of
the sensor node; and
             establishing a data path from the analog input to process and/or to transmit the
obtained information based on the selected energy consumption level,
             the data path established so as to include one or more of a general-purpose
processor circuit and a function-specific processor circuit of the sensor node,
             the one or more of a general-purpose processor circuit and a function-specific
processor circuit of the sensor node including a subthreshold operational mode based on the
selected energy consumption level.
[0010]       A sensor node, such as a Body Sensor node (BSN), can include one or more
semiconductor devices having a high degree of integration of various system functions.
Such a semiconductor device can be referred to as a "System-on-a-Chip" or SoC. An SoC
can provide digital or mixed signal circuitry realizing all major functions of the system, such
as including one or more of general-purpose processor circuits, special purpose processor
circuits, analog signal conditioning circuits, supply regulation or converter circuits, voltage
or current reference circuits, or power management circuits.
[0011]       The present inventors have recognized, among other things, that ultra-low power
(ULP) techniques can be applied to one or more circuits included in a sensor node. ULP

                                                5
techniques can be used to realize an SoC included as a portion of a sensor node. For
example, such an SoC for a sensor node can include one or more analog or digital portions
configured for subthreshold operation.
[0012]       Other techniques can be used instead of subthreshold operation, or in addition to
sub-threshold operation, such as power or clock gating to disable or suspend operation of
specified sections of the system, or including adjusting a duty cycle, a clock frequency (e.g.,
clock throttling), or a supply parameter (e.g., supply voltage throttling) so as to reduce power
consumption.
[0013]       The present inventors have also recognized that an operable lifetime of a sensor
node can be substantially increased using energy harvesting from ambient energy sources.
For example, such energy can be obtained using a thermal gradient or a mechanical
vibration. Energy harvesting techniques can provide an extended operable lifetime as
compared to sensor nodes reliant upon a battery. However, to provide sustained operation,
an energy-harvesting sensor node generally must consume less energy than the amount
harvested.
[0014]       To that end, the present inventors have also recognized that a power management
processor circuit can be used to enable, disable, throttle, or re-route data through various
system sections, such as in response to monitored conditions, in a closed-loop manner. For
example, the amount of energy provided by an energy harvesting transducer can vary over
time. The power management processor circuit can monitor information indicative of the
level of energy provided by the energy harvesting transducer. Using the monitored
information, the power management circuit can adjust the energy consumption level of the
sensor node to provide continued (e.g., sustained) operation of the sensor node in the face of
varying input energy.
[0015]       Energy consumption can be specified in terms of modes or levels, such as using
a three or four level energy consumption scheme, or other scheme. The sensor node can
toggle between such energy consumption levels to avoid extinction or reset. In the event of
a reset, the sensor node can statefully recover to a specified mode of operation, such as
resuming monitoring, communication, or one or more other functions.

                                                6
[0016]       In an example, a sensor node can be battery-less, such as operable without
requiring a primary or rechargeable battery on-board or within the sensor assembly. In one
approach, a boost converter circuit and regulator configuration can be used that can covert a
relatively low-voltage output of a thermoelectric generator (TEG), such as in the tens of
millivolts (mV), to a higher voltage level specified for use with one or more other sections of
sensor node circuitry. In an example, a wireless receiver circuit can be coupled to one or
more of the boost circuit or regulator, such as to receive an initial burst of wirelessly-coupled
energy to establish operation of the sensor node.
[0017]       In an example, an integrated circuit, such as included as a portion of a sensor
node, can include a regulator circuit having an input coupleable to an energy harvesting
transducer. The integrated circuit can include a wireless receiver circuit coupled to the
regulator circuit and configured to wirelessly receive sufficient operating energy to establish
operation of the sensor node without requiring the energy harvesting transducer. The
integrated circuit can include a digital processor circuit coupled to the regulator circuit and a
power management processor circuit. The digital processor circuit or one or more other
circuits can include a subthreshold operational mode established by the power management
processor circuit based on the selected energy consumption level. For example, establishing
the subthreshold operational mode can include adjusting or selecting a supply voltage so as
to establish subthreshold operation of a field effect transistor (FET) in the digital processor
circuit or other circuits.
[0018]       Applications of sensor nodes described in the examples herein need not be
restricted to biological or health-monitoring applications. For example, such sensor nodes
can be used in a variety of applications more generally related to remote monitoring or
remote sensing, such as supporting supervisory control or automation of utility,
infrastructure, or energy systems, structural health monitoring, surveillance, or
environmental monitoring such as habitat monitoring or wildlife management.
[0019]       This overview is intended to provide an overview of subject matter of the present
patent application. It is not intended to provide an exclusive or exhaustive explanation of the
invention. The detailed description is included to provide further information about the
present patent application.

                                                  7
Brief Description Of The Drawings
[0020]       In the drawings, which are not necessarily drawn to scale, like numerals may
describe similar components in different views. Like numerals having different letter
suffixes may represent different instances of similar components. The drawings illustrate
generally, by way of example, but not by way of limitation, various embodiments discussed
in the present document.
[0021]       FIG. 1 illustrates generally an example of a system that can include a regulator
circuit, a power management circuit, a wireless receiver circuit, or a digital processor circuit.
[0022]       FIG. 2 illustrates generally an example of a system that can include an analog
input configured to obtain information indicative of one or more physiologic signals.
[0023]       FIG. 3 illustrates generally an illustrative example of a system that can include
an analog input, a power management circuit, a regulator circuit block, one or more
function-specific processor circuits, or a general-purpose processor circuit.
[0024]       FIG. 4A illustrates generally an illustrative example of a portion of a system that
can include a wireless receiver circuit or a converter circuit.
[0025]       FIG. 4B illustrates generally an illustrative example of plots corresponding to a
wirelessly-coupled burst pulse provided to a wireless receiver circuit, an output node of a
power converter circuit, and an input to the power converter circuit corresponding to an
output of an energy harvesting transducer, such as can be obtained experimentally using at
least a portion of a system as shown in the examples of FIGS. 3 or 4B.
[0026]       FIG. 5 illustrates generally an illustrative example of a portion of a system that
can include an instruction memory coupled to a power management circuit, where the power
management circuit can adjust or control various parameters of other functional blocks of the
system, such as based on a specified energy consumption level.
[0027]       FIG. 6 illustrates generally an illustrative example of a portion of a system that
can include an instruction memory that can be shared between a general-purpose processor

                                                  8
circuit, a power management circuit, or one or more other circuits such as a function-specific
processor circuit.
[0028]       FIG. 7 illustrates generally an illustrative example of a portion of a system that
can include one or more controllable data paths for processing of data or for wireless
transmission of data, such as can include data paths established based on a specified energy
consumption level.
[0029]       FIG. 8 illustrates generally an illustrative example of a portion of a system, such
as a portion of a regulator circuit that can be included as a portion of a sensor node.
[0030]       FIG. 9 illustrates generally an illustrative example of a portion of a system that
can include a monitoring circuit configured to provide information indicative of a regulator
circuit input.
[0031]       FIG. 10 illustrates generally an illustrative example of plots including various
parameters of a system obtained in correspondence with different automatically-controlled
energy consumption levels, such as can be obtained experimentally using a system as shown
in the example of FIG. 3.
[0032]       FIG. 11 A illustrates generally an illustrative example of plots corresponding to
an actual and a reconstructed representation of an electrocardiogram such as can be
transmitted in real-time or near-real time by a system, such as a sensor node.
[0033]       FIG. 11 B illustrates generally an illustrative example of plots corresponding to a
sensed representation of information provided to an analog-to-digital converter input,
including a duration where the input can be switched to sample an input to a regulator
circuit, such as for monitoring the input to the regulator circuit.
[0034]       FIG. 12 illustrates generally an annotated micrograph of an integrated circuit,
such as corresponding to at least a portion of the system of the illustrative example of FIG. 3.
[0035]       FIG. 13 illustrates generally a technique, such as a method, that can include
using a system as shown in the examples of one or more of FIGS. 1 through 9.

                                                 9
Detailed Description
[0036]        FIG. 1 illustrates generally an example of a system 100, such as a sensor node.
The system 100 can include a regulator circuit 104, a power management processor circuit
130, a wireless receiver circuit 142, or a digital processor circuit 132. The system 100 can
include an antenna 140 configured to receive electromagnetically-coupled energy 112, such
as using radiative coupling or inductive coupling, for example. Such electromagnetically
coupled energy 112 can be referred to as radio-frequency (RF) energy, such as
corresponding to a specified range of frequencies selected from about the kilohertz (kHz)
range to the tens or hundreds of megahertz (MHz) range, or including one or more other
ranges of frequencies. The wireless receiver circuit 142 can include a tuned receiver, pre
selector, or one or more other circuits, such as to capture electromagnetically-coupled energy
112 corresponding to the specified range of frequencies or to reject other ranges of
frequencies.
[0037]        The system 100 can include or can be coupleable to an energy harvesting
transducer 114, such as one or more of a piezoelectric transducer, a mechanical-to-electric
transducer such as a linear or rotary device, a photo-voltaic transducer or other optical-to
electrical transducer, or a thermoelectric generator (TEG), for example. An input 136 to a
regulator circuit 104 can be driven by energy received from one or more of the wireless
receiver circuit 142, or the energy harvesting transducer 114. In this manner, the system 100
can receive operating energy using the wireless receiver circuit 142 or the energy harvesting
transducer 114. For example, the system 100 can be battery-less or can operate without
requiring a primary or rechargeable battery, such as powered continuously or for an extended
period of operating using one or more of wirelessly-coupled energy 112 or energy provided
by the energy harvesting transducer 114.
[0038]        The regulator circuit 104 can provide one or more outputs, such as one or more
fixed or adjustable output voltages, to one or more other portions of the system 100, such as
including a supply node 198. As shown in examples below, the energy obtained from the
energy harvesting transducer 114 may be conditioned or converted by one or more other
circuits, such as a voltage boosting converter.

                                                10
[0039]       The input to the regulator circuit 104 can be coupled to the power management
processor circuit 130, such as monitored by the power management processor circuit 130.
The power management processor circuit 130 can be coupled to other sections of the system
100, such as using one or more buses (e.g., a first bus 138) coupled to one or more of the
digital processor circuit 132, or other functional blocks such as a function-specific processor
circuit 134.
[0040]       One or more portions of a digital section 102 of the system 100 can include a
subthreshold operational mode. A subthreshold operational mode can be established such as
providing, adjusting, or selecting a supply voltage provided by the regulator circuit so as to
establish subthreshold operation of a field effect transistor (FET) in one or more of the
power management processor circuit 130, the digital processor circuit 132, the function
specific processor circuit 134, or in one or more other circuits of the system 100, such as in
one or more digital or mixed signal circuits.
[0041]       Subthreshold operation can be described as operating one or more FETs in a
weak-inversion mode where a gate-to-source voltage is established at or below a threshold
voltage (Vt) for the one or more FETs, resulting in a primarily exponential dependence on
drain-to-source current as a function of gate-to-source voltage. Various techniques can be
used to establish subthreshold operation, such as providing a supply voltage having a VDD
to-VSS voltage below the threshold voltage of all FETs in a section coupled to the supply
voltage.
[0042]       A tradeoff can exist between energy efficiency, maximum clock speed, and
supply voltage. Subthreshold operation need not be restricted to a single supply voltage.
For example, one or more of a clock frequency or a supply voltage can be adjusted such as to
provide a specified level of computational capability or other operational performance while
maintaining low power consumption, as discussed in the examples below.
[0043]       Other criteria can be used to specify or describe subthreshold operation, such as
using a current density perspective. For example, subthreshold operation can be described as
a region of FET operation where transconductance (e.g., gm) is at a relative or absolute
maximum, or where transconductance is primarily dependent on threshold voltage and drain
current, and exhibits only a weak (or no) dependence on variation in gate-to-source voltage.

                                                11
Such subthreshold operation, along with or instead of other techniques, can provide the
system 100 with extended longevity even though the available energy obtained using the
wireless receiver circuit or energy harvesting transducer may be quite limited (e.g., on the
order of microwatts).
[0044]       The power management processor circuit 130 can be configured to adjust an
energy consumption level of the system 100, such as using information obtained by
monitoring the input 136 to the regulator circuit 104, or by monitoring other system
parameters such as other voltages, currents, or operating states.
[0045]       FIG. 2 illustrates generally an example of a system 200, such as similar to or
incorporating aspects of the example of FIG. 1. The system 200 can include an analog input
144 configured to obtain information indicative of one or more physiologic signals such as
an electrocardiogram (ECG), an electroencephalogram (EEG), or an electromyogram
(EMG), for example. Such physiologic signals can be referred to generically as "ExG"
signals. Other physiologic information can be obtained, such as corresponding to one or
more other physiologic parameters such as respiration, neural activity, or motion, for
example. The analog input 144 need not be restricted to obtaining physiologic information.
For example, other information can be obtained by the analog input such as for applications
including remote monitoring, sensing, surveillance, or for other applications.
[0046]       In the example of FIG. 2, the analog input 144 (or "analog front end" (AFE)) can
include one or more amplifier stages to buffer or amplify a physiologic signal coupled to an
input node 116. An output of an amplifier 118 can be coupled to an analog-to-digital
converter 120, such as a converter 120 including a successive approximation register (SAR)
topology.
[0047]       The system 200 can include a digital section 102, such as including a general
purpose processor circuit (e.g., a microcontroller unit or other general-purpose processor
circuit), one or more function-specific processor circuits (e.g., an "accelerator" circuit geared
to performed one or more functions), one or more memory circuits, or a power management
processor circuit. The system 200 can include a wireless transmitter circuit 122, such as for
telemetering information from the system 200 to other systems or locations.

                                                 12
[0048]       As discussed in the example of FIG. 1, and elsewhere, the system 200 can
include a regulator section 108 such as including a converter circuit 106 coupled to one or
more regulator circuits, such as a regulator circuit 104. The output 198 of the regulator
circuit 104 can be coupled to other sections of the system 200. The regulator section 108 can
include a wireless receiver, such as configured to receive electromagnetically-coupled
operating energy 112. For example, a TEG 214 or other energy harvesting transducer can be
coupled to an input 110 of a converter circuit, and the converter circuit can provide an
output, such as coupled to the regulator circuit 104, such as shown in the examples of FIG. 3
or FIG. 4A. The output of the converter circuit 106 can be insufficient to establish initial
operation of the system 200. For example, the energy provided by the TEG 214, such as
obtained from body heat of a subject, may be sufficient to sustain continued operation of the
system 200. However, such energy may be insufficient to start or establish initial operation
of the system 200.
[0049]       In this scenario, electromagnetically-coupled energy 112 can be received by the
regulator section 108 such as to establish sufficient energy at the converter circuit 106 output
to "kick start" one or more regulation or control functions of the system 200, or to establish
an initial charge state on one or more capacitors included in the system, as shown in the
illustrative example of FIG. 4B.
[0050]       FIG. 3 illustrates generally an illustrative example of a system 300, such as
similar to or incorporating aspects of the examples of one or more of FIGS. 1 or 2. The
system 300 can include a regulator section 304, an analog input 326 (e.g., an analog front
end), a digital section 302 (e.g., including one or more portions configured for subthreshold
operation), a wireless transmitter 322, or one or more other functional blocks or sections.
[0051]       One or more portions of the system 300 can be co-integrated as a portion of a
commonly-shared integrated circuit, such as a complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor
(CMOS) integrated circuit, such as shown in the illustrative example of FIG. 12. Use of the
phrase "metal-oxide-semiconductor" does not imply that a gate electrode must be metallic.
A gate electrode in a FET included in a CMOS circuit may include a polysilicon conductive
portion, or other conductive portion.

                                                13
[0052]       In the illustrative example of FIG. 3, the regulator section 304 can include
various circuits or subsystems, such as shown in the illustrative examples of FIGS. 4A or 8.
The regulator section 304 can be coupled to a TEG 314. The regulator section 304 can
include a boost converter 338, such as configured to convert energy from the TEG from a
voltage level of about 30mV up to specified boosted voltage, such as about 1.35V, at a boost
converter 338 output node 336 (e.g., VBOOST), such as coupled to a storage capacitor (e.g.,
an off-chip storage capacitor).
[0053]       In the illustrative example of FIG. 3, the regulator section 304 can include
multiple regulator circuits, such as to provide respective regulated voltage supplies to other
portions of the system 300. For example, the regulator section 304 can include other
circuits, such as one or more reference circuits (e.g., a bandgap reference), or one or more
clamp circuits. Electromagnetically-coupled energy 312 can be provided to the boost
converter 338 output node 336, such as using a rectifier circuit 340. The regulator section
can use a clamp circuit to prevent an overvoltage condition output node 336 of the boost
converter 338.
[0054]       The analog input 326 can include respective input channels 318, such as a four
channel configuration shown in the illustrative example of FIGS. 3 or 9. Respective input
channels can include respective low noise amplifiers (LNAs), such as coupled to respective
fixed or variable gain amplifiers (VGAs). One or more analog-to-digital converters can be
included, such as an 8-bit SAR ADC 320 as shown in the illustrative example of FIG. 3.
The respective input channels 318 can be multiplexed to the ADC 320, such as using a
multiplexer. The use of a cascaded LNA and VGA configuration can provide scaling of a
physiologic signal in the range of a few microvolts (pV) to approach a full range of the ADC
320. Such scaling can be used to relax a vertical bit-resolution of the ADC while still
preserving sufficient resolution for acquisition or analysis of physiologic signals, such as
consuming less than about 4 microwatts (tW) per channel.
[0055]       Information obtained using the analog input 326 can be provided to the digital
section 302. The digital section 302 can be configured for subthreshold operation, such as
under the control of a digital power management (DPM) processor circuit 330. The DPM
330 can provide mode control for the system 300, such as to control an energy consumption
state of the system 300 according to specified energy consumption levels. Such energy

                                                   14
consumption control can include power or clock throttling or gating to various other
sections.
[0056]        For example, energy consumption, such as using the DPM 330, can be controlled
by selecting or adjusting one or more voltage supplies provided by the regulator section 304,
such as to automatically adjust the voltage provided to one or more other functional blocks
(e.g., providing "dynamic voltage scaling" (DVS)), such as based on monitoring the output
node 336 of the boost converter or otherwise estimating available energy.
[0057]        The digital section 302 can include other circuits, such as a general-purpose
processor circuit 332 (e.g., a microprocessor or an 8-bit microcontroller unit (MCU)). The
digital section 302 may include one or more function-specific processor circuits (e.g.,
function-specific "accelerators"), such as can include a programmable filter 334A (e.g., a
finite impulse response (FIR) filter), an envelope detection circuit 334B, or other function
specific circuits (e.g., a fibrillation detection circuit, an R-wave-to-R-wave interval estimator
circuit). The digital section 302 can include one or more memory circuits, such as an
instruction memory circuit 350 (e.g., a including 1.5kiloBytes in the illustrative example of
FIG. 3). The instruction memory circuit 350 can be implemented as a read-only memory
(ROM), or can be a reprogrammable random-access memory (RAM), such as a static RAM
(SRAM) circuit.
[0058]        In the illustrative example of FIG. 3, the system 300 can include a modified
Harvard architecture, such as including a data memory circuit 348, such as separate from the
instruction memory circuit 350. Other memories or buffers can be included, such as a first
in-first-out (FIFO) buffer topology.
[0059]        As shown in the illustrative example of FIG. 6, the DPM 330 can include a
simplified instruction set architecture (ISA), such as configured to operate according to
instructions stored in the instruction memory circuit 350. Similarly, the general-purpose
processor circuit 332 can also be configured to operate according to instructions stored in the
instruction memory circuit 350. However, the general-purpose processor circuit 332 need
not use the same instruction set as the DPM 330.

                                                 15
[0060]        In an illustrative example, one or more portions of the system 300 can include an
N-strong CMOS integrated circuit technology, such as including one or more memory
circuits (e.g., SRAMs). For example, one or more memory circuits of the system 300 can
include an 8-transistor bitcell topology, such as similar to a topology shown in Verma et al.,
"A 256 kb 65 nm 8T Subthreshold SRAM Employing Sense-Amplifier Redundancy,"
IEEE Journal of Solid-State Circuits, vol. 43, issue 1, pp. 141-149, Jan. 2008, which is
incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. In an illustrative example, such as to
eliminate half-select instability during a write, both reads and writes can be applied to full
rows of memory.
[0061]        In an illustrative example, the data memory circuit 348 can be partitioned into
banks, such as 4 x 1 kB banks that can be individually power gated by NMOS footers
overdriven to 1.2V when active to enhance ground reference stability. Such power gating
can be controlled by the DPM 330, such as corresponding to a specified energy consumption
level of the system 300.
[0062]            In such an illustrative example, experimentally-obtained measurements can
indicate reliable operation of such a memory topology, such as implemented at a 130
nanometer (nm) processor node, to an 0.3V supply voltage, such as clocked at about 200
kHz.
[0063]        As shown in the illustrative example of FIG. 3, the system 300 can include a
wireless transmitter circuit 322. For example, such a transmitter circuit can be configured to
operate in a Medical Implant Communications Service (MICS) band, such as within a range
of frequencies above about 400 MHz to about 433 MHz, or using an Industrial-Scientific
Medical (ISM) band, or using one or more other ranges of frequencies allocated by a
relevant spectrum allocation authority for use in the sensor node application.
[0064]        In the illustrative example of FIG. 3, information obtained using the ADC 320
can be coupled to a packetizer and streamed by the transmitter circuit 322, such as without
requiring processing by the digital section 302, or such information can be provided by the
digital section 302, such as during or after processing. For example, such information can
include a digitized representation of a physiologic signal or other sensed signal, or such

                                                 16
information can include one or more parameters extracted from such signals, such as shown
in illustrative examples of FIGS. 11 A or 11 B.
[0065]        The wireless transmitter circuit 322 can be configured for sub-milliwatt (mW)
operation, such as duty-cycled or otherwise enabled or disabled under the control of the
DPM 330, avoiding a need for one or more large discrete bucket or filtering capacitors. The
wireless transmitter circuit 322 can use frequency-shift-keying (FSK) modulation, such as
binary FSK (BFSK), such as to provide about a 200 kilobit-per-second (kbps) transmission
rate, or one or more other modulation techniques, operating frequency ranges, or data rates.
[0066]        In an illustrative example, the wireless transmitter circuit 322 can include a
frequency-multiplying transmitter architecture to reduce synthesizer power by operating a
local oscillator (LO) at about 1/9 of a specified carrier frequency. For example, equally
spaced edges can be generated using cascaded ring oscillators to drive an edge-combiner
(EC) embedded power amplifier (PA) to perform such frequency multiplication. In this
manner, such frequency multiplication can provide harmonic injection-locking from a crystal
oscillator. Such a technique need not use a phase-locked loop (PLL), instead injection
locking a low-frequency ring oscillator to an on-chip crystal reference. Such injection
locking can provide rapid settling time, as compared to a PLL-based approach, such as
allowing aggressive duty-cycling of the wireless transmitter circuit 322.
[0067]        Directly injection-locking a multi-phase ring oscillator using a single-phase
reference can induce significant mismatch. Instead, a cascaded multi-phase injection
locking scheme can be used to correct the phase and amplitude mismatches. On-chip BFSK
modulation can be provided by pulling a quartz reference clock. For example, by
modulating a load capacitor, the crystal frequency can be pulled by about 200 parts-per
million (ppm). In this illustrative example, after 9x multiplication, the wireless transmitter
circuit can be provide a frequency deviation of about 100 kHz, and can provide greater than
about a 100kbps wireless information transfer rate.
[0068]        In an illustrative example, the wireless transmitter circuit 322 can consume about
160ptW when transmitting at a transfer rate of about 200kbps. As shown in the illustrative
examples of FIGS. 11 A and 1IB, in streaming data transfer mode, the wireless transmitter
circuit 322 can operate at a 100% duty-cycle. In another mode (such as corresponding to a

                                                 17
different energy consumption level), such as an R-wave-to-R-wave extraction mode, the
wireless transmitter circuit 322 can be duty-cycled. Such duty-cycling can reduce the
wireless transmitter circuit 322 power consumption to about 0.013%, corresponding to about
190nW of power dissipation. A packetizer can be configured to provide a programmable or
specified packet header and cyclic-redundancy-check (or other error detection or error
correction), such as to provide compatibility with generally-available receiver circuits.
[0069]        FIG. 4A illustrates generally an illustrative example 400 of a portion of a system,
such as a sensor node, that can include a wireless receiver circuit 440 (e.g., a rectifying
circuit), or a converter circuit 438 (e.g., a boost converter). The converter circuit 438 can be
coupled or coupleable to a TEG 414A. The converter circuit 438 can provide an output
436A (e.g., VBOOST) coupled to other portions of a system such as a sensor node, such as
shown in the examples of FIGS. 1 through 3 or elsewhere. For example, a reset generation
circuit 496 can be coupled to the output 436A, such as to generate or inhibit a power-on reset
(POR) in response to monitoring a voltage provided at the output 436A.
[0070]        TEGs are generally constructed of thermopiles in series, such as configured to
provide a voltage established from a specified temperature difference across the TEG 414A,
for a specified size (e.g., area). For example, a Seebeck coefficient of a generally-available
thermocouple (e.g., bismuth telluride) can be about ±0.2 millivolts (mV) per degree Celsius
(mV/0 C).
[0071]        For a specified temperature gradient of about 1C, a I x Icentimeter (cm) TEG
can generally provide much less than 1V. Such a temperature gradient can be further
reduced by the environment nearby the TEG 414A. For example, air surrounding a TEG
414A can present a large thermal resistance that can dramatically reduce an effective
temperature gradient across the thermopiles, further limiting the voltage available at the TEG
414A output. Accordingly, a system using an energy harvesting transducer such as the TEG
414A can be configured to boost a TEG output, which may only be in the range of tens of
mV, to a higher voltage level. Various converter circuit 438 topologies can be used, such as
a converter architecture shown in Carlson et al., "A 20 mV Input Boost Converter With
Efficient Digital Control for Thermoelectric Energy Harvesting," IEEE Journal of Solid
State Circuits, vol. 45, no. 4, April 2010, which is herein incorporated by reference in its
entirety.

                                                 18
[0072]       In an illustrative example that can include a TEG 414A, one or more other
sources of operating energy can be used to assist in establishing initial operation (e.g., start
up) of the system (e.g., a sensor node). Such other sources of operating energy can include
batteries or mechanical switches. However, such batteries or switches can be bulky. The
present inventors have recognized, among other things, that wirelessly-coupled energy (e.g.,
a radio-frequency (RF) pulse) can be provided to the antenna 412A of the wireless receiver
circuit 440, such as used to establish initial operation of the system. For example, incident
electromagnetically-coupled operating energy, such as at a relatively low power level of -10
decibels relative to 1 mw (dBm) can be provided, such as for 1-2 seconds, to pre-charge one
or more storage capacitors, or to establish specified initial conditions at one or more nodes of
the system.
[0073]       In the example 400 of FIG. 4A, electromagnetically-coupled energy (e.g.,
radiatively or inductively coupled) can be rectified by the receiver circuit 440. The example
400 can include other circuits, such as a shunt clamp circuit 494, such as to constrain the
output node 436A to a specified range of voltages in order to prevent a potentially damaging
over-voltage condition in the presence of received electromagnetically-coupled operating
energy. One or more portions of the example of FIG. 400 can be co-integrated on a
commonly-shared integrated circuit. Larger passive components, such as one or more
inductors or capacitors, can be located on a commonly-shared printed circuit assembly or
module, and coupled to the integrated circuit. Such components can be referred to "off
chip."
[0074]       As discussed above, incident electromagnetically-coupled operating energy can
be provided, such as at a level of about -1OdBm at an input to the receiver circuit. A 6-stage
rectifying charge pump circuit can be used to couple the incident electromagnetically
coupled operating energy to the output node 436A. The reset generation circuit 496 can be
bandgap-referenced, and can provide a POR to the system, such as by monitoring the output
node 436A. For example, when the output node, VBOOST, reaches about 1V, a POR can be
de-asserted.
[0075]       Hysteresis in the reset generation circuit 496 can prevent unwanted toggling of
the POR circuit. For example, a POR trigger level can be specified so as to allow a POR to
be generated when the output node 436A drops below a specified voltage where the chip

                                                 19
fails to function correctly, which may be well below 1V. Such a specified trigger voltage,
VKILL, can be determined using information about the minimum VBOOST voltage that
results in correctly-generated reference voltages or sustained energy conversion reliability.
[0076]       FIG. 4B illustrates generally an illustrative example of plots corresponding to a
wirelessly-coupled burst pulse 412 provided to the wireless receiver circuit 440 of FIG. 4A,
a plot of a voltage 436B of an output node 436A of the power converter circuit 438 of FIG.
4A, and a plot 414B of an input to the power converter circuit 438, corresponding to an
output of an energy harvesting transducer, such as can be obtained experimentally using at
least a portion of a system as shown in the examples of FIGS. 3 or 4B.
[0077]       The TEG plot 414B illustrates generally that an initial ramp up and stabilization
of the voltage that can be provided by the TEG. For example, as shown in FIG. 4B, after the
TEG output settles, a short burst pulse 412 can be provided to wireless charge a storage
capacitor on the output node 436A as shown in the plot 436B. In this illustrative example,
shortly after the voltage on the output node 436A reaches 600mV, the boost converter can
function and can further charge the storage capacitor to about 1.35V. The system can then
continue to function without further burst pulses 412, such as for an extended period of time
or continuously. However, if the output node (e.g., VBOOST), drops below a specified
trigger voltage (e.g., VKILL), such as due to a prolonged period of consumption exceeding
harvested energy or in the absence of harvested energy, the system can reset, or operation
can be entirely extinguished. Such extinction can be referred to as "node death."
[0078]       In an example where the output node 436A dips below a trigger voltage, such as
VKILL, the system can automatically shut down. The system can then be "revived" or
restarted, such as using a sequence as shown in the illustrative example of FIG. 4B. The
system may statefully restart, such as using a non-volatile memory including a program state
stored before shutdown, or the system can re-start from a specified memory location
including a boot loader or default program, such as included in ROM.
[0079]       FIG. 5 illustrates generally an illustrative example 500 of a portion of a system.
The system can include an instruction memory 550 coupled to a power management
processor circuit 530 (e.g., DPM), such as where the power management processor circuit

                                                20
530 can adjust or control various parameters of other functional blocks of the system, such as
corresponding to a specified energy consumption level.
[0080]       In the illustrative example of FIG. 5, the power management processor circuit
530 can monitor an input node to a regulator circuit (e.g., an output of a converter circuit
536), or one or more other nodes. Such monitoring can be performed such as using an
analog input 526A similar to the illustrative example of FIG. 9, or as shown one or more
other examples. An ADC 520 can provide information indicative of the monitored output of
the converter circuit to the power management processor circuit 530. Using this
information, the power management processor circuit can automatically adjust an energy
consumption level of the system, such as enabling, disabling, or otherwise throttling
operation of other functional blocks.
[0081]       For example, the power management processor circuit 530 can control an energy
consumption level of one or more of a memory access controller or data memory circuit 548,
one or more or function-specific processor circuits 534, or a wireless transmitter circuit 522.
A digital packetizer 552 can be used to stream data to the wireless transmission circuit 522
(e.g., providing serial data for transmission in specified packetized format).
[0082]       In an example, the system can include direct memory access (DMA) capability,
such as allowing one or more portions of the digital section to access the data memory circuit
548. A DMA controller can provide an energy-efficient subthreshold digital circuit to
interface between the data memory circuit 548 (DMEM) and one or more other portions of
the system. For example, the power management processor circuit can include an instruction
to configure the DMA controller to provide access to at least a portion of the DMEM in a
FIFO access mode, such as to provide efficient data streaming capability. A clock
multiplexer can be used to synchronize a DMA clock rate in correspondence with one or
more other functional blocks to which the DMA controller is interfaced. In an example, the
data memory circuit 548 can be logically or physically partitioned into banks corresponding
to specified energy consumption levels (e.g., using the "stoplight" scheme discussed in one
or more illustrative examples herein).
[0083]       One or more busses, such as two 8-bit switch-box busses, can be controlled by
the DPM 530. Such busses can be controllably connected to the inputs or outputs of other
portions of the digital section, such as the MCU, DMA, or packetizer 552. In an illustrative

                                                 21
example, respective input or output bus ports can have a 4-bit address. Having two or more
busses can ease data steering or control.
[0084]       As discussed in other examples, a system such as a sensor node can include a
multi-channel analog input (e.g., AFE), such as the analog input 526A as shown in FIG. 5.
For example, the analog input 526A can include four independently configurable input
channels, such as including respective fully-differential chopper-stabilized low-noise
amplifiers (LNA) or variable-gain amplifiers (VGA). For example, a chopper frequency of
about 20 kHz can be used, such as beyond a flicker noise corner of an operational
transconductance amplifier (OTA) included in the LNA. Input chopper switches can be
placed before input capacitors, such as to reduce any amplification of any OTA offsets that
might saturate the OTA output. Mismatch in the input capacitors can result in common
mode to differential-mode gain. Accordingly, for amplification of AC signals, the amplifier
can be AC-coupled, such as using an off-chip capacitor and resistor to block or reduce any
DC offset voltage at an input.
[0085]        Such a topology can provide an input impedance that is lower than other
corresponding topologies, however it is believed that based on steady-state simulation
results, an input impedance can still be on the order of megaOhms (MQs). Such an input
impedance range can be used for physiologic monitoring, such as for monitoring ExG
signals or for other sensing applications.
[0086]       A configurable or programmable Gm-C filter can help to inhibit or reject
switching ripple to below a noise floor. In an illustrativre example, a coupled LNA and
VGA can provide a 7-step digitally-programmable gain (40-78dB) from DC to 320 Hz at a
power consumption of about 3ptW/channel. A 5-input mux, or other topology, as discussed
in examples elsewhere herein such as FIG. 9, can provide an input to a sub-pW 8-bit SAR
ADC, such as the ADC 520, to sample respective input channels, or the VBOOST converter
circuit output node 536, such as for monitoring an energy consumption state or stored energy
level.
[0087]       FIG. 6 illustrates generally an illustrative example 602 of a portion of a system,
such as a sensor node, that can include an instruction memory (IMEM) 650 that can be
shared between a general-purpose processor circuit (e.g., an MCU 632), a power

                                                 22
management processor circuit (e.g., a DPM 630), or one or more other circuits such as a
function-specific processor circuit. In the illustrative example 602 of FIG. 6, the MCU can
share the IMEM 650 with the DPM 630. For example, respective multiplexers 660A or
660B can steer respective instructions to the MCU 632 or the DPM 630, such as using a
specified code word.
[0088]       In an example, the DPM 630 can be configured to automatically enter a lower
energy consumption state (suspended or disabled, such as can be referred as a "sleep" mode),
such as when the MCU 632 is executing instructions. Similarly, when the DPM 630 is
executing one or more instructions, the MCU 632 can be either turned off, or clock gated to
preserve a state, to save energy. In this manner, the MCU 632 can provide general-purpose
processing flexibility, and the DPM 630 can provide efficient energy consumption level
control, such as without requiring extra instruction or data memory space.
[0089]       FIG. 7 illustrates generally an illustrative example 700 of a portion of a system,
such as a sensor node, that can include one or more controllable data paths for processing of
data or for wireless transmission of data, such as can include data paths established
corresponding to a specified energy consumption level.
[0090]       A power management processor circuit, such as the DPM described in examples
elsewhere herein, can provide power management responsibility. The DPM can also manage
one or more data signal paths, such as in correspondence to a specified energy consumption
level. As discussed in illustrative example of FIG. 6, the DPM can execute instructions from
an instruction memory (e.g., a 1.5kB instruction memory), such as consuming less operating
energy as compared to using one or more general-purpose processor circuits for controlling
the system, as shown in the illustrative example of Table 1, below:
     DPM instruction                  DPM Energy              MCU Equivalent Energy
            NOP                           0.7pJ                        1.46pJ
      Control Signals                     2.8pJ                        2.92pJ
    Branch Commands                       2.9pJ                        4.38pJ
                                            TABLE 1
[0091]       As discussed elsewhere herein, the DPM can include an ISA, such as a
simplified ISA as compared to a general-purpose processor circuit. The DPM can be used to
control DMEM, input channels of an AFE 726 (e.g., gain or ADC sampling rate, for
example), transmission rate, clock frequency creation and distribution, bus management for

                                                23
flexible and timing-defined data flow, time delays, clock-gating, or selection and adjustment
of supply voltage provided to various blocks of the system, such as to the digital section of
the system. The examples below illustrate generally various examples of signal processing
options configurable by the DPM.
[0092]       FIG. 7 illustrates generally the configurability of the system data path. For
example, one or more respective data paths can be established for processing. Similarly, one
or more data paths can be established for wireless transmission. As discussed in the
examples above and below, a system such as sensor node, can include a general-purpose
processor circuit (e.g., MCU). A generic data processing path 770A can be established, such
as using the MCU to execute or perform instructions stored in an instruction memory.
However, depending on the desired application for the system, other function-specific
processor circuits can be used in addition to the MCU or instead of the MCU, such as
corresponding to a specified energy consumption level.
[0093]       A clock generator circuit, such as shown in the example of FIG. 3, can distribute
a programmable clock signal (e.g., programmable in one or more of frequency or phase) to
respective processor circuits. In this manner, the system can flexibly process data using, for
example, one or more of the MCU, one or more function-specific processor circuits, or a
cascaded configuration of one or more function specific accelerator circuits and the MCU.
[0094]       For example, a second data processing path 770B can be selected, such as
providing one or more of a finite impulse response (FIR) filter, or an R-wave-to-R-wave
interval estimator (e.g., RR extractor), such as coupled to a fibrillation detection circuit. The
DPM can automatically select between data processing paths, such as selecting the generic
path 770A when plentiful operating energy is established, or selecting the second data
processing path 770B in response to monitoring a declining or a lower amount of available
operating energy. In an example, a third data processing path 770C can include a
combination of function-specific processor circuits, such as one or more of an FIR filter or
an envelope detector, such as can be coupled to the MCU.
[0095]       The general purpose processor circuit, such as the MCU, can include an 8-bit
Reduced Instruction Set Computing (RISC) instruction set architecture. One or more digital
sections of the system, such as the general-purpose or function-specific processing circuits

                                                  24
can include clock gates or headers. For example, PMOS headers can provide a controllable
coupling between a respective digital section and one or more regulated supply circuit
outputs, such as an 0.5V supply, or an adjustable supply. An adjustable supply can be
controlled by the DPM, such as to provide dynamic voltage scaling (DVS).
[0096]       In an illustrative example, the MCU can be configured to subthreshold operation,
such as including an architecture similar to an 8-bit PIC microcontroller (e.g., a PIC
microcontroller such as similar to one or more PIC architectures offered by Microchip
Technology, Inc., Chandler, Arizona, USA). For example, The MCU can be configured to
function down to a VDD voltage of about 0.26V at a clock frequency of about 1.2 kHz. At a
VDD voltage of about 0.55V, the MCU can function at about 800 kHz. In an illustrative
example, the MCU can consume from about 0.7 nanowatts (nW) to about 1.4p[W, as can be
measured corresponding to a supply voltage range from about VDD          = 0.26 to about VDD    =
0.55V), such as providing about 1.5pJ per operation at a default 0.5V, 200 kHz energy
consumption level.
[0097]       The FIR filter can be digital, such as configured to provide a fixed or
programmable coefficient set or tap count. In an illustrative example, the FIR filter can
include a four-channel programmable architecture, such as permitting up to 30 taps (or
more), such as operable in a subthreshold regime down to a supply voltage of about 300 mV
(as experimentally determined in this illustrative example). The FIR filter can be
configurable, such as including coefficient selection, number of taps, or number of filters. In
a specified lower energy consumption mode, the FIR filter can be configured for a "half-tap"
operation, such as cutting the number of available taps in half (e.g., transitioning from 30
available taps to 15 available taps).
[0098]       A direct FIR implementation can include respective multipliers and adders, such
as corresponding to respective taps. However, such an approach can cost area and energy
consumption performance. For sensing or filtering applications where a sampling rate is
relatively low, a serial filter realization can be used, such as determining a given tap
multiplication in a serial fashion over time and adding successive determinations, using a
clock rate that is a multiple of the sampling rate. Such a serial realization can use as little as
a single multiplier and a single adder for respective channels, such as providing a 30x
reduction in area as compared to a full 30-tap FIR realization. Such a serial FIR architecture

                                                 25
can provide an energy consumption of 1. 1pJ per tap using a supply voltage of 350mV.
Respective channels can be power or clock-gated, such as corresponding to specified energy
consumption level as controlled by the DPM.
[0099]        For physiologic sensing application, such as ExG sensing, one of the function
specific processor circuits can include an envelope detector. For example, for an EEG
sensing application, signal power can be determined within specific frequency bands, such as
corresponding to neural activity in the a, p, y,  and low-y frequency bands. An envelope
detection circuit can determine the average signal power within a specified frequency band.
For example, data can be received from the FIR filter, such as using four input channels
corresponding to the channel outputs of the FIR filter. For example, EQN. (1), below, can be
used to determine an average signal power, that can be represented by px of a signal that can
be represented by x,
         where N can represent the summing window size. To reduce the computation
complexity, N can be established as a power of two (e.g., selected from a range of 22 through
27). Such powers of two can provide division operations implemented by right-shifting the
data. Values of x can be rounded to the nearest power of 4, such as using squaring results
obtained from a look-up table. In this manner the number of bits used during data
transformation can be reduced because the least significant two bits are always zero-valued.
In an illustrative example, such an envelope detector circuit can be consume 3.5nW
corresponding to a VDD supply voltage of about 0.5V and a clock rate of about 200 kHz.
[0100]        In an example, the R-R interval estimator can include circuitry to perform a Pan
Tomkins technique. Such an R-R interval estimation technique can include determining
heart rate such as using one or more of time windowing and threshold, such as after
acquiring a baseline DC value. The R-R interval estimator can provide time stamps given to
two consecutive peaks corresponding to the difference in the number of samples between
them. In this manner, a resolution of the R-R determination can be adjusted, such as by
varying the sampling rate or the supply voltage, such as under the control of the DPM to
accommodate a faster or slower processing rate in view of an established energy
consumption level.

                                                  26
[0101]        In an example, once an R-R interval has been estimated, a pulse can be provided,
such as to a fibrillation detection processor. For example, the fibrillation detection processor
can include an atrial fibrillation detector. The fibrillation detection processor can use one or
more fibrillation detection techniques, such as established or verified on a clinical
population. The fibrillation detector circuit can output a flag in response to a detected
fibrillation event, such as using as few as 12 successive R-R interval estimates along with an
entropy threshold criterion, or using one or more other techniques.
[0102]        The DPM can also control one or more wireless data transmission paths, such as
shown in FIG. 7. For example, a first data transmission path 772A can correspond to a
streaming mode, such as for transmission of data provided by the MCU. A second
transmission path 772B can include a store-and-burst scheme, such as using the data memory
circuit (e.g., in a FIFO arrangement). A third transmission path 772C can include storing
information, such as in a circular buffer or FIFO, such as transmitting a burst of information
in response to one or more detected events. For example, in a physiologic sensing
application, information indicative of R-R intervals can be stored. A burst of transmitted
information can be provided, such as in response to information indicative of fibrillation.
Otherwise, such RR interval information can be stored for later transmission or otherwise
discarded.
[0103]        FIG. 8 illustrates generally an illustrative example 804 of a portion of a system,
such as a portion of a regulator circuit that can be included as a portion of a sensor node. As
discussed in other examples, an output of an energy harvesting transducer such as a TEG can
be boosted. In the example of FIG. 8, an output node 836 of a converter circuit, such as a
boost converter, can correspond to a voltage established at a storage capacitor 886. In the
illustrative example 804, biases can be generated within an integrated circuit including the
regulator circuits of the example 804.
[0104]        For example, one or more fixed regulators can be included in a fixed-regulator
section 884, such as including four or more sub-tW linear regulators. Such regulators can
provide specified fixed voltages for coupling to one or more other sections of the system,
such as about 1.2V (e.g., coupleable to the AFE), about 0.5V (e.g., for use in digital signal
processing, such as one or more function-specific processor circuits or one or more other

                                                 27
circuits), about 1.OV (e.g., for supplying a wireless transmitter local oscillator), or another
supply configured to generate about 0.5V (e.g., to power a wireless transmitter power
amplifier).
[0105]       The illustrative example of FIG. 8 can include one or more other regulator
circuits, such as an adjustable regulator section 882. For example, the adjustable regulator
section 882 can include a switched-capacitor DC-DC converter. The converter can be
configured to provide an adjustable or controllable output form about 0.25V to 1V, such as
in 50mV steps. For example, a 3-bit resistor DAC (RDAC) can be used to generate a
reference voltage corresponding to a desired output level, such as based on a control word
from the DPM. The arrangement of the capacitors in the array can be varied such as
according to the desired output range. One or more external capacitors can be coupled to the
adjustable regulator section 882, such as to reduce or inhibit ripple due to switching activity.
[0106]       As discussed in other examples herein, one or more of sections of the system can
be configured for subthreshold operation, such as controllably coupleable to a fixed or a
variable voltage supply, such as using PMOS headers, such as under the control of the DPM.
In this manner, the DPM can establish a controlled energy consumption level for each
section, using one or more of the fixed or adjustable supply voltages.
[0107]       FIG. 9 illustrates generally an illustrative example 900 of a portion of a system,
such as a sensor node. The illustrative example 900 can include a monitoring circuit
configured to provide information indicative of a regulator circuit input. The system can
monitor an energy consumption level of the system. Such monitored information can be
used adjust a mode of operation accordingly, such as to prevent a system reset or system
extinction. For example, if monitored information indicative of the regulator input node
(e.g., a boost converter circuit output node 986, VBOOST) is decreasing, the system can
switch modes and consume less energy to sustain operation. When harvested energy
becomes abundant, the system can recover or adjust itself to a mode providing full or
unrestricted operation, or maintain operation in such a mode.
[0108]       The DPM 930 (e.g., a digital power management processor circuit) can be
configured to monitor the boost converter output node 986 (e.g., VBOOST), or one or more
other nodes, such as to provide closed-loop energy consumption management in some or all

                                                 28
operable modes of the system. The DPM 930 can provide energy data flow management or
other supervisory functions, such as corresponding to a specified energy consumption level
that may be determined at least in part using monitored information obtained using a circuit
as shown in the illustrative example of FIG. 9.
[0109]       For example, the DPM 930 can monitor a representation of VBOOST through an
ADC 920. The representation of the VBOOST provided to the ADC 920 can be scaled to
take advantage of at or near the ADC's full input range. For example, VBOOST can be
halved by a resistive divider, buffered to reduce output impedance using a buffer circuit 990,
or compared with a reference voltage using a difference amplifier circuit 992. For example,
the difference between VBOOST and the reference voltage can be amplified by four times
such as through the difference amplifier circuit 992, such as including one or more OTAs.
Periodically, or during specified durations, the DPM can issue an instruction to select an
input channel of a multiplexer 926A, such as amongst other channels (e.g., other channels 1
through 4 such as can be provided by the AFE), to obtain information indicative of the
energy consumption level of the system.
[0110]       The scaled or digitized representation of the VBOOST voltage, which can be
represented by VCAPDIG, can be provided to the DPM 930, such as in response to the
issued instruction. In response to this monitored information, the DPM 930 can adjust or
select an energy consumption level of the system, such as using a stoplight scheme.
[0111]       FIG. 10 illustrates generally an illustrative example 1000 of plots corresponding
to various parameters of a system corresponding to different automatically-controlled energy
consumption levels, such as can be obtained experimentally using a system as shown in the
example of FIG. 3, or as discussed above in relation to the illustrative example of FIG. 9.
Such a scheme can be used to automatically select or adjust an energy consumption level of
the system, such as using one or more fixed or programmable thresholds or windows.
[0112]       In an illustrative example, the DPM 930 can compare the obtained information
(e.g., VCAPDIG) to one or more programmable threshold values, such as can include two
8-bit threshold values (e.g., a green threshold, a yellow threshold), such as to select an
energy consumption level (e.g., a green level or mode, a yellow level or mode, a red level or
mode). The DPM 930 can be configured to jump from a present energy consumption level

                                                 29
to any other levels, such as without requiring a sequential transition through any intermediate
level (e.g., a transition can include a green-to-red mode switch, etc.).
[0113]        Respective energy consumption levels (e.g., operating modes) can correspond to
a respective subset or superset of blocks that can be configured to provide respective energy
consumption levels. An illustrative example of such control can be found in Table 2:
    Energy             Inst.         AFE           Data       Function-       Wireless
Consumption            Mem.                       Mem.         Specific     Transmitter
     Level                                                     Circuits
      Red                On           Off           Off           Off            Off
     Yellow              On           On            On             On        Off or Duty
                                                                               Cycled
     Green               On           On            On             On            On
                                             TABLE 2
[0114]        In the illustrative example of FIG. 10, an input to the boost converter can be
swept through a range from about 250mV to 20mV and back. For example, operation in the
green mode (e.g., VBOOST greater than about 1.3V) can allow most or all functional blocks
of the system to be operational, such as shown in the first green region 1002 of FIG. 10, or
the second green region 1010.
[0115]        In the yellow mode (e.g., VBOOST greater than about 1.1V and less than about
1.3V), the DPM can switch off or duty cycle the transmitter based on available energy, such
as shown in the first yellow region 1004, or the second yellow region 1008 of FIG. 10.
[0116]        In the red mode (e.g., VBOOST less than about 1.1V), the transmitter, function
specific processor circuits, or the AFE can be one or more of clock or power-gated to
conserve energy, such as shown in the red region 1006 of FIG. 10.
[0117]        The DPM can override or otherwise alter system execution. For example, even
if the system calls for operation of one or more disabled or throttled blocks for a particular
series of operations, the DPM can override such calls in accordance with the energy
consumption level established by the "stoplight" scheme. The DPM can transition
contemporaneously from mode to mode, such as in response to monitored information such
as an 8-bit digital VCAPDIG determination, such as without requiring additional
instructions. In such a manner, a closed-loop energy consumption management scheme can

                                                 30
be provided. The "stoplight" scheme can be used to provide branching or jumping behavior
in the DPM or a general-purpose processor circuit, such as to alter node behavior during or
after an energy consumption level change.
[0118]        The energy consumption management scheme shown and described in the
examples of FIGS. 9 and 10 can be flexible, such as using adjustable or user-programmable
threshold values or parameters to control a duration between energy consumption sampling
operations.
[0119]        In an example, the energy consumption level established by the DPM can be
overridden by one or more other system elements, such as to monitor or transmit information
deemed important enough to risk a sensor node reset or extinction. Such override capability
can occur in response to a specified event or flag, such as provided by one or more of the
function-specific processor circuits.
[0120]        FIG. 11 A illustrates generally an illustrative example 1100A of plots
corresponding to an actual and a reconstructed representation of an electrocardiogram such
as can be transmitted in real-time or near-real time by a system, such as a sensor node. In
the illustrative example of FIG. 11 A, an ECG was obtained from a healthy human subject,
and transmitted by the wireless communication circuit in a raw streaming mode, such as
consuming 397piW as measured from the 1.35V VBOOST node). The wireless transmitted
information was received by a Texas Instruments CC1 101, using a frequency of about 433
MHz. The received reconstructed ECG (dashed) generally corresponds to the actual locally
measured ECG.
[0121]        FIG. 11 B illustrates generally an illustrative example 1100B of plots
corresponding to a sensed representation of information provided to an analog-to-digital
converter input, including a duration where the input can be switched to sample a VBOOST
node (e.g., an output node of a boost converter circuit). In the illustrative example of FIG.
11 B, the system can operate using an R-R interval extraction technique, such as transmitting
a measured hear rate at periodic or specific intervals, such as every 5 seconds when
operating from an energy harvesting input of about 30mV. During successive intervals,
VBOOST can also be sampled, such as to verify that sufficient energy exists to sustain

                                                 31
continued operation, such as before enabling a crystal oscillator for wireless transmission of
information.
[0122]       FIG. 12B illustrates generally an annotated micrograph 1200 of an integrated
circuit, such as corresponding to at least a portion of the system of the illustrative examples
of FIGS. 1-3, 4A, 5-10, or 12. Such an integrated circuit can include an SoC for operation of
a sensor node or other embedded system. In an illustrative example, such as corresponding
to a heart-rate extraction mode, where the wireless transmitter circuit can be duty-cycle, the
SoC can consume about 19 ptW, which is believed to be less than other generally-available
systems.
[0123]       FIG. 13 illustrates generally a technique 1300, such as a method, that can include
using a system as shown in the examples of one or more of FIGS. 1-3, 4A, 5-10, or 12. A
wireless receiver circuit can be coupled to a regulator circuit, such as shown in the example
of FIG. 1. The wireless receiver circuit can be configured to obtain electromagnetically
coupled operating energy, such as to establish initial operation or provide continued
operation of a system such as sensor node, such as at 1304. For example, the sensor node
can wireless receive sufficient operating energy to establish operation of the sensor node
without requiring operating energy obtained from an energy harvesting transducer, even
though such a transducer may be coupled to the regulator circuit.
[0124]       An input to a regulator circuit can be monitored, such as for use in selecting an
energy consumption level of a sensor node. For example, at 1306, the energy consumption
level of the sensor node can be selected based on an input to the regulator circuit. At 1308, a
subthreshold operational mode can be established in one or more portions of the system,
such as in relation to operation of a digital processor circuit. The subthreshold operation
mode can correspond to a selected energy consumption level of the system.
Various Notes & Examples
[0125]       Each of the non-limiting examples described in this document can stand on its
own, or can be combined in various permutations or combinations with one or more of the
other examples.

                                                32
[0126]        The above detailed description includes references to the accompanying
drawings, which form a part of the detailed description. The drawings show, by way of
illustration, specific embodiments in which the invention can be practiced. These
embodiments are also referred to herein as "examples." Such examples can include elements
in addition to those shown or described. However, the present inventors also contemplate
examples in which only those elements shown or described are provided. Moreover, the
present inventors also contemplate examples using any combination or permutation of those
elements shown or described (or one or more aspects thereof), either with respect to a
particular example (or one or more aspects thereof), or with respect to other examples (or
one or more aspects thereof) shown or described herein.
[0127]        In the event of inconsistent usages between this document and any documents so
incorporated by reference, the usage in this document controls.
[0128]        In this document, the terms "a" or "an" are used, as is common in patent
documents, to include one or more than one, independent of any other instances or usages of
"at least one" or "one or more." In this document, the term "or" is used to refer to a
nonexclusive or, such that "A or B" includes "A but not B," "B but not A," and "A and B,"
unless otherwise indicated. In this document, the terms "including" and "in which" are used
as the plain-English equivalents of the respective terms "comprising" and "wherein." Also,
in the following claims, the terms "including" and "comprising" are open-ended, that is, a
system, device, article, composition, formulation, or process that includes elements in
addition to those listed after such a term in a claim are still deemed to fall within the scope of
that claim. Moreover, in the following claims, the terms "first," "second," and "third," etc.
are used merely as labels, and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their
objects.
[0129]        Method examples described herein can be machine or computer-implemented at
least in part. Some examples can include a computer-readable medium or machine-readable
medium encoded with instructions operable to configure an electronic device to perform
methods as described in the above examples. An implementation of such methods can
include code, such as microcode, assembly language code, a higher-level language code, or
the like. Such code can include computer readable instructions for performing various
methods. The code may form portions of computer program products. Further, in an

                                               33
example, the code can be tangibly stored on one or more volatile, non-transitory, or non
volatile tangible computer-readable media, such as during execution or at other times.
Examples of these tangible computer-readable media can include, but are not limited to, hard
disks, removable magnetic disks, removable optical disks (e.g., compact disks and digital
video disks), magnetic cassettes, memory cards or sticks, random access memories (RAMs),
read only memories (ROMs), and the like.
[0130]        The above description is intended to be illustrative, and not restrictive. For
example, the above-described examples (or one or more aspects thereof) may be used in
combination with each other. Other embodiments can be used, such as by one of ordinary
skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. The Abstract is provided to comply
with 37 C.F.R. §1.72(b), to allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical
disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit
the scope or meaning of the claims. Also, in the above Detailed Description, various
features may be grouped together to streamline the disclosure. This should not be
interpreted as intending that an unclaimed disclosed feature is essential to any claim. Rather,
inventive subject matter may lie in less than all features of a particular disclosed
embodiment. Thus, the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed
Description as examples or embodiments, with each claim standing on its own as a separate
embodiment, and it is contemplated that such embodiments can be combined with each other
in various combinations or permutations. The scope of the invention should be determined
with reference to the appended claims, along with the full scope of equivalents to which such
claims are entitled.

                                                 34
THE CLAIMED INVENTION IS:
1.      A sensor node, comprising:
        a regulator circuit including an input coupleable to an energy source that is
configured to drive the input of the regulator circuit with at least sufficient operating energy
to establish operation of the sensor node;
        a digital processor circuit coupled to the regulator circuit; and
        a power management processor circuit coupled to the digital processor circuit and
configured to select an energy consumption level of the sensor node based on information
related to the input and/or a system parameter of the sensor node;
                 the digital processor circuit including a subthreshold operational mode
        established by the power management processor circuit based on the selected energy
        consumption level.
2.      The sensor node of claim 1, wherein the sensor node is battery-less.
3.      The sensor node of claim 1, wherein the energy source includes a wireless receiver
circuit configured to wirelessly receive the at least sufficient operating energy.
4.      The sensor node of claim 1, wherein the energy source includes a wireless receiver
circuit configured to wirelessly receive the at least sufficient operating energy, the wireless
receiver circuit configured to drive the input of the regulator circuit without requiring energy
supply from a battery.
5.      The sensor node of claim 1, wherein the energy source includes an energy harvesting
transducer.
 6.     The sensor node of claim 1, wherein the energy source includes an energy harvesting
transducer configured to drive the input of the regulator circuit without requiring an energy
supply from a battery.
7.      The sensor node of claim 1, wherein the power management processor circuit is
configured to select the energy consumption level of the sensor node at least in part to inhibit
a reset or to inhibit an extinction of an operation of the sensor node.

                                                 35
8.      The sensor node of claim 1, wherein the power management processor circuit is
configured to establish the subthreshold operational mode by providing, adjusting or
selecting a supply voltage so as to establish subthreshold operation of a field effect transistor
(FET) in the digital processor circuit and/or the power management circuit.
9.      The sensor node of claim 1, wherein the power management processor circuit is
configured to establish the subthreshold operational mode by providing, adjusting or
selecting a supply voltage so as to establish subthreshold operation of a field effect transistor
(FET) in the digital processor circuit and/or the power management circuit, the subthreshold
operation of the FET including operating the FET in a weak-inversion mode where a gate-to
source voltage is no greater than a threshold voltage of the FET.
10.     The sensor node of claim 1, wherein the power management processor circuit is
configured to establish the subthreshold operational mode by providing, adjusting or
selecting a supply voltage so as to establish subthreshold operation of a field effect transistor
(FET) in the digital processor circuit and/or the power management circuit, the supply
voltage having a drain-to-source voltage below a threshold voltage of the FET.
11.     A method, comprising:
        receiving, at an input of a regulator circuit of a sensor node, at least sufficient
operating energy to establish operation of the sensor node;
        selecting, by a power management processor circuit coupled to a digital processor
circuit of the sensor node, an energy consumption level of the sensor node based on
information related to (1) the input and/or (2) a system parameter of the sensor node,
                the digital processor circuit further coupled to the regulator circuit; and
        establishing, by the power management processor circuit, a subthreshold operational
mode of the digital processor circuit based on the selected energy consumption level.
12.     The method of claim 10, wherein receiving the at least sufficient operating energy
includes wirelessly receiving the at least sufficient operating energy via a wireless receiver
circuit configured to drive the input of the regulator circuit without requiring energy supply
from a battery.
13.     The method of claim 10, wherein receiving the at least sufficient operating energy

                                                 36
includes receiving the at least sufficient operating energy from an energy harvesting
transducer configured to drive the input of the regulator circuit without requiring an energy
supply from a battery.
14.     The method of claim 10, wherein establishing the subthreshold operational mode
includes providing, adjusting or selecting a supply voltage so as to establish subthreshold
operation of a field effect transistor (FET) in the digital processor circuit and/or the power
management circuit.
15.     The method of claim 10, wherein selecting the energy consumption level of the
sensor node includes selecting an energy consumption level configured at least in part to
inhibit a reset or to inhibit an extinction of an operation of the sensor node.
16.     A method, comprising:
        obtaining, at an analog input of a sensor node, information indicative of one or more
physiological signals;
        selecting an energy consumption level of the sensor node based on information
related to (1) available operating energy of the sensor node and/or (2) a system parameter of
the sensor node; and
        establishing a data path from the analog input to process and/or to transmit the
obtained information based on the selected energy consumption level,
                 the data path established so as to include one or more of a general-purpose
        processor circuit and a function-specific processor circuit of the sensor node,
                 the one or more of a general-purpose processor circuit and a function-specific
        processor circuit of the sensor node including a subthreshold operational mode based
        on the selected energy consumption level.
17.     The method of claim 16, wherein the physiological signals include electrocardiogram
signals, electroencephalogram signals and electromyogram signals.
18.     The method of claim 16, wherein the function-specific processor circuit includes an
envelope detector circuit configured to determine an average power of the one or more
physiological signals.

                                             37
19.     The method of claim 16, wherein the data path is established to exclude the general
purpose processor circuit and include the function-specific processor circuit.
20.     The method of claim 16, wherein the data path includes a wireless data transmission
path from a plurality of wireless data transmission paths uniquely associated with one of a
streaming mode, a store-and-burst mode and an event-based burst mode.

<removed-date>
                                    1/15
                    112
                     140                    114
<removed-apn>
                                 ENERGY
                         142   HARVESTING
                               TRANSDUCER
              WIRELESS                              136
              RECEIVER
                                                               130
               CIRCUIT
                               REGULATOR            POWER
                    104          CIRCUIT          MANAGEMENT
                                                    CIRCUIT
                         100                                         138
                                       198
                                                    DIGITAL
                                                  PROCESSOR
                                                    CIRCUIT
                                           132
                                                   FUNCTION-
                                                    SPECIFIC
                                                  PROCESSOR
                                                    CIRCUIT
                                           134
                                                     102

                                                                      <removed-apn>     <removed-date>
            200
 116                                                 102
                         144
             118                     120
                                                                          122
                                                   General-Purpose
                                                  Function-Specific
                                                                           Trans.
                                                       Memory              Circuit     124
      106                                         Power Management
                                                                                              2/15
                  Converter           Regulator
                   Circuit             Circuit
                                                                  198
                                 136
                                           104
        110                    112   108
214

                                                        <removed-apn>     <removed-date>
       300                 304                    302
               340                     336 350
312
                                                                            348
 314
                                                                            332
                                                 330                        334A
                     338                                                    334B
         316                                             352
                                 320                                               3/15
               318
                           326                                   322

                     <removed-apn>         <removed-date>
                     440
 412A
  400A
                           436A
                                                        4/15
                                                 4/15
414A
         438
               494                496

                    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
400B
       412
             436B
                                          5/15
             414B

                               <removed-apn>    <removed-date>
      550
500
                         530
      536
                                            548
                                            534
                                                      6/15
                                            552
                   520
            526A
                                             522

<removed-date>
                              7/15
<removed-apn>
              602
                           660A
              650
                                  632
                    660B
                                  630

             <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
700
726
      770A    772A
                                   8/15
      770B     772B
      770C    772C

                              <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                        884        882
      886
                 836
            Reference
                                                    9/15
804

                                <removed-apn>    <removed-date>
       900
      986    990   992   926A
936                             920          930
                                                       10/15

                            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                           1010
1000   1002   1004   1006    1008
                                                  11/15

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
1100A
         1102
                              12/15

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
1100B
                              13/15
                     1104

<removed-apn>     <removed-date>
             1200
                        14/15

<removed-date>
                                15/15
<removed-apn>
                                                 1300
                    WIRELESSLY RECEIVE SUFFICIENT
                    OPERATING ENERGY TO ESTABLISH            1304
                     OPERATION OF A SENSOR NODE
                 SELECT AN ENERGY CONSUMPTION LEVEL
                 OF THE SENSOR NODE BASED ON AN INPUT       1306
                         TO A REGULATOR CIRCUIT
              ESTABLISH A SUBTHRESHOLD OPERATIONAL MODE
              OF A DIGITAL PROCESSOR CIRCUIT BASED ON THE   1308
                  SELECTED ENERGY CONSUMPTION LEVEL

