                                          ABSTRACT
  Genetically modified non-human animals are provided that exhibit a functional lack of one or
  more IncRNA's. Methods and compositions for disrupting, deleting, and/or replacing IncRNA
5 encoding sequences are provided. Genetically modified mice that age prematurely are
  provided. Also provided are cells, tissues and embryos that are genetically modified to
  comprise a loss-of-function of one or more IncRNAs.

                         LINCRNA-DEFICIENT NON-HUMAN ANIMALS
                      CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
   [0001] This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/863,147,
 5 filed August 7, 2013, which is hereby incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.
   [0001a] The present application is a divisional application of Australian patent application
   number <removed-apn>, which is in turn a divisional application of Australian patent application
   number 2014305873, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
10                   REFERENCE TO A SEQUENCE LISTING SUBMITTED
                                  AS A TEXT FILE VIA EFS WEB
   [0002] The official copy of the sequence listing is submitted electronically via EFS-Web as an
   ASCII formatted sequence listing with a file named 448071SEQLIST.TXT, created on August
   7, 2014, and having a size of 1 kilobyte, and is filed concurrently with the specification. The
15 sequence listing contained in this ASCII formatted document is part of the specification and is
   herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.
                                    FIELD OF THE INVENTION
   [0003] Non-human animals, cells, and tissues, and methods for making them, that comprise
20 one or more deficiencies in long non-coding RNAs ("lncRNAs"). Non-human animals, and
   methods for making them, that comprise nonfunctional IncRNAs, or a knockout of one or
   more IncRNAs. Genetically modified non-human animals that exhibit phenotypes consistent
   with premature aging.
25                             BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   [0004] The long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) and a subclass known as large intergenic non
   coding RNAs (lincRNAs) comprise approximately 15,000 diverse transcripts in mammals that
   resemble mRNAs in structure, synthesis, and the chromatin character of their genes.
   Functions or phenotypes associated with particular lncRNAs are not known for the vast
30 majority of identified     lncRNAs.      It is believed that some IncRNAs participate in
   transcriptional control as activators or repressors of transcription in animals; others may
   function post-translationally or by some other mechanism. Thus, the ability to
                                                     1

   WO 2015/021298                                                          PCT/US2014/050178
    manipulate incRNAs may provide a tool for developing phenotypes of interest depending
    upon the identity and function of the IncRNA. There is a need in the art for methods and
    compositions for manipulating lncRNAs, and a need for generating phenotypes of non
    human animals through IncRNA manipulation.
 5
                                 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
    [0005] Non-human animals, cells, tissues, and embryos are provided that comprise non
    functional long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs), including but not limited to knockouts of
    one or more lncRNAs. Methods and compositions for manipulating lncRNA expression
10  are provided. Targeting compositions directed to modifying or knocking out lncRNAs
    are also provided. Non-human animals, cells, and tissues are provided that exhibit a
    phenotype associated with non-function of one or more lncRNAs.
    [0006] In one aspect, a non-human animal comprising in its genome at least one
    modified lncRNA locus is provided, wherein the modified lncRNA locus comprises a
15  loss-of-function mutation in a nucleic acid sequence that encodes a IncRNA.
    [0007] In one embodiment, the IncRNA is a long intergenic non-coding RNA
    (lincRNA).
    [0008] In one aspect, the loss-of-function mutation is characterized by a disruption or a
    knockout of at least one lncRNA function.
20  [0009] In one embodiment, the modified IncRNA locus comprises a deletion of one or
    more exons that encode the IncRNA or a portion thereof. In one aspect, the disruption or
    knockout comprises a deletion of one or more exons within the IncRNA locus starting in
    a second exon of a IncRNA locus; a deletion of one or more exons within the lncRNA
    locus starting in a first exon of a lncRNA locus; or deletion of an entire RNA coding
25  region of a lncRNA locus.
    [00010] In one aspect, the disruption or knockout comprises a replacement of a lncRNA
    locus or a portion thereof with an insert nucleic acid. In one embodiment, the insert
    nucleic acid comprises a first nucleotide sequence that encodes a reporter. In some such
    cases, the first nucleotide sequence is operably linked to a promoter that drives
30  expression of the reporter. In one embodiment, the first nucleotide sequence that encodes
    the reporter is positioned in a lncRNA locus in operable linkage with an endogenous
    lncRNA promoter, wherein the endogenous IncRNA promoter drives expression of the
                                                  2

   WO 2015/021298                                                           PCT/US2014/050178
    nucleotide sequence. In such cases, the expression of the nucleic acid sequence follows
    an expression pattern of the IncRNA. In one aspect, the insert nucleic acid comprises a
    Kozak consensus sequence. In a specific embodiment, the first nucleotide sequence of
    the insert nucleic acid comprises a Kozak consensus sequence.
 5  [00011] In one embodiment, the insert nucleic acid further comprises a second
    nucleotide sequence that encodes a selectable marker, wherein the second nucleotide
    sequence is operably linked to a promoter.
    [00012] In one aspect, the insert nucleic acid comprises site-specific recombination sites
    flanking a segment encoding the reporter and/or a segment encoding the selectable
10  marker.
    [00013] In various aspects and embodiments, the replacement of the lncRNA locus or
    portion thereof comprises replacement of one or more exons within a lncRNA locus
    starting in the second exon of the lncRNA locus with the insert nucleic acid; replacement
    of one or more exons within a lncRNA locus starting in the first exon of the lncRNA
15  locus with the insert nucleic acid; or replacement of the entire RNA coding region of a
    lncRNA locus with the insert nucleic acid.
    [00014] In one embodiment, a non-human animal provided herein is characterized by
    having one or more following phenotypes: (a) a premature aging-associated phenotype;
    (b) perinatal lethality; (c) a defect in lung development; (d) a morphological
20  malformation in the tail and hind limbs; (e) a loss of muscle mass in one or more tissues;
    or (f) a combination thereof of any of (a)-(e).
    [00015] In one aspect, a non-human animal provided herein comprises a disruption or
    knockout of the lncRNA Pint,and the non-human animal is characterized by a premature
    aging-associated phenotype comprising: (a) a slower growth rate than that of a wild type
25  control; (b) a decline in muscle strength; (c) fibrosis; (d) a lower body fat content than
    that of the wild type control; (e) a lower femur bone mineral density and bone mass than
    that of the wild type control; (f) a decreased muscle mass as compared with that of the
    wild type control; (g) a decrease in median longevity; (h) lordokyphosis; (i) organ
    atrophy; or (j) a combination thereof of any of (a)-(i).
30  [00016] In one embodiment, a non-human animal provided herein exhibits a defect in
    brain development. In some such cases, the lncRNA is Pantr2, Kantr, Peril,Celrr,
    Pantrl, Crnde, lincencl, Pint,lincppara, or Tug].
                                                    3

   WO 2015/021298                                                         PCT/US2014/050178
    [00017] In various aspects and embodiments, the non-human animal is a mammal. In
    various aspects and embodiments, the mammal is a rodent, e.g., a mouse, a rat or a
    hamster. In various aspects and embodiments, the mammal is an ovine, bovine, or
    porcine species.
 5  [00018] In one aspect, a genetically modified non-human animal is provided, wherein
    the genetic modification results in a loss-of-function of a lncRNA.
    [00019] In one aspect, a genetically modified non-human animal is provided, wherein
    the genetic modification comprises a disruption or a knockout of one or more lncRNAs.
    [00020] In one embodiment, the genetic modification comprises a disruption or knockout
10  of at least two lncRNAs. In one embodiment, the genetic modification comprises a
    disruption or knockout of at least three, four, five, or six lncRNAs.
    [00021] In one embodiment, the genetic modification comprises a disruption or knockout
    of one or more lncRNAs and within the lncRNA locus a gene encoding a detectable
    moiety (reporter) operably linked to a promoter of a disrupted or knocked out lncRNA.
15  In one embodiment, the gene encoding the detectable moiety (reporter) is selected from
    lacZ (encoding p-galactosidase), GFP, eGFP, mPlum, mCherry, tdTomato, mStrawberry,
    J-Red, DsRed, mOrange, mKO, mCitrine, Venus, YPet, enhanced yellow fluorescent
    protein (EYFP), Emerald, CyPet, cyan fluorescent protein (CFP), Cerulean, T-Sapphire,
    luciferase, alkaline phosphatase, and a combination thereof.
20  [00022] In one embodiment, the genetic modification comprises a disruption or knockout
    of one or more lncRNAs and within the lncRNA locus a gene encoding a detectable
    moiety (reporter) operably linked to a promoter that drives expression of the detectable
    moiety.
    [00023] In various aspects and embodiments, the detectable moiety includes any reporter
25  gene known in the art.
    [00024] In one aspect, a genetically modified non-human animal is provided, wherein
    the genetic modification comprises a disruption of a lncRNA nucleic acid sequence
    encoding a lincRNA selected from the group consisting of HOTAIR, HOTTIP, Hoxallos
    (formerly named HoxAl]as), Pantri (formerly named lincRNA-Brn1-a), Pantr2
30  (formerly named lincRNA-Brn1-b), Ptgs2os2 (formerly named lincRNA-Cox2), Eldr
    (formerly named Fabl and lincRNA-Egfr), Lincencl (formerly named lincRNA-Encl),
                                                   4

   WO 2015/021298                                                           PCT/US2014/050178
    Mannr (formerly named lincRNA-Evil), Fendrr(formerly named lincRNA-Foxfl), Halrl
    (formerly named Haunt and lincRNA-HoxA 1), Haglr (formerly named lincRNA-HoxD3),
    Celrr (formerly named Celr and lincRNA-Insig2), Crnde (formerly named lincRNA
    Irx5), Kantr (formerly named Spasm and lincRNA-Jaridlc),Pint (formerly named linc
 5  Pint and lincRNA-Mklnl), Trp53corl (formerly named lincRNA-p21), lincppara
    (formerly named lincRNA-Ppara),Peril (formerly named lincRNA-Sox2), Tug]
    (formerly named lincRNA-Tug1), and a combination thereof.
    [00025] In one aspect, a genetically modified non-human animal is provided, wherein
    the genetic modification comprises a disruption or knockout of Pint (formerly named
10  linc-Pint and lincRNA-Mklnl).
    [00026] In one aspect, a nucleic acid locus is provided, comprising a disruption of a
    IncRNA. In one embodiment, the disruption comprises a knockout of the IncRNA. In
    one embodiment, the disruption comprises a placement of a gene encoding a detectable
    moiety operably linked to a promoter of the IncRNA. In one embodiment, the disruption
15  comprises a knockout of the lncRNA and placement of a gene encoding a detectable
    moiety in operable linkage with the promoter of the IncRNA.
    [00027] In one aspect, a nucleic acid construct is provided, comprising at least one
    targeting sequence that targets the construct to a locus comprising a IncRNA, wherein
    the construct is capable of disrupting transcription of the IncRNA, knocking out the
20  IncRNA, or replacing the IncRNA.
    [00028] In one embodiment, the nucleic acid construct further comprises a detectable
    moiety (with or without an added promoter that drives expression of the detectable
    moiety). In one embodiment, the nucleic acid construct further comprises a selectable
    marker gene driven by a promoter. In one embodiment, the nucleic acid construct
25  comprises both a detectable moiety (with or without its own promoter), and a selectable
    marker gene driven by a promoter. In one embodiment, the selectable marker and/or the
    detectable moiety are flanked upstream and downstream with site-specific recombination
    sites that direct an excision of the detectable moiety and/or the selectable marker.
    [00029] In one embodiment, a targeting vector is provided. In one aspect, the targeting
30  vector comprises an insert nucleic acid flanked by 5' and 3' homology arms that can
    undergo homologous recombination with an lncRNA locus of interest. In one
    embodiment, the insert nucleic acid of the targeting vector comprises a first nucleic acid
                                                    5

   WO 2015/021298                                                          PCT/US2014/050178
    sequence that encodes a reporter. In one aspect, following the homologous
    recombination with the lncRNA locus of interest, the first nucleic acid sequence that
    encodes the reporter is operably linked to an endogenous promoter that drives expression
    of an lncRNA at the lncRNA locus. In one embodiment, first and/or second nucleic acid
 5  sequence of the insert nucleic acid of the targeting vector further comprises a Kozak
    consensus sequence. In one embodiment, the targeting vector further comprises a
    promoter that drives expression of the promoter.
    [00030] In one aspect, the insert nucleic acid of the targeting vector further comprises a
    second nucleic acid sequence that encodes a selectable marker, wherein the second
10  nucleic acid is operably linked to a promoter. In one embodiment, the targeting vector
    further comprises site-specific recombination sites flanking a segment encoding the
    reporter and/or a segment encoding the selectable marker nucleic acid.
    [00031] In one aspect, a non-human animal that exhibits a premature aging-associated
    phenotype is provided, wherein the non-human animal comprises a modification that
15  renders Pint nonfunctional. In one embodiment, the modification is a disruption of an
    RNA-coding sequence of a Pint locus. In one embodiment, the modification is a
    deletion of an entire RNA-coding sequence of a Pint locus. In one embodiment, the
    modification comprises an insertion of a targeting vector into a Pint locus, such that the
    animal no longer makes a functional Pint.
20  [00032] In one embodiment, the modification further comprises at the Pint locus a
    detectable moiety (e.g., a reporter gene with or without its own promoter) and optionally
    a selectable marker. In one embodiment, the detectable moiety and/or the selectable
    marker are flanked upstream and downstream with site-specific recombination sites that
    direct an excision of the detectable moiety and/or the selectable marker. In one
25  embodiment, the non-human animal further comprises and inducible site specific
    recombinase that is compatible with the site-specific recombinase sites.
    [00033] In one aspect, a cell, tissue or embryo of a non-human animal is provided,
    wherein the cell or tissue lacks a nucleic acid sequence that encodes a functional
    lincRNA selected from the group consisting of HOTAIR, HOTTIP, Hoxallos (formerly
30  named HoxAlas), Pantri (formerly named lincRNA-Brn1-a), Pantr2 (formerly named
    lincRNA-Brn1-b), Ptgs2os2 (formerly named lincRNA-Cox2), Eldr (formerly named
    Fabl and lincRNA-Egfr), Lincencl (formerly named lincRNA-Encl), Mannr (formerly
                                                  6

   WO 2015/021298                                                            PCT/US2014/050178
    named lincRNA-Evil), Fendrr(formerly named lincRNA-Foxfl), Halrl (formerly named
    Haunt and lincRNA-HoxA 1), Haglr (formerly named Mdgt and lincRNA-HoxD3), Celrr
    (formerly named Celr and lincRNA-Insig2), Crnde (formerly named lincRNA-Irx5),
    Kantr (formerly named Spasm and lincRNA-Jaridlc),Pint (formerly named linc-Pint
 5  and lincRNA-Mklnl), Trp53corl (formerly named lincRNA-p21), lincppara(formerly
    named lincRNA-Ppara),Peril (formerly named lincRNA-Sox2), Tug] (formerly named
    lincRNA-Tug1), and a combination thereof.
    [00034] In one embodiment, the cell or tissue that lacks a nucleic acid sequence that
    encodes a functional lincRNA lacks a functional Pint (formerly known as lincRNA
10  Mlknl).
    [00035] In one aspect a nucleic acid construct is provided, comprising an upstream
    homology arm and a downstream homology arm, wherein the upstream and downstream
    homology arms target a lncRNA locus, wherein the construct is capable of disrupting
    transcription of the IncRNA, knocking out the IncRNA, or replacing the IncRNA.
15  [00036] In various aspects and embodiments, targeting constructs that target a lncRNA
    locus comprise a sequence selected from a Kozak sequence, a sequence encoding a
    detectable moiety (e.g., a reporter, e.g., a reporter as described herein; with, e.g.,
    optionally a promoter operably linked thereto), a nucleic acid sequence encoding
    selectable marker (with, e.g., a promoter operably linked thereto), and a combination
20  thereof. In one embodiment, reporter and/or selectable marker are flanked with site
    specific recombination sites that are arranged so as to effectuate a deletion of the nucleic
    acid sequence encoding the selectable marker gene and/or the nucleic acid sequence
    encoding the detectable moiety. In one embodiment, the construct does not comprise a
    promoter operably linked to the detectable moiety.
25  [00037] In one aspect, a method for disrupting a lncRNA is provided, comprising
    inserting a nucleic acid sequence within a lncRNA locus, wherein the insertion disrupts
    the transcription of the IncRNA, deletes one or more IncRNA-coding regions, or deletes
    an entire coding sequence of a IncRNA.
    [00038] In one aspect, a method for making a non-human animal that comprises a
30  disruption or a knockout of a lncRNA is provided, comprising modifying a genome of a
    non-human animal such that the non-human animal no longer expresses a functional
    version of the IncRNA. In one embodiment, the method comprises a step of employing a
                                                    7

   WO 2015/021298                                                         PCT/US2014/050178
    targeting vector to disrupt transcription of the IncRNA, to delete one or more IncRNA
    coding regions, or deletes an entire coding sequence of the lncRNA in the genome of the
    non-human animal.
    [00039] In one aspect, a method for making a non-human animal that comprises a
 5  knockout of a lncRNA function is provided, comprising modifying a genome of a
    pluripotent or totipotent non-human animal cell to disrupt the transcription of the
    IncRNA, to delete one or more exons encoding an IncRNA-coding regions, or to delete
    an entire coding sequence of the lncRNA in the genome of the cell; employing the cell as
    a donor cell and introducing the donor cell into a host embryo to form a donor cell-host
10  embryo complex; and gestating the donor cell-host embryo complex in a suitable non
    human animal under conditions suitable for gestation, wherein following gestation a
    progeny comprising the knockout of the lncRNA function is obtained. In one
    embodiment, the progeny is bred to homozygosity with respect to the knockout of the
    lncRNA function.
15  [00040] In one aspect, a method for making a non-human animal that comprises a
    knockout of a lncRNA function is provided, comprising modifying a genome of a
    somatic cell or a germ cell of a non-human animal cell to disrupt the transcription of the
    IncRNA, to delete one or more IncRNA-coding regions, or to delete an entire coding
    sequence of the lncRNA in the genome of the cell; employing the genome of the cell in
20  an enucleated ovum to form a modified ovum; gestating the modified ovum in a suitable
    surrogate non-human animal under conditions suitable for gestation; and, obtaining a
    non-human animal progeny comprising the lncRNA knockout. In one embodiment, the
    progeny is bred to homozygosity with respect to the knockout of the lncRNA function.
    [00041] In one embodiment, a method for making a non-human animal comprising a
25  genetic modification in at least one lncRNA locus is provided. Such a method comprises
    contacting a pluripotent cell with a targeting construct comprising an insert nucleic acid
    flanked by 5' and 3' homology arms; wherein the targeting construct undergoes
    homologous recombination with the lincRNA locus in a genome of the cell to form a
    modified pluripotent cell; (b) introducing the modified pluripotent cell into a host
30  embryo; and (c) gestating the host embryo in a surrogate mother, wherein the surrogate
    mother produces progeny comprising a modified lncRNA locus, wherein said genetic
    modification results in loss-of-function of the at least one IncRNA.
                                                   8

   WO 2015/021298                                                          PCT/US2014/050178
    [00042] In one aspect, a method for modifying a incRNA locus in a pluripotent cell is
    provided. Such a method comprises introducing into the pluripotent cell a targeting
    construct comprising an insert nucleic acid flanked with 5' and 3' homology arms that
    can undergo homologous recombination with the lncRNA locus; and identifying a
 5  modified pluripotent cell comprising a targeted genetic modification at the IncRNA
    locus, wherein the genetic modification results in loss-of-function of the lncRNA
    function. In one embodiment, the pluripotent cell is a human induced pluripotent (iPS)
    cell.
    [00043] In various aspects and embodiments, modified cells include, for example,
10  pluripotent cells, induced pluripotent cells, stem cells, embryonic stem cells, etc. In a
    specific embodiment, the cell is an embryonic stem (ES) cell. In a specific embodiment,
    the ES cell is a mouse or a rat ES cell.
    [00044] In various aspects and embodiments, the non-human animals include, for
    example, ovine, bovine, porcine, and murine species of animals. In a specific
15  embodiment, the animal is from a murine species, e.g., a mouse or a rat.
    [00045] Other and further aspects and embodiments are included, as will be appreciated
    by those skilled in the art upon reading this disclosure.
                            BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
20  [00046] The patent or application file contains at least one drawing executed in color.
    Copies of this patent or patent application publication with color drawing(s) will be
    provided by the Office upon request and payment of the necessary fee.
    [00047] FIG. 1 illustrates a strategy for targeted disruption of the Fendrrgene locus. A
    partial map of the wild-type mouse Fendrrlocus, including exons 1 - 6 is shown. Upon
25  homologous recombination, the targeting LTVEC replaced a total of 19.2 kb of the
    genomic Fendrrsequence with the LacZ-neomycin resistance cassette introducing a
    Kozak sequence. Open boxes indicate noncoding exons. Red and green boxes on the
    Fendrrgenomic locus and in the LacZ-neomycin resistance cassette are homologous
    sequences used for targeting.
30  [00048] FIG. 2 illustrates spatial and temporal LacZ reporter gene expression in mid
    gestation stage lincRNA targeted mouse embryos A, Heterozygous e12.5 embryo were
    fixed and stained for p-galactosidase showed a broad range of expression of the
                                                   9

   WO 2015/021298                                                           PCT/US2014/050178
    introduced LacZ reporter gene in the developing brain and craniofacial region (e.g.,
    Pantr1 and Pantr2, Celrr and Haglr,see also FIG.9), neural tube (Pantr2,Halr1 and
    lincppara),dorsal aorta (Celrr), heart (Celrr,Haglr, see also FIG.9), lungs (Fendrr),
    limb buds (HOTTIP,Hoxallos and Mannr), foregut (HOTTIP,Hoxallos and Fendrr),
 5  posterior region and the tail (HOTAIR, HOTTIP and Hoxallos). Similar analysis showed
    widespread lacZ expression pattern in Tug1, whereas expression of other reporter genes
    could be restricted to the epidermis (Eldr), mammary buds (Lincenc1, see also FIG. 9) or
    whisker placode (Trp53corl, see also FIG. 9). Examples shown are representative of at
    least five genotype-confirmed embryos per lincRNA knockout project. B, Expression
10  patterns in selected lincRNA (HOTTIP, Hoxallos, and Celrr)F1 heterozygous embryos
    from the indicated stages (e9.5-e12.5) showed that expression began early at a restricted
    site and then extended beyond this initial site at later stages. Celrr expression was
    confined to the brain at e9.5 and progresses into the spinal cord by e12.5. Hoxallos
    expression began in the developing tail bud and progresses into the entire caudal region
15  of the embryo, hind limb and forelimb by e12.5. HOTTIP expression also began in the
    developing tail bud and was then observed in the developing distal autopods of the
    forelimb and hind limb by el 1.5 and e12.5. Examples shown are representative of at
    least 5, genotype-confirmed embryos per lincRNA project.
    [00049] FIG. 3 illustrates LacZ reporter gene expression (blue) in brains of 6-8 week old
20  lincRNA FO generation heterozygotes. A, Celrr, broad expression in gray matter with the
    exception of the lateral cerebellum and ventral pons; B, Crnde, expression in the colliculi
    (dorsal view, arrow); C, Pantr1, expressed in the neocortex, olfactory bulb, basal
    forebrain, and hypothalamus; D, Pantr2, expressed in the neocortex, olfactory bulb,
    cerebellum, hypothalamus, and basal forebrain; E, Lincenc1, expressed in neocortex,
25  parts of cerebellum, and medial hypothalamus with especially strong expression
    patterning in the olfactory projection and olfactory projection areas of temporal cortex
    (ventral view, red arrow); F, Pint, expressed ubiquitously in gray matter with especially
    intense expression in the hypothalamus; G, lincppara,broadly expressed in gray matter
    with especially dense expression in the hypothalamus; H, Peril,expression in the
30  midline of the hypothalamus (ventral view, arrowhead); I, Kantr, potentially some
    expression in deep cerebellar layers (dorsal view, star); and J, Tug1, expression in spinal
    cord gray matter and light gray matter expression in most structures except for
    neocortex. n = 2, genotype confirmed male mice per lincRNA knockout project.
                                                  10

   WO 2015/021298                                                            PCT/US2014/050178
    [00050] FIG. 4 illustrates that Pint exhibits increased expression from postnatal day 3 to
    8 weeks of age. LacZ reporter gene expression (blue) at 3 days, 3 weeks, and 8 weeks in
    FO heterozygotes show that Pint is increasingly expressed with age. A, at 3 days, p
    galactosidase staining is only observed in portions of the brain, tendons and ligaments of
 5  the hind limb, and some bronchioles in the lung (arrow). B, at 3 weeks, there is
    increased staining in the brain, hind limb, atria of the heart, lung, and liver. C, by 8
    weeks of age, the whole brain, skeletal muscle of the hind limb and chest, atria and
    myocardium, lung, and liver tissue all exhibit strong p-galactosidase staining
    representative of increased Pint expression. Examples shown are representative of n>4
10  mice per group.
    [00051] FIG. 5 illustrates premature aging-associated phenotype in Pint knockout mice.
    (A) Pint-- and Pint"- male mice exhibit a significantly slower growth rate than their
    wild type (WT) littermates and begin to show significant weight loss near 6 months of
    age. Data are plotted as the mean +/- SEM, n > 9 mice for each group. Significance was
15  assessed by a one-way ANOVA (*, P < 0.05; **, P < 0.005; ***, P < 0.001). (B)
    Kaplan-Meier analysis of homozygous with heterozygous and WT mice. Pint-- male
    mice exhibit a significant reduction in survival compare to Pintv- and wild type
    littermates. Data are plotted as percent survival over 1 year observation. (C) Ventral and
    dorsal skin sections in Pint-- mice compared with Pint'- and WT littermates. (D, E, F,
20  and G) MicroCT evaluation of body composition at 12-, 26- and 52-weeks of age. (D, E)
    Male Pint-- and Pint+- mice exhibit a significant reduction in body fat as early as 26
    week of age. Female Pint-- mice have reduced body fat at an older age noticeably at 52
    week of age (***, P < 0.001, one-way ANOVA). (F, G) A significant reduction in femur
    bone mineral density (BMD) observed in both males and females Pint-- compared with
25  their Pint+- and WT littermates (*, P < 0.05; ***, P < 0.001, one-way ANOVA). (H)
    MicroCT images depict pronounced lordokyphosis (curvature of the spinal column) seen
    in older male and female PintI mice compared with WT littermates. (I) Approximately
    70% of male and female Pint mice have lordokyphosis by 12 weeks of age, compared
    with 0-20% of Pintv- and WT littermates. By 26 weeks of age the proportion of Pint I
30  mice with lordokyphosis increased to nearly 90% and appeared in approximately 60% of
    Pint- mice, compared with less than 20% of WT littermates. n > 9 mice per group for
    all observations reported.
                                                  11

   WO 2015/021298                                                          PCT/US2014/050178
    [00052] FIG. 6 illustrates that Fendrrknockout mice exhibited abnormal lung
    morphology at e13.5. A. LacZ reporter gene expression at e12.5 in Fendrr KO embryos
    exhibits positive expression in the frontalnasal region (FN) of the face, the aorta gonad
    mesonephros (AGM) region, and the respiratory tract including the lungs (L) and trachea
 5  (T). B. Dissection of lungs at e13.5 revealed an abnormal, disorganized, globular
    phenotype in the lobes of the KO in comparison to the Het.
    [00053] FIG. 7 illustrates homeotic transformation observed in the 40 caudal vertebra of
    HOTAIR KO mice. A. Visualization of the sacral and caudal region of the mouse
    skeleton by iCT reveals a homeotic transformation of the 411 caudal vertebra to a
10  structure similar to that of the 3 rd caudal vertebra in HOTAIR KO mice. B. Dorsal,
    lateral and ventral comparison of WT and HOTAIR KO 4t caudal vertebra reveals a
    structural abnormality in KO indicative of a homeotic transformation.
    [00054] FIG. 8 illustrates that HOTTIP KO mice showed abnormal hindlimb posture,
    reduced grip strength in fore- and hindlimbs and a muscle wasting phenotype. A.
15  HOTTIP KO mice demonstrated unusual "clasping" posture of the hindlimbs when
    suspended by the tail. WT, wild type; KO, knockout. B. Cage endurance testing revealed
    that HOTTIP KO mice have a reduced ability to remain suspended from an inverted wire
    cage top. n=5 mice for each group. C. The right and left TA (tibialis anterior), GA
    gastrocnemiuss) and Quad (quadriceps) muscles were taken from WT, Het and KO mice
20  and weighed. Muscle weights are normalized to body weight and calculated to include
    both right/left muscle weights. Data are means +/-SEM, n = 6 mice for each group. A
    significant decrease in muscle weight was observed only in the GA of HOTTIP KO
    animal in both males and females (male data not shown). Asterisks indicate a significant
    difference in the KO GA muscle weights compared to all other control groups (P< 0.01).
25  D. Comparison of GA muscle fiber numbers in WT, Het and KO. A significant reduction
    of fiber count was observed in the KO. Significance assessed by using the one-way
    ANOVA (P < .0001). E. Comparison of mean cross-sectional area of muscle fibers.
    Cross sections taken from the GA muscle were stained with an antibody against laminin
    (Sigma) and measured. There is no noticeable size difference between KO and control
30  skeletal muscles. n= 6 mice per group for all muscle analyses.
    [00055] FIG. 9 illustrates precise staining in small areas for four lincRNA knockouts
    exhibiting highly specific staining patterns: Specific Mid-Gestational lacZ Expression
    Profiles for Peril,Ptgs2os2, Trp53corl and Lincenc1 (A) LacZ reporter profiling for
                                                    12

   WO 2015/021298                                                            PCT/US2014/050178
    Peril shows a specific neuronal expression pattern as well as strong expression in the
    heart and posterior tail region. (B) Ptgs2os2 lacZ reporter expression is restricted to the
    base of developing forelimbs and hindlimbs. (C) Trp53corl lacZ reporter expression is
    specific to the developing whisker placode in the nasal process. E12.5 embryos collected
 5  from the same litter capture the progression of whisker placode development over a short
    period of time. (D) Forelimbs and hindlimbs were removed in the Lincenc1"- embryos to
    reveal mammary bud expression (arrowheads). Ventral view of E12.5 Lincenc1"
    embryo: lacZ expression is detected in five pairs of mammary buds.
    [00056] FIG. 10 illustrates a phenotype characterized by loss of heel bone in HOTTIP
10  knockouts: Skeletal Malformations Observed in Hottip Mutant Mice. In addition to a
    skeletal muscle phenotype in the hindlimb, Hottip-- mice also display a skeletal bone
    abnormality visualized by 3D microCT. Both male and female (C and F) Hottip-- mice
    have shortened calcanea (arrows) in comparison to (A and D) WT and (B and E)
    Hottip'- littermate controls.
15  [00057] FIG. 11 represents a table (Table 2) of reporter expression in embryo and adult
    tissue for the IncRNA knockouts of the study.
                        DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
    Glossary
20  [00058] The term "embryonic stem cell" or "ES cell" includes an embryo-derived
    totipotent or pluripotent cell that is capable of contributing to any tissue of the
    developing embryo upon introduction into an embryo. The term "pluripotent cell"
    includes an undifferentiated cell that possesses the ability to develop into more than one
    differentiated cell types.
25  [00059] The term "large targeting vector" or "LTVEC" includes large targeting vectors
    for eukaryotic cells that are derived from fragments of cloned genomic DNA larger than
    those typically used by other approaches intended to perform homologous gene targeting
    in eukaryotic cells. Examples of LTVEC, include, but are not limited to, bacterial
    homologous chromosome (BAC) and yeast artificial chromosome (YAC).
30  [00060] The term "recombination site" includes a nucleotide sequence that is recognized
    by a site-specific recombinase and that can serve as a substrate for a recombination
    event.
                                                   13

   WO 2015/021298                                                          PCT/US2014/050178
    [00061] The term "site-specific recombinase" includes a group of enzymes that can
    facilitate recombination between "recombination sites". Examples of "site-specific
    recombinase" include, but are not limited to, Cre, Flp, and Dre recombinases.
    [00062] The term "germline" in reference to a nucleic acid sequence includes a nucleic
 5  acid sequence that can be passed to progeny.
    [00063] The phrase "operably linked" means components are linked to function together
    in their intended manner. In one instance, a nucleic acid sequence encoding a protein
    may be operably linked to regulatory sequences (e.g., promoter, enhancer, silencer
    sequence, etc.) so as to retain proper transcriptional regulation.
10  [00064] The term "long non-coding RNA" or "lncRNA" as used herein includes a non
    protein coding transcript longer than 200 nucleotides.
    [00065] The term "long intergenic non-coding RNA" or "lincRNA" as used herein
    includes a subgroup of lncRNAs. As used herein, lincRNAs do not overlap with exons of
    protein-coding regions of the genome.
15  [00066] The term "locus" is defined as a segment of DNA within the genomic DNA. For
    example, a lncRNA locus is a segment of DNA within the genomic DNA that encodes a
    IncRNA.
    I.       Compositions Comprising Genetic Modification of at Least One IncRNA Locus
20  [00067] Non-human animals, cells, tissues, and embryos are provided that comprise
    lncRNA loss-of-function, including but not limited to disruptions or knockouts of one or
    more lncRNAs. Methods and compositions for manipulating lncRNA expression are
    provided. Targeting compositions directed to modifying or knocking out lncRNAs are
    also provided. Non-human animals, cells, and tissues are provided that exhibit a
25  phenotype associated with non-function of one or more lncRNAs. Although the
    following description is with reference to a survey of certain particular lncRNAs, the
    methods and compositions may be practiced with any lncRNA.
    [00068] Provided herein are non-human animals, cells, tissues and embryos comprising a
    targeted genetic modification in at least one long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) locus. In
30  such cases, the modified lncRNA locus comprises a loss of function mutation in a
    nucleic acid sequence that encodes the IncRNA. Also provided are cells, tissues and
    embryos derived from the non-human animals comprising a loss-of-function mutation of
    at least one IncRNA.
                                                   14

   WO 2015/021298                                                            PCT/US2014/050178
    [00069] The term, "loss-of-function" as it relates to a lncRNA can include any
    modification in a lncRNA locus that results in a decrease or lack of expression of the
    lncRNA and/or a decrease or lack of activity/function of the IncRNA. The expression
    level of a lncRNA may be measured directly, for example, by assaying for the level of
 5  the lncRNA in the cell or organism.
    [00070] In general, the expression level and/or activity of the lncRNA is decreased if the
    lncRNA expression level and/or the activity level of the lncRNA is statistically lower
    (p<0.05) than the lncRNA level in an appropriate control cell or organism that has not
    been genetically modified or mutagenized to inhibit the expression and/or activity of the
10  IncRNA. In specific embodiments, the concentration and/or activity of the lncRNA is
    decreased by at least 1%, 5%, 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90% ,95%,
    99% or more relative to a control cell or organism which has not been modified to have
    the decreased level and/or activity of the IncRNA.
    [00071] In other instances, cells or organisms having the targeted genetic modification
15  that reduces the expression level and/or activity of the lncRNA are selected using
    methods that include, but are not limited to, Southern blot analysis, DNA sequencing,
    PCR analysis, or phenotypic analysis. Such cells or organisms are then employed in the
    various methods and compositions described herein.
    [00072] A "subject cell" or "subject organism" is one in which a genetic alteration, such
20  as a genetic modification disclosed herein has been effected, or is a cell/organism which
    is descended from a cell/organism so altered and which comprises the alteration. A
    "control" or "control cell" or "control organism" provides a reference point for
    measuring changes in phenotype of the subject cell or organism. In one embodiment, a
    control cell/organism is as closely matched as possible with the cell/organism with the
25  genetic modification in the lncRNA except it lacks the genetic modification or mutation
    resulting in the reduced expression and/or activity (for example, the respective cells can
    originate from the same cell line). In other instances, the control cell/organism may
    comprise, for example: (a) a wild-type cell/organism, i.e., of the same genotype as the
    starting material for the genetic alteration which resulted in the subject cell/organism;
30  (b) a cell/organism of the same genotype as the starting material but which has been
    genetically modified with a null construct (i.e. with a construct which has no known
    effect on the trait of interest, such as a construct comprising a marker gene); (c) a
    cell/organism which is a non-genetically modified progeny of a subject cell/organism
    (i.e., the control cell and the subject cell originate from the same cell line); (d) a
                                                     15

   WO 2015/021298                                                            PCT/US2014/050178
    cell/organism genetically identical to the subject cell/organism but which is not exposed
    to conditions or stimuli that would induce expression of the gene of interest; or (e) the
    subject cell/organism itself, under conditions in which the genetic modification does not
    result in an alteration in expression of the polynucleotide of interest.
 5  [00073] The term "animal," in reference to animals, cells, tissues or embryos, includes
    mammals, fishes, and birds. Mammals include, e.g., humans, non-human primates,
    monkey, ape, cat, dog, horse, bull, deer, bison, sheep, rodents (e.g., mice, rats, hamsters,
    guinea pigs), livestock (e.g., bovine species, e.g., cows, steer, etc.; ovine species, e.g.,
    sheep, goats, etc.; and porcine species, e.g., pigs and boars). Birds include, e.g., chickens,
10  turkeys, ostrich, geese, ducks, etc. Domesticated animals and agricultural animals are
    also included. The phrase "non-human animal," in reference to animals, cells, tissues or
    embryos, excludes humans.
    [00074] In one embodiment the animal is a non-human animal. In another embodiment,
    the non-human animal is a mammal. In another embodiment, the mammal is a rodent. In
15  a further embodiment, the rodent is a mouse, a rat or a hamster.
    [00075] Genetic modifications as described herein can include one or more deletions
    from a lncRNA locus of interest, additions to a lncRNA locus of interest, replacement of
    a IncRNA locus of interest, and/or any combination thereof. The locus of interest can
    comprise coding regions or non-coding regulatory regions.
20  [00076] The genetic modifications provided herein are targeted to a lncRNA locus of
    interest. A loss-of-function of a lncRNA can result from a targeted genetic modification
    in the lncRNA gene (i.e., a genetic modification in a regulatory region, the coding
    region, exons, and/or introns etc.). Such targeted modifications include, but are not
    limited to, additions of one or more nucleotides, deletions of one or more nucleotides,
25  substitutions of one or more nucleotides, a disruption of the lncRNA locus, a knockout of
    the lncRNA locus or a portion thereof, a knock-in of the lncRNA locus or a portion
    thereof, a replacement of an endogenous lncRNA nucleic acid sequence or a portion
    thereof with a heterologous nucleic acid sequence, or a combination thereof. In specific
    embodiments, at least 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 50, 100, 400 or more nucleotides are
30  changed to form the targeted genomic modification.
    [00077] In one embodiment, the loss-of-function mutation is characterized by a
    disruption or a knockout of at least one lncRNA function.
    [00078] The lncRNA locus can be genetically modified in any region of the locus such
    that the modification results in loss-of-function of the IncRNA. In one embodiment, the
                                                   16

   WO 2015/021298                                                          PCT/US2014/050178
    modification of the incRNA locus comprises a deletion of the entire lncRNA coding
    region or a portion thereof. In one embodiment, the modified lncRNA locus comprises a
    deletion of one or more exons that encode the lncRNA or a portion thereof. In another
    embodiment, the deletion comprises a deletion of one or more exons within the lncRNA
 5  locus starting in a first exon of the lncRNA locus. In other embodiments, the deletion
    comprises a deletion of one or more exons within the lncRNA locus starting in a second
    exon of the lncRNA locus.
    [00079] In some cases, the lncRNA locus or a portion thereof is replaced with an insert
    nucleic acid. In such cases, the replacement can be a replacement of the entire RNA
10  coding region of the lncRNA locus or a portion thereof with the insert nucleic acid, a
    replacement of one or more exons of the lncRNA locus with the insert nucleic acid, a
    replacement of one or more exons within the lncRNA locus starting in the first exon of
    the lncRNA locus with the insert nucleic acid or a replacement of one or more exons
    within the lncRNA locus starting in the second exon with the insert nucleic acid.
15  [00080] In some instances, the insert nucleic acid is positioned in the lncRNA locus such
    that it is in operable linkage with an endogenous lncRNA promoter such that the
    endogenous lncRNA promoter drives expression of the insert nucleic acid. In such cases,
    the expression of the nucleic acid sequence follows an expression pattern of the IncRNA.
    [00081] In one embodiment, the lncRNA locus or portion thereof is replaced with an
20  insert nucleic acid comprising a first nucleic acid sequence that encodes a reporter. For
    example, in the case where the insert nucleic acid comprises a reporter gene and is placed
    into the lncRNA locus in operable linkage to the lncRNA promoter, the expression of the
    reporter gene is driven by the endogenous lncRNA promoter. Alternatively, the insert
    nucleic acid is not inserted in operable linkage with the endogenous lncRNA promoter.
25  In such cases, the insert nucleic acid can comprise a promoter. In one embodiment, the
    insert nucleic acid comprises a reporter gene operably linked to a promoter that drives
    expression of the reporter gene.
    [00082] In one embodiment, the lncRNA locus or portion thereof is replaced with an
    insert nucleic acid comprising a second nucleic acid sequence that encodes a selectable
30  marker. In such cases, the second nucleic acid sequence is operably linked to a promoter
    that drives expression of the selectable marker.
    [00083] In another embodiment, the lncRNA locus or portion thereof is replaced with an
    insert nucleic acid comprising a reporter gene and a selectable marker gene. In such
                                                  17

   WO 2015/021298                                                        PCT/US2014/050178
    cases, the reporter gene and/or the selectable marker gene may or may not be operably
    linked to a promoter.
    [00084] Various promoters that can be employed in the methods and compositions are
    provided elsewhere herein.
 5  [00085] Such genetic modifications (including those that result in a decrease or a
    modulation in expression and/or activity of the target lncRNA) are also capable of being
    transmitted through the germline. In specific embodiments, the genetic modifications
    result in a knockout of the desired target locus. Such non-human animals, for example,
    find use in in a variety of experimental systems as discussed elsewhere herein.
10  [00086] For example, lncRNA knockouts offer an animal model to study lncRNA
    function, the role of lncRNA in development, and the role of lncRNA in various cellular
    pathways and diseases, including, but not limited to, aging, including premature aging,
    brain development, embryonic development, lung development, skeletal development,
    muscle development, cancer or regulation of transcription.
15  [00087] Various methods can be used to generate the targeted genetic modification and
    are described elsewhere herein.
            A.      IncRNA
    [00088] The non-human animals, cells, tissues, and embryos employed in the methods
    and compositions provided herein have a genetic modification that results in the loss-of
20  function of at least one IncRNA. lncRNAs are long non-coding RNAs of greater than
    200 nucleotides. A subgroup of IncRNA, long intergenic non-coding RNA (lincRNA)
    are intergenic and do not overlap with protein coding regions.
    [00089] Any lncRNA locus can be modified in the methods and compositions provided
    herein. In one embodiment, the genetically modified non-human animal, cell, tissue or
25  embryo comprises a genetic modification in a lncRNA. In another embodiment, the
    lncRNA is a lincRNA.
    [00090] Non-limiting examples of an lncRNA comprise HOTAIR, HOTTIP, Hoxallos
    (formerly named HoxAl]as), Pantri (formerly named lincRNA-Brn1-a), Pantr2
    (formerly named lincRNA-Brn1-b), Ptgs2os2 (formerly named lincRNA-Cox2), Eldr
30  (formerly named Fabl and lincRNA-Egfr), lincencl (formerly named lincRNA-Encl),
    Mannr (formerly named lincRNA-Evil), Fendrr(formerly named lincRNA-Foxfl), Ha/rl
    (formerly named Haunt and lincRNA-HoxA 1), Haglr (formerly named Mdgt and
                                                  18

   WO 2015/021298                                                            PCT/US2014/050178
    lincRNA-HoxD3), Celrr (formerly named Celr and lincRNA-Insig2), Crnde (formerly
    named lincRNA-Irx5), Kantr (formerly named Spasm and lincRNA-Jaridlc), Pint
    (formerly named linc-Pint and lincRNA-Mklnl), Trp53corl (formerly named lincRNA
    p21), lincppara (formerly named lincRNA-Ppara),Peril(formerly named lincRNA
 5  Sox2), Tug1 (formerly named lincRNA-Tug1), or a combination thereof.
     [00091] It is now clear that protein-coding genes are not all there is to the genome
    (Mattick, J.S. (2009), PLoS Genet 5:e1000459). Large-scale whole genome expression
    studies in mammalian cells have revealed that approximately three-quarters of the
    genome is capable of being expressed as RNA (Carninci, P., et al. (2005), Science
10  309:1559-1563; Djebali, S., et al. (2012), Nature 489:101-108; Kapranov, P., et al.
    (2007), Science 316:1484-1488), and most of the transcripts do not code for proteins.
    Among the non-coding transcripts is a diverse class known as long non-coding RNAs
    (lncRNAs). Representing approximately 15,000 transcripts from nearly 10,000 genomic
    loci in human cells (Derrien, T., et al. (2012), Genome Res 22:1775-1789.), lncRNAs
15  and a subclass known as large intergenic non-coding RNAs (lincRNAs) (Guttman, M., et
    al. (2009), Nature 458:223-227; Khalil et al. (2009)) resemble protein-coding mRNAs in
    structure, synthesis, and the chromatin character of their genes. Whether or not this
    structural similarity extends to a functional diversity that matches proteins remains an
    open question.
20   [00092] Functional studies on individual lncRNAs have identified roles in X
    chromosome inactivation (Marahrens, Y., et al. (1997), Genes Dev 11:156-166),
    imprinting (Leighton, P.A., et al. (1995), Nature 375:34-39; Mohammad, F., et al.
    (2010), Development 137:2493-2499; Sleutels, F., et al. (2002), Nature 415:810-813;
    Takahashi, N., et al. (2009), Hum Mol Genet 18:1879-1888), retinal differentiation
25  (Young, T.L., et al. (2005), CurrBiol 15:501-512), and heart and body wall development
    (Grote, P., et al. (2013), Dev Cell 24:206-214). Studies on the lincRNA HOTAIR first
    revealed that lincRNAs could regulate gene expression at sites far from their own sites of
    transcription by guiding chromatin modifying complexes (polycomb repressive complex
    2 in the case of HOTAIR) to specific genomic loci (Rinn, J.L., et al. (2007), Cell
30   129:1311-1323). Similar mechanisms of action have been found for the Xist lncRNA in
    X chromosome inactivation (Zhao, J., et al. (2008), Science 322:750-756) and for the
    AIR and Kcnqlotl lncRNAs in imprinting. These findings suggest a broader role for
    lncRNAs in the regulation of gene expression, which has been supported by analysis of
                                                  19

   WO 2015/021298                                                           PCT/US2014/050178
    correlated expression patterns for lincRNA and protein-coding genes that point to the
    participation of lincRNAs in a wide-ranging array of cellular processes and organ system
    physiology (Guttman et al. (2009)). Many of the recent studies on lncRNAs have
    employed global genomic strategies that have established an overall picture of the role of
 5  lncRNAs as a class. To answer the questions of whether the actions of lncRNAs on
    protein gene expression are broad, subtle, and buffering or specific, direct, and
    determinative requires the investigation of their individual roles in live animals.
    [00093] Provided herein in the following description are non-limiting examples of
    genetic modifications resulting in knockout of various lncRNAs in a mouse knockout
10  model. A survey of gene expression and phenotypes in knockout mice for 20 lincRNA
    genes was conducted, which included LacZ profiling that showed diverse spatiotemporal
    patterns of tissue-specific expression; revealed two knockout lines that exhibited
    perinatal lethality; and, revealed other phenotypes include premature aging-associated
    phenotype and defects in lung, skeleton, brain and muscle.
15  [00094] To begin to examine the functions of the lncRNAs in a live animal setting,
    knockout mouse lines were created for twenty lincRNA genes. Each mutant allele carried
    a lacZ reporter whose expression profiling revealed a wide spectrum of spatiotemporal
    and tissue-specific transcription patterns in adults and embryos. Among 18 homozygous
    knockout lines, six (about 330%) exhibited discernable mutant phenotypes, two (11 %) of
20  which were perinatal lethal, and included premature aging-associated phenotype,
    aberrant morphology in the brain, lungs, skeleton, and muscle and global changes in
    gene expression patterns that together point to diverse roles for this new class of
    functional RNAs in embryonic development and in the physiology of a broad array of
    tissues and organs.
25          B.       Genetic Modification of a lncRNA locus
    [00095] Provided herein are methods and compositions for the genetic modification of at
    least one lncRNA locus in a non-human animal, cell, tissue or embryo.
    [00096] The genetic modification of the lncRNA locus of interest can be any
    modification of the locus as described in detail elsewhere herein (i.e. deletion, insertion,
30  replacement, etc.). In such cases the genetic modification results in loss-of-function of
    the IncRNA. In one embodiment, the genetic modification comprises a disruption or a
    knockout of at least one IncRNA.
                                                  20

   WO 2015/021298                                                            PCT/US2014/050178
                     i.     Knockout Allele Design and Construction
    [00097] The design and construction of a modified incRNA allele, such as a knockout, is
    complicated by several technical issues. For example, there is a general lack of
    structure-function relationships for lncRNAs and a lncRNA locus does not have an open
 5  reading frame. Therefore, the same strategies that would guide design of an allele for
    modifying a protein coding sequence, such as a knockout, may not be applicable to
    lncRNA. In addition, the boundaries of the lncRNA genes are not well defined which
    further complicates design of a modified lncRNA allele, such as a knockout. Non
    limiting examples of these technical difficulties and the strategies used herein to
10  successfully overcome these hurdles in lncRNA knockout design are described in detail
    herein below.
    [00098] In one example, the methods and compositions provided herein were applied to
    mouse as a model system. However, even though the following description is with
    reference to mice, any non-human animal, cell, tissue or embryo can be used in the
15  methods and compositions described herein.
    [00099] Since its invention nearly twenty-five years ago, the method for creating
    genetically modified, so-called knockout, mice has established the mouse as the premier
    system for the study of mammalian gene function (Capecchi, M.R. (2001), Nat Med
    7:1086-1090; Evans, M.J. (2001), Nat Med 7:1081-1083; Smithies, 0. (2001), Nat Med
20  7:1083-1086). With few exceptions, the application of knockout mouse technology in
    both individual gene studies as well as large-scale international projects (Bradley, A., et
    al. (2012), Mamm Genome 23:580-586) has focused on protein-coding genes, but the
    recent efforts to create global knockout mouse resources for microRNAs (Prosser, H.M.,
    et al. (2011), Nat Biotechnol 29:840-845) (mcmanuslab.ucsf.edu/microrna_knockout)
25  demonstrate the value of applying the technology to non-coding RNAs.
    [000100] Applying knockout mouse technology to lncRNAs does, however, present
    some technical questions and difficulties. Most proteins have elements or domains that
    are known or at least predicted to be important for function. Deleting the coding
    sequences for these essential parts is often sufficient to create a null allele. Likewise,
30  conditional alleles can be designed that isolate the critical exon or exons for later deletion
    by the action of a tissue specific recombinase. Because structure-function relationships
    have not yet been established for all but a few lncRNAs and there is no open reading
                                                  21

   WO 2015/021298                                                          PCT/US2014/050178
    frame as a guide, the knockout strategies available to protein-coding gene may not be
    applicable to the genomic loci that encode lncRNAs. Although the annotation of
    lncRNA genes has improved (Derrien et al. (2012)), the precise boundaries of some of
    the genes may still remain ambiguous, which can complicate knockout allele design. A
 5  powerful tool applied to knockout mice for protein-coding genes is the replacement of
    the target gene with a reporter, such as, for example, the coding sequence for p
    galactosidase or a fluorescent protein, whose expression is controlled by the target gene's
    promoter, thereby reporting the spatial and temporal pattern of its expression in the
    mouse. Non-limiting examples of reporter genes are provided elsewhere herein.
10  [000101] Reporter gene replacement has been applied successfully to non-coding RNAs
    such as the well-studied Gt(ROSA)26Sor locus (Zambrowicz, B.P., et al. (1997), Proc
    Natl Acad Sci USA 94:3789-3794), which encodes a IncRNA, and the gene for the small
    non-coding RNA miR-155 (Thai, T.H., et al. (2007), Science 316:604-608), but rules for
    creating such alleles for lncRNAs may need to be developed. Despite these
15  qualifications, with thousands of lncRNAs identified, the time is ripe to explore applying
    the power of knockout mouse technology to this new class of genes. With this goal in
    mind, described herein is the creation knockout mouse lines for twenty lincRNAs, for
    example, each carrying a gene-ablating deletion allele with, for example, a   p
    galactosidase reporter replacement.
20  [000102] Any lncRNA locus can be modified by the methods and compositions provided
    herein. In one embodiment, the IncRNA is a large intergenic non-coding RNA
    (lincRNA). Non-limiting examples of lincRNA genes are listed in Table 1, however, the
    methods and compositions provided herein may be practiced with any lncRNA.
    [000103] Table 1 lists the 20 lincRNA genes on 10 different chromosomes that were
25  targeted in this study and the 26 knockout deletion alleles that were created. Members of
    the large intergenic non-coding RNA class were chosen for mutation because, by
    definition, lincRNA genes are isolated from neighboring protein-coding genes and their
    transcripts do not overlap (Guttman et al. (2009)). This feature allowed the design of
    deletion alleles that would have the least chance of interfering with the expression of
30  nearby genes. The targeted lincRNA genes were chosen to reflect a variety of expression
    patterns (Cabili, M.N., et al. (2011), Genes Dev 25:1915-1927; Khalil, A.M., et al.
    (2009), Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 106:11667-11672), with an emphasis on neural
                                                  22

WO 2015/021298                                                         PCT/US2014/050178
 expression, and for their potential involvement in development and the regulation of
 gene expression.
                      Table 1. LincRNA Knockout Deletion Alleles
                                                     Deletion Properties
 LincRNA                           Deletion     Size           Genomic Coordinates 2
                                  start exon    (kb)
 HOTAIR                                El        2.3      Chl5: 102945399-102947720
                                       E2       0.43      Chl5: 102945399-102945826
 HOTTIP                                El        4.8      Ch6: 52262834-52267603
                                       E2        2.2      Ch6: 52265374-52267603
 Hoxallos                              E3        3.5      Ch6: 52246320-52249795
 (HoxA11as)                            E4        3.1      Ch6: 52246643-52249795
                                       E5       0.70      Ch6: 52249094-52249795
 Pantr                                 El        47       Chl:42648175-42694815
 (LincRNA-Brn1-a)
 Pantr2                                El        6.5      Chl:42707143-42713698
 (LincRNA-Brn1-b)
 Ptgs2os2 (lincRNA-Cox2)               El        5.9      Chl: 150159024-150164899
 (Fabl,LincRNA-Egfr)                   El         17      Ch1l: 16934419-16951083
 Lincenc        1                      E2        26       Chl3: 97455710-97482249
 (LincRNA-Encl)
     nR                                El        32       Ch3:29891188-29923147
 (LincRNA-Evil)
 Fendrr                                E2         19      Ch8: 121054882-121074065
 (LincRNA-Foxf1)
 Hari                                  E2        8.6      Ch6:52106776-52115377
 (Haunt,LincRNA-HoxA 1)
   dgt, LincRNA-HoxD3)                 El         12      Ch2: 74750433-74762886
 (Cer,LincRNA-Insig2)                  E2        50       Chl: 121087772-121137464
    nCrNA-Irx5)                        E2        25       Ch8: 92325913-92350749
 Kantr                                   1       29       ChX: 152298544-152327475
 (Spasm, LincRNA-Jarid1c)
                                             23

   WO 2015/021298                                                                     PCT/US2014/050178
                           Table 1. LincRNA Knockout Deletion Alleles
     Pint                                   E2              32        Ch6: 31166026-31197846
    (Linc-Pint,LincRNA-Mklnl)
    Trp53corl                               El              22        Chl7: 29057474-29079078
    (LincRNA-p21)                           E2             2.9        Chl7: 29057474-29060353
    Lincppara                                 1             29        Chl5:85671665-85701064
    (LincRNA-Ppara)
    Peril                                     1             14        Ch3:34767849-34782292
    (LincRNA-Sox2)
    Tug1                                    El             9.0        Chll:3639794-3648758
    (LincRNA-Tugl)                          E2             5.7        Chl1: 3639794-3645518
    1
      LincRNA genes often have multiple annotated transcripts. All deletions end at the last annotated exon.
    2
      GRCm38 (GCA 000001635.3)
    [000104] The design strategy for the lincRNA knockout mutations was guided by two
    goals. First, alleles were created that would accurately report the transcription activity of
    the lincRNA genes. Although there is abundant evidence for tissue-specific lincRNA
    expression (Cabili et al. (2011)), it was desirable to complement this knowledge base by
 5  producing the higher definition expression patterns afforded by lacZ expression
    profiling, which can resolve tissue and organ expression both spatially and temporally
    and reveal subdomains and, in some cases, cell-type specificity not resolved by tissue
    dissection experiments. In addition, none of the published lincRNA knockout alleles has
    incorporated a reporter. Second, gene-ablating deletions were created that abolished the
10  synthesis and function of the lincRNA so that any phenotypes associated with the
    mutations would be informative about the critical functions of the targeted RNAs. The
    knockout deletions ranged in size from about 400 bp to 50 kb, with half deleting all of
    the annotated exons. For most of the remaining alleles the deletion started in the second
    exon. The application of VelociGene@ engineering methods (Valenzuela, D.M., et al.
15  (2003a), Nat Biotechnol 21:652-659) for the construction and use of large targeting
    vectors based on bacterial artificial chromosomes (LTVECs) was crucial to enabling
    construction of the large, gene ablating deletions required to ensure a null allele for this
    new class of large, functional RNA.
    [000105] Little is known about the relationship between structure and function for
20  lincRNA genes that could guide allele design. Experience with the disruption of the
    Gt(ROSA)26Sor (Zambrowicz et al., (1997)) and BIC (miR-155) (Thai et al. (2007))
    genes, established that deletion and insertion after the first exon can produce reliable and
                                                       24

   WO 2015/021298                                                          PCT/US2014/050178
    tissue-specific expression of p-galactosidase or other reporters. This strategy might,
    however, fail to achieve a complete null mutation if the fusion transcript from the
    modified allele retains a functional part of the lincRNA from the 5' portion encoded in
    the first exon (Tsai, M.C., et al. (2010), Science 329, 689-693). The knockout allele
 5  designs indicated in Table 1 were, therefore, a compromise between the desire for a
    completely ablating mutation that would have the highest probability of abolishing
    lincRNA function and the goal of creating an allele that produced an accurate and
    informative gene expression profile from the p-galactosidase reporter. For example, for
    the HOTAIR gene two alleles were made, one that deleted nearly the entire RNA coding
10  sequence and a second in which the deletion started in the second exon. Both alleles
    produced identical phenotypes (described below), but only the second functioned as a
    reporter of gene expression.
    [000106] For lincRNAs that reside very near a protein-coding gene and may share a
    divergent promoter, the deletion start point was set in the second exon to avoid the
15  chance of disrupting the transcription of the neighboring gene. FIG. 1 shows such an
    example for Fendrr (lincRNA-Foxf1) gene. The diagram shows an example of the
    design elements common to all the alleles: a targeted deletion of all or most of the
    sequence coding for the lincRNA and replacement with a cassette that contains a
    sequence from the E. coli lacZ gene that encodes p-galactosidase and a cassette (neor)
20  that expresses neomycin phophotransferase for the selection of G418-resistant ES cell
    colonies. LoxP recombinase recognition sites that enable Cre-mediated excision prior to
    phenotypic analysis flank the drug selection cassette. As there is no functional open
    reading frame with which to fuse the lacZ sequence, each allele may carry a start codon
    and a Kozak consensus sequence (Kozak, M. (1987), Nucleic Acids Res 15, 8125-8148)
25  for efficient translation of the p-galactosidase reporter. Non-limiting examples of Kozak
    consensus sequences are A/GCCRCCATGG (SEQ ID NO: 1) and GCCGCCRCCATGG
    (SEQ ID NO: 2), wherein R is A or G.
    [000107] The LTVEC targeting vectors were introduced into ES cells and screened for
    correctly targeted clones by the loss-of-allele method (Frendewey, D., et al. (2010),
30  Methods Enzymol 476, 295-307).
    [000108] The VelociMouse@ method (Poueymirou, W.T., et al. (2007), Nat Biotechnol
    25, 91-99) was applied to 8-cell embryo stage injection to convert the targeted ES cells
                                                   25

   WO 2015/021298                                                          PCT/US2014/050178
    into fully ES cell-derived FO generation heterozygous mice ready for lacZ expression
    profiling or breeding to homozygosity. Further details of the methods for generating
    lncRNA knockout animals are provided in Examples 1-13 provided elsewhere herein.
                    ii.     Reporter Expression Profiling
 5  [000109] As described elsewhere herein, the genetic modification of the lncRNA locus
    can comprise a replacement of or an insertion/addition to the lncRNA locus or a portion
    thereof with an insert nucleic acid. In some cases, the insert nucleic acid comprises a
    reporter gene. In one embodiment, the reporter gene is positioned in the lncRNA locus in
    operable linkage with the endogenous lncRNA promoter. Such a modification allows for
10  the expression of the reporter gene driven by the endogenous lncRNA promoter.
    Alternatively, the reporter gene is not placed in operable linkage with the endogenous
    lncRNA promoter.
    [000110] Any reporter (or detectable moiety) can be used in the methods and
    compositions provided herein. Non-liming examples of reporters include, for example,
15  p-galactosidase (encoded by the lacZ gene), Green Fluorescent Protein (GFP), enhanced
    Green Fluorescent Protein (eGFP), mPlum, mCherry, tdTomato, mStrawberry, J-Red,
    DsRed, mOrange, mKO, mCitrine, Venus, YPet, enhanced yellow fluorescent protein
    (EYFP), Emerald, CyPet, cyan fluorescent protein (CFP), Cerulean, T-Sapphire,
    luciferase, alkaline phosphatase, or a combination thereof.
20  [000111] The following description is a non-limiting example utilizing a lacZ reporter
    gene that encodes for p-galactosidase. The methods and compositions described herein
    can be performed with any reporter gene.
    [000112] To survey the expression patterns of the 20 targeted lincRNA genes X-gal
    staining for p-galactosidase activity was applied on whole embryos or whole mount
25  tissues and organs from adult mice. The targeted lincRNA genes exhibited a variety of
    unique reporter gene expression patterns (Table 2 at FIG. 11), representing most of the
    major organ systems and tissue types. The reporter expression patterns indicate that
    most of the lincRNAs are transcribed in multiple adult tissues, with one gene, Pint,
    exhibiting ubiquitous expression in all tissues examined. For about one-third of the
30  lincRNA genes, expression was restricted to a single organ, for example, brain for
    Pantr2, Kantr, and Hagir,lungs for Mannr and Fendrr,the urogenital system for Eldr,
                                                  26

   WO 2015/021298                                                          PCT/US2014/050178
    and the ribcage for Halri. Three of the lincRNA genes including HOTAIR, Ptgs2os2,
    and Haglr did not exhibit expression in any adult tissue.
    [000113] Embryonic expression appears to be a common feature of lincRNAs.
    Examination of the p-galactosidase reporter expression in heterozygous embryos at or
 5  around embryonic day 12.5 (E12.5) revealed a variety of specific patterns for all 20
    targeted lincRNA genes (Table 2 at FIG. 11, Fig. 2A). The expression profiles ranged
    from ubiquitous (Tug1) to highly restricted, such as epidermal for Eldr, whisker placode
    for Trp53corl (FIG. 9), or the mammary buds for Lincenc1 (FIG. 9). The
    spatiotemporal patterns seen in the different extents of limb bud and tail expression for
10  HOTTIP and Hoxallos are very similar to those reported for the adjacent protein-coding
    genes in the HoxA cluster (Hostikka, S.L., and Capecchi, M.R. (1998), Mech Dev
    70:133-145; Lu, P., et al. (2008), Development 135:1395-1405). The expression of
    HOTAIR in the posterior tail bud and genital tubercle that was observed for the   p
    galactosidase reporter was identical to that determined by in situ hybridization
15  (Schorderet, P., and Duboule, D. (2011), PLoS Genet 7:e1002071). Analysis of p
    galactosidase staining at different times of embryonic development showed that for some
    of the lincRNAs expression began early at a restricted site and then extended beyond this
    initial locus at later stages (FIG. 2B), again, reminiscent of Hox protein expression
    (Nagy, A. (2003) Manipulating the mouse embryo: a laboratory manual, Cold Spring
20  Harbor, N.Y., Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press). For example, the expression of the
    HOTTIP and Hoxallos genes began in the extreme posterior of the E9.5 embryo and
    then extended into the limb buds at later times. Similarly, the initial expression for Celrr
    at a site near the anterior end of the embryos at E9.5 was maintained and expanded to the
    full length of the spinal cord over the next two days.
25  [000114] Consistent with the frequent brain expression seen among human tissue
    specific lncRNAs (Derrien et al. (2012)), half of the twenty targeted mouse lincRNA
    genes are transcriptionally active in the brain. As with the embryonic lincRNA
    expression, the brain patterns (FIG. 3) were unique and varied from ubiquitous
    (lincppara and Pint) to highly restricted (Peril,Crnde, and Kantr). Among the 20
30  lincRNA genes that were targeted, only Pint showed a global whole-body expression
    pattern, which was mostly restricted to postnatal life. Unique to Pint, an increase in its
    expression with age was observed (FIG. 4). In 3-day old neonates, Pint transcription
    activity is low (brain) or undetectable (ribcage muscle) but then gradually appears in 3
                                                   27

   WO 2015/021298                                                           PCT/US2014/050178
    week old mice and becomes strong and ubiquitous by 8 weeks of age. Although the
    strength and timing of Pint expression varies among the different organs and tissues, the
    general trend is a steady increase in expression after birth to a plateau in adulthood. This
    age-related dynamic expression pattern is novel; the inventors have not observed a
 5  similar profile in lacZ profiling experiments for hundreds of protein-coding gene
    knockouts.
                             iii.    Phenotypes
    [000115] Genetic modification of lncRNA loci may result in various phenotypes in the
    non-human animals provided herein. Such phenotypes may include, for example,
10  premature aging-associated phenotype, defects in development of various organs
    including brain, skeleton, muscle or lung, defects in embryonic development, perinatal or
    embryonic lethality, hair loss, premature growth arrest, lordokyphosis or abnormal
    posture.
    [000116] In one embodiment, a non-human animal comprising at least one modified
15  long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) as described herein is characterized by having one or
    more of the following phenotypes: (a) a premature aging-assoicated phenotype; (b)
    perinatal lethality; (c) a defect in lung development; (d) a morphological malformation in
    the tail and hind limbs; (e) a loss of muscle mass in one or more tissues; (f) a defect in
    brain development; or (g) a combination thereof of any of (a)-(f).
20  [000117] In one embodiment, the genetic modification of the lncRNA locus results in
    lethality. In some cases the modification of the lncRNA locus is embryonic lethal. In one
    embodiment the modification of the lncRNA locus is perinatal lethal. In one
    embodiment, a disruption or knockout of Fendrr lncRNA or Peril lncRNA results in
    perinatal lethality. In another embodiment, a disruption or knockout of Haglr results in
25  lethality.
    [000118] In one embodiment, the genetic modification of the lncRNA locus results in a
    premature aging-assoicated phenotype. In such animals, signs of premature aging may
    include, for example, slow weight gain, earlier body weight plateauing, premature
    growth arrest, lordokyphosis by about 12 weeks of age, severe lordokyphosis by about
30  26 weeks of age, loss of fur at about six months, loss of hind limb muscle strength at
    about 6 months, or a combination thereof. In one embodiment, the genetic modification
    resulting in a premature aging-associated phenotype is a disruption or knockout of Pint.
                                                   28

   WO 2015/021298                                                            PCT/US2014/050178
    In one embodiment, the incRNA is Pint, and the non-human animal is characterized by a
    premature aging-associated phenotype comprising: (a) a slower growth rate than that of a
    wild type control; (b) a decline in muscle strength; (c) fibrosis; (d) a lower body fat
    content than that of the wild type control; (e) a lower femur bone mineral density and
 5  bone mass than that of the wild type control; (f) a decreased muscle mass as compared
    with that of the wild type control; (g) a decrease in median longevity; (h) lordokyphosis;
    (i) organ atrophy; or (j)a combination thereof of any of (a)-(i).
    [000119] The loss-of-function genetic modification of the lncRNA locus may also result
    in a defect in brain development. In one embodiment, the genetic modification resulting
10  in a premature aging-associated phenotype is a disruption or knockout of Pantr2, Kantr,
    Peril,Celrr, Pantrl, Crnde, lincencl, Pint, lincppara or Tug]. In a specific embodiment,
    the lncRNA is Pantr2. In another specific embodiment, the lncRNA is Pint.
    [000120] A phenotypic analysis of the various examples of lincRNA knockout mice
    provided herein was performed and is described herein below.
15  [000121] The striking age-related increase in whole-body Pint expression revealed by
    the lacZ profiling (FIG. 4) suggested that Pint might have a global homeostatic role in
    the maintenance of normal health as the mice age. To test this hypothesis the knockout
    allele was bred to homozygosity and wild type (WT), heterozygous (Het), and
    homozygous knockout (KO) mice were followed from birth to 26 weeks of age, and
20  examined for growth rate and any overt signs of ill health of defect. The Pint KO mice
    gained weight with age at a slower rate and reached a body weight plateau earlier and at
    a significantly lower weight than the WT mice (FIG. 5A and B), implying premature
    growth arrest. Both male and female KO and Het mice exhibited the slow growth
    phenotype, but it was more pronounced in the males. Skeletal imaging by microCT
25  analysis of individual mice as they aged revealed the appearance of lordokyphosis in
    approximately 70% of the male and female Pint KO mice by 12 weeks of age, with
    nearly 90% of the 26-week old KO mice showing severe lordokyphosis (FIG. 5C and D).
    In contrast, only 10 to 20% of the 26-week old WT mice displayed a slight age-related
    lordokyphosis. Significant lordokyphosis did not appear in the Pint Het mice until 26
30  weeks of age, indicating an unusual age-dependent haploinsufficiency for Pint. An age
    related loss of fur in 6-month old KO mice was also observed that was more severe in
    females (5 out of 10 KOs) than males (2 out of 9) and was seen in only one Het and none
    of the WT mice of the same age. A less severe phenotype, hind limb clasping behavior
                                                  29

   WO 2015/021298                                                           PCT/US2014/050178
    when suspended from the tail, was noted in about two-thirds of the 6-month old Pint KO
    mice (60% of females, 67% of males) compared with about 20% WT mice of the same
    age. This phenotype could indicate an age-related loss of hind limb muscle strength (see
    FIG. 8 for another example of this phenotype in the HOTTIP knockout line). The
 5  spectrum of mutation-associated defects in the Pint knockout mice suggests a premature
    aging-associated phenotype.
    [000122] Of the 19 lincRNA knockout mouse lines that were bred to homozygosity, two
    (11 %), Peril and Fendrr,showed a perinatal lethality (L.A. Goff et al., unpublished). A
    knockout of the Fendrrgene has been recently reported (Grote et al. (2013)). The allele
10  consisted of the insertion of a transcriptional stop element in the first exon. In embryos
    carrying a homozygous mutation of Fendrr,Grote et al. (2013) observed lethality at
    around E13.75 that was associated with a prominent omphalocele, a reduction in ventral
    body wall thickness, and a heart defect that caused blood accumulation in the right
    atrium. None of these phenotypes were observed in the Fendrrknockout line described
15  herein, which has a 26 kb deletion from exon 2 to the last annotated exon (FIG. 1). X
    gal staining of E12.5 embryos showed lacZ expression in the frontonasal process, upper
    respiratory tract, lungs and in the posterior AGM (Aorta-Gonad-Mesonephron) region
    (FIG. 6A) that was identical in both heterozygous (not shown) and homozygous
    embryos. An isolated look at the developing lungs at E13.5 revealed defects in the
20  knockout embryos: the lung lobes appeared collapsed, globular, and disorganized (FIG.
    6B). Mice homozygous for the deletion allele knockout of the Fendrr gene described
    herein survived to birth but succumbed shortly after from apparent breathing problems.
    The Fendrrmutant perinatal lethal phenotype was identical in mice on 2 different
    genetic backgrounds: the C57Bl6NTac/129S6SvEvTac hybrid background reported here
25  and in mice further backcrossed onto a C57BL/6 background in a separate breeding
    program.
    [000123] A number of mild phenotypes were also observed among the lincRNA
    knockout mice that survived to adulthood and exhibited normal Mendelian segregation
    of the mutant alleles (L.A. Goff et al., unpublished). Among these, there is a strong
30  correlation between lacZ expressions and detectable phenotypes in a number of lincRNA
    gene knockouts such as Pantr2,HOTAIR and HOTTIP. Mice homozygous for the
    ablation of the Pantr2 gene (a 6.5 kb complete coding sequence deletion, Table 1)
    display improper development of the cerebral cortex (strong staining in the CNS), with
                                                   30

   WO 2015/021298                                                             PCT/US2014/050178
    reduced numbers of intermediate progenitor cells and defects in neuronal migration
    affecting the development of upper-layer projection neurons (L.A. Goff et al.,
    unpublished). Deletions of the HOTAIR and HOTTIP genes (either complete or partial
    gene ablations, Table 1) caused fully penetrant morphological malformations. In
 5  HOTAIR KO mice an apparent homeotic transformation of the 4t1 caudal vertebra was
    observed, which appears to be anatomically similar to the     3 rd caudal vertebra (FIG. 7)
    (specific transient lacZ staining in the tail-bud). The HOTTIP KO mice (which had
    positive staining in the embryonic limb buds) displayed an abnormal posture compared
    with wild type littermates when suspended from their tails (FIG. 8A). This behavioral
10  abnormality was accompanied by a loss in grip endurance as measured by a test in which
    the mice are challenged to remain suspended on an inverted wire cage. Wild type and
    HOTTIP Het mutants hold on for approximately one minute, while their KO littermates
    release their grip within 10-20 seconds (FIG. 8B). This apparent reduction in grip
    strength is associated with a loss of muscle mass for the gastrocnemius but not for the
15  tibialis anterior or the quadriceps (FIG. 8C). An approximately 40% reduction in the
    numbers of fibers in the gastrocnemius was observed, but no reduction in their average
    size (FIG. 8D and E). In addition to the muscle defects in the HOTTIP knockout mice, a
    skeletal malformation was also found: a shortening in the length of the hindlimb
    calcaneum bone (FIG. 10).
20  [000124] The past several years has seen an explosion in the understanding of the non
    protein-coding component of the genome, especially in mammals. In addition to the
    classes of non-coding functional RNAs known for decades, ribosomal, transfer, small
    nuclear, small nucleolar, small cytoplasmic RNAs, and the RNA components of the
    RNase P, RNase MRP, and telomerase enzymes, and the more recently discovered
25  microRNAs and the PIWI-associated piRNAs, one can now include at least 10,000
    members of the long non-coding RNA class (Caminci et al. (2005); Derrien et al.
    (2012); Djebali et al. (2012); Guttman et al. (2009); Kapranov et al. (2007)). As we
    come to understand the genomic presence and expression of lncRNA genes, the next
    goal is to discover their biological functions. As a first step to begin to tackle this
30  challenge, mouse knockout technology has been applied, the most powerful tool for the
    determination of mammalian gene function, to create a resource of knockout mouse lines
    for 20 lincRNA genes selected for their predominantly neural lineage expression and
    expected function in development.
                                                   31

   WO 2015/021298                                                           PCT/US2014/050178
    [000125] Because of the unknown structure-function relationships for the lincRNAs, it
    was crucial in this initial study to create knockout alleles with deletions that removed
    most if not all of the lincRNA coding potential to ensure that any phenotypes that were
    observed were the result of completely null alleles. The ambiguous and complicated
 5  annotation of many of the lincRNA loci, with multiple reported transcripts perhaps
    generated by alternative splicing or transcription initiation sites, adds to the difficulty of
    knockout allele design and would make the construction of conditional alleles that avoid
    the risk of hypomorphic effects difficult. New understanding of the molecular
    characteristics important for lincRNA function should inform the design of the next
10  generation of lincRNA alleles with more precisely directed modifications of sequences
    critical to function and also permit advanced and flexible conditional strategies.
    [000126] A goal of the lincRNA knockout survey described herein was to create alleles
    that in addition to abolishing function also reported the gene's spatiotemporal pattern of
    expression. Despite not having a protein coding open reading frame as a guide, alleles
15  were successfully designed that reported gene expression for all of the 20 targeted genes.
    One of the alleles that produced no lacZ expression in the adult stage was Ptgs2os2 (see
    FIG. 2A and FIG. 9 for embryonic expression), which is known to be one of the
    lincRNAs most strongly induced by inflammatory signals (Carpenter, S., et al. (2013),
    Sciencexpress 01 August 2013; Guttman et al. (2009)). In this survey no challenge
20  experiments were performed, but the Ptgs2os2 knockout line should prove a valuable
    resource for studies of how a lincRNA's expression responds to infection or other
    inflammatory insults and what biological role it plays in the process.
    [000127] The variety and specificity of the gene expression patterns that were observed
    were reminiscent of those seen with reporter alleles for protein-coding genes. Embryonic
25  expression was a feature shared by nearly all the lincRNA genes examined. This might
    point to a common role for lincRNAs in the regulation of key events in development.
    Changing spatiotemporal patterns during embryonic development were observed, much
    like HOX proteins (FIG. 2B), exquisitely specific expression, such as the whisker
    placode staining for Trp53corl and the mammary bud expression for Lincenc1 (FIG. 2A
30  and FIG. 9), ubiquitous expression in adult tissues, such as for Pint (FIG. 4), and
    temporal changes in the expression patterns, such as qualitative changes seen for Celrr
    (FIG. 2B) in embryonic development, or the novel quantitative increase in global
    expression with age for Pint (FIG. 4). As many of the lincRNA genes chosen for this
                                                   32

   WO 2015/021298                                                          PCT/US2014/050178
    survey were known to be expressed in neural cell lineages, brain-specific reporter
    expression was observed (FIG. 3), but lacZ profiling provided a higher resolution with
    richer biological information than assays based on cells or dissected tissue.
    [000128] Among the phenotypes observed among the 19 lincRNA knockout lines bred to
 5  homozygosity, lethality was observed twice (11 %), a frequency that is probably lower
    than would be expected for knockouts of 20 randomly chosen protein-coding genes. The
    somewhat low rate of lethality coupled with the subtlety of the non-lethal phenotypes
    seen for HOTAIR (FIG. 6), HOTTIP (FIGs. 7 and 8), Pantr2 (L.A. Goff et al.,
    unpublished) and others (M. Sauvageau et al., unpublished) and the frequent embryonic
10  expression suggests that the lincRNAs could buffer or modulate gene expression or other
    processes rather than serve single, critical functions. In this manner lincRNAs could be
    similar to their smaller non-coding cousins the miRNAs in that they might share
    redundant and overlapping targets and functions with other functional lncRNAs.
    [000129] One goal of this work was to generate a resource of lincRNA knockout mouse
15  lines with a common allele strategy and a functional reporter capability that could serve
    as the subjects of more in-depth expression and phenotypic studies. The addition of the
    LacZ cassette in each case allowed simultaneous disruption of gene function and study of
    the regulation of lincRNA expression patterns by X-Gal staining. These studies reveal
    dynamic spatial and temporal patterns of lincRNA expression during mouse
20  embryogenesis and throughout adulthood, give significant insight into the properties of
    regulation/function of this new class of molecules in vivo and pinpoint regions were
    function of these genes can be sought. This survey could serve as a model for a large
    scale project to mutate all members of the lincRNA class, similar to what has been
    accomplished by the International Knockout Mouse Consortium for protein-coding genes
25  (Bradley et al. (2012)).
    II.      Methods for Modifying a IncRNA Locus in Non-Human Animals
    [000130] Methods for genetically modifying a lncRNA locus in non-human animals,
    cells, tissues or embryos are provided herein.
    [000131] Any lncRNA locus can be modified by the methods provided herein. Non
30  limiting examples of lncRNA genes comprise HOTAIR, HOTTIP, Hoxallos (formerly
    named HoxAlas), Pantrl (formerly named lincRNA-Brn 1-a), Pantr2 (formerly named
    lincRNA-Brn1-b), Ptgs2os2 (formerly named lincRNA-Cox2), Eldr (formerly named
                                                   33

   WO 2015/021298                                                           PCT/US2014/050178
    Fabl and lincRNA-Egfr), lincencl (formerly named lincRNA-Encl), Mannr (formerly
    named lincRNA-Evil), Fendrr(formerly named lincRNA-Foxfl), Halrl (formerly named
    Haunt and lincRNA-HoxA 1), Haglr (formerly named Mdgt and lincRNA-HoxD3), Celrr
    (formerly named Celr and lincRNA-Insig2), Crnde (formerly named lincRNA-Irx5),
 5  Kantr (formerly named Spasm and lincRNA-Jaridlc),Pint (formerly named linc-Pint
    and lincRNA-Mklnl), Trp53corl (formerly named lincRNA-p21), lincppara(formerly
    named lincRNA-Ppara),Peril (formerly named lincRNA-Sox2), Tug] (formerly named
    lincRNA-Tug1), or a combination thereof.
    [000132] In one embodiment, a method for modifying a lncRNA locus of interest in a
10  pluripotent cell is provided. Such a method comprises (a) introducing into the
    pluripotent cell a targeting construct comprising an insert nucleic acid flanked with 5'
    and 3' homology arms that can undergo homologous recombination with the lncRNA
    locus; and (b) identifying a modified pluripotent cell comprising a targeted genetic
    modification at the lncRNA locus. In such methods, the genetic modification results in
15  loss-of-function of the IncRNA. In one embodiment, the pluripotent cell is a mouse or a
    rat embryonic stem cell. In another embodiment, the pluripotent cell is a human iPS cell.
            A. Targeting Vectors and Insert Nucleic Acids
    [000133] Further provided are targeting vectors or targeting constructs to be employed in
    the methods for making the genetically modified non-human animals, cells, tissues or
20  embryos provided herein.
    [000134] In one embodiment, a targeting vector is provided that comprises an insert
    nucleic acid flanked by 5' and 3' homology arms that can undergo homologous
    recombination with an lncRNA locus of interest.
    [000135] The targeting vectors and examples of components of the targeting vectors (i.e.
25  insert nucleic acids, polynucleotides of interest, expression cassettes, etc.) are described
    in detail herein below.
                    i. Insert Nucleic Acid
    [000136] The "insert nucleic acid" or "insert polynucleotide" comprises a segment of
    DNA that one desires to integrate at the target locus. In one embodiment, the insert
30  nucleic acid comprises one or more polynucleotides of interest. In other embodiments,
    the insert nucleic acid can comprise one or more expression cassettes. A given
    expression cassette can comprise a polynucleotide of interest, a polynucleotide encoding
                                                  34

   WO 2015/021298                                                              PCT/US2014/050178
    a selection marker and/or a reporter gene along with the various regulatory components
    that influence expression.
    [000137] Any polynucleotide of interest may be contained in the various insert
    polynucleotides and thereby integrated at the target genomic locus. The methods
 5  disclosed herein, provide for at least 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 or more polynucleotides of interest to
    be integrated into the targeted lncRNA genomic locus of interest.
    [000138] In one embodiment, the polynucleotide of interest contained in the insert
    nucleic acid encodes a reporter. In another embodiment, the polynucleotide of interest
    encodes for a selectable marker.
10  [000139] In one embodiment, the polynucleotide of interest can be flanked by site
    specific recombination sites. In a specific embodiment, the site-specific recombination
    sites flank a segment encoding a reporter and/or a segment encoding a selectable marker.
    [000140] Non-limiting examples of polynucleotides of interest, including selection
    markers and reporter genes that can be included within the insert nucleic acid are
15  discussed in detail elsewhere herein.
    [000141] The polynucleotide of interest within the insert polynucleotide when integrated
    at the target lncRNA locus can introduce one or more genetic modifications into the cell.
    The genetic modification can comprise a deletion of an endogenous nucleic acid
    sequence and/or the addition of an exogenous or heterologous or orthologous
20  polynucleotide into the target genomic locus. In one embodiment, the genetic
    modification comprises a replacement of an endogenous nucleic acid sequence with an
    exogenous polynucleotide of interest at the target genomic locus. Thus, methods
    provided herein allow for the generation of a genetic modification comprising a
    knockout, a deletion, an insertion, a replacement ("knock-in"), a point mutation, a
25  domain swap, an exon swap, an intron swap, a regulatory sequence swap, a gene swap,
    or a combination thereof in a target lncRNA locus. Such modifications may occur upon
    integration of the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, six, seventh, or any subsequent insert
    polynucleotides into the target genomic locus.
    [000142] The polynucleotide of interest within the insert polynucleotide and/or
30  integrated at the target genomic locus can comprise a sequence that is native or
    homologous to the cell it is introduced into; the polynucleotide of interest can be
    heterologous to the cell it is introduced to; the polynucleotide of interest can be
    exogenous to the cell it is introduced into; the polynucleotide of interest can be
                                                    35

   WO 2015/021298                                                                 PCT/US2014/050178
    orthologous to the cell it is introduced into; or the polynucleotide of interest can be from
    a different species than the cell it is introduced into. The term "homologous" in
    reference to a sequence is a sequence that is native to the cell. The term "heterologous"
    in reference to a sequence is a sequence that originates from a foreign species, or, if from
 5  the same species, is substantially modified from its native form in composition and/or
    genomic locus by deliberate human intervention. The term "exogenous" in reference to a
    sequence is a sequence that originates from a foreign species. The term "orthologous" is
    a polynucleotide from one species that is functionally equivalent to a known reference
    sequence in another species (i.e., a species variant). The polynucleotide of interest can
10  be from any organism of interest including, but not limited to, a prokaryote, a eukaryote,
    a non-human, a rodent, a hamster, a mouse, a rat, a human, a monkey, an avian, an
    agricultural mammal or a non-agricultural mammal. The polynucleotide of interest can
    further comprise a coding region, a non-coding region, a regulatory region, or a genomic
                            nd
    DNA. Thus, the 1st, 2      , 3 rd , 4 i , 5',
                                               i   ii
                                                  6', 7', and/or any of the subsequent insert
15  polynucleotides can comprise such sequences.
    [000143] In one embodiment, the polynucleotide of interest can range from about 500
    nucleotides to about 200kb as described above. The polynucleotide of interest can be
    from about 500 nucleotides to about 5kb, from about 5kb to about 200kb, from about 5kb
    to about 10kb, from about 10kb to about 20kb, from about 20kb to about 30kb, from
20  about 30kb to about 40kb, from about 40kb to about 50kb, from about 60kb to about
    70kb, from about 80kb to about 90kb, from about 90kb to about 100kb, from about
    100kb to about 110kb, from about 120kb to about 130kb, from about 130kb to about
    140kb, from about 140kb to about 150kb, from about 150kb to about 160kb, from about
    160kb to about 170kb, from about 170kb to about 180kb, from about 180kb to about
25  190kb, or from about 190kb to about 200kb.
    [000144] The polynucleotide of interest within the insert polynucleotide and/or inserted
    at the target genomic locus can encode a polypeptide, can encode an RNA, can encode
    an miRNA, or it can comprise any regulatory regions or non-coding regions of interest
    including, for example, a regulatory sequence, a promoter sequence, an enhancer
30  sequence, a transcriptional repressor-binding sequence, a Kozak consensus segment, a
    start codon, or a deletion of a non-protein-coding sequence, but does not comprise a
    deletion of a protein-coding sequence. In addition, the polynucleotide of interest within
    the insert polynucleotide and/or inserted at the target genomic locus can encode a protein
    expressed in the nervous system, the skeletal system, the digestive system, the
                                                         36

   WO 2015/021298                                                           PCT/US2014/050178
    circulatory system, the muscular system, the respiratory system, the cardiovascular
    system, the lymphatic system, the endocrine system, the urinary system, the reproductive
    system, or a combination thereof.
    [000145] In one embodiment, the insert nucleic acid comprises a knock-in allele of at
 5  least one exon of an endogenous gene. In one embodiment, the insert nucleic acid
    comprises a knock-in allele of the entire endogenous gene (i.e., "gene-swap knock-in").
    [000146] In one embodiment, the insert nucleic acid comprises a regulatory element,
    including for example, a promoter, an enhancer, or a transcriptional repressor-binding
    element.
10  [000147] In further embodiments, the insert nucleic acid comprises a conditional allele.
    In one embodiment, the conditional allele is a multifunctional allele, as described in US
    2011/0104799, which is incorporated by reference in its entirety. In specific
    embodiments, the conditional allele comprises: (a) an actuating sequence in sense
    orientation with respect to transcription of a target gene, and a drug selection cassette in
15  sense or antisense orientation; (b) in antisense orientation a nucleotide sequence of
    interest (NSI) and a conditional by inversion module (COIN, which utilizes an exon
    splitting intron and an invertible genetrap-like module; see, for example, US
    2011/0104799, which is incorporated by reference in its entirety); and (c) recombinable
    units that recombine upon exposure to a first recombinase to form a conditional allele
20  that (i) lacks the actuating sequence and the DSC, and (ii) contains the NSI in sense
    orientation and the COIN in antisense orientation.
    [000148] In one embodiment, the insert nucleic acid comprises a genetic modification in
    a coding sequence. In one embodiment, the genetic modification comprises a deletion
    mutation of a coding sequence. In one embodiment, the genetic modification comprises a
25  fusion of two endogenous coding sequences.
    [000149] In one embodiment, the genetic modification comprises a deletion of a non
    protein-coding sequence, but does not comprise a deletion of a protein-coding sequence.
    In one embodiment, the deletion of the non-protein-coding sequence comprises a
    deletion of a lncRNA locus or a portion thereof. In one embodiment, the deletion of the
30  non-protein-coding sequence comprises a deletion of a regulatory element. In one
    embodiment, the genetic modification comprises a deletion of a promoter. In one
    embodiment, the genetic modification comprises an addition of a promoter or a
                                                  37

   WO 2015/021298                                                         PCT/US2014/050178
    regulatory element. In one embodiment, the genetic modification comprises a
    replacement of a promoter or a regulatory element.
    [000150] In one embodiment, the nucleic acid sequence of the targeting vector can
    comprise a polynucleotide that when integrated into the genome will produce a genetic
 5  modification of a region of the mammalian, non-human animal, or a non-human
    mammalian lncRNA locus, wherein the genetic modification at the lncRNA locus results
    in a loss-of-function of the IncRNA. In one embodiment, a lncRNA knockout ("null
    allele) is generated. In another embodiment, a disruption in the lncRNA locus is
    generated.
10  [000151] In further embodiments, the insert nucleic acid results in the replacement of a
    portion of the mammalian, non-human animal, or non-human mammalian lncRNA locus,
    with an insert nucleic acid sequence. In one embodiment, the insert nucleic acid
    sequence is a reporter nucleic acid sequence.
    [000152] The given insert polynucleotide and the corresponding region of the
15  mammalian, non-human, or non-human mammalian locus being replaced can be a non
    coding region, a coding region, an intron, an exon, an untranslated region, a regulatory
    region, a promoter, or an enhancer or any combination thereof Moreover, the given
    insert polynucleotide and/or the region of the mammalian, non-human, or non-human
    mammalian locus being deleted can be of any desired length, including for example,
20  between 10-100 nucleotides in length, 100-500 nucleotides in length, 500-1kb nucleotide
    in length, 1kb to 1.5kb nucleotide in length, 1.5kb to 2kb nucleotides in length, 2kb to
    2.5kb nucleotides in length, 2.5kb to 3kb nucleotides in length, 3kb to 5kb nucleotides in
    length, 5kb to 8kb nucleotides in length, 8kb to 10kb nucleotides in length or more. In
    other instances, the size of the insertion or replacement is from about 5kb to about 10kb,
25  from about 10kb to about 20kb, from about 20kb to about 40kb, from about 40kb to
    about 60kb. In other embodiments, the given insert polynucleotide and/or the region of
    the mammalian, human cell, or non-human mammalian locus being deleted is at least
    100, 200, 300, 400, 500, 600, 700, 800, or 900 nucleotides or at least 1 kb, 2kb, 3kb, 4kb,
    5kb, 6kb, 7kb, 8kb, 9kb, 10kb, 11kb, 12kb, 13kb, 14 kb, 15kb, 16kb, 17kb, 18kb, 19kb,
30  20kb, 25kb, 30kb, 35kb, 40kb, 45kb, 50kb or greater.
    [000153] In one embodiment, the insert nucleic acid is inserted into the lncRNA locus of
    interest such that it is operably linked to the endogenous lncRNA promoter. In such
                                                   38

   WO 2015/021298                                                         PCT/US2014/050178
    cases, the incRNA promoter drives expression of the insert nucleic acid sequence. In
    one embodiment, the insert nucleic acid sequence is a reporter nucleic acid sequence.
    [000154] In some cases, the insert nucleic acid comprises a promoter. In one
    embodiment, the insert nucleic acid comprises a polynucleotide of interest operably
 5  linked to a promoter that drives expression of the polynucleotide of interest. In one
    embodiment, the polynucleotide of interest comprises a reporter nucleic acid sequence.
    In another embodiment, the polynucleotide of interest comprises a selection marker
    nucleic acid sequence.
    [000155]    In one embodiment, the promoter is constitutively active promoter.
10  [000156] In one embodiment, the promoter is an inducible promoter. In one
    embodiment, the inducible promoter is a chemically-regulated promoter. In one
    embodiment, the chemically-regulated promoter is an alcohol-regulated promoter. In one
    embodiment, the alcohol-regulated promoter is an alcohol dehydrogenase (alcA) gene
    promoter. In one embodiment, the chemically-regulated promoter is a tetracycline
15  regulated promoter. In one embodiment, the tetracycline-regulated promoter is a
    tetracycline-responsive promoter. In one embodiment, the tetracycline-regulated
    promoter is a tetracycline operator sequence (tetO). In one embodiment, the tetracycline
    regulated promoter is a tet-On promoter. In one embodiment, the tetracycline-regulated
    promoter a tet-Off promoter. In one embodiment, the chemically- regulated promoter is a
20  steroid regulated promoter. In one embodiment, the steroid regulated promoter is a
    promoter of a rat glucocorticoid receptor. In one embodiment, the steroid regulated
    promoter is a promoter of an estrogen receptor. In one embodiment, the steroid-regulated
    promoter is a promoter of an ecdysone receptor. In one embodiment, the chemically
    regulated promoter is a metal-regulated promoter. In one embodiment, the metal
25  regulated promoter is a metalloprotein promoter. In one embodiment, the inducible
    promoter is a physically-regulated promoter. In one embodiment, the physically
    regulated promoter is a temperature-regulated promoter. In one embodiment, the
    temperature-regulated promoter is a heat shock promoter. In one embodiment, the
    physically-regulated promoter is a light-regulated promoter. In one embodiment, the
30  light-regulated promoter is a light-inducible promoter. In one embodiment, the light
    regulated promoter is a light-repressible promoter.
                                                 39

   WO 2015/021298                                                           PCT/US2014/050178
    [000157] In one embodiment, the promoter is a tissue-specific promoter. In one
    embodiment, the promoter is a neuron-specific promoter. In one embodiment, the
    promoter is a glia-specific promoter. In one embodiment, the promoter is a muscle cell
    specific promoter. In one embodiment, the promoter is a heart cell-specific promoter. In
 5  one embodiment, the promoter is a kidney cell-specific promoter. In one embodiment,
    the promoter is a bone cell-specific promoter. In one embodiment, the promoter is an
    endothelial cell-specific promoter. In one embodiment, the promoter is an immune cell
    specific promoter. In one embodiment, the immune cell promoter is a B cell promoter. In
    one embodiment, the immune cell promoter is a T cell promoter.
10  [000158] In one embodiment, the promoter is a developmentally-regulated promoter. In
    one embodiment, the developmentally-regulated promoter is active only during an
    embryonic stage of development. In one embodiment, the developmentally-regulated
    promoter is active only in an adult cell.
    [000159] In specific embodiments, the promoter may be selected based on the cell type.
15  Thus the various promoters find use in a eukaryotic cell, a mammalian cell, a non-human
    mammalian cell, a pluripotent cell, a non-human pluripotent cell, a human pluripotent
    cell, a human ES cell, a human adult stem cell, a developmentally-restricted human
    progenitor cell, a human iPS cell, a human cell, a rodent cell, a rat cell, a mouse cell, a
    hamster cell, a fibroblast or a CHO cell.
20  [000160] In some embodiments, the insert nucleic acid comprises a nucleic acid flanked
    with site-specific recombination target sequences. It is recognized the while the entire
    insert nucleic acid can be flanked by such site-specific recombination target sequences,
    any region or individual polynucleotide of interest within the insert nucleic acid can also
    be flanked by such sites. The site-specific recombinase can be introduced into the cell by
25  any means, including by introducing the recombinase polypeptide into the cell or by
    introducing a polynucleotide encoding the site-specific recombinase into the host cell.
    The polynucleotide encoding the site-specific recombinase can be located within the
    insert nucleic acid or within a separate polynucleotide. The site-specific recombinase
    can be operably linked to a promoter active in the cell including, for example, an
30  inducible promoter, a promoter that is endogenous to the cell, a promoter that is
    heterologous to the cell, a cell-specific promoter, a tissue-specific promoter, or a
    developmental stage-specific promoter. Site-specific recombination target sequences,
    which can flank the insert nucleic acid or any polynucleotide of interest in the insert
                                                  40

   WO 2015/021298                                                          PCT/US2014/050178
    nucleic acid can include, but are not limited to, loxP, lox5 11, lox2272, lox66, lox7 1,
    loxM2, lox5171, FRT, FRT 11, FRT71, attp, att, FRT, rox, or a combination thereof.
    [000161] In some embodiments, the site-specific recombination sites flank a
    polynucleotide encoding a selection marker and/or a reporter gene contained within the
 5  insert nucleic acid. In such instances following integration of the insert nucleic acid at
    the targeted locus the sequences between the site-specific recombination sites can be
    removed.
    [000162] In one embodiment, the insert nucleic acid comprises a polynucleotide
    encoding a selection marker. The selection marker can be contained in a selection
10  cassette. Such selection markers include, but are not limited, to neomycin
    phosphotransferase (neor), hygromycin B phosphotransferase (hyg'), puromycin-N
    acetyltransferase (puro'), blasticidin S deaminase (bsr), xanthine/guanine phosphoribosyl
    transferase (gpt), or herpes simplex virus thymidine kinase (HSV-k), or a combination
    thereof. In one embodiment, the polynucleotide encoding the selection marker is
15  operably linked to a promoter active in the cell. In one embodiment, the polynucleotide
    encoding the selection marker is flanked with site-specific recombination target
    sequences.
    [000163] The insert nucleic acid can further comprise a reporter gene operably linked to
    a promoter, wherein the reporter gene encodes a reporter protein selected from the group
20  consisting of or comprising p-galactosidase (encoded by the lacZ gene), GFP, mPlum,
    mCherry, tdTomato, mStrawberry, J-Red, DsRed, mOrange, mKO, mCitrine, Venus,
    YPet, enhanced yellow fluorescent protein (EYFP), Emerald, enhanced green fluorescent
    protein (EGFP), CyPet, cyan fluorescent protein (CFP), Cerulean, T-Sapphire, luciferase,
    alkaline phosphatase, and/or a combination thereof. Such reporter genes can be operably
25  linked to a promoter active in the cell. Such promoters can be an inducible promoter, a
    promoter that is endogenous to the reporter gene or the cell, a promoter that is
    heterologous to the reporter gene or to the cell, a cell-specific promoter, a tissue-specific
    promoter, or a developmental stage-specific promoter.
    [000164] In one embodiment, the genetic modification comprises a deletion of a non
30  protein-coding sequence, but does not comprise a deletion of a protein-coding sequence.
    In one embodiment, the deletion of the non-protein-coding sequence comprises a
    deletion of a lncRNA locus or portion thereof. In one embodiment, the deletion of the
                                                 41

   WO 2015/021298                                                           PCT/US2014/050178
    non-protein-coding sequence comprises a deletion of a regulatory element. In one
    embodiment, the genetic modification comprises a deletion of a regulatory element. In
    one embodiment, the genetic modification comprises an addition of a promoter or a
    regulatory element. In one embodiment, the genetic modification comprises a
 5  replacement of a promoter or a regulatory element.
                     ii.    Expression Cassettes
    [000165] Provided herein are polynucleotides or nucleic acid molecules comprising the
    various components employed in a targeted genomic integration system provided herein
    for targeting a lncRNA locus (i.e. any one of or any combination of nuclease agents,
10  recognition sites, insert nucleic acids, polynucleotides of interest, reporter sequences,
    targeting vectors, selection markers, and other components).
    [000166] The terms "polynucleotide," "polynucleotide sequence," "nucleic acid
    sequence," and "nucleic acid fragment" are used interchangeably herein. These terms
    encompass nucleotide sequences and the like. A polynucleotide may be a polymer of
15  RNA or DNA that is single- or double-stranded, that optionally contains synthetic, non
    natural or altered nucleotide bases. A polynucleotide in the form of a polymer of DNA
    may be comprised of one or more segments of cDNA, genomic DNA, synthetic DNA, or
    mixtures thereof. Polynucleotides can comprise deoxyribonucleotides and
    ribonucleotides include both naturally occurring molecules and synthetic analogues, and
20  any combination these. The polynucleotides provided herein also encompass all forms
    of sequences including, but not limited to, single-stranded forms, double-stranded forms,
    hairpins, stem-and-loop structures, and the like.
    [000167] Further provided are recombinant polynucleotides comprising the various
    components of the targeted genomic integration system for targeting a lncRNA locus.
25  The terms "recombinant polynucleotide" and "recombinant DNA construct" are used
    interchangeably herein. A recombinant construct comprises an artificial or heterologous
    combination of nucleic acid sequences, e.g., regulatory and coding sequences that are not
    found together in nature. In other embodiments, a recombinant construct may comprise
    regulatory sequences and coding sequences that are derived from different sources, or
30  regulatory sequences and coding sequences derived from the same source, but arranged
    in a manner different than that found in nature. Such a construct may be used by itself or
    may be used in conjunction with a vector. If a vector is used, then the choice of vector is
                                                  42

   WO 2015/021298                                                            PCT/US2014/050178
    dependent upon the method that is used to transform the host cells as is well known to
    those skilled in the art. For example, a plasmid vector can be used. Genetic elements
    required to successfully transform, select, and propagate host cells comprising any of the
    isolated nucleic acid fragments provided herein are also provided. Screening may be
 5  accomplished by Southern analysis of DNA, Northern analysis of mRNA expression,
    immunoblotting analysis of protein expression, or phenotypic analysis, among others.
    [000168] In specific embodiments, one or more of the components of the targeted
    genomic integration system for targeting a lncRNA locus described herein can be
    provided in an expression cassette for expression in a prokaryotic cell, a eukaryotic cell,
10  a bacterial, a yeast cell, or a mammalian cell or other organism or cell type of interest.
    The cassette can include 5' and 3' regulatory sequences operably linked to a
    polynucleotide provided herein. "Operably linked" comprises a relationship wherein the
    components operably linked function in their intended manner. For example, an
    operable linkage between a polynucleotide of interest and a regulatory sequence (i.e., a
15  promoter) is a functional link that allows for expression of the polynucleotide of interest.
    Operably linked elements may be contiguous or non-contiguous. When used to refer to
    the joining of two protein coding regions, operably linked means that the coding regions
    are in the same reading frame. In another instance, a nucleic acid sequence encoding a
    protein may be operably linked to regulatory sequences (e.g., promoter, enhancer,
20  silencer sequence, etc.) so as to retain proper transcriptional regulation. The cassette may
    additionally contain at least one additional polynucleotide of interest to be co-introduced
    into the organism. Alternatively, the additional polynucleotide of interest can be
    provided on multiple expression cassettes. Such an expression cassette is provided with
    a plurality of restriction sites and/or recombination sites for insertion of a recombinant
25  polynucleotide to be under the transcriptional regulation of the regulatory regions. The
    expression cassette may additionally contain selection marker genes.
    [000169] The expression cassette can include in the 5'-3' direction of transcription, a
    transcriptional and translational initiation region (i.e., a promoter), a recombinant
    polynucleotide provided herein, and a transcriptional and translational termination region
30  (i.e., termination region) functional in mammalian cell or a host cell of interest. The
    regulatory regions (i.e., promoters, transcriptional regulatory regions, Kozak sequence,
    and translational termination regions) and/or a polynucleotide provided herein may be
    native/analogous to the host cell or to each other. Alternatively, the regulatory regions
                                                   43

   WO 2015/021298                                                          PCT/US2014/050178
    and/or a polynucleotide provided herein may be heterologous to the host cell or to each
    other. For example, a promoter operably linked to a heterologous polynucleotide is from
    a species different from the species from which the polynucleotide was derived, or, if
    from the same/analogous species, one or both are substantially modified from their
 5  original form and/or genomic locus, or the promoter is not the native promoter for the
    operably linked polynucleotide. Alternatively, the regulatory regions and/or a
    recombinant polynucleotide provided herein may be entirely synthetic.
    [000170] The termination region may be native with the transcriptional initiation region,
    may be native with the operably linked recombinant polynucleotide, may be native with
10  the host cell, or may be derived from another source (i.e., foreign or heterologous) to the
    promoter, the recombinant polynucleotide, the host cell, or any combination thereof.
    [000171] In preparing the expression cassette, the various DNA fragments may be
    manipulated, so as to provide for the DNA sequences in the proper orientation. Toward
    this end, adapters or linkers may be employed to join the DNA fragments or other
15  manipulations may be involved to provide for convenient restriction sites, removal of
    superfluous DNA, removal of restriction sites, or the like. For this purpose, in vitro
    mutagenesis, primer repair, restriction, annealing, resubstitutions, e.g., transitions and
    transversions, may be involved.
    [000172] A number of promoters can be used in the expression cassettes provided
20  herein. The promoters can be selected based on the desired outcome. It is recognized
    that different applications can be enhanced by the use of different promoters in the
    expression cassettes to modulate the timing, location and/or level of expression of the
    polynucleotide of interest. Such expression constructs may also contain, if desired, a
    promoter regulatory region (e.g., one conferring inducible, constitutive, environmentally
25  or developmentally-regulated, or cell- or tissue-specific/selective expression), a
    transcription initiation start site, a Kozak consensus sequence, a ribosome binding site,
    an RNA processing signal, a transcription termination site, and/or a polyadenylation
    signal.
    [000173] The expression cassette containing the polynucleotides provided herein can
30  also comprise a selection marker gene for the selection of transformed cells. Selectable
    marker genes are utilized for the selection of transformed cells or tissues.
                                                   44

   WO 2015/021298                                                            PCT/US2014/050178
    [000174] Where appropriate, the sequences employed in the methods and compositions
    (i.e., the polynucleotide of interest, the nuclease agent, etc.) may be optimized for
    increased expression in the cell. That is, the genes can be synthesized using codons
    preferred in a given cell of interest including, for example, mammalian-preferred codons,
 5  human-preferred codons, rodent-preferred codon, mouse-preferred codons, rat-preferred
    codons, hamster-preferred codons, etc. for improved expression.
    [000175] The various methods and compositions provided herein can employ selection
    markers. Various selection markers can be used in the methods and compositions
    disclosed herein. Such selection markers can, for example, impart resistance to an
10  antibiotic such as G418, hygromycin, blastocidin, neomycin, or puromycin. Such
    selection markers include neomycin phosphotransferase (neon), hygromycin B
    phosphotransferase (hyg'), puromycin-N-acetyltransferase (puro'), and blasticidin S
    deaminase (bsr'). In still other embodiments, the selection marker is operably linked to
    an inducible promoter and the expression of the selection marker is toxic to the cell.
15  Non-limiting examples of such selection markers include xanthine/guanine
    phosphoribosyl transferase (gpt), hahypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase
    (HGPRT) or herpes simplex virus thymidine kinase (HSV-TK). The polynucleotide
    encoding the selection markers are operably linked to a promoter active in the cell.
                     iii.    Targeting Vectors
20  [000176] Targeting vectors are employed to introduce the insert nucleic acid into the
    lncRNA locus of interest of the eukaryotic, non-human, mammalian, non-human
    mammalian, human, rodent, mouse, rat or hamster nucleic acid. The targeting vector
    comprises the insert nucleic acid and further comprises a 5' and a 3' homology arm,
    which flank the insert nucleic acid. The homology arms, which flank the insert nucleic
25  acid, correspond to regions within the target lncRNA locus of the eukaryotic, non
    human, mammalian, non-human mammalian, human, rodent, mouse, rat or hamster
    nucleic acid. For ease of reference, the corresponding cognate genomic regions within
    the targeted genomic locus are referred to as "target sites". For example, a targeting
    vector can comprise a first insert nucleic acid flanked by a first and a second homology
30  arm complementary to a first and a second target site. As such, the targeting vector
    thereby aids in the integration of the insert nucleic acid into the target locus nucleic acid
    through a homologous recombination event that occurs between the homology arms and
    the complementary target sites within the genome of the cell.
                                                   45

   WO 2015/021298                                                              PCT/US2014/050178
    [000177] In one embodiment, the target locus of the eukaryotic, mammalian, non-human
    mammalian, human, rodent, mouse or hamster nucleic acid comprises a first nucleic acid
    sequence that is complementary to the 5' homology arm and a second nucleic acid
    sequence that is complementary to the 3' homology arm. In one embodiment, the first
 5  and the second nucleic acid sequences are separated by at least 5kb. In another
    embodiment, the first and the second nucleic acid sequences are separated by at least 1kb
    but less than 50kb. In one embodiment, the first and the second nucleic acid sequences
    are separated by at least 2kb. In one embodiment, the first and the second nucleic acid
    sequences are separated by at least 3kb, at least 4kb, at least 5kb, at least 6kb, at least 7b,
10  at least 8kb, at least 9kb, at least 10kb, at least 15kb, at least 20kb, at least 30kb, at least
    40kb, or at least 50kb. In still further embodiments, the first and the second nucleic acid
    sequence is separated by at least 1kb but less than 2kb, at least 2kb but less than 3kb, at
    least 4kb but less than 5kb, at least 5kb but less than 6kb, at least 6kb but less than 7kb,
    at least 7kb but less than 8kb, at least about 8kb but less than 9kb, at least 9kb but less
15  than 10kb, or at least 10kb but less than 15kb, at least about 15kb but less than about
    20kb, at least about 20kb but less than about 30kb, or at least about 40kb but less than
    about 50kb.
    [000178] A homology arm of the targeting vector can be of any length that is sufficient
    to promote a homologous recombination event with a corresponding target site,
20  including for example, at least 5-10kb, 5-15kb, 10-20kb, 20-30kb, 30-40kb, 40-50kb, 50
    60kb, 60-70kb, 70-80kb, 80-90kb, 90-100kb, 100-110kb, 110-120kb, 120-130kb, 130
    140kb, 140-150kb, 150-160kb, 160-170kb, 170-180kb, 180-190kb, 190-200kb in length
    or greater. As outlined in further detail below, large targeting vectors can employ
    targeting arms of greater length. In a specific embodiment, the sum total of the 5'
25  homology arm and the 3' homology arm is at least 10 kb or the sum total of the 5'
    homology arm and the 3' homology arm is at least about 16kb to about 100 kb or about
    30kb to about 100kb. In other embodiments, the size of the sum total of the total of the 5'
    and 3' homology arms of the LTVEC is about 10kb to about 150kb, about 10kb to about
    100kb, about 10kb to about 75kb, about 20kb to about 150kb, about 20kb to about
30  100kb, about 20kb to about 75kb, about 30kb to about 150kb, about 30kb to about
    100kb, about 30kb to about 75kb, about 40kb to about 150kb, about 40kb to about
    100kb, about 40kb to about 75kb, about 50kb to about 150kb, about 50kb to about
    100kb, or about 50kb to about 75kb, about 10kb to about 30kb, about 20kb to about
                                                    46

   WO 2015/021298                                                           PCT/US2014/050178
    40kb, about 40kb to about 60kb, about 60kb to about 80kb, about 80kb to about 100kb,
    about 100kb to about 120kb, or from about 120kb to about 150kb. In one embodiment,
    the size of the deletion is the same or similar to the size of the sum total of the 5' and 3'
    homology arms of the LTVEC.
 5  [000179] A homology arm and a target site (i.e., cognate genomic region) "complement"
    or are "complementary" to one another when the two regions share a sufficient level of
    sequence identity to one another to act as substrates for a homologous recombination
    reaction. By "homology" is meant DNA sequences that are either identical or share
    sequence identity to a corresponding or "complementary" sequence. The sequence
10  identity between a given target site and the corresponding homology arm found on the
    targeting vector can be any degree of sequence identity that allows for homologous
    recombination to occur. For example, the amount of sequence identity shared by the
    homology arm of the targeting vector (or a fragment thereof) and the target site (or a
    fragment thereof) can be at least 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 81%, 82%,
15  83%, 84%, 85%, 86%, 87%, 88%, 89%, 90%, 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%,
    98%, 99% or 100% sequence identity, such that the sequences undergo homologous
    recombination. Moreover, a complementary region of homology between the homology
    arm and the complementary target site can be of any length that is sufficient to promote
    homologous recombination at the cleaved recognition site. For example, a given
20  homology arm and/or complementary target site can comprise complementary regions of
    homology that are at least 5-10kb, 5-15kb, 10-20kb, 20-30kb, 30-40kb, 40-50kb, 50
    60kb, 60-70kb, 70-80kb, 80-90kb, 90-100kb, 100-110kb, 110-120kb, 120-130kb, 130
    140kb, 140-150kb, 150-160kb, 160-170kb, 170-180kb, 180-190kb, 190-200kb, 200kb to
    300kb in length or greater (such as described in the LTVEC vectors described elsewhere
25  herein) such that the homology arm has sufficient homology to undergo homologous
    recombination with the corresponding target sites within the genome of the cell. For
    ease of reference the homology arms are referred to herein as a 5' and a 3' homology arm.
    This terminology relates to the relative position of the homology arms to the insert
    nucleic acid within the targeting vector.
30  [000180] The homology arms of the targeting vector are therefore designed to be
    complementary to a target site with the targeted locus. Thus, the homology arms can be
    complementary to a locus that is native to the cell, or alternatively they can be
    complementary to a region of a heterologous or exogenous segment of DNA that was
                                                  47

   WO 2015/021298                                                           PCT/US2014/050178
    integrated into the genome of the cell, including, but not limited to, transgenes,
    expression cassettes, or heterologous or exogenous regions of genomic DNA.
    Alternatively, the homology arms of the targeting vector can be complementary to a
    region of a human artificial chromosome or any other engineered genomic region
 5  contained in an appropriate host cell. Still further, the homology arms of the targeting
    vector can be complementary to or be derived from a region of a BAC library, a cosmid
    library, or a P1 phage library. Thus, in specific embodiments, the homology arms of the
    targeting vector are complementary to a eukaryotic, non-human, mammalian, non-human
    mammalian, human, rodent, mouse or rat genomic locus that is native, heterologous or
10  exogenous to a given cell. In one embodiment, the homology arms are derived from a
    synthetic DNA.
    [000181] The targeting vector (such as a large targeting vector) can also comprise a
    selection cassette or a reporter gene as discussed elsewhere herein. The selection
    cassette can comprise a nucleic acid sequence encoding a selection marker, wherein the
15  nucleic acid sequence is operably linked to a promoter as discussed elsewhere herein.
    The selection marker and/or the reporter gene of the targeting vector can be flanked by
    the 5' and 3' homology arms or found either 5' or 3' to the homology arms.
    [000182] In one embodiment, a targeting vector comprises an insert nucleic acid
    comprising a first nucleotide sequence that encodes a reporter. In some cases, following
20  the homologous recombination with the lncRNA locus of interest, the first nucleotide
    sequence that encodes the reporter is operably linked to an endogenous promoter that
    drives expression of an lncRNA at the lncRNA locus. In a further embodiment, the insert
    nucleic acid sequence of the targeting vector comprises a Kozak consensus sequence. In
    such cases where the insert nucleic acid comprises a reporter, the Kozak consensus
25  sequence can be operably linked to the nucleic acid sequence encoding the reporter.
    [000183] In another embodiment, the insert nucleic acid of the targeting vector
    comprises a second nucleotide sequence that encodes a selectable marker. In some cases,
    the second nucleic acid is operably linked to a promoter.
    [000184] In one embodiment, the first and/or second nucleotide sequence of the insert
30  nucleic acid comprises a Kozak consensus sequence.
    [000185] In one embodiment, the targeting vector (such as a large targeting vector)
    comprises a reporter gene and/or a selectable marker gene operably linked to a promoter
                                                  48

   WO 2015/021298                                                           PCT/US2014/050178
    as described elsewhere herein. Such reporter genes and/or selectable marker genes can be
    operably linked to a promoter active in the cell as described elsewhere herein.
    [000186] In one embodiment, the targeting vector comprises a site-specific recombinase
    gene. In one embodiment, the site-specific recombinase gene encodes a Cre recombinase.
 5  In one embodiment, the Cre recombinase gene is Crei, wherein two exons encoding the
    Cre recombinase are separated by an intron to prevent its expression in a prokaryotic
    cell. In one embodiment, the site-specific recombinase gene encodes a Dre recombinase.
    [000187] In one embodiment, the Cre recombinase gene further comprises a nuclear
    localization signal to facilitate localization of Cre (or any recombinase or nuclease agent)
10  to the nucleus (e.g., the gene is an NL-Cre gene). In a specific embodiment, the Cre
    recombinase gene further comprises a nuclear localization signal and an intron (e.g., NL
    Crei).
    [000188] In various embodiments, a suitable promoter for expression of the Cre or Crei
    recombinase discussed above is selected from or comprises a Prml, Blimp 1, Gata6,
15  Gata4, Igf2, Lhx2, Lhx5, and/or Pax3. In a specific embodiment, the promoter is the
    Gata6 or Gata4 promoter. The various promoters can be from any organism, including
    for example, a rodent such as a mouse or a rat, a eukaryote, a non-human mammal, a
    mammal, a human or a hamster. In another specific embodiment, the promoter is a Prm1
    promoter. In another specific embodiment, the promoter is a mouse Prm1 promoter. In
20  another specific embodiment, the promoter is a Blimp 1 promoter or a fragment thereof,
    e.g., a 1 kb or 2 kb fragment of a Blimp1 promoter. See, for example, U.S. Patent
    8,697,851 and U.S. Application Publication 2013-0312129, both of which are herein
    incorporated by reference in their entirety.
    [000189] In one embodiment, the insert nucleic acid comprises a nucleotide sequence
25  flanked by two site-specific recombination sites. Examples of site-specific recombination
    sites include, but are not limited to, loxP, lox5 11, lox2272, lox66, lox7 1, loxM2,
    lox5171, FRT, FRT 11, FRT71, attp, att, FRT, rox, and a combination thereof.
                     iv.    Large Targeting Vectors
    [000190] The term "large targeting vector" or "LTVEC" includes large targeting vectors
30  that comprise homology arms that correspond to and are derived from nucleic acid
    sequences larger than those typically used by other approaches intended to perform
    homologous targeting in cells and/or comprising insert polynucleotides comprising
                                                   49

   WO 2015/021298                                                         PCT/US2014/050178
    nucleic acid sequences larger than those typically used by other approaches intended to
    perform homologous recombination targeting in cells. In specific embodiments, the
    homology arms and/or the insert polynucleotide of the LTVEC comprises a genomic
    sequence of a eukaryotic cell. The size of the LTVEC is too large to enable screening of
 5  targeting events by conventional assays, e.g., southern blotting and long-range (e.g., 1kb
    5kb) PCR. Examples of the LTVEC, include, but are not limited to, vectors derived
    from a bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC), a human artificial chromosome or a yeast
    artificial chromosome (YAC). Non-limiting examples of LTVECs and methods for
    making them are described, e.g., in US Pat. No. 6,586,251, 6,596,541, 7,105,348, and
10  WO 2002/036789 (PCT/USO1/45375), each of which is herein incorporated by
    reference.
    [000191] The LTVEC can be of any length, including, but not limited to, at least about
    10kb, about 15kb, about 20kb, about 30kb, about 40kb, about 50kb, about 60kb, about
    70kb, about 80kb, about 90kb, about 100kb, about 150kb, about 200kb, from about 10kb
15  to about 15kb, about 15 kb to about 20kb, about 20kb to about 30kb, from about 30kb to
    about 50kb, from about 50kb to about 300kb, from about 50kb to about 75kb, from about
    75kb to about 100kb, from about 100kb to 125kb, from about 125kb to about 150kb,
    from about 150kb to about 175kb, about 175kb to about 200kb, from about 200kb to
    about 225kb, from about 225kb to about 250kb, from about 250kb to about 275kb or
20  from about 275kb to about 300kb.
    [000192] In one embodiment, the homology arms of the LTVEC are derived from a
    BAC library, a cosmid library, or a P1 phage library. In other embodiments, the
    homology arms are derived from the targeted lncRNA genomic locus of the cell and in
    some instances the target genomic locus that the LTVEC is designed to target is not
25  targetable using a conventional method. In still other embodiments, the homology arms
    are derived from a synthetic DNA.
    [000193] In one embodiment, a sum total of the upstream homology arm and the
    downstream homology arm in the LTVEC is at least 10kb. In other embodiments, the
    upstream homology arm ranges from about 5kb to about 100kb. In one embodiment, the
30  downstream homology arm ranges from about 5kb to about 100kb. In other
    embodiments, the sum total of the upstream and downstream homology arms are from
    about 5kb to about 10kb, from about 10kb to about 20kb, from about 20kb to about 30kb,
    from about 30kb to about 40kb, from about 40kb to about 50kb, from about 50kb to
    about 60kb, from about 60kb to about 70kb, from about 70kb to about 80kb, from about
                                                 50

   WO 2015/021298                                                            PCT/US2014/050178
    80kb to about 90kb, from about 90kb to about 100kb, from about 100kb to about 110kb,
    from about 110kb to about 120kb, from about 120kb to about 130kb, from about 130kb
    to about 140kb, from about 140kb to about 150kb, from about 150kb to about 160kb,
    from about 160kb to about 170kb, from about 170kb to about 180kb, from about 180kb
 5  to about 190kb, or from about 190kb to about 200kb. In one embodiment, the size of the
    deletion is the same or similar to the size of the sum total of the 5' and 3' homology arms
    of the LTVEC.
    [000194] In one embodiment, the LTVEC comprises a selection cassette or a reporter
    gene as discussed elsewhere herein.
10  III.    Methods of IntroducingSequences and Generation of TransgenicAnimals
    [000195] As outlined above, methods and compositions are provided herein to allow for
    the targeted genetic modification of one or more lncRNA loci. It is further recognized
    that additional targeted genetic modification can be made. Such systems that allow for
    these targeted genetic modifications can employ a variety of components and for ease of
15  reference, herein the term "targeted genomic integration system" generically includes all
    the components required for an integration event (i.e. the various nuclease agents,
    recognition sites, insert DNA polynucleotides, targeting vectors, target genomic locus,
    and polynucleotides of interest).
    [000196] The methods provided herein comprise introducing into a cell one or more
20  polynucleotides or polypeptide constructs comprising the various components of the
    targeted genomic integration system. "Introducing" means presenting to the cell the
    sequence (polypeptide or polynucleotide) in such a manner that the sequence gains
    access to the interior of the cell. The methods provided herein do not depend on a
    particular method for introducing any component of the targeted genomic integration
25  system into the cell, only that the polynucleotide gains access to the interior of a least
    one cell. Methods for introducing polynucleotides into various cell types are known in
    the art and include, but are not limited to, stable transfection methods, transient
    transfection methods, and virus-mediated methods.
    [000197] In some embodiments, the cells employed in the methods and compositions
30  have a DNA construct stably incorporated into their genome. "Stably incorporated" or
    "stably introduced" means the introduction of a polynucleotide into the cell such that the
    nucleotide sequence integrates into the genome of the cell and is capable of being
    inherited by progeny thereof. Any protocol may be used for the stable incorporation of
                                                   51

   WO 2015/021298                                                          PCT/US2014/050178
    the DNA constructs or the various components of the targeted genomic integration
    system.
    [000198] Transfection protocols as well as protocols for introducing polypeptides or
    polynucleotide sequences into cells may vary. Non-limiting transfection methods
 5  include chemical-based transfection methods include the use of liposomes; nanoparticles;
    calcium phosphate (Graham et al. (1973). Virology 52 (2): 456-67, Bacchetti et al.
    (1977) Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 74 (4): 1590-4 and, Kriegler, M (1991). Transfer and
    Expression: A LaboratoryManual. New York: W. H. Freeman and Company. pp. 96
    97); dendrimers; or cationic polymers such as DEAE-dextran or polyethylenimine. Non
10  chemical methods include electroporation; Sono-poration; and optical transfection.
    Particle-based transfection include the use of a gene gun, magnet assisted transfection
    (Bertram, J. (2006) CurrentPharmaceuticalBiotechnology 7, 277-28). Viral methods
    can also be used for transfection.
    [000199] Non-human animals can be generated employing the various methods
15  disclosed herein. Such methods comprises (1) integrating one or more polynucleotide of
    interest at the target lncRNA genomic locus of interest of a pluripotent cell of the non
    human animal to generate a genetically modified pluripotent cell comprising the insert
    polynucleotide in the targeted lncRNA genomic locus employing the methods disclosed
    herein; (2) selecting the genetically modified pluripotent cell having the one or more
20  polynucleotides of interest at the target lncRNA genomic locus; (3) introducing the
    genetically modified pluripotent cell into a host embryo of the non-human animal, e.g.,
    at a pre-morula stage; and (4) implanting the host embryo comprising the genetically
    modified pluripotent cell into a surrogate mother to generate an FO generation derived
    from the genetically modified pluripotent cell. Similar methods can be employed to
25  target a challenging target chromosomal locus. The non-human animal can be a non
    human mammal, a rodent, a mouse, a rat, a hamster, a monkey, an agricultural mammal
    or a domestic mammal, or a fish or a bird.
    [000200] The pluripotent cell can be a human ES cell, a non-human ES cell, a rodent ES
    cell, a mouse ES cell, a rat ES cell, a hamster ES cell, a monkey ES cell, an agricultural
30  mammal ES cell or a domesticated mammal ES cell. In other embodiments, the
    pluripotent cell is a non-human cell, a mammalian cell, human cell, a non-human
    mammalian cell, a human pluripotent cell, a human ES cell, a human adult stem cell, a
    developmentally-restricted human progenitor cell, a human iPS cell, a rodent cell, a rat
                                                  52

   WO 2015/021298                                                           PCT/US2014/050178
    cell, a mouse cell, a hamster cell. In one embodiment, the targeted genetic modification
    results in the loss-of-function of the IncRNA.
    [000201] Nuclear transfer techniques can also be used to generate the non-human
    animals. Briefly, methods for nuclear transfer include the steps of: (1) enucleating an
 5  oocyte; (2) isolating a donor cell or nucleus to be combined with the enucleated oocyte;
    (3) inserting the cell or nucleus into the enucleated oocyte to form a reconstituted cell;
    (4) implanting the reconstituted cell into the womb of an animal to form an embryo; and
    (5) allowing the embryo to develop. In such methods oocytes are generally retrieved
    from deceased animals, although they may be isolated also from either oviducts and/or
10  ovaries of live animals. Oocytes can be matured in a variety of medium known to those
    of ordinary skill in the art prior to enucleation. Enucleation of the oocyte can be
    performed in a number of manners well known to those of ordinary skill in the art.
    Insertion of the donor cell or nucleus into the enucleated oocyte to form a reconstituted
    cell is usually by microinjection of a donor cell under the zona pellucida prior to fusion.
15  Fusion may be induced by application of a DC electrical pulse across the contact/fusion
    plane (electrofusion), by exposure of the cells to fusion-promoting chemicals, such as
    polyethylene glycol, or by way of an inactivated virus, such as the Sendai virus. A
    reconstituted cell is typically activated by electrical and/or non-electrical means before,
    during, and/or after fusion of the nuclear donor and recipient oocyte. Activation methods
20  include electric pulses, chemically induced shock, penetration by sperm, increasing
    levels of divalent cations in the oocyte, and reducing phosphorylation of cellular proteins
    (as by way of kinase inhibitors) in the oocyte. The activated reconstituted cells, or
    embryos, are typically cultured in medium well known to those of ordinary skill in the
    art and then transferred to the womb of an animal. See, for example. US20080092249,
25  WO/1999/005266A2, US20040177390, WO/2008/017234A1, and US Patent No.
    7,612,250, each of which is herein incorporated by reference.
    [000202] Other methods for making a non-human animal comprising in its germline one
    or more genetic modifications as described herein is provided, comprising: (a) modifying
    a targeted genomic lncRNA locus of a non-human animal in a prokaryotic cell
30  employing the various methods described herein; (b) selecting a modified prokaryotic
    cell comprising the genetic modification at the targeted genomic locus; (c) isolating the
    genetically modified targeting vector from the genome of the modified prokaryotic cell;
    (d) introducing the genetically modified targeting vector into a pluripotent cell of the
    non-human animal to generate a genetically modified pluripotent cell comprising the
                                                    53

   WO 2015/021298                                                            PCT/US2014/050178
    insert nucleic acid at the targeted lncRNA genomic locus; (e) selecting the genetically
    modified pluripotent cell; (f) introducing the genetically modified pluripotent cell into a
    host embryo of the non-human animal at a pre-morula stage; and (g) implanting the host
    embryo comprising the genetically modified pluripotent cell into a surrogate mother to
 5  generate an FO generation derived from the genetically modified pluripotent cell. In such
    methods the targeting vector can comprise a large targeting vector. The non-human
    animal can be a non-human mammal, a rodent, a mouse, a rat, a hamster, a monkey, an
    agricultural mammal or a domestic mammal. The pluripotent cell can be a human ES
    cell, a non-human ES cell, a rodent ES cell, a mouse ES cell, a rat ES cell, a hamster ES
10  cell, a monkey ES cell, an agricultural mammal ES cell or a domestic mammal ES cell.
    In other embodiments, the pluripotent cell is a non-human cell, mammalian cell, human
    cell, a non-human mammalian cell, a human pluripotent cell, a human ES cell, a human
    adult stem cell, a developmentally-restricted human progenitor cell, a human iPS cell, a
    human cell, a rodent cell, a rat cell, a mouse cell, a hamster cell. In one embodiment, the
15  targeted genetic modification results in the loss-of-function of the IncRNA.
    [000203] In further methods, the isolating step (c) further comprises (cI) linearizing the
    genetically modified targeting vector (i.e., the genetically modified LTVEC). In still
    further embodiments, the introducing step (d) further comprises (dl) introducing a
    nuclease agent into the pluripotent cell to facilitate homologous recombination. In one
20  embodiment, selecting steps (b) and/or (e) are carried out by applying a selectable agent
    as described herein to the prokaryotic cell or the pluripotent cell. In one embodiment,
    selecting steps (b) and/or (e) are carried out via a modification of allele (MOA) assay as
    described herein.
    [000204] In some embodiments, various genetic modifications of the target genomic loci
25  described herein can be carried out by a series of homologous recombination reactions
    (BHR) in bacterial cells using an LTVEC derived from Bacterial Artificial Chromosome
    (BAC) DNA using VELOCIGENE@ genetic engineering technology (see, e.g., US Pat.
    No. 6,586,251 and Valenzuela, D. M. et al. (2003), Nature Biotechnology 21(6): 652
    659, which is incorporated herein by reference in their entireties).
30  [000205] In some embodiments, the lncRNA targeted pluripotent and/or totipotent cells
    comprising various genetic modifications as described herein are used as insert donor
    cells and introduced into a pre-morula stage embryo from a corresponding organism,
    e.g., an 8-cell stage mouse embryo, via the VELOCIMOUSE@ method (see, e.g., US
    7,576,259, US 7,659,442, US 7,294,754, and US 2008-0078000 Al, all of which are
                                                   54

   WO 2015/021298                                                                PCT/US2014/050178
    incorporated by reference herein in their entireties). The non-human animal embryo
    comprising the genetically modified pluripotent and/or totipotent cells is incubated until
    the blastocyst stage and then implanted into a surrogate mother to produce an FO
    generation. In some embodiments, targeted mammalian ES cells comprising various
 5  genetic modifications as described herein are introduced into a blastocyst stage embryo.
    Non-human animals bearing the genetically modified genomic locus (i.e. a lncRNA
    locus) can be identified via modification of allele (MOA) assay as described herein. The
    resulting FO generation non-human animal derived from the genetically modified
    pluripotent and/or totipotent cells is crossed to a wild-type non-human animal to obtain
10  Fl generation offspring. Following genotyping with specific primers and/or probes, F1
    non-human animals that are heterozygous for the genetically modified genomic locus are
    crossed to each other to produce F2 generation non-human animal offspring that are
    homozygous for the genetically modified genomic locus.
    [000206] In one embodiment, a method for making a non-human animal comprising a
15  genetic modification in at least one lncRNA locus is provided. Such a method
    comprising: (a) contacting a pluripotent cell with a targeting construct comprising an
    insert nucleic acid flanked by 5' and 3' homology arms; wherein the targeting construct
    undergoes homologous recombination with the lncRNA locus in a genome of the cell to
    form a modified pluripotent cell; (b) introducing the modified pluripotent cell into a host
20  embryo; and (c) gestating the host embryo in a surrogate mother, wherein the surrogate
    mother produces progeny comprising a modified lncRNA locus, wherein said genetic
    modification results in loss-of-function of the at least one IncRNA.
    IV. Cells
25  [000207] The various methods described herein employ a genomic locus targeting
    system for modifying a lncRNA locus in a cell. Such cells include prokaryotic cells such
    as bacterial cells including E. coli, or eukaryotic cells such as yeast, insect, amphibian,
    plant, or mammalian cells, including, but not limited to a mouse cell, a rat cell, a hamster
    cell, a rabbit cell, a pig cell, a bovine cell, a deer cell, a sheep cell, a goat cell, a chicken
30  cell, a cat cell, a dog cell, a ferret cell, a primate (e.g., marmoset, rhesus monkey) cell,
    and the like and cells from domesticated mammals or cells from agricultural mammals.
    Some cells are non-human, particularly non-human mammalian cells. In some
    embodiments, for those mammals for which suitable genetically modifiable pluripotent
    cells are not readily available, other methods are employed to reprogram somatic cells
                                                      55

   WO 2015/021298                                                            PCT/US2014/050178
    into pluripotent cells, e.g., via introduction into somatic cells of a combination of
    pluripotency-inducing factors, including, but not limited to, Oct3/4, Sox2, KLF4, Myc,
    Nanog, LIN28, and Glis1. In such methods, the cell can also be a mammalian cell,
    human cell, a non-human mammalian cell, a non-human cell, a cell from a rodent, a rat, a
 5  mouse, a hamster, a fibroblast cell or any other host cell. In other embodiments, the cell
    is a pluripotent cell, an induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cell, a non-human embryonic stem
    (ES) cell. Such cells include pluripotent cells, including, for example, induced
    pluripotent stem (iPS) cells, human iPS cells, mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells, rat
    embryonic stem (ES) cells, human embryonic (ES) cells, or developmentally restricted
10  human progenitor cells, a rodent embryonic stem (ES) cell, a mouse embryonic stem
    (ES) cell or a rat embryonic stem (ES) cell.
    [000208] Non-limiting embodiments include:
    [000209] 1.     A non-human animal comprising in its genome at least one modified long
15  non-coding RNA (lncRNA) locus, wherein the at least one modified lncRNA locus
    comprises a loss-of-function mutation in a nucleic acid sequence that encodes a IncRNA.
    [000210] 2.     The non-human animal of embodiment 1, wherein the lncRNA is a large
    intergenic non-coding RNA (lincRNA).
    [000211] 3.     The non-human animal of any one of embodiments 1 or 2, wherein the
20  loss-of-function mutation is characterized by a disruption or a knockout of at least one
    lncRNA function.
    [000212] 4.     The non-human animal of embodiment 3, wherein the modified lncRNA
    locus comprises a deletion of one or more exons that encode the lncRNA or a portion
    thereof.
25  [000213] 5.     The non-human animal of embodiment 4, wherein the disruption or
    knockout comprises (a) a deletion of one or more exons within the lncRNA locus starting
    in a second exon of a lncRNA locus; (b) a deletion of one or more exons within the
    lncRNA locus starting in a first exon of a lncRNA locus; or (c) deletion of an entire RNA
    coding region of a lncRNA locus.
30  [000214] 6.     The non-human animal of embodiment 3, wherein the disruption or
    knockout comprises a replacement of a lncRNA locus or a portion thereof with an insert
    nucleic acid.
    [000215] 7.     The genetically modified non-human animal of embodiment 6, wherein
    the insert nucleic acid comprises a first nucleotide sequence that encodes a reporter.
                                                    56

   WO 2015/021298                                                          PCT/US2014/050178
    [000216] 8.      The genetically modified non-human animal of embodiment 7, wherein
    the first nucleotide sequence is operably linked to a promoter that drives expression of
    the reporter.
    [000217] 9.      The genetically modified non-human animal of embodiment 7, wherein
 5  the first nucleotide sequence that encodes the reporter is positioned in a IncRNA locus in
    operable linkage with an endogenous IncRNA promoter, wherein the endogenous
    IncRNA promoter drives expression of the nucleotide sequence.
    [000218] 10. The non-human animal of embodiment 9, wherein the expression of the
    nucleic acid sequence follows an expression pattern of the IncRNA.
10  [000219] 11.     The genetically modified non-human animal of embodiment 7, wherein
    the first nucleotide sequence comprises a Kozak consensus sequence.
    [000220] 12.     The non-human animal of any one of embodiments 6-11, wherein the
    replacement comprises (a) replacement of one or more exons within a lncRNA locus
    starting in the second exon of the IncRNA locus with the insert nucleic acid; (b)
15  replacement of one or more exons within a lncRNA locus starting in the first exon of the
    IncRNA locus with the insert nucleic acid; or (c) replacement of the entire RNA coding
    region of a IncRNA locus with the insert nucleic acid.
    [000221] 13.     The non-human animal of any one of embodiments 6-12, wherein the
    reporter is any of P-galactosidase, Green Fluorescent Protein (GFP), enhanced Green
20  Fluorescent Protein (eGFP), mPlum, mCherry, tdTomato, mStrawberry, J-Red, DsRed,
    mOrange, mKO, mCitrine, Venus, YPet, enhanced yellow fluorescent protein (EYFP),
    Emerald, CyPet, cyan fluorescent protein (CFP), Cerulean, T-Sapphire, luciferase,
    alkaline phosphatase, or a combination thereof.
    [000222] 14.     The non-human animal of any one of embodiments 6-13, wherein the
25  insert nucleic acid further comprises a second nucleic acid sequence that encodes a
    selectable marker, wherein the second nucleic acid sequence is operably linked to a
    promoter.
    [000223] 15.     The non-human animal of embodiment 14, wherein the insert nucleic acid
    comprises site-specific recombination sites flanking a segment encoding the reporter
30  and/or a segment encoding the selectable marker.
    [000224] 16.     The non-human animal of any one of embodiments 1-15, wherein the
    IncRNA comprises Pint, Celrr, Crnde, Eldr, Fendrr,Ha/rl, Hotair,Hottip, Hoxallos,
    Pantrl, Pantr2,Ptgs2os2, lincencl, Trp53corl, lincppara,Mannr, Haglr,Peril,Kantr,
    Tug1, or a combination thereof.
                                                 57

   WO 2015/021298                                                          PCT/US2014/050178
    [000225] 17.     The non-human animal of any one of embodiments 1-15, wherein said
    non-human animal is characterized by having one or more following phenotypes: (a) a
    premature aging-associated phenotype; (b) perinatal lethality; (c) a defect in lung
    development; (d) a morphological malformation in the tail and hind limbs; (e) a loss of
 5  muscle mass in one or more tissues; or (f) a combination thereof of any of (a)-(e).
    [000226] 18.     The non-human animal of embodiment 1, wherein the IncRNA is Pint,
    and the non-human animal is characterized by a premature aging-associated phenotype
    comprising: (a) a slower growth rate than that of a wild type control; (b) a decline in
    muscle strength; (c) fibrosis; (d) a lower body fat content than that of the wild type
10  control; (e) a lower femur bone mineral density and bone mass than that of the wild type
    control; (f) a decreased muscle mass as compared with that of the wild type control; (g) a
    decrease in median longevity; (h) lordokyphosis; (i) organ atrophy; or (j) a combination
    thereof of any of (a)-(i).
    [000227] 19.     The non-human animal of any one of embodiments 1-15, wherein said
15  non-human animal exhibits a defect in brain development.
    [000228] 20.     The non-human animal of embodiment 19, wherein the IncRNA is
    Pantr2, Kantr, Peril,Celrr,Pantrl, Crnde, lincencl, Pint, lincppara,or Tug].
    [000229] 21.     The genetically modified non-human animal of any one of embodiments
    1-20, wherein the non-human animal is a mammal.
20  [000230] 22. The genetically modified non-human animal of embodiment 21, wherein
    the mammal is a rodent.
    [000231] 23. The genetically modified non-human animal of embodiment 22, wherein
    the mammal is a mouse, a rat, or a hamster.
    [000232] 24. A cell, tissue, or embryo derived from the non-human animal of any one of
25  embodiments 1-23.
    [000233] 25. A targeting vector, comprising an insert nucleic acid flanked by 5' and 3'
    homology arms that can undergo homologous recombination with an lncRNA locus of
    interest.
    [000234] 26.     The targeting vector of embodiment 25, wherein the insert nucleic acid
30  comprises a first nucleic acid sequence that encodes a reporter.
    [000235] 27.     The targeting vector of embodiment 26, wherein following the
    homologous recombination with the IncRNA locus of interest, the first nucleic acid
    sequence that encodes the reporter is operably linked to an endogenous promoter that
    drives expression of an lncRNA at the IncRNA locus.
                                                 58

   WO 2015/021298                                                           PCT/US2014/050178
    [000236] 28.    The targeting vector of any one of embodiments 26-27, wherein the
    reporter is any of P-galactosidase, Green Fluorescent Protein (GFP), enhanced Green
    Fluorescent Protein (eGFP), mPlum, mCherry, tdTomato, mStrawberry, J-Red, DsRed,
    mOrange, mKO, mCitrine, Venus, YPet, enhanced yellow fluorescent protein (EYFP),
 5  Emerald, CyPet, cyan fluorescent protein (CFP), Cerulean, T-Sapphire, luciferase,
    alkaline phosphatase, or a combination thereof.
    [000237] 29.    The targeting vector construct of any one of embodiments 25-28, wherein
    the insert nucleic acid further comprises a second nucleic acid sequence that encodes a
    selectable marker, wherein the second nucleic acid is operably linked to a promoter.
10  [000238] 30.    The targeting vector of embodiment 29, further comprising site-specific
    recombination sites flanking a segment encoding the reporter and/or a segment encoding
    the selectable marker nucleic acid.
    [000239] 31.    The targeting vector of embodiment 26 or 29, wherein the first and/or the
    second nucleic acid sequence further comprises a Kozak consensus sequence.
15  [000240] 32.    The targeting vector of any one of embodiments 25-31, wherein the insert
    nucleic acid further comprises a promoter that drives expression of the reporter.
    [000241] 33.    A method for making a non-human animal comprising a genetic
    modification in at least one IncRNA locus, the method comprising: (a) contacting a
    pluripotent cell with a targeting construct comprising an insert nucleic acid flanked by 5'
20  and 3' homology arms; wherein the targeting construct undergoes homologous
    recombination with the lincRNA locus in a genome of the cell to form a modified
    pluripotent cell; (b) introducing the modified pluripotent cell into a host embryo; and (c)
    gestating the host embryo in a surrogate mother, wherein the surrogate mother produces
    progeny comprising a modified IncRNA locus, wherein said genetic modification results
25  in loss-of-function of the at least one IncRNA.
    [000242] 34.    The method of embodiment 33, wherein the IncRNA is a lincRNA.
    [000243] 35.    The method of any one of embodiments 33-34, wherein the genetic
    modification comprises a disruption or a knockout of at least one IncRNA function.
    [000244] 36.    The method of any one of embodiments 33-35, wherein the IncRNA
30  comprises Pint, Celrr, Crnde, Eldr, Fendrr,Ha/rl, Hotair,Hottip, Hoxallos, Pantrl,
    Pantr2, Ptgs2os2, lincencl, Trp53corl, lincppara,Mannr, Haglr,Peril,Kantr, Tug], or
    a combination thereof.
    [000245] 37.    A method for modifying a IncRNA locus in a pluripotent cell, comprising
    (a) introducing into the pluripotent cell a targeting construct comprising an insert nucleic
                                                   59

   WO 2015/021298                                                        PCT/US2014/050178
    acid flanked with 5' and 3' homology arms that can undergo homologous recombination
    with the IncRNA locus; and (b) identifying a modified pluripotent cell comprising a
    targeted genetic modification at the IncRNA locus, wherein the genetic modification
    results in loss-of-function of the IncRNA function.
 5  [000246] 38.    The method of embodiment 37, wherein the pluripotent cell is a human
    iPS cell.
    [000247] 39.    The method of embodiment 37, wherein the pluripotent cell is a mouse or
    a rat embryonic stem (ES) cell.
    [000248] 40.    The method of any one of embodiments 37-39, wherein the IncRNA
10  comprises Pint, Celrr, Crnde, Eldr, Fendrr,Ha/rl, Hotair,Hottip, Hoxallos, Pantrl,
    Pantr2, Ptgs2os2, lincencl, Trp53corl, lincppara,Mannr, Haglr,Peril,Kantr, Tugi, or
    a combination thereof.
    [000249] 41.    A genetically modified non-human animal, wherein the genetic
    modification comprises a knockout of a Pint.
15  [000250] 42.    The genetically modified non-human animal of embodiment 41, which is
    a rodent.
    [000251] 43.    The genetically modified rodent of embodiment 42, wherein the rodent is
    selected from a mouse and a rat.
    [000252] 44.    A mouse that exhibits a premature aging-associated phenotype, wherein
20  the mouse comprises a knockout of a Pint.
    [000253] 45.    The mouse of embodiment 44, wherein the mouse exhibits a phenotype
    selected from slow weight gain, earlier body weight plateauing, premature growth arrest,
    lordokyphosis by 12 weeks of age, severe lordokyphosis by 26 weeks of age, loss of fur
    at six months, loss of hind limb muscle strength at 6 months, and a combination thereof.
25  [000254] 46.    A genetically modified non-human animal comprising a knockout of a
    lincRNA selected from the group consisting of HOTAIR, HOTTIP, Hoxallos,Pantri,
    Pantr2, Ptgs2os2, Eldr, Lincencl, Mannr, Fendrr,Ha/rl, Haglr, Celrr, Crnde, Kantr,
    Pint, Trp53corl, lincppara,Haglr, Tugi, and a combination thereof.
    [000255] 47.    The genetically modified mouse of embodiment 46, which is a rodent.
30  [000256] 48.    The genetically modified rodent of embodiment 47, which is a mouse or a
    rat.
                                                60

   WO 2015/021298                                                          PCT/US2014/050178
    EXAMPLES
    Example 1: Construction of targeting vectors
    [000257] VelociGene@ methods were employed, as described previously, which allows
 5  for the rapid and high-throughput generation of custom gene mutations in mice
    (Valenzuela, D.M., et al. (2003b), Nat Biotechnol 21:652-659). Briefly, BacVec large
    targeting vectors (LTVEC) were generated using BAC clones from the mouse bMQ
    (129S7/SvEv Brd-Hprt b-m2) or RP23 BAC library (Adams, D.J., et al. (2005),
    Genomics 86:753-758). The lacZ/neo' reporter/selection cassette (FIG. 1) was identical
10  to the ZEN-UbI cassette used for the NIH KOMP (sequence available at
    www.velocigene.com/komp/detail/10020) except that the amino-terminal end of the        p
    galactosidase coding sequence in the lacZ part was modified to include an ATG start
    codon and a Kozak consensus sequence (Kozak, M. (1987) Nucleic acids research 15:
    8125-8148)).
15
    Example 2: ES cell targeting
    [000258] LTVECs were introduced into VGF1 F1 hybrid
    (129S6SvEvTac/C57BL6NTac) ES cells (Poueymirou et al. (2007); Valenzuela et al.
    (2003a)) with a multi-well electroporation device (Harvard Apparatus, Boston, MA) in
20  electroporation buffer (Millipore) 3.3 x 106 cells, 0.67 gg DNA in a volume of 0.125 ml
    followed by culturing on 15 cm gelatinized plates. Selection medium containing G418
    was added 48 hours after electroporation and changed daily thereafter. Drug-resistant
    colonies were picked 10 days after electroporation, treated with trypsin and cultured in
    gelatinized 96-well plates for at least three days before DNA extraction and purification.
25  Correctly targeted ES cell clones were identified by the loss-of-allele assay (Frendewey
    et al. (2010), Methods in enzymology 476:295-307; Valenzuela et al. (2003a), Nat.
    Biotechnol. 21:652-659).
    Example 3: Making LincRNA mice
30  [000259] The VelociMouse@ method (Dechiara, T.M., (2009), Methods Mol Biol
    530:311-324; Poueymirou et al. (2007), Nat. Biotechnol. 25:91-99) was used, in which
    targeted ES cells were injected into uncompacted 8-cell stage Swiss Webster embryos to
    produce fully ES cell-derived FO generation mice carrying the lincRNA knockout
                                                   61

   WO 2015/021298                                                           PCT/US2014/050178
    mutations. Male VelociMice@ were used directly for lacZ expression profiling or mated
    with C57BL/6NTac females to produce embryos or adults for lacZ analysis or to produce
    F1 breeders and phenotypic studies were performed on N2F1 mice. Timed matings were
    carried out by assigning the morning of identification of vaginal plugs as day 0.5 (EO.5)
 5
    Example 4: LacZ expression profiling
    [000260] For whole-mount staining, E9.5 and E14.5 embryos were collected, washed in
    PBS and incubated for 15 to 60 minutes in fresh 0.2% glutaraldehyde solution. Embryo
    yolk sacs were taken for genotyping. After fixation, embryos were washed in wash
10  buffer and incubated in X-gal (1mg/mL) staining solution at 37'C for 1 to 24 hours.
    After staining, tissues were rinsed in wash buffer, post-fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde,
    and incubated in 70% ethanol for at least 24 hours. E9.5-el 1.5 embryos were
    photographed immediately while e12.5 embryos and older were cleared in a series of
    solutions containing increasing glycerol and decreasing 1% KOH in ddH20. Photographs
15  were taken with a Nikon SMZ800 stereomicroscope. Lungs from Fendrr e13.5 embryos
    were dissected for photography after clearing.
    [000261] For studies with adult mice, 6 to 8-week old FO generation fully ES cell
    derived VelociMice@ were deeply anesthetized and fixed by cardiac perfusion using a
    0.2% glutaraldehyde/4% paraformaldehyde solution. Brain, ribcage, heart, lung, liver,
20  spleen, stomach, kidney, intestine, urogenital, muscle, and hind limb tissues were
    dissected, rinsed in PBS and post-fixed for 30 minutes in a 0.2% glutaraldehyde/4%
    paraformaldehyde solution. Tissues were then washed and incubated in X-gal (1mg/mL)
    staining solution for 1 to 24 hours at 37 0 C. After staining, tissues were rinsed in wash
    buffer, post-fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde, cleared in a series of 50%, 7 0% and 100%
25  glycerol and photographed as for the embryos.
    Example 5: Animal care and experimental procedures
    [000262] Phenotypic studies of N2F1 mice began at 6-8 weeks of age. For timed
    matings, we assigned the morning of identification of vaginal plugs as embryonic day 0.5
30  (EO.5). LincRNA KO and wild-type littermates were observed from birth for various
    developmental milestones (runting, breathing, facial and limb abnormalities, skin color,
    posture, righting and eye opening) until about 6-8 weeks of age, when they were housed
    in 12 h of light per day at 69-74 F, and 40-60% humidity for study. All experiments
    began at 6-8 weeks of age and all animal procedures were conducted in compliance with
                                                   62

   WO 2015/021298                                                         PCT/US2014/050178
    protocols approved by the Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Institutional Animal Care and Use
    Committee.
    Example 6: pCTAnalysis
 5  [000263] 3D skeletal imaging was visualized using the Quantum FX microCT Pre
    clinical In-Vivo Imaging System (Perkin Elmer). Mice were anesthetized using
    oxygen/isofluorane inhalation with an isofluorane flow rate of 2.5 L/min and an oxygen
    flow rate of 1.5 L/min. During the scan, anesthesia was maintained at 0.25 L/min
    oxygen flow rate through a nose cone. Scans were performed at 90kV and 160ptA with a
10  30mm field of view for hindlimbs and a 60mm field of view for vertebrae. For bone
    mineral density, total bone, lean and fat volume analysis, two consecutive scans were
    performed with 60 mm field of view for whole body excluding the head. The right femur
    was manually isolated for bone mineral density measurements. Right femur, total lean
    and total fat volumes were all measured using Analyze 11.0 software (Mayo Clinic) and
15  converted to mass based on established densities. Following the scan, mice were
    returned to their cage and monitored for recovery in compliance with Regeneron IACUC
    protocols.
    Example 7: Tail Suspension Test
20  [000264] When suspended by the tail, mice prepare for a safe landing by spreading their
    hind limbs, often referred to as "hindlimb splay". Mice were suspended by their tails for
    10s and observed for any abnormal clasping phenotype.
    Example 8: Grip Endurance Test
25  [000265] Mice were evaluated at 5, 7, and 10 weeks of age for signs of muscular deficit
    by their ability to hang inverted from a wire grid (wire thickness approximately 2mm).
    Mice were individually placed on a wire grid that was gently shaken to prompt them to
    hold on as the grid was turned upside down. The time taken for the mouse to let go (up
    to a maximum of 60 seconds) was recorded. Mice were given three attempts to hold on
30  as long as possible and the maximum time was recorded for statistical comparison.
    Example 9: Muscle Histology and tissue necropsy
    [000266] Mice were euthanized by CO 2 inhalation followed by cervical dislocation. The
    tibialis anterior (TA), quadriceps and gastrocnemius (GA) muscles were dissected and
                                                  63

   WO 2015/021298                                                         PCT/US2014/050178
    weighed. All collected muscles and organs were frozen and were kept at -80C for future
    examination. For histology, muscles were frozen in OCT, cryo-sectioned crossly at
    12 tm thickness to reveal lateral and medial head, soleus, and plantaris. Adjacent
    sections were stained with H&E, laminin, and MHC Slow Stain. The stainings were
 5  digitally imaged using Aperio Scanscope. Fiber size and count were determined using
    Spectra software. All data are expressed as means +/- the standard error of the mean
    (represented as error bars). Analysis of variance (ANOVA) was conducted using the
    program STATVIEW and/or PRISM. Statistical significance was set at a P value less
    than 0.05. For skin histology, dorsal and ventral skin areas were shaved, dissected and
10  fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde (PFA) for at least 24 hours and transferred to 70%
    ethanol. Paraffin embedding, sectioning and hematoxylin and eosin staining on skin
    sections were performed by Histoserv Labs, Inc., Germantown, MD.
    Example 10: Kaplan-Meier Survival Curve Analysis
15  [000267] Animals were observed for a period of 52 weeks and monitored for signs of
    morbidity according to Regeneron IACUC protocols. No mice in this study needed to be
    sacrificed prior to the 52-week time point based on morbidity guidelines. Survival curve
    and log rank test were determined using Graphpad PRISM 6 software.
20  Example 11: Diverse Phenotypes and Specific Transcription Patterns in Twenty
    Mouse Lines with Ablated lincRNAs
    [000268] In a survey of 20 knockout mouse lines designed to examine the biological
    functions of large intergenic non-coding RNAs (lincRNAs), we have found a variety of
    phenotypes, ranging from perinatal lethality to defects associated with premature aging
25  and morphological and functional abnormalities in the lungs, skeleton, and muscle. Each
    mutant allele carried a lacZ reporter whose expression profile highlighted a wide
    spectrum of spatiotemporal and tissue-specific transcription patterns in embryos and
    adults that informed our phenotypic analyses and will serve as a guide for future
    investigations of these genes. Our study shows that lincRNAs are a new class of encoded
30  molecules that, like proteins, serve essential and important functional roles in embryonic
    development, physiology, and homeostasis of a broad array of tissues and organs in
    mammals.
    [000269] It has recently become clear that an in-depth understanding of the relationship
    between genotype and phenotype in mammals requires that we expand our investigations
                                                  64

   WO 2015/021298                                                         PCT/US2014/050178
    beyond the protein-coding genes to include the non-coding portion of the genome
    (Mattick JS (2009) PLoS genetics 5: e1000459). Large-scale whole genome expression
    studies in mammalian cells have revealed that approximately three-quarters of the
    genome is capable of being expressed as RNA (Kapranov P, et al. (2007) Science 316:
 5  1484-1488; Carninci P, et al. (2005) Science 309: 1559-1563; Djebali S, et al. (2012)
    Nature 489: 101-108), and most of the transcripts do not code for proteins. Among the
    non-coding transcripts is a diverse class known as long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs).
    Representing approximately 15,000 transcripts from nearly 10,000 genomic loci in
    human cells (Derrien T, et al. (2012) Genome Research 22: 1775-1789), IncRNAs and a
10  subclass known as large intergenic non-coding RNAs (lincRNAs) (Guttman M, et al.
    (2009) Nature 458: 223-227; Khalil AM, et al. (2009) Proceedingsof the National
    Academy ofSciences of the United States ofAmerica 106: 11667-11672) resemble
    protein-coding mRNAs in structure, synthesis, and the chromatin character of their
    genes. Whether or not this structural similarity extends to a functional diversity that
15  matches that of proteins remains an open question.
    [000270] Since the creation of the first knockout strain nearly twenty-five years ago, the
    mouse has become the premier system for the study of mammalian gene function
    (Capecchi MR (2001) Nat Med 7: 1086-1090; Evans MJ (2001) Nat Med 7: 1081-1083;
    Smithies 0 (2001) Nat Med 7: 1083-1086). With few exceptions, the application of
20  knockout mouse technology in individual gene studies as well as large-scale international
    projects (www.knockoutmouse.org) has focused on protein-coding genes, but the recent
    efforts to create global knockout mouse resources for microRNAs (Prosser HM, et al.
    (2011) Nature biotechnology 29: 840-845) (mcmanuslab.ucsf.edu/microrna_knockout)
    demonstrate the value of applying the technology to non-coding RNAs. There have been
25  a few functional studies of individual IncRNAs by gene disruption in mice, but about
    half have focused on well-studied IncRNAs involved in a single, related biological
    phenomenon: X chromosome inactivation (Marahrens Y, et al. (1997) Genes &
    Development 11: 156-166; Sado T, et al. (2001) Development 128: 1275-1286) and
    somatic chromosome imprinting (Leighton PA, et al. (1995) Nature 375: 34-39;
30  Mohammad F, et al. (2010) Development 137: 2493-2499; Sleutels F, et al. (2002)
    Nature 415: 810-813; Takahashi N, et al. (2009) Human Molecular Genetics 18: 1879
    1888).
    [000271] Recently, disruption of the mouse FendrrlncRNA resulted in embryonic
    lethality associated with defects in heart and body wall development (Grote P, et al.
                                                  65

   WO 2015/021298                                                             PCT/US2014/050178
    (2013) Developmental Cell 24: 206-214). However, deletion or insertion mutations in the
    IncRNA-encoding Gt(ROSA)26Sor (Zambrowicz BP, et al. (1997) Proceedings of the
    NationalAcademy of Sciences of the United States ofAmerica 94: 3789-3794) or Malatl
    (Zhang B, et al. (2012) Cell Reports 2: 111-123) genes produced no discernable
 5  phenotypes. The emerging understanding of the structure, expression, and function of the
    lncRNA genes presents a new opportunity to employ mouse molecular genetics to reveal
    the biological functions associated with this new class of genes.
    [000272] Applying knockout mouse technology to lncRNAs does, however, present
    some technical challenges. Most proteins have elements or domains that are known or at
10  least predicted to be of functional relevance. Deleting the coding sequences for these
    essential parts is often sufficient to create a null allele. Likewise, conditional alleles can
    be designed that isolate the critical exon or exons for later deletion by the action of a
    tissue specific recombinase. Because structure-function relationships have not yet been
    established for all but a few lncRNAs and there is no open reading frame as a guide, the
15  knockout strategies available to protein-coding genes may not be applicable to the
    genomic loci that encode lncRNAs. Although the annotation of lncRNA genes has
    improved (Derrien T, et al. (2012) Genome Research 22: 1775-1789), the precise
    boundaries of some genes may still remain ambiguous, which can complicate knockout
    allele design. A powerful tool applied to knockout mice for protein-coding genes is the
20  replacement of the target gene with a reporter, such as the coding sequence for p
    galactosidase or a fluorescent protein, whose expression is controlled by the target gene's
    promoter, thereby reporting the spatial and temporal pattern of its expression in the
    mouse. Reporter gene replacement has been applied successfully to non-coding RNAs
    such as the well-studied Gt(ROSA)26Sor locus (Zambrowicz BP, et al. (1997)
25  Proceedings of the NationalAcademy of Sciences of the United States ofAmerica 94:
    3789-3794), which encodes a lncRNA, and the gene for the small non-coding RNA miR
    155 (Thai TH, et al. (2007) Science 316: 604-608), but rules for creating such alleles for
    lncRNAs may need to be developed. Despite these qualifications, with thousands of
    lncRNAs identified, the time is ripe to apply the power of knockout mouse technology to
30  this new class of genes. With this goal in mind, we describe here a unified genetic
    approach to elucidate the functions of twenty lincRNAs by the creation of knockout
    mouse lines, each carrying a gene-ablating deletion allele with a p-galactosidase reporter
    replacement.
                                                    66

   WO 2015/021298                                                          PCT/US2014/050178
    Generation of 20 lincRNA-Deleted Mouse Lines with Reporter Gene Replacement
    [000273] Table 1 lists the 20 lincRNA genes on 10 different chromosomes targeted in
    this study and the 26 knockout deletion alleles created. We chose to mutate members of
    the large intergenic non-coding RNA class because, by definition, lincRNA genes are
 5  isolated from neighboring protein-coding genes and their transcripts do not overlap
    (Guttman M, et al. (2009) Nature 458: 223-227). This feature allowed us to design
    deletion alleles that would have the least chance of interfering with the expression of
    nearby genes. We chose the targeted lincRNA genes to reflect a variety of expression
    patterns (Khalil AM, et al. (2009) Proceedingsof the NationalAcademy of Sciences of
10  the United States ofAmerica 106: 11667-11672; Cabili MN, et al. (2011) Genes &
    Development 25: 1915-1927), with an emphasis on neural expression, and for their
    potential involvement in development and the regulation of gene expression.
    [000274] Our design strategy for the lincRNA knockout mutations was guided by two
    goals. First, we aimed to create alleles that would accurately report the transcription
15  activity of the lincRNA genes. Although there was evidence from cell-based and selected
    tissue dissection studies for tissue-specific lincRNA expression (Cabili MN, et al. (2011)
    Genes & Development 25: 1915-1927), we wanted to complement this knowledge base
    by producing the higher definition expression patterns afforded by lacZ expression
    profiling, which can resolve tissue and organ expression both spatially and temporally,
20  thereby, revealing subdomains and in some cases, cell-type specificity not resolved by
    tissue dissection experiments. Second, we strove to create gene-ablating deletions that
    abolished the synthesis and function of the lincRNA so that any phenotypes associated
    with the mutations would be informative about the critical functions of the targeted
    RNAs.
25  [000275] The knockout deletions ranged in size from about 400 bp to 50 kb, with half
    deleting all of the annotated exons. For most of the remaining alleles, the deletion started
    in the second exon. The application of VelociGene@ methods (Valenzuela DM, et al.
    (2003) Nature Biotechnology 21: 652-659) for the construction and use of large targeting
    vectors based on bacterial artificial chromosomes (LTVECs) was crucial to enabling us
30  to make the large, gene ablating deletions required to ensure a null allele for this new
    class of large functional RNA.
    [000276] Little is known about the relationship between structure and function for
    lincRNA genes that could guide allele design. Experience with the disruption of the
    Gt(ROSA)26Sor (Zambrowicz BP, et al. (1997) Proceedings of the NationalAcademy of
                                                   67

   WO 2015/021298                                                          PCT/US2014/050178
    Sciences of the United States ofAmerica 94: 3789-3794) and BIC (miR-155) (Thai TH,
    et al. (2007) Science 316: 604-608) genes established that deletion and insertion after the
    first exon can produce reliable and tissue-specific expression of p-galactosidase or other
    reporters. This strategy might, however, fail to achieve a complete null mutation if the
 5  fusion transcript from the modified allele retains a functional part of the lincRNA from
    the 5' portion encoded in the first exon (Tsai MC, et al. (2010) Science 329: 689-693).
    The knockout allele designs indicated in Table 1 were therefore a compromise between
    the desire for a completely ablating mutation that would have the highest probability of
    abolishing lincRNA function and the goal of creating an allele that produced an accurate
10  and informative gene expression profile from the p-galactosidase reporter. For example,
    for the HOTAIR gene we made two alleles, one that deleted nearly the entire RNA
    coding sequence and a second in which the deletion started in the second exon. Both
    alleles produced identical phenotypes (described below), but only the second functioned
    as a reporter of gene expression.
15  [000277] For lincRNAs that reside very near a protein-coding gene and may share a
    divergent promoter, we set the deletion start point in the second exon to avoid the chance
    of disrupting the transcription of the neighboring gene. Figure 1 shows such an example
    for the Fendrrgene. The diagram shows the design elements common to all the alleles: a
    targeted deletion of all or most of the sequence coding for the lincRNA and replacement
20  with a cassette that contains a sequence from the E. coli lacZ gene that encodes p
    galactosidase and a cassette (neor) that expresses neomycin phosphotransferase for the
    selection of G418-resistant ES cell colonies. LoxP recombinase recognition sites that
    enable Cre-mediated excision prior to phenotypic analysis flank the drug selection
    cassette. As there is no functional open reading with which to fuse the lacZ sequence,
25  each allele carries a start codon and a Kozak consensus sequence (Kozak M (1987)
    Nucleic acids research 15: 8125-8148) for efficient translation of the p-galactosidase
    reporter.
    Specific and Diverse LincRNA Gene Expression Patterns Revealed by LacZ
    Reporter Profiling
30  [000278] To survey the expression patterns of the 20 targeted lincRNA genes, we
    applied X-gal staining for p-galactosidase activity on mid-gestation embryos and adult
    whole mount tissues and organs. The targeted lincRNA genes exhibited a variety of
    unique reporter gene expression patterns in both embryos and adults, representing most
                                                 68

   WO 2015/021298                                                            PCT/US2014/050178
    of the major organ systems and tissue types (Table 2 at Figure 11). For example, in the
    adult tissues, expression of Pantr2,Kantr, and Peril was restricted to the brain; Mannr
    and Fendrrwere expressed in lungs; Eldr was expressed in the urogenital system; and
    Ha/r1 was expressed in the ribcage. One lincRNA gene, Pint, exhibited ubiquitous
 5  expression in all tissues. We did not detect expression of the Hotair,Ptgs2os2, and Haglr
    genes in any of the adult tissues we examined.
    [000279] Embryonic expression appears to be a common feature of lincRNAs.
    Examination of the p-galactosidase reporter expression in heterozygous embryos at or
    around embryonic day 12.5 (E12.5) revealed a variety of specific patterns for all 20
10  targeted lincRNA genes (Table 2 at Figure 11, Fig. 2A). The expression profiles ranged
    from ubiquitous (Tug1) to highly specific, such as epidermal for Eldr, whisker placode
    for Trp53corl (Fig. 9), or the mammary buds for lincencl (Fig. 9). The spatiotemporal
    patterns seen in the different extents of limb bud and tail expression for Hottip and
    Hoxallos are very similar to those reported for the adjacent protein-coding genes in the
15  HoxA cluster (Hostikka SL, Capecchi MR (1998) Mechanisms ofDevelopment 70: 133
    145; Lu P, et al. (2008) Development 135: 1395-1405). The expression of Hotair in the
    posterior tail bud and genital tubercle that we observed for the p-galactosidase reporter
    was identical to that determined by in situ hybridization (Schorderet P, Duboule D
    (2011) PLoS genetics 7: e1002071). Analysis of X-gal staining at different points during
20  embryonic development showed that for some of the lincRNA genes, expression began
    early at a restricted site and then extended beyond this initial locus at later stages (Fig.
    2B), again reminiscent of Hox protein expression (Nagy A (2003) Manipulating the
    mouse embryo : a laboratory manual. 3rd ed. Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y.: Cold Spring
    Harbor Laboratory Press. pp. x, 764 p.). For example, the expression of the Hottip and
25  Hoxallos genes began in the extreme posterior of the E9.5 embryo and then extended
    into the limb buds at later times. Similarly, the initial expression for Celrr at a site near
    the anterior end of the E9.5 embryos was maintained and expanded to the neural tube
    over the next two days.
    [000280] Consistent with the frequent brain expression seen among human tissue
30  specific IncRNAs (Derrien T, et al. (2012) Genome Research 22: 1775-1789), we found
    that half of the 20 targeted mouse lincRNA genes were transcriptionally active in the
    adult brain. As with the embryonic lincRNA expression, the brain patterns (Fig. 3) were
                                                   69

   WO 2015/021298                                                           PCT/US2014/050178
    unique and varied from ubiquitous (lincppara and Pint) to highly restricted specific brain
    structures (Peril,Crnde, and Kantr).
    Pint's Unique Increased Expression with Age Correlates with an Aging-Like
    Phenotype
 5  [000281] Of the 20 lincRNA genes targeted, only Pint showed a global whole-body
    expression pattern, mostly restricted to postnatal life (Table 2 at Figure 11). Unique to
    Pint, we observed an increase in its expression with age (Fig. 4). In 3-day old neonates,
    Pint transcription activity was low (brain) or undetectable (ribcage muscle) but then
    gradually appeared in 3-week old mice and became strong and ubiquitous by 8 weeks of
10  age. Although the strength and timing of Pint expression varied among different organs
    and tissues, the general trend was a steady increase in expression after birth to a plateau
    in adulthood. To our knowledge, this age-related dynamic expression pattern is novel.
    We have not observed a similar profile in our experience of lacZ profiling experiments
    for hundreds of protein-coding genes (Valenzuela DM, et al. (2003) Nature
15  Biotechnology 21: 652-659).
    [000282] The striking age-related increase in whole-body Pint expression revealed by
    lacZ profiling (Fig. 4) suggested a global homeostatic role for Pint in the maintenance of
    normal health as mice age. To test this hypothesis we bred the Pint knockout mouse line
    to homozygosity and conducted a longitudinal study comparing homozygous (Pint--)
20  mice with wild type (WT) and heterozygous (Pintv-) littermate controls. The Pint-- mice
    appeared healthy and normal at birth; however, at the age of 3 months they began to
    show signs of an early onset aging-like phenotype. Body weight measurements revealed
    that both male and female Pint- mice exhibited a slower growth rate compared with
    their WT littermates, but it was more pronounced in the males (Fig. 5A). By one year of
25  age, male Pint-- mice were more than 30% lighter and Pint- mice were 15% lighter
    than their WT littermates, whereas Pint-- females were 27% lighter (data not shown).
    Kaplan-Meier analysis comparing homozygous with heterozygous and WT male mice
    (Fig. 5B) demonstrated that the loss of Pint is associated with poor survival outcome. We
    found no sign of tumors or lesions in the mutant mice as they aged, but some Pint-- mice
30  developed herniation, including protrusion of the xiphoid process on the chest associated
    with thinning of the abdominal wall (data not shown). There was an age-dependent
    abnormal hindlimb clasping posture when the mice were suspended from their tails (data
    not shown). The severity of this phenotype varied, but its frequency increased
    progressively with age, suggesting a decline of muscle strength (see Fig. 8 for another
                                                 70

   WO 2015/021298                                                          PCT/US2014/050178
    example in the Hottip knockout line). We also observed fur loss in both male and female
    mice (data not shown). Histological analysis of skin sections collected from the ventral
    and dorsal bodies of Pint- mice revealed fibrosis and a noticeable difference in hair
    follicle development along with a dramatic reduction in the thickness of the
 5  subcutaneous fat layer (Fig. 5C).
    [000283] Non-invasive whole body analysis by X-ray microtomography (microCT) of
    individual mice as they aged indicated a significantly lower fat content in male (Fig. 5D)
    and female (Fig. 5E) Pint- mice compared with their WT littermates. The loss of total
    body fat was likely the major contributor to the decline in body weight as they age (Fig.
10  5A). The Pint- mice also had a significantly lower femur bone mineral density than WT
    (Fig. 5F and 5G). Male mice had significantly decreased lean mass at 52 weeks of age.
    Both males and females showed significantly decreased muscle mass for the
    gastrocnemius complex (GA) and tibialis anterior (TA) beginning at 26 weeks of age
    (not shown). Skeletal imaging revealed the appearance of severe lordokyphosis in both
15  male and female Pint-- mice compared with WTs (Fig. 5H). Approximately 70% of 12
    week old Pint- mice displayed lordokyphosis and 100% by 52 weeks of age (Fig. 51). In
    contrast, only 10 to 20% of 26-week old WT mice displayed slight lordokyphosis and
    this frequency did not increase with age. Pint- mice did not develop significant
    lordokyphosis until 26 weeks of age, indicating an unusual age-dependent
20  haploinsufficiency for Pint.The spectrum of age-associated pathologies in the Pint
    knockout mice suggests that Pint may be important for the maintenance of health and the
    avoidance of pre-mature aging during the normal life span of the mouse.
    Loss of Fendrr Causes Perinatal Lethality as the Result of Respiratory Distress
    [000284] Of the 20 lincRNA knockout mouse lines, Peril-- and Fendrr- mice showed
25  perinatal lethality. Our Fendrrknockout allele has a 26 kb deletion from exon 2 to the
    last annotated exon (Fig. 1). X-gal staining of E12.5 homozygous embryos showed lacZ
    expression in the frontonasal process, upper respiratory tract, lungs, and the posterior
    Aorta-Gonad-Mesonephron (AGM) region (Fig. 6A) that was identical in both
    heterozygous (not shown) and homozygous embryos, indicating grossly normal
30  organogenesis. An isolated look at the developing lungs at E13.5 revealed defects in the
    knockout embryos: the lungs were small and the lobes appeared globular and
    disorganized (Fig. 6B). Mice homozygous for deletion of the Fendrrgene survived to
    birth but succumbed shortly after from apparent breathing problems. The Fendrrmutant
    perinatal lethal phenotype was identical in mice on 2 different genetic backgrounds: a
                                                 71

   WO 2015/021298                                                         PCT/US2014/050178
    C57BL6/129 hybrid reported here and in mice further backcrossed to C57BL/6 in a
    separate breeding program (Sauvageau M, et al. (2013) Elife 2: e01749).
    Loss of Hotair and Hottip Causes Morphological and Functional Defects in Skeleton
    and Muscle
 5  [000285] Embryonic X-gal staining for the Hotair and Hottip genes showed restricted
    expression in the posterior and distal limb buds (Fig. 2A). Consistent with these
    developmentally restricted expression patterns, deletions of the Hotair and Hottip genes
    caused morphological malformations in the tail and hind limbs of adult mice. In Hotair
    mice we observed an apparent homeotic transformation of the 4th caudal vertebra, which
10  became anatomically similar to the 3rd caudal vertebra (Fig. 7). The Hottip-- mice
    displayed an abnormal hindlimb clasping posture when suspended from their tails
    compared with wild type littermates (Fig. 8A). This behavioral abnormality was
    accompanied by a loss in grip endurance as measured by a test in which the mice are
    challenged to remain suspended on an inverted wire cage. Wild type and Hottip+1
15  mutants held on for approximately one minute, while their homozygous littermates
    released their grip within 10-20 seconds (Fig. 8B). This apparent reduction in grip
    strength was associated with a loss of muscle mass for the gastrocnemius but not for the
    tibialis anterior or the quadriceps muscles (Fig. 8C). We observed an approximate 40%
    reduction in the number of muscle fibers in the gastrocnemius but no reduction in
20  average fiber size (Fig. 8D and E). In addition to the muscle defects in the Hottip
    knockout mice, we also found a hindlimb skeletal malformation: a shortening in the
    length of the calcaneum bone (Fig. 10).
    [000286] In the past several years there has been an explosion in our understanding of
    the non-protein-coding component of the genome, especially in mammals. In addition to
25  long-recognized classes of non-coding functional RNAs such as ribosomal, transfer,
    small nuclear, small nucleolar, small cytoplasmic RNAs, the RNA components of the
    RNase P, RNase MRP, and telomerase enzymes and the more recently discovered
    microRNAs and the PIWI-associated piRNAs, we can now include at least 15,000
    members of the long non-coding RNA class (Kapranov P, et al. (2007) Science 316:
30  1484-1488; Carninci P, et al. (2005) Science 309: 1559-1563; Djebali S, et al. (2012)
    Nature 489: 101-108; Derrien T, et al. (2012) Genome Research 22: 1775-1789;
    Guttman M, et al. (2009) Nature 458: 223-227). As we begin to understand the genomic
    presence and expression of lncRNA genes, the next goal is to discover their biological
    functions. As a first step to tackling this challenge, we applied mouse gene targeting
                                                   72

   WO 2015/021298                                                             PCT/US2014/050178
    technology, the most powerful tool for the determination of mammalian gene function, to
    create a resource of knockout mouse lines for 20 lincRNA genes (Sauvageau M, et al.
    (2013) Elife 2: e01749).
    [000287] Structure-function relationships for the lincRNAs are poorly understood. For
 5  this reason, it was crucial in this initial study to create knockout alleles with deletions
    that removed most if not all of the lincRNA coding potential to have the highest
    probability of creating a loss-of-function mutation. The ambiguous and incomplete
    annotation of many lincRNA loci, with multiple reported transcripts perhaps generated
    by alternative splicing or transcription initiation sites, adds to the difficulty of knockout
10  allele design. New understanding of the molecular characteristics important for lincRNA
    function should inform the design of the next generation of lincRNA alleles with more
    precisely directed modifications of sequences critical to function and also permit
    advanced and flexible conditional strategies.
    [000288] A key goal of our lincRNA knockout survey was to create alleles that in
15  addition to abolishing function also reported the gene's spatiotemporal pattern of
    expression. Despite not having a protein coding open reading frame as a guide, we were
    successful in designing alleles that reported gene expression for all of the 20 targeted
    genes. One of the alleles that produced no lacZ expression in the adult stage was
    Ptgs2os2 (see Fig. 2A and Fig. 9 for embryonic expression), which is known to be one of
20  the lincRNAs most strongly induced by inflammatory signals (Guttman M, et al. (2009)
    Nature 458: 223-227; Carpenter S, et al. (2013) Science 341(6147): 789-92). The
    Ptgs2os2 knockout line should prove a valuable resource for studies of how a lincRNA's
    expression responds to infection or other inflammatory insults and what biological role it
    plays in the process.
25  [000289] One of the criteria we applied in our selection of which lincRNA genes to
    target for this survey was an expectation of expression in neural tissues. Ten of the
    targeted genes showed lacZ reporter expression in the adult brain and each exhibited a
    unique pattern (Fig. 3), ranging from strong whole brain expression (Pint)to light grey
    matter expression in most structures (Tug1) to highly restricted expression exclusive to
30  the colliculi (Crnde) or the midline of the hypothalamus (Peril).The variety and
    specificity of the gene expression patterns in the brain was also evident in other tissues
    and was similar to those we have seen with reporter alleles for protein-coding genes. Our
    lincRNA gene lacZ expression profiling patterns were consistent with the tissue-specific
    expression found by RNA quantification experiments in wild type mouse tissues
                                                    73

   WO 2015/021298                                                           PCT/US2014/050178
    (Sauvageau M, et al. (2013) Elife 2: e01749). Prior to this study, however, the exquisite
    tissue and cell type specificity of lincRNA gene expression was not appreciated because
    previous quantification methods could not deliver the high definition and cell-type
    resolution of lacZ reporter profiling (Fig. 2A).
 5  [000290] Embryonic expression was a feature shared by all the lincRNA genes we
    examined. LacZ profiling delivered a high definition view of whole embryos that
    revealed the broad range of specific patterns unique to each IncRNA. Examples include
    the exquisitely specific expression observed in the whisker placode for Trp53corl and
    the mammary bud for lincenc1, the epidermal expression of Eldr, the limb bud
10  expression of Hottip and Hoxallos, and the ubiquitous expression of Tug1 (Fig. 2A and
    Fig. 2B and Fig. 9). These varied patterns might point to a common role for lincRNAs in
    the regulation of key events in development.
    [000291] Another value of lacZ profiling is that it can guide and focus the design of
    phenotypic studies. For example, the highly restricted posterior expression patterns for
15  heterozygote Hotair and Hottip embryos suggested that we might find knockout
    phenotypes in posterior body parts. Consistent with this expectation, we observed an
    apparent homeotic transformation of the 4th caudal vertebra in Hotair-- mice (Fig. 6),
    and we found abnormalities of the hind limbs that included muscle weakness and skeletal
    malformations in Hottip-- mice (Fig. 8 and Fig. 10). The Hotairhomeotic phenotype has
20  also been observed in mice with a different Hotair knockout allele (H. Chang, personal
    communication). We found that expression of Fendrrin heterozygotes was restricted to
    the lungs in adult mice (Table 2 at Figure 11) and prominent in the developing
    respiratory tract in embryos (Fig. 2A). Perhaps not surprisingly, Fendrrhomozygotes
    exhibited respiratory stress and subsequent perinatal death due to defective structural
25  maturation of the lungs. Our Fendrrknockout phenotype resembles the rare human lethal
    lung development disorder alveolar capillary dysplasia with misalignment of pulmonary
    veins (ACD/MPV), in which patients exhibit a deficiency in lung lobe development and
    suffer postnatal respiratory distress within minutes to hours after birth (Bishop NB, et al.
    (2011) American JournalofRespiratory and Critical CareMedicine 184: 172-179). At
30  least one ACD/MPV patient was reported to have an 11 kb deletion within the FOXF1
    AS1 gene, the human homolog of mouse Fendrr,expressed in normal newborn human
    lungs (Szafranski P, et al. (2013) Genome Research 23: 23-33). Grote et al. (Grote P, et
    al. (2013), Developmental Cell 24: 206-214) reported a mutant mouse with a
    modification of the Fendrrgene that produced lethality at around E13.75 associated with
                                                  74

   WO 2015/021298                                                           PCT/US2014/050178
    a prominent omphalocele, reduction in ventral body wall thickness, and a heart defect
    causing blood accumulation in the right atrium. We did not observe any of these
    phenotypes. The discrepancies between the phenotypes may be explained by the different
    allele designs. Our allele deleted Fendrrexon 2 to the end, designed to avoid disruption
 5  of the promoter that could be shared with the adjacent Foxf1 protein-coding gene. The
    Fendrrallele of Grote et al. (Grote P, et al. (2013), Developmental Cell 24: 206-214)
    consisted of the insertion of a transcriptional stop element in the first exon and did not
    include a reporter gene.
    [000292] The most remarkable adult expression pattern we observed was for Pint, which
10  exhibited an increase in the extent and intensity of X-gal staining as the mice aged from
    newborn to mature adults (Fig. 4). This striking age-associated pattern prompted us to
    conduct a longitudinal analysis for growth rate and overt signs of abnormal health.
    Compared with WT mice, we found that as the Pint- mice aged, they exhibited
    progressive hair loss and signs of muscle weakening, severe lordokyphosis, reduced
15  body fat and bone mineral density, a slower growth rate, and reduced survival.
    Surprisingly, these results were replicated in the heterozygous mice, but to a lesser
    extent. This spectrum of age-associated phenotypes, along with the unusual increase in
    gene expression with age, implies that mice may require a critical dose of Pint for the
    general maintenance of health and tissue function during the normal life span, and for the
20  first time points to potential role of LincRNA in physiological aging. A recent study
    showed that Pint is a direct target for p53, providing a link between the p53 pathway and
    epigenetic silencing by the polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2) (Marin-Bejar et al.,
    2013). A growing body of evidence has implicated the critical role of p53 in cellular
    senescence and the control of aging. It will be of great interest to investigate the
25  regulation of Pint and its potential involvement in p53-dependent cellular senescence and
    organismal aging. This could reveal key mechanisms in the physiological aging process
    in mammals with potential clinical implications in human diseases including those
    associated with aging and cancer.
    [000293] Our aim in initiating this work was not only to shed light on the functions of
30  the 20 particular lincRNAs whose genes we chose to mutate, but also to obtain a better
    understanding of the general properties of lncRNAs as a class. This collection could
    serve as a seed for a larger-scale effort to mutate many more members of the lincRNA
    gene family. Many lincRNAs have been shown to be associated with proteins that
    participate in the regulation of transcription at the chromatin level. This might suggest a
                                                   75

   WO 2015/021298                                                           PCT/US2014/050178
    broad, general, and redundant function in gene expression much like the interplay of
    miRNAs in the maintenance of tissue-specific gene expression profiles at the post
    transcriptional level. Our results, however, appear to point in a different direction. The
    unique phenotypes and exquisitely specific expression patterns described here and in
 5  Sauvageau et al. (Sauvageau M, et al. (2013) Elife 2: e01749) argue for specific, direct,
    and determinative functions for lincRNAs. Although this study is only the beginning of
    the analysis of this collection of knockout mice, it reveals lincRNAs as a new class of
    functional encoded molecules that, like proteins, serve diverse roles in the embryonic
    development, physiology, and homeostasis of a broad array of tissues and organs in
10  mammals.
                                                 76

   WO 2015/021298                                                         PCT/US2014/050178
    We claim:
            1.       A non-human animal comprising in its genome at least one modified long
    non-coding RNA (lncRNA) locus, wherein the at least one modified IncRNA locus
    comprises a loss-of-function mutation in a nucleic acid sequence that encodes a IncRNA.
 5
            2.       The non-human animal of claim 1, wherein the IncRNA is a large
    intergenic non-coding RNA (lincRNA).
            3.       The non-human animal of any one of claims 1 or 2, wherein the loss-of
10  function mutation is characterized by a disruption or a knockout of at least one IncRNA
    function.
            4.       The non-human animal of claim 3, wherein the modified IncRNA locus
    comprises a deletion of one or more exons that encode the IncRNA or a portion thereof.
15
            5.       The non-human animal of claim 4, wherein the disruption or knockout
    comprises
                     (a)    a deletion of one or more exons within the IncRNA locus starting
            in a second exon of a IncRNA locus;
20                   (b)    a deletion of one or more exons within the IncRNA locus starting
            in a first exon of a IncRNA locus; or
                     (c)    deletion of an entire RNA coding region of a IncRNA locus.
            6.       The non-human animal of claim 3, wherein the disruption or knockout
25  comprises a replacement of a lncRNA locus or a portion thereof with an insert nucleic
    acid.
            7.       The genetically modified non-human animal of claim 6, wherein the insert
    nucleic acid comprises a first nucleotide sequence that encodes a reporter.
30
            8.       The genetically modified non-human animal of claim 7, wherein the first
    nucleotide sequence is operably linked to a promoter that drives expression of the
    reporter.
                                                  77

   WO 2015/021298                                                         PCT/US2014/050178
            9.       The genetically modified non-human animal of claim 7, wherein the first
    nucleotide sequence that encodes the reporter is positioned in a IncRNA locus in
    operable linkage with an endogenous IncRNA promoter, wherein the endogenous
 5  IncRNA promoter drives expression of the nucleotide sequence.
            10.      The non-human animal of claim 9, wherein the expression of the nucleic
    acid sequence follows an expression pattern of the IncRNA.
10          11.      The genetically modified non-human animal of claim 7, wherein the first
    nucleotide sequence comprises a Kozak consensus sequence.
            12.      The non-human animal of any one of claims 6-11, wherein the
    replacement comprises
15                   (a)     replacement of one or more exons within a lncRNA locus starting
            in the second exon of the IncRNA locus with the insert nucleic acid;
                     (b)     replacement of one or more exons within a lncRNA locus starting
            in the first exon of the IncRNA locus with the insert nucleic acid; or
                     (c)     replacement of the entire RNA coding region of a IncRNA locus
20          with the insert nucleic acid.
            13.      The non-human animal of any one of claims 6-12, wherein the reporter is
    any of P-galactosidase, Green Fluorescent Protein (GFP), enhanced Green Fluorescent
    Protein (eGFP), mPlum, mCherry, tdTomato, mStrawberry, J-Red, DsRed, mOrange,
25  mKO, mCitrine, Venus, YPet, enhanced yellow fluorescent protein (EYFP), Emerald,
    CyPet, cyan fluorescent protein (CFP), Cerulean, T-Sapphire, luciferase, alkaline
    phosphatase, or a combination thereof.
            14.      The non-human animal of any one of claims 6-13, wherein the insert
30  nucleic acid further comprises a second nucleic acid sequence that encodes a selectable
    marker, wherein the second nucleic acid sequence is operably linked to a promoter.
                                                  78

   WO 2015/021298                                                          PCT/US2014/050178
            15.     The non-human animal of claim 14, wherein the insert nucleic acid
    comprises site-specific recombination sites flanking a segment encoding the reporter
    and/or a segment encoding the selectable marker.
 5          16.     The non-human animal of any one of claims 1-15, wherein the IncRNA
    comprises Pint, Celrr, Crnde, Eldr, Fendrr,Ha/rl, Hotair,Hottip, Hoxallos, Pantrl,
    Pantr2, Ptgs2os2, lincencl, Trp53corl, lincppara,Mannr, Haglr,Peril,Kantr, Tug], or
    a combination thereof.
10          17.     The non-human animal of any one of claims 1-16, wherein said non
    human animal is characterized by having one or more following phenotypes:
                    (a) a premature aging-associated phenotype;
                    (b) perinatal lethality;
                    (c) a defect in lung development;
15                  (d) a morphological malformation in the tail and hind limbs;
                    (e) a loss of muscle mass in one or more tissues; or
                    (f) a combination thereof of any of (a)-(e).
            18.     The non-human animal of claim 1, wherein the IncRNA is Pint, and the
20  non-human animal is characterized by a premature aging-associated phenotype
    comprising:
                    (a) a slower growth rate than that of a wild type control;
                    (b) a decline in muscle strength;
                    (c) fibrosis;
25                  (d) a lower body fat content than that of the wild type control;
                    (e) a lower femur bone mineral density and bone mass than that of the
           wild type control;
                    (f) a decreased muscle mass as compared with that of the wild type
           control;
30                  (g) a decrease in median longevity;
                    (h) lordokyphosis;
                    (i) organ atrophy; or
                    (j) a combination thereof of any of (a)-(i).
                                                  79

   WO 2015/021298                                                         PCT/US2014/050178
             19.    The non-human animal of any one of claims 1-15, wherein said non
    human animal exhibits a defect in brain development.
             20.    The non-human animal of claim 19, wherein the IncRNA is Pantr2,
 5  Kantr, Peril,Celrr, Pantrl, Crnde, lincencl, Pint, lincppara or Tug].
             21.    The genetically modified non-human animal of any one of claims 1-20,
    wherein the non-human animal is a mammal.
10           22.    The genetically modified non-human animal of claim 21, wherein the
    mammal is a rodent.
             23.    The genetically modified non-human animal of claim 22, wherein the
    mammal is a mouse, a rat, or a hamster.
15
             24.    A cell, tissue, or embryo derived from the non-human animal of any one
    of claims 1-23.
             25.    A targeting vector, comprising an insert nucleic acid flanked by 5' and 3'
20  homology arms that can undergo homologous recombination with an lncRNA locus of
    interest.
             26.    The targeting vector of claim 25, wherein the insert nucleic acid
    comprises a first nucleic acid sequence that encodes a reporter.
25
             27.    The targeting vector of claim 26, wherein following the homologous
    recombination with the IncRNA locus of interest, the first nucleic acid sequence that
    encodes the reporter is operably linked to an endogenous promoter that drives expression
    of an IncRNA at the IncRNA locus.
30
             28.    The targeting vector of any one of claims 26-27, wherein the reporter is
    any of P-galactosidase, Green Fluorescent Protein (GFP), enhanced Green Fluorescent
    Protein (eGFP), mPlum, mCherry, tdTomato, mStrawberry, J-Red, DsRed, mOrange,
    mKO, mCitrine, Venus, YPet, enhanced yellow fluorescent protein (EYFP), Emerald,
                                                  80

   WO 2015/021298                                                           PCT/US2014/050178
    CyPet, cyan fluorescent protein (CFP), Cerulean, T-Sapphire, luciferase, alkaline
    phosphatase, or a combination thereof.
            29.     The targeting vector construct of any one of claims 25-28, wherein the
 5  insert nucleic acid further comprises a second nucleic acid sequence that encodes a
    selectable marker, wherein the second nucleic acid is operably linked to a promoter.
            30.     The targeting vector of claim 29, further comprising site-specific
    recombination sites flanking a segment encoding the reporter and/or a segment encoding
10  the selectable marker nucleic acid.
            31.     The targeting vector of any one of claims 25-30, wherein the first and/or
    the second nucleic acid sequence further comprises a Kozak consensus sequence.
15          32.     The targeting vector of any one of claims 25-31, wherein the insert
    nucleic acid further comprises a promoter that drives expression of the reporter.
            33.     A method for making a non-human animal comprising a genetic
    modification in at least one IncRNA locus, the method comprising:
20                  (a)     contacting a pluripotent cell with a targeting construct comprising
    an insert nucleic acid flanked by 5' and 3' homology arms; wherein the targeting
    construct undergoes homologous recombination with the lincRNA locus in a genome of
    the cell to form a modified pluripotent cell;
                    (b)     introducing the modified pluripotent cell into a host embryo; and
25                  (c)     gestating the host embryo in a surrogate mother, wherein the
    surrogate mother produces progeny comprising a modified IncRNA locus,
            wherein said genetic modification results in loss-of-function of the at least one
    IncRNA.
30          34.     The method of claim 33, wherein the IncRNA is a lincRNA.
            35.     The method of any one of claims 33-34, wherein the genetic modification
    comprises a disruption or a knockout of at least one IncRNA function.
                                                  81

   WO 2015/021298                                                           PCT/US2014/050178
            36.     The method of any one of claims 33-35, wherein the IncRNA comprises
    Pint, Celrr, Crnde, Eldr, Fendrr,Ha/rl, Hotair,Hottip, Hoxallos, Pantrl, Pantr2,
    Ptgs2os2, lincencl, Trp53corl, lincppara,Mannr, Haglr,Peril,Kantr, Tugi, or a
    combination thereof.
 5
            37.     A method for modifying a IncRNA locus in a pluripotent cell, comprising
            (a)     introducing into the pluripotent cell a targeting construct comprising an
    insert nucleic acid flanked with 5' and 3' homology arms that can undergo homologous
    recombination with the IncRNA locus; and
10          (b)     identifying a modified pluripotent cell comprising a targeted genetic
    modification at the IncRNA locus,
            wherein the genetic modification results in loss-of-function of the IncRNA
    function.
15          38.     The method of claim 37, wherein the pluripotent cell is a human iPS cell.
            39.     The method of claim 37, wherein the pluripotent cell is a mouse or a rat
    embryonic stem (ES) cell.
20          40.     The method of any one of claims 37-39, wherein the IncRNA comprises
    Pint, Celrr, Crnde, Eldr, Fendrr,Ha/rl, Hotair,Hottip, Hoxal os, Pantrl, Pantr2,
    Ptgs2os2, lincencl, Trp53corl, lincppara,Mannr, Haglr,Peril,Kantr, Tugi, or a
    combination thereof.
                                                  82

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-date>
                                                        !
                              "           # !
                              $%        & ' (               ) * &
                                      + , +                  ) * &          -
                      .       +            " / ) 0                 1            2 3   /    3 +
<removed-apn>
                                  455667889 5
                      4       6 796   85
                      4       .     9 5
                      6       .
                      5       $        1        0 %               & '           %     8-
                  .
                  .
                  . .         ) /
                  .           /%1 0                 +         :
                  ..
                  ..                  , ;                               :
                  ..
                  ..          3            <0   1 %
                  ...                  8
                  ..          "             /   %
                  8
              %           %       1
                  .           .
                  .
                  . .         ) /
                  .           /%1 0                 +         :
                  ..
                  ..                  , ;                               :
                  ..
                  ..          3            <0   1 %
                  ...         5
                  ..          "             /   %
                  8           .
                              %             1
                                                                                           =

