                                  Electric Motorised Trailer
Abstract
An electric in-hub motorised trailer (14) comprises of a chassis, said chassis being supported by at least
one pair of electric drivable electric in-hub wheel motors (1) (that are resistantto most elements). The
trailer will also house a battery bank (3) (that are resistantto most elements) and a pair of electric in-hub
motor controllers (2)(that are resistantto most elements). The battery bank (3) and electric in-hub motor
controllers (2) provide power and run the electric in-hub motors (1) when connected to the
microcomputer (17)(that are resistantto most elements) housed in the tow vehicle (29). They are also
connected to a speed measuring device (20) that will determine the tow vehicle's (29) speed and will in
turn control the electric in-hub motor controllers (2) to adjust the electric in-hub motors (1) speed and
torque to that of the corresponding wheel speed of the tow vehicle (29), thus driving the trailer (14) at
the same road speed as the tow vehicle (29) and will provide assistance to the motion operating in a
forwards or reverse direction.

   27
14          28
             4
   27 FIG 1

      Editorial Note
       <removed-apn>
There are three pages of description only

                                                       1
                                   Electric Motorised Trailer
Field of the Innovation
[0001] This innovation relates to a trailer drive device. In particular an electric in-hub motorised trailer
(14), to be used with a tow vehicle (29) to assist in the motion in low traction terrain.
The present innovation is particularly applicable to off road trailers such as campervans, boats & any
other trailer used in off-road use, however it may be applied to any other trailed vehicle.
Background Art
[0002] Trailed vehicles of various forms are commonly used in many different applications and for many
different purposes. Off-road trailer campervans and boat trailers are a popular means for persons who
wish to travel to many different geographical locations including places where solid hard surfaces are
not available. In many situations persons who are using a trailer campervan or Boat trailer travel to
locations where a tow vehicle has limited traction due to the nature of the ground conditions. The load
that the towed trailer places on a tow vehicle in these situations is a high risk of making it difficult for the
tow vehicle to obtain sufficient traction, thus forcing the tow vehicle to be bogged or stuck. Typical
locations in which this can occur include, but are not limited to, sandy locations at a beach or wet area
terrains of the like. A user of the vehicle above therefore is limited in the locations in which the driver
can drive even if the tow vehicle is a four-wheel drive vehicle.
Description
[0003] The present innovation aims to overcome or at least provide an alternative to the known
arrangements by providing an electric in-hub motorised trailer for use with a tow vehicle (29). The
present innovation in a particular aspect aims to provide an electric in-hub motorised trailer (14) that
can reduce load on the towing trailer (14) to therefore enable the tow vehicle (29) to obtain traction in a
wide range of environments operating in a forwards or reverse direction.
[0003a] In one aspect, although not necessarily the broadest aspect, an electric in-hub motorised trailer
(14) comprises of a chassis, said chassis being supported by at least one pair of electric drivable electric
in-hub wheel motors (1) (that are resistantto most elements). The trailer will also house a battery bank
(3) (that are resistantto most elements) and a pair of electric in-hub motor controllers (2)(that are
resistantto most elements). The battery bank (3) and electric in-hub motor controllers (2) provide power
and run the electric in-hub motors (1) when connected to the microcomputer (17)(that are resistantto
most elements) housed in the tow vehicle (29). They are also connected to a speed measuring device (20)
that will determine the tow vehicle's (29) speed and will in turn control the electric in-hub motor
controllers (2) to adjust the electric in-hub motors (1) speed and torque to that of the corresponding
wheel speed of the tow vehicle (29), thus driving the trailer (14) at the same road speed as the tow
vehicle (29) and will provide assistance to the motion operating in a forwards or reverse direction.
[0003b] When the tow vehicle (29) is at a low speed eg: lower than 60kph, the microcomputer (17)
housed in the tow vehicle (29)- when activated via the in-cab user device (22), will receive an electronic
pulse input from either the electronic speed/cruise control sensor (ECU compatible vehicles) or via a
magnetic sensor (20) installed on the tail shaft (18) (pre-ECU vehicles). Once calibrated (ie determine the
wheel speed of the tow vehicle [29] and sync the speed of the electric in-hub wheel motor [1] speed
tnnther) it will then autnmaticallv drive the

                                                         2
electric in-hub wheels (1) in low traction environments to provide assistance to the tow vehicle (29)
operating in a forward or reverse direction.
[0004] The microcomputer (17) when activated, will determine the power output (via the in-hub motor
controllers [2]) to the electric in-hub motors (1) as to what power they will require. The microcomputer
(17) constantly monitors the tow vehicles (29) speed compared to that of what the trailer's (14) electric
in-hub wheel motor (1) speed is. If the trailer's electric in-hub wheel (1) speed is lower/ higher than the
tow vehicle (29), the microcomputer (17) will adjust the electric in-hub motor controllers (2) to either
provide more or less power as needed - thus providing the trailer (14) with traction support for the tow
vehicle (29). This may cause an increase of power demand from the battery bank (3) installed on the
trailer (14). If extra power that the battery bank (3) cannot supply is required, there will be an auxiliary
plug (4) from an inverter (15) within the tow vehicle (29) to assist in the extra-required power.
[0004a] The microcomputer (17) will have an automatic cut out speed of around but not limited to
60kph, remembering this is a low traction assistance device, not a save-on-fuel on the highway device.
[0005] The electric in-hub motors (1) will have a regenerative braking system that can in return
recharge the battery bank (3) on the trailer (14) and/or the tow vehicle (29) battery/s (23) whenever the
tow vehicle (29) applies the brakes (via regenerative braking), this means on the highway (while
deactivated)when the brakes are applied the electric in-hub wheel motors (1) will function as an electric
trailer brake creating electricity that can be captured and stored.
[0005a] When the electric in-hub motorised trailer (14) is not connected to the tow vehicle (29) there
will be an option for a hand held wireless smart device that will allow the user to remotely manoeuvre
the motorised trailer (14) around from a close proximity at very low speeds of around 2.5km/h. This will
assist in parking the trailer into tight locations, for beach landings for boat trailers or manoeuvre the
trailer safely away from a broken down tow vehicle (29).
[0006] The present innovation provides an electric drive system for a trailer (14) having a pair of electric
drivable wheels (27). The said electric drive system, includes a microcomputer (17) connected to a pair
of electric in-hub wheel controllers (2), connected to a pair of electric in-hub wheel motors (1) adapted
to the existing wheels (27). A battery bank (3), for supplying power to said electric in-hub wheel motors
(1), with an auxiliary plug (4) from the tow vehicles (29) inverter (15) to assist in extra-required power.
The microcomputer (17) has a digital input (19) from the tow vehicle (29) via its electronic speed/cruise
control sensor (ECU compatible vehicles) or via a magnetic sensor (20) installed on the tail shaft (18)
(pre-ECU vehicles). The activation/deactivation control unit (22) for the electric drive system will be in
the tow vehicles (29) operators compartment with the basic model having a four light indicator: ie: Red
deactivated, Orange - calibration required/error, Blue - system ready for use and Green - activated and
in working order. In our high-end range the electric in-hub wheel motors (1) stats will be available via a
small display showing voltage, current, speed, torque, regenerative feedback, and error indicator.
[0006a] When the electric drive system is not in use and the electric in-hub wheel motors (1) are not
active they will freewheel like a normal wheel hub, with the exception of being able to be used as an
electric trailer brake system. The electric in-hub wheel motor (1) system is designed to replace the
normal wheel hub and bolt or weld to the existing spine (30) with no or very little modifications.

                                                      1
                                    Electric Motorised Trailer
Brief Description of the Drawings
In order that the innovation may be more readily understood and put into practical effect, reference will
now be made to the accompanying drawings which illustrate a preferred embodiment of the innovation
and wherein.
Fig. 1 illustrates an overhead view of the chassis and the electric motorised trailer (14) according to an
embodiment of the present innovation;
Fig. 2 is a schematic diagram of the control system for the electric motorised trailer (14);
Fig. 3 illustrates an overhead view of the tow vehicle (29) according to an embodiment of the present
innovation;
Fig. 4 is a schematic diagram of the control system for the tow vehicle (29);
Fig. 5 illustrates a side view of the entire system.

                                                       1
                                   Electric Motorised Trailer
CLAIMS
1.      An electric motorised trailer (14) comprising of an existing chassis, said chassis being supported
by at least one pair of electric drivable in-hub wheel motors (1) replacing factory installed free wheeling
hubs (30).
2.      A trailer (14) as in claim 1 is connected to a microcomputer (17) situated in the tow vehicle (29)
to maintain the trailers (14) operating speed at the same low speed as that of the tow vehicle (29). This
is completed by an electric current pulse from an electronic speed/cruise control sensor (ECU compatible
vehicles) or via a magnetic sensor (20) installed on the tail shaft (18) (pre-ECU vehicles).
3.      The said microcomputer (17) as claimed in claim 2 once calibrated to the tow vehicle (29), will
receive direction and wheel speed data from the tow vehicle (29) then analyse the current direction and
speed of the electric in-hub wheel motors (1) and transfer the direction and wheel speed of the tow
vehicle (29) to the electric in-hub wheel controllers (2) thus operating the electric in-hub wheels (1)
direction and speed consistent with the tow vehicle (29).
4.      A wireless remote control smart device can be used to manoeuvre the electric in-hub wheel
trailer (14) around, only when disconnected from a tow vehicle (29).

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
