                      PEDAL PROPELLED WATERCRAFT
                                     Abstract
        A watercraft comprising: a hull having a bow and a stern with opposed sidewalls
extending between the bow and the stern, the hull having a cockpit between the bow
and the stern, a propulsion device accessible from within the cockpit, the propulsion
device having a housing with an upper portion and a lower portion, the upper portion
of the housing comprising an interior and an exterior, the interior having at least two
openings accessible to the exterior, wherein the openings are closed with a cap
comprising an internal seal and an exterior seal to substantially prevent water from
entering the interior of the housing; a pedalling assembly mounted in the interior of the
upper housing and extending through the openings to left and right pedals; a propeller
assembly mounted on the exterior of the lower portion of the housing; a thwart head
having a clamp, the clamp being integral with the housing; and at least one thwart
adapted to be held in a fastening conditioning by the clamp, wherein the thwart
extends longitudinally adjoining sidewalls inside the watercraft, and wherein the thwart
provides structural support for the propulsion assembly; and a transmission in the
interior of the housing, the transmission connected to the pedalling assembly operably
connected to the transmission to transmit rotation downward from the pedalling
assembly to the propeller assembly in the lower portion of the interior of the housing
and including a propeller, wherein pedalling the propulsion device causes the
watercraft to propel through water substantially without ingress of water into the interior
of the housing.

     3/7
          11b1
               FI.6
7,
   FIG. 3

                                               1
                          PEDAL PROPELLED WATERCRAFT
   Field of the Invention
           [0001]The present invention relates generally to watercraft and, more
 5 particularly, to a watercraft having a propulsion device built with improved
   waterproofing and capable of mounting accessories.
   Background of the Invention
           [0002]People use personal watercraft such as kayaks and canoes for
10 recreational activities including fishing, bird-watching, sight seeing, and the like. A
   traditional kayak or canoe, however, must be manually propelled using a paddle
   or oars. When a person is fishing in a kayak or canoe, handling a paddle or oars
   can prevent a person from simultaneously handling a fishing rod or other fishing
   gear. Similarly, when a person is bird-watching or sight seeing in a kayak or canoe,
15 handling paddles or oars can prevent a person from simultaneously handling
   binoculars, maps, guidebooks, and the like. In addition, even when a paddle or
   oars are not being used by a paddler, having a paddle or oars onboard can
   sometimes interfere with the person's non-paddling activities.
           [0003]Watercraft     with   pedal-operated     propulsion   devices   installed
20 overcome issues arising from having to handle a paddle or oars.               A pedal
   propulsion device enables a person to operate the watercraft with his/her feet while
   having one or both hands free. Pedal propulsion devices also offer a recreational
   alternative to traditional paddling methods.
           [0004]However, prior versions of pedaled boats suffer leakage in the
25 pedaling assembly, breakage at connection points between the pedal assembly
   and the boat propeller. One area that has been found to be susceptible to the
   ingress of water is where the crankarms of a pedal are installed onto the propulsion

                                              2
   device housing. Thus, there is a need for preventing water from entering into pedal
   propulsion devices.
          [0005]Moreover, while the hands are free with the use of a pedal-operated
   watercraft, a person may wish to use other equipment, particularly electronic
 5 devices, in conjunction with various recreational activities. For example, a person
   may want to use a chartplotter or sonar radar while fishing on a watercraft. Current
   watercraft do not provide a convenient method of mounting such equipment for
   easy accessibility and visibility, or hands-free viewing.     Accordingly, there still
   remains a need for the watercraft to easily accommodate accessories that may be
10 used during various recreational activities.
   Summary of the Invention
          [0006]The present invention fulfills one or more of these needs in the art by
   providing a watercraft having a hull with a cockpit and a propulsion device
15 accessible from within the cockpit. The propulsion device includes a housing with
   an interior and an exterior, the interior having at least two openings accessible to
   the exterior. A pedaling assembly is mounted in the interior and extends through
   the openings to left and right pedals. A transmission engages a propeller assembly
   when the pedals are rotated by a user.
20        [0007]ln one embodiment, the pedaling assembly includes seals to prevent
   ingress of water into the housing. For example, the openings may be closed with
   caps each having an internal seal. The caps may also further include an exterior
   seal.
          [0008]ln another embodiment, an accessory adapter is included on the
25 exterior of the housing for mounting an accessory. Examples of accessories that
   may be mounted with the adapter include electronic devices such as chartplotters,
   radios and sonar radars. These accessories may be mounted onto a threaded
   hole of the housing.

                                               3
          [0009]These and other aspects of the present invention will become
   apparent to those skilled in the art after a reading of the following description of the
   preferred embodiment when considered with the drawings.
 5 Brief Description of the Drawings
          [0010]The invention will be better understood by a reading of the Detailed
   Description of the Examples of the Invention along with a review of the drawings,
   in which:
          [0011 ]Figure 1 is an exploded view of a prior art upper assembly of a pedal
10 structure connecting to a boat propeller;
          [001 2]Figure 2A is a top plan view of a kayak utilizing a pedal and propeller
   assembly as disclosed herein;
          [001 3]Figure 2B is a side view of the kayak of Figure 2A;
          [0014]Figure 3 is an exploded view of a perspective propulsion unit that can
15 be installed in the kayak of Figure 2;
          [0015]Figure 4 is an exploded view of a top shell assembly for the kayak
   propulsion unit of Figure 3;
          [0016]Figure 5 is an exploded view of a pedaling assembly associated with
   the top shell assembly of the kayak propulsion unit of Figure 3;
20        [001 7]Figure 6 is an exploded view of a center shell assembly of the kayak
   propulsion unit of Figure 3;
          [001 8]Figure 7 is an exploded view of a bottom shell assembly of the kayak
   propulsion unit of Figure 3.
25 Detailed Description of Examples of the Invention
          [001 9]The current invention allows for an improved pedal propulsion device.
   One embodiment prevents leakage of water into the pedaling assembly and
   enables users to conveniently mount accessories to the device. An example of a

                                              4
   pedal propulsion device found in the prior art is depicted in Figure 1. Figure 1
   shows a top portion 12 of a pedal propulsion device 10 lacking a means to
   mounting accessories. The pedal propulsion device 10 includes two openings,
   14a and 14b, revealing the interior of top portion 12. The interior contains a gear
 5 16 and two bearings, 20a and 20b, on opposing faces of gear 16. A pedal spindle
   22 is inserted through the gear 16 and bearings 20a, 20b. The ends of pedal
   spindle 22 extend through openings 14a, 14b. Openings 14a and 14b are closed
   with caps 24a and 24b at each respective end. The other end of top portion 12
   includes a thwart tube connector 26 that opens and closes independently of the
10 device 10 (i.e., the connector 26 attaches to device 10 only at distinct points).
           [0020]Caps 24a and cap 24b in the prior art do not prevent ingress of water
   into the interior of pedal propulsion device 10. Nor do the pedal propulsion devices
   in the prior art include an accessory mount.
           [0021]Figures 2A and 2B shows one embodiment of the present disclosure,
15 depicting a watercraft 30 having a pedal propulsion device 50. In Figures 2A and
   2B, the watercraft 30 is a kayak having a hull with a bow 34 and a stern 36.
   Opposed sidewalls extend between the bow and the stern, with at least one thwart
   40 extending between the interior of the sidewalls for structural support. Thwarts
   act also as used as a binding post, so that a paddler's gear can be tied to the
20 thwart. The hull also includes a cockpit 42 between the bow 34 and the stern 36.
   In the embodiment shown in Figures 2A and 2B, the cockpit 42 includes a seat 44
   and a pedal propulsion device 50. As shown in Figure 2A, the pedal propulsion
   device 50 may include an accessory mount 56 for mounting accessories. The seat
   44 and device 50 are positioned in the cockpit so that a user can sit in the seat and
25 rotate pedals of the device 50 with his or her feet.
           [0022]Figures 3 and 4 show a propulsion device 50 in accordance with an
   embodiment of the invention.        The propulsion device 50 includes a housing 52
   with an interior and an exterior. The interior may have at least two openings, 54a

                                             5
   and 54b, accessible to the exterior. The exterior may also include an accessory
   adapter 56 for mounting an accessory. The propulsion device 50 also includes a
   pedaling assembly 60 mounted in the interior and extending through the openings
   for the left and right pedals 62a and 62b to attach.
 5         [0023]A transmission 64 is located in the interior of the housing 52, and
   connects to the pedaling assembly 60 as well as a propeller assembly 66. As a
   user rotates the pedals 62, the transmission 64 transmits the rotation downward
   from the pedaling assembly 60 to the propeller assembly 66.            The propeller
   assembly 66 in a lower portion of the interior includes a propeller 70 mounted on
10 the exterior of the housing 52, so that when the propulsion device 50 is installed in
   a watercraft, pedaling causes the watercraft to propel through water.
           [0024]ln one embodiment, the housing 52 of propulsion device 50 may be
   comprised as a single piece. However, in other embodiments, the housing 52 may
   be comprised of multiple components. In some embodiments, including the one
15 shown in Figure 3, the housing 52 is comprised of a top shell assembly 72, a
   bottom shell assembly 74, and a central shell assembly 76. In the embodiment
   shown in Figure 3, each shell assembly has a top and a bottom, wherein the top
   of the center shell assembly 76 connects to the bottom of the top shell assembly
   72, and the bottom of the center shell assembly 76 connects to the top of the
20 bottom shell assembly 74. Center shell assembly 76 may further include gaskets
   and/or O-rings to help seal the interface between the shell assemblies. As seen
   in Figure 3, each shell may further include one or more interior cavities so that the
   assembled housing forms a continuous interior cavity. When propulsion device 50
   is installed onto a watercraft having a cockpit, the central shell assembly 76 may
25 extend through a hole in the cockpit such that the top shell assembly 72 is above
   the hole in the cockpit and the bottom assembly 74 is below the hole in the cockpit.
           [0025]Figure 4 is an exploded perspective view of the top shell assembly
   72 from the embodiment in shown in Figure 3. Figure 5 is the exploded top view

                                             6
   of the top shell assembly 72 from a top-down perspective. The top shell assembly
   72 includes two openings, 54a and 54b, making a through-passage way accessible
   to the exterior. Top shell assembly 72 also includes a pedaling assembly 60
   mounted in the interior and extending through the openings for the crankarms 86a
 5 and 86b of the left and right pedals 62a and 62b to attach. As best seen in Figure
   5, the pedaling assembly 60 includes a pedal spindle 80 having two ends, and
   inserted through a gear 82 bearings 84a and 84b support the spindle in the
   passage way between the openings 54a and 54b. Crankarms 86a and 86b each
   perpendicularly connect to an end of pedal spindle 80 at the crankarm's inner end.
10 Each crankarm 86 also includes an outer end attached to one of the pedals 62.
           [0026]The openings 54a and 54b may be closed with a cap 90a and 90b on
   each side. Cap 90a/90b may include an internal seal 92 to prevent water from
   entering the interior of the housing 52. As seen in Figure 4, caps 90a and 90b
   preferably further include an additional exterior seal 94a and 94b.
15         [0027]Top shell assembly 72 may also include an accessory adapter 56 for
   mounting an accessory.       In one embodiment, the accessory adapter 56 is a
   threaded hole. However, any type of accessory adapter may be included on the
   housing 52. Moreover, any number and type of accessories can be mounted onto
   the housing 52, and are not necessarily limited to a location on the top shell
20 assembly 72. Accessories that may be mounted include electronic devices, such
   as a GPS, chartplotter, sonar device, radio, camera, phone, tablet, or other
   displays and computing devices. Other accessories useful when kayaking may
   also be mounted.
           [0028]The hull of the kayak typically includes at least one thwart 40
25 adjoining the sidewalls inside for structural support. The housing 52 may also
   include a thwart head 96 having a clamp 100 capable of connecting to thwart 40.
   Thwart head 96 and clamp 100 are integral to the housing 52. By integrating clamp
   100 with housing 52, the clamp is more reliable in repetitive stresses during use.

                                              7
   In the embodiment shown in Figure 3, and as best seen in Figure 4, thwart head
   96 is located on the top shell assembly 72. Thwart head 96 may also span the
   entire width of the top shell assembly 72 in order to provide sufficient reliability.
           [0029]Figure 6 is an exploded view of the center shell assembly 76 from the
 5 embodiment in shown in Figure 3. Center shell assembly 76 may be a fairing, or
   any other type of structure. In this three piece shell assembly embodiment, center
   shell assembly 76 may further include gaskets to connect it to the top shell
   assembly 72 and the bottom shell assembly 74. In one embodiment, the gaskets
   are O-rings 104a and 104b. As seen in Figure 3, center shell assembly 76 may
10 also include an anti-ventilation plate 105.
           [0030]As shown in the embodiment in Figure 6, the center shell assembly
   76 includes transmission 64. In one embodiment, transmission 64 may include an
   axle 106 with an upper and lower end.         Each end of axle 106 may include a
   transmission gear 110a, 110b.         Transmission gears 110a and 110b may be
15 attached to axle 106 through screws 114a and 114b. Transmission 64 may further
   include one or more transmission bearings 116a and 116b. Transmission gear
   110a, located at the upper end of axle 106, mates to gear 82 within the cavity of
   top shell assembly 72. Transmission gear 11 Ob, located at the bottom end of axle
   106, mates to a propeller gear 120 of the propeller assembly 66.
20         [0031]Figure 7 shows an exploded view of the bottom shell assembly 74
   from the embodiment in shown in Figure 3. The interior of housing 52 may extend
   into bottom shell assembly 74 through interior cavity 75, wherein at least a portion
   of the propeller assembly 66 is in the interior of the bottom shell assembly 74.
   Propeller assembly 66 may include a propeller shaft 122 having a proximal and
25 distal end in relation to center shell assembly 76. Propeller shaft 122 inserted into
   a lower cartridge 124. Propeller shaft 122 may further include a bearing 126 and
   a cartridge seal 130. A locknut 132 may be also included at the distal end of
   propeller shaft 122. The propeller gear 120, which mates to transmission gear

                                             8
   11 Ob, is included at the proximal end of propeller shaft 122, and is attached via
   screw 134. At this end, propeller shaft 122 may also include one or more bearings
   136. As seen in the embodiment in Figure 7, lower cartridge 124 is inserted into
   bottom shell assembly 74. Lower cartridge 124 may further include an O-ring 140.
 5         [0032]Returning to Figure 3, the propeller 70 attaches to the distal end of
   propeller shaft 122. Distal end of propeller shaft 122 extends to the exterior of
   housing 52, such that propeller 70 mounts on the exterior of bottom shell assembly
   74. Distal end of propeller shaft 122 inserts in to a center hole of propeller 70, and
   propeller 70 is secured to propeller shaft 122 through use of screw 142. Propeller
10 shaft 122 may further include a shear pin 144 that threads through shaft 122
   perpendicularly. Shear pins are useful for protecting components of the propeller
   assembly 66 and transmission 64 when propeller 70 strikes items such as rocks
   during propulsion of the watercraft. The bottom shell assembly 74 further includes
   a fin 146.
15         [0033]Certain modifications and improvements will occur to those skilled in
   the art upon a reading of the foregoing description. It should be understood that
   all such modifications and improvements have been deleted herein for the sake of
   conciseness and readability but are properly within the scope of the following
   claims.
20

                                            9
What is claimed is:
  1. A watercraft comprising:
              a hull having a bow and a stern with opposed sidewalls extending
      between the bow and the stern, the hull having a cockpit between the bow and
      the stern, a propulsion device accessible from within the cockpit, the propulsion
      device having a housing with an upper portion and a lower portion, the upper
      portion of the housing comprising an interior and an exterior, the interior having
      at least two openings accessible to the exterior, wherein the openings are
      closed with a cap comprising an internal seal and an exterior seal to
      substantially prevent water from entering the interior of the housing;
              a pedalling assembly mounted in the interior of the upper housing and
      extending through the openings to left and right pedals;
              a propeller assembly mounted on the exterior of the lower portion of the
      housing;
              a thwart head having a clamp, the clamp being integral with the housing;
      and at least one thwart adapted to be held in a fastening conditioning by the
      clamp, wherein the thwart extends longitudinally adjoining sidewalls inside the
      watercraft, and wherein the thwart provides structural support for the propulsion
      assembly; and
              a transmission in the interior of the housing, the transmission connected
      to the pedalling assembly operably connected to the transmission to transmit
      rotation downward from the pedalling assembly to the propeller assembly in the
      lower portion of the interior of the housing and including a propeller, wherein
      pedalling the propulsion device causes the watercraft to propel through water
      substantially without ingress of water into the interior of the housing.
  2. The watercraft of claim 1 further including an accessory adapter mounted on
      the exterior of the upper portion of the housing for mounting an accessory.
  3. The watercraft of claim 2 wherein the accessory adapter includes a threaded
      hole for receiving a complementary mating accessory component.
  4. A watercraft comprising:

                                        10
           a hull having a bow and a stern with opposed sidewalls extending
   between the bow and the stern, the hull having a cockpit between the bow and
   the stern, a propulsion device accessible from within the cockpit, the propulsion
   device having a housing with an upper portion and a lower portion, the upper
   portion of the housing comprising an interior and an exterior, the interior having
   at least two openings accessible to the exterior, wherein the openings are
   closed with a cap comprising an internal seal and an exterior seal to
   substantially prevent water from entering the interior of the housing;
           a pedalling assembly mounted in the interior of the upper housing and
   extending through the openings to left and right pedals;
   an accessory adapter mounted on the exterior of the upper portion of the
   housing for mounting an accessory;
           a propeller assembly mounted on the exterior of the lower portion of the
   housing: and a transmission in the interior of the housing, the transmission
   connected to the pedalling assembly operably connected to the transmission to
   transmit rotation downward from the pedalling assembly to the propeller
   assembly in the lower portion of the interior of the housing and including a
   propeller, wherein pedalling the propulsion device causes the watercraft to
   propel through water substantially without ingress of water into the interior of
   the housing.
5. A watercraft comprising:
           a hull having a bow and a stern with opposed sidewalls extending
   between the bow and the stern, the hull having a cockpit between the bow and
   the stern,
           a propulsion device accessible from within the cockpit, the propulsion
   device having
           a housing with an interior and an exterior, the interior having at least two
   openings accessible to the exterior,
           an accessory adapter on the exterior of the housing for mounting an
   accessory,
           a pedaling assembly mounted in the interior and extending through the
   openings to left and right pedals,

                                         11
           a transmission in the interior of the housing, the transmission connected
    to the pedaling assembly to transmit rotation downward from the pedaling
    assembly to a propeller assembly in a lower portion of the interior operably
    connected to the transmission and including a propeller mounted on the exterior
    of the housing,
    wherein pedaling the propulsion device causes the watercraft to propel through
    water.
6. The watercraft of claim 5 wherein the watercraft is a kayak and the hull further
    includes at least one thwart adjoining the sidewalls inside for structural support
    and the housing further includes a thwart head having a clamp connected to
    the thwart.
7. A watercraft as claimed in claim 5 wherein the watercraft is a kayak and further
    comprising a seat in the cockpit, the seat and pedals of the propulsion device
    being located with respect to one another so that a person sitting in the seat
    can pedal the pedals with his or her feet.
8. The watercraft of claim 6 wherein the clamp is integral with the housing.
9. The watercraft of claim 5 wherein the pedaling assembly includes a pedal
    spindle having two ends with each end inserted through a gear and a bearing
    and extending through the openings, each end of the pedal spindle
    perpendicularly connected to an inner end of a crankarm, each crankarm also
    having an outer end attached to one of the pedals.
10. The watercraft of claim 5 wherein the openings are closed with a cap having an
    internal seal to prevent water from entering the interior of the housing.
11. The watercraft of claim 10 wherein the caps further include an exterior seal.
12. The watercraft of claim 5 wherein the accessory adapter includes a threaded
    hole.

                                         12
13.The watercraft of claim 5 further comprising an accessory, wherein the
    accessory is an electronic device.
14. The watercraft of claim 5 wherein the housing is comprised of top, bottom, and
    central shell assemblies.
15. The watercraft of claim 12 wherein the central shell assembly extends through
    a hole in the cockpit such that the top shell assembly is above the hole in the
    cockpit and the bottom assembly is below the hole in the cockpit.
16. The watercraft of claim 12 wherein each shell assembly has a top and a bottom
    wherein the top of the centre shell assembly connects to the bottom of the top
    shell assembly and the bottom of the centre shell assembly connects to the top
    of the bottom shell assembly.
17. The watercraft of claim 12 wherein the accessory adapter is located on the top
    shell assembly.
18. The watercraft of claim 12 wherein the openings through which the pedaling
    assembly extends are located on the top shell assembly.
19. The watercraft of claim 12 wherein the watercraft is a kayak and the hull further
    includes at least one thwart adjoining the sidewalls inside for structural support,
    the housing further including a thwart head having a clamp connected to the
    thwart, the thwart head spanning the entire width of the top shell assembly.
20. The watercraft of claim 12 wherein the interior extends into the bottom shell
    assembly and at least a portion of the propeller assembly is in the interior of the
    bottom shell assembly.
21.The watercraft of claim 18 wherein the propeller assembly comprises a
    propeller shaft having a proximal and distal end in relation to the centre shell
    assembly, with a propeller gear attached to the proximal end and the propeller
    attached to the distal end.

                                         13
22. The watercraft of claim 19 wherein the transmission comprises an axle with an
    upper and lower end, each end of the axle including a transmission gear and a
    transmission bearing that is inserted through the axle, the transmission gear
    located at the upper end of the axle mating to the gear within the cavity of the
    top shell assembly, the transmission gear located at the bottom end of the axle
    mating to the propeller gear.
23. The watercraft of claim 12 wherein the transmission is in the interior of the
    central shell assembly.
24. A watercraft comprising:
            a hull having a bow and a stern with opposed sidewalls extending
    between the bow and the stern, at least one thwart adjoining the interior
    sidewalls for structural support, the hull having a cockpit between the bow and
    the stern, the cockpit including a seat and a propulsion device, the propulsion
    device having a housing with an interior and an exterior, the housing comprising
    a top, bottom and central shell assembly, each shell assembly having a top and
    a bottom wherein the top of the centre shell assembly connects to the bottom
    end of the top shell assembly and the bottom of the centre shell assembly
    connects to the top end of the bottom shell assembly, the central shell assembly
    inserted through a hole in the cockpit such that the top shell assembly is above
    the hole and the bottom assembly is below the hole,
            the top shell assembly having a threaded hole for connecting at least
    one accessory and a-thwart head having a clamp spanning the entire width of
    the top shell assembly connected to the thwart, the clamp integral with the top
    shell assembly, the interior of the top shell assembly further including at least
    two openings accessible to the exterior, the interior of said top shell assembly
    containing a gear and two bearings with a pedal spindle inserted through said
    gear and bearings within said cavity, each opening closed with a cap having an
    internal seal to prevent water from entering the interior of the housing, the pedal
    spindle having two opposed ends with each end connected to a crankarm, each
    crankarm having an inner and outer end wherein the outer end is attached to a
    pedal, the pedals diametrically opposed to one another,

                                          14
    the bottom shell assembly housing at least a portion of a propeller assembly in
    its interior, the propeller assembly comprising a propeller shaft having a
    proximal and distal end in relation to the centre shell assembly, with a propeller
    gear attached to the proximal end and a propeller attached to the distal end that
    is installed on the exterior, the bottom shell assembly having an integrally
    formed rudder on the bottom of said shell assembly's exterior, and
            a transmission located within the interior of the central portion, the
    transmission comprising an axle with an upper and lower end, each end of the
    axle including a transmission gear and a transmission bearing that is inserted
    through the axle, the transmission gear located at the upper end of the axle
    mating to the gear within the cavity of the top shell assembly, the transmission
    gear located at the bottom end of the axle mating to the propeller gear,
            wherein pedaling the propulsion device causes the propeller to rotate
    and propel the watercraft in water.
25. A watercraft comprising:
            a hull having a bow and a stern with opposed sidewalls extending
    between the bow and the stern, the hull having a cockpit between the bow and
    the stern,
            a propulsion device accessible from within the cockpit, the propulsion
    device having
            a housing with an interior and an exterior, the interior having at least two
    openings accessible to the exterior, the openings being closed by a cap having
    an internal seal and an external seal to prevent water from entering the interior
    of the housing,
            a pedaling assembly mounted in the interior and extending through the
    cap and the openings to left and right pedals,
            a transmission in the interior of the housing, the transmission connected
    to the pedaling assembly to transmit rotation downward from the pedaling
    assembly to a propeller assembly in a lower portion of the interior operably
    connected to the transmission and including a propeller mounted on the exterior
    of the housing,
    wherein pedaling the propulsion device causes the watercraft to propel through
    water.

                                         15
26. The watercraft of claim 25, wherein the cap includes a flange with the internal
    seal abutting an interior face of the flange and wherein the external seal abuts
    an exterior face of the flange.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           7/7

