ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
A universal payments dashboard system provides eCommerce merchants with
an easy to integrate web page (inline frame) that displays all alternative payment
button options that consumers can use on the merchant website(s) to pay for the
purchase. Such merchants can display the dashboard on their shopping cart
page(s) and on their checkout page(s) at the point where users select the
payment option. The dashboard communicates with a payment dashboard
provider to complete the payment for the transaction, including any consumer
interaction such as entering checking account information, personal details, etc.
Upon completing the payment for the order, the dashboard provides the
merchant with the completed order information (e.g., a prepaid order) along with
all the payment information. The dashboard supports all alternative payment
options, payment transaction notifications to enable single cash register
functionality and work in conjunction with alternative payment initiatives.

WO 2009/132339                                       PCT/US2009/041804
                                       1/3
                                    PAYMENT
                                  DASHBOARD        60
                                   PROVIDER
                   64-,-            B6
   10                                                             20
            CUSTOMER                                     --       22
          12-m                       INTERNET
                    !!!!!!!!!!!!!!1   3MERCHANT
                                                     INTERNET
                                                /--70
       FIG. 1                                72
                                    PAYMENT
                                     BRAND
                                   PROVIDER

WO 2009/132339                                                        PCT/US2009/041804
                      UNIVERSAL PAYMENTS DASHBOARD
[0001]      This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application Serial
No. 61/047,942 filed on April 25, 2008.
BACKGROUND
[0002]      The present inventive subject matter relates to the art of payment
processing for commercial transactions. It finds particular application in
conjunction with payments and/or commercial transactions conducted over a
public data network such as the Internet, and it will be described with particular
reference thereto. However, one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that it is
also amenable to other like applications.
[0003]      By way of background, merchants and customers alike enjoy the
benefit of conducting business over telecommunication networks such as the
 Internet. Generally, it is advantageous for both parties to have available multiple
options from which the customer is able to select a desired form of payment for a
given transaction. Examples of such commercially available payment options for
conducting eCommerce transactions include traditional and alternate payment
brands alike. Notwithstanding the benefit, merchants may find it unduly
 burdensome to integrate and/or otherwise support a wide variety of payment
options on their websites.
 [0004]     In many conventional approaches, for a merchant to offer and/or
otherwise support a particular payment option or method, they have to implement
 a specific protocol or follow specific guidelines that are commonly prescribed or
otherwise defined by the payment brand provider. These protocols and/or
guidelines for completing eCommerce transactions typically vary by payment
 brand. Complying with multiple different protocols and/or guidelines can be
 unwieldy for a merchant that would prefer to concentration efforts on sales or
other important business of the merchant. The problem can be further
                                           -1-

WO 2009/132339                                                       PCT/US2009/041804
exacerbated, for example, when new payment options and/or methods are
periodically developed for conducting eCommerce transaction. Additionally,
existing payment options and/or method may periodically change so that the
merchant website has to be updated or altered to properly support the changed
payment option. Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciated, to continue
supporting a wide variety of payment options as they are developed and/or
periodically changed, can involve significant work and/or dedication of resources
on the part of a merchant to bring their website into suitable compliance for
providing the desired payment brands to customers.
[0005]      Therefore, a new and improved system and apparatus for providing a
merchant's website with one or more payment options to be selected by a
customer is disclosed that overcomes the above-referenced problems and
others.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION
[0006]      In accordance with an aspect of the exemplary embodiments, a
universal payments dashboard system for online transactions is provided. The
system includes a universal payments dashboard server that is operative to:
provide a universal payments dashboard on a checkout page or application for
an online merchant, wherein the dashboard is included on the checkout page or
application via a windowing technique that points to the dashboard server; fill or
populate the dashboard to present one or more selected payment options to an
online customer; and customize content on the dashboard for the merchant.
[0007]      In accordance with other aspects of the exemplary embodiments, the
universal payments dashboard system may also include a merchant profile
database storing a merchant profile for each of a plurality of different merchants
and/or a customer profile database storing a customer profile for each of a
plurality of different customers.
[0008]      In accordance with yet another aspect of the exemplary embodiments,
an apparatus for providing universal payments dashboards for online
transactions is provided. The apparatus includes means for providing a universal
                                         -2-

WO 2009/132339                                                      PCT/US2009/041804
payments dashboard on a checkout page or application for an online merchant,
wherein the dashboard is included on the checkout page or application via a
pointer that points to the dashboard server. The system also includes means for
filling or populating the dashboard to present one or more selected payment
options to an online customer, means for customizing content on the dashboard
for the merchant, means for storing a merchant profile for each of a plurality of
different merchants, and means for storing a customer profile for each of a
plurality of different customers.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0009]      The present inventive subject matter may take form in various
components and arrangements of components, and in various steps and
arrangements of steps. The drawings are only for purposes of illustrating
preferred embodiments and are not to be construed as limiting. Further, it is to
be appreciated that the drawings are not to scale.
 [0010]     FIG. 1 is a diagrammatic illustration showing an exemplary
arrangement of various parties with respect to a telecommunications network
suitable for practicing aspects of the present inventive subject matter.
 [0011]     FIG. 2 is a diagrammatic illustration showing an exemplary
configuration of merchant resources which is suitable for practicing aspects of
the present inventive subject matter.
 [0012]     FIG. 3 is a diagrammatic illustration showing an exemplary checkout
webpage including a dashboard which embodies aspects of the present inventive
subject matter.
 [0013]     FIG. 4 is a flow diagram illustrating an exemplary embodiment of the
 present inventive subject matter.
 DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0014]      With reference to FIG. 1, there is shown a customer 10 that visits a
website of a merchant 20. Suitably, the customer 10 employs a computer 12 or
other suitable end user device on which a web browser or the like is running to
                                           -3-

WO 2009/132339                                                          PCT/US2009/041804
access the website over a telecommunications network 30. For example, the
network 30 is optionally a public data network such as the Internet or another
suitable data network on which the website is provided by the merchant 20 or
another like proxy. Suitably, the computer 12 or end user device employed by
the user 10 is operatively connected to the network 30 in the usual manner.
Additionally, the website is suitably provided and/or supported via an appropriate
web server 22 or other like server that is also operatively connected to the
network 30 in the usual manner.
[0015]      Also shown in FIG. 1 is a universal payment dashboard provider 60
that operates and/or maintains a "dashboard" server 62. Suitably, the server 62
is a web server or other like server that is operatively connected to the network
30 in the usual manner. Additionally, a payment brand provider 70 also
optionally employs a server 72 that is operatively connected to the network 30 to
communicate and/or exchange data with respective parties.
[0016]      While only a single customer 10 and a single merchant 20 are
illustrated in FIG. 1 for the purposes of simplicity and/or clarity herein, it is to be
appreciated that in practice, multiple customers and/or merchants are suitably
situated likewise and served in similar manners by the payment dashboard
provider 60 and/or the dashboard server 62. Additionally, while only a single
payment brand provider 70 is illustrated in FIG. 1 for the purposes of simplicity
and/or clarity herein, it is to be appreciated that in practice, multiple such
payment brand providers 70 are generally similarly situated.
[0017]      With reference to FIG. 2, suitably, the website (illustrated functionally
by element 40) provided by the merchant 20 includes and/or otherwise supports
a virtual shopping cart 42 of the type typically employed on merchant websites or
another like application or device which the customer 10 can use to select and/or
deposit one or more items for purchase from the website 40. That is to say, in
practice, the customer 10 shops on the website 40 by browsing to one or more
various webpages included in and/or otherwise supported on the website 40 and
employing the shopping cart 42 in the usual manner to select one or more
desired items offered for sale on the website 40. Additionally, the merchant 20
                                           -4-

WO 2009/132339                                                          PCT/US2009/041804
also optionally employs a conventional order management system (OMS) 50 that
is operatively linked to the website 40 in order to fulfill and/or otherwise process
orders associated with completed purchases made on the website 40.
[0018]      With reference to FIG. 3, in practice, when the customer 10 is ready to
complete their purchase, they employ the browser running on their computer 12
to navigate to a checkout or other like webpage 44 that is provided by and/or
otherwise served from the server 22. In the illustrated embodiment, a dashboard
46 is provided on the checkout webpage 44. Optionally, the dashboard 46 may
also be suitably included on a shopping cart page. Suitably, the webpage 44 is
defined using HyperText Mark-up Language (HTML) or other suitable language,
 and the dashboard 46 is optionally included on the webpage 44 via an inline
frame or iframe which points to the server 62 (as shown in FIG. 1) that fills or
 populates the frame or dashboard 46 to present and/or otherwise provide one or
 more selected payment options to the customer 10.
 [0019]     Returning attention now again to FIG. 1, the server 62 is suitably a web
 server or the like that is operated and/or otherwise maintained by a third party or
 other payment dashboard provider 60 and is operatively connected to the
 network 30 in the usual manner. In operation, the server 62 supplies and/or
 otherwise serves the content for the dashboard 46 to the browser running on the
 customer's computer 12 when the webpage 44 is served thereto from the server
 22. Suitably, the content for the dashboard 46 includes one or more payment
 options presented as icons or links 48 that the customer 10 can selectively
 choose in accordance with the desired payment brand they wish to employ to
 complete the transaction. In practice, the one or more particular payment options
 (and accordingly the one or more particular icons or links 48) to be present in the
 dashboard 46 are selected from a plurality of different payment options
 supported by a plurality of different payment brand providers, such as the
  payment brand provider 70.
  [0020]    Suitably, the dashboard content is customized for a particular
  merchant and/or customer. For example, a merchant profile database (DB) 64
 optionally includes merchant profiles for a plurality of merchants served by the
                                          -5-

WO 2009/132339                                                       PCT/US2009/041804
coordinator 60 (including, for example, the merchant 20). Accordingly, when the
dashboard 46 is invoked from the website 40 of the merchant 20, the server 62
accesses the profile for the merchant 20 from the DB 64. In turn, based on the
obtained profile, the server 62 determines the particular content to be provided in
the dashboard 46. Suitably, for example, the profile may dictate which payment
options are to be presented in the dashboard 46. For example, in one instance
the merchant profile may result in the dashboard 46 providing options for
payment brands X, Y and Z, while in another case, a different merchant profile
may result in the dashboard providing options for payment brands A, B and C.
Additionally, the profile may also dictate the order in which payment options are
present, i.e., the sequence in which the icons or links 48 appear in the dashboard
46. Moreover, the appearance (i.e., size, shape, color, etc.) of the different icons
or links 48 as well background graphics, text, etc. can also be customized by the
server 62 based upon the profile obtained from the DB 64. This, for example,
may be used to encourage the selection of one payment brand over another as
may be beneficial to the merchant 20, the customer 10, the coordinator 60 or for
whatever reason.
 [0021]     In addition to customizing the dashboard content based upon the
 particular merchant, other factors may be considered by the server 62. For
 example, before the dashboard 46 content is generated (i.e., supplied with
 particular icons or links 48 for different payment brands and/or supplied other
 background content), the server 62 is optionally provided with an identity of the
 customer 10 and/or the identity and/or nature of the items being purchased. In
 particular, data on the items being purchased may be obtained by the server 62
from the shopping cart 42. Similarly, where the merchant 20 is aware of the
 customer's identity or some identifying information, the merchant's server 22 may
 supply customer identity data to the server 62. Alternately, the server 62 may
 optionally request customer identity information from the customer 10 before
 completing generation of the content for the dashboard 46. Suitably, multiple
 customer profiles are maintained in a database (e.g., the DB 64 or alternately a
 separate database) for different customers. The customer profiles may track, for
                                            -6-

WO 2009/132339                                                       PCT/US2009/041804
example, customer's shopping habits and/or preferences along with payment
selection habits and/or preferences. Additionally, the customer's location (i.e.,
geographic location, residence, street address, etc.) may also be maintained in
the customer profile. In fact, any factor that may affect the payment option
selection process performed by the customer may optionally be tracked and/or
otherwise maintained in the customer profile.
[0022]      Accordingly, based on the customer profile and/or purchase data, the
server 62 may select or adjust the dashboard content, i.e., which particular
payment options or icons/links 48 to include and/or not include on the dashboard
46, the order or sequence of the included payment options or icons/links 48, the
appearance of the icons/links 48, the appearance and/or content of the
background, etc. For example, if from the customer data it is known that the
customer 10 does not have an account for payment brand X, then the icon or link
48 corresponding to payment brand X will not be supplied to the dashboard 46.
Alternately, if the customer data or merchant data shows that either or both are
located in a particular country, the option to select payment brands specific to
that country may be included in the dashboard 46, while other payments brands
not accepted in that country may be excluded. In another example, if it is known
from the customer data and/or the shopping cart data, that customer 10 prefers
to use payment brand Y for the particular items in the shopping cart 42, then the
icon or link 48 corresponding to the payment brand Y may be listed or displayed
first in the dashboard 46. Of course, other suitable results based on a variety of
different particular factors may likewise be envisioned.
 [0023]      Once the dashboard 46 has been filled with the particular content, the
customer 10 chooses the desired payment option for completing the transaction
by selecting one of the icons/links 48 corresponding to the payment brand of their
choice. Accordingly, the selection of the particular icon/link 48 invokes a
particular payment processing operation specific to the corresponding payment
 brand. For example, the server 62 optionally launches a particular script or other
application or program in response to the selected icon/link 48 to complete
processing of the payment in accordance with the protocols and/or guidelines
                                          -7-

WO 2009/132339                                                         PCT/US2009/041804
defined for the particular payment brand. Suitably, the customer 10 is prompted
by the dashboard server 62 to provide any additional payment data (e.g., such as
an account number or ID, authentication credentials, etc.) that will be used to
complete payment for the transaction. Upon entry of the requested payment
data by the customer 10, the payment data along with any other relevant
transaction data (i.e., purchase price or amount, merchant data, transaction ID,
etc.) is then forwarded from the server 62 to a transaction processor. In practice,
the transaction processing is optionally carried out by the payment brand
provider 70 and/or an intermediary or suitable proxy.
[0024]      After the transaction has been submitted for processing, the
transaction result (i.e., approved or denied or otherwise) is returned to the server
62. Optionally, the server 62 then informs the customer 10 of the result, and
provided the transaction has been approved, redirects the customer 10 to the
transaction processor so that the customer 10 can provide the transaction
processor acknowledgement of the payment. Having received the
acknowledgement for the payment, the transaction processor generates and/or
returns a payment notification (e.g., to the server 62 or other suitable proxy) that
can in turn be delivered to the merchant's OMS 50 as a completed order
 notification. Suitably, the order notification is sent to the merchant 20 in any one
or more of a variety of different ways including: e-mail, XML (eXtensible Mark-up
 Language), WebServices, Amazon Order Notification Service Format, HTTP
(Hyper-Text Transfer Protocol) Post, etc.
 [0025]      As can be appreciated from the foregoing description, the dashboard
46 allows the merchant 20 to offer a customized selection of payment options to
the customer 10 without having to significantly modify their website 40. In
 practice, the merchant 20 can incorporate the dashboard 46 in to their website 40
 by merely including the inline frame or iframe or other suitable script (e.g.,
 JavaScript) on the appropriate checkout webpage 44 or shopping cart page.
 Moreover, the completed order notification sent to the OMS 50 of the merchant
20 allows the merchant 20 to accept such orders just like they would other pre
                                            -8-

WO 2009/132339                                                         PCT/US2009/041804
paid orders. In this manner, the merchant 20 can accept alternative payment
brands without any modification to their OMS 50 or shopping cart software 42.
[0026]      FIG. 4 is a flow diagram illustrating an example of an online transaction
that utilizes the universal payments dashboard described above.
[0027]      While the foregoing description refers to a website 40 and the Internet
30 and a web browser running on the customer's computer 12, optionally, the
present inventive subject matter is also applicable to mobile commerce
transactions. For example, the customer 10 may optionally employ as a client
device a mobile telephone or other like mobile and/or wireless device suitably
equipped to access an appropriate shopping site supported by the merchant 20
via a suitable server or other appropriate equipment for providing mobile
webpages and/or other suitable mobile content to the customer's device.
[0028]      It is to be appreciated that in connection with the particular exemplary
embodiments presented herein certain structural and/or function features are
described as being incorporated in defined elements and/or components.
However, it is contemplated that these features may, to the same or similar
benefit, also likewise be incorporated in other elements and/or components
where appropriate. It is also to be appreciated that different aspects of the
exemplary embodiments may be selectively employed as appropriate to achieve
other alternate embodiments suited for desired applications, the other alternate
embodiments thereby realizing the respective advantages of the aspects
incorporated therein.
 [0029]     It is also to be appreciated that particular elements or components
described herein may have their functionality suitably implemented via hardware,
software, firmware or a combination thereof. Additionally, it is to be appreciated
that certain elements described herein as incorporated together may under
suitable circumstances be stand-alone elements or otherwise divided. Similarly,
a plurality of particular functions described as being carried out by one particular
element may be carried out by a plurality of distinct elements acting
independently to carry out individual functions, or certain individual functions may
be split-up and carried out by a plurality of distinct elements acting in concert.
                                            -9-

WO 2009/132339                                                       PCT/US2009/041804
Alternately, some elements or components otherwise described and/or shown
herein as distinct from one another may be physically or functionally combined
where appropriate.
[0030]     In short, the present specification has been set forth with reference to
preferred embodiments. Obviously, modifications and alterations will occur to
others upon reading and understanding the present specification. The invention
should be construed as including all such modifications and alterations that come
within the scope of the appended claims or the equivalents thereof.
                                         -10-

WO 2009/132339                                                         PCT/US2009/041804
CLAIMS
        1.       A universal payments dashboard system for online transactions,
the system comprising:
        a universal payments dashboard server operative to:
        provide a universal payments dashboard on a checkout page or
application for an online merchant, wherein the dashboard is included on the
checkout page or application via a windowing technique that points to the
dashboard server;
        fill or populate the dashboard to present one or more selected payment
options to an online customer; and
        customize content on the dashboard for the merchant.
        2.       The system of claim 1, wherein the content for the dashboard
includes one or more payment options presented as icons or links that the online
customer can selectively choose in accordance with a desired payment brand.
        3.       The system of claim 2, wherein the one or more particular payment
options and the one or more particular icons or links present in the dashboard
are selected from a plurality of different payment options supported by a plurality
of different payment brand providers.
        4.       The system of claim 1, further comprising:
        a merchant profile database storing a merchant profile for each of a
plurality of different merchants.
        5.       The system of claim 4, wherein the server is further operative to:
        obtain a profile for a given merchant from the database when the
dashboard is invoked from a website of the given merchant; and
        determine the particular content to be provided in the dashboard based on
the obtained merchant profile.
        6.       The system of claim 5, wherein the obtained merchant profile
includes payment options to be presented in the dashboard.
        7.       The system of claim 6, wherein the given merchant profile dictates
one or more of the following aspects associated with the payment options to be
                                          -11-

WO 2009/132339                                                       PCT/US2009/041804
presented in the dashboard: the order in which payment options are present, the
appearance of the different icons or links, and background graphics and text in
the dashboard.
        8.      The system of claim 1, further comprising:
        a customer profile database storing a customer profile for each of a
plurality of different customers.
        9.      The system of claim 8, wherein the server is further operative to:
        receive the identity of a given customer and/or the nature of one or more
items being purchased by the given customer;
        obtain a profile for the given customer from the customer profile database;
        customize content on the dashboard for the given customer based on the
identity of the given customer and/or the identity of the one or more items being
purchased by the given customer and/or the given customer profile.
        10.     The system of claim 9, wherein the customer profiles track one or
more of the following aspects for each customer: shopping habits, payment
selection habits, and geographic location.
        11.     An apparatus for providing universal payments dashboards for
online transactions, the apparatus comprising:
        means for providing a universal payments dashboard on a checkout page
or application for an online merchant, wherein the dashboard is included on the
checkout page or application via a windowing technique that points to the
dashboard server;
        means for filling or populating the dashboard to present one or more
selected payment options to an online customer;
        means for customizing content on the dashboard for the merchant;
        means for storing a merchant profile for each of a plurality of different
 merchants; and
        means for storing a customer profile for each of a plurality of different
customers.
                                          -12-

WO 2009/132339                                                       PCT/US2009/041804
        12.     The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the content for the dashboard
includes one or more payment options presented as icons or links that the online
customer can selectively choose in accordance with a desired payment brand.
        13.     The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the one or more particular
payment options and the one or more particular icons or links present in the
dashboard are selected from a plurality of different payment options supported by
a plurality of different payment brand providers.
        14.     The apparatus of claim 13, further comprising:
       means for obtaining a profile for a given merchant when the dashboard is
invoked from a website of the given merchant; and
       means for determining the particular content to be provided in the
dashboard based on the obtained merchant profile.
        15.     The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the obtained merchant profile
includes payment options to be presented in the dashboard.
        16.     The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the given merchant profile
dictates one or more of the following aspects associated with the payment
options to be presented in the dashboard: the order in which payment options are
present, the appearance of the different icons or links, and background graphics
and text in the dashboard.
        17.     The apparatus of claim 16, further comprising:
       means for receiving the identity of a given customer and/or the nature of
one or more items being purchased by the given customer;
       means for obtaining a profile for the given customer;
       means for customizing content on the dashboard for the given customer
based on the identity of the given customer and/or the identity of the one or more
items being purchased by the given customer and/or the given customer profile.
        18.     The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the customer profiles track one
or more of the following aspects for each customer: shopping habits, payment
selection habits, and geographic location.
                                        -13-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
