                                          ABSTRACT
          Sterilization is carried out by admitting a flow of sterilant fluid into a
5  sterilization chamber through an inlet, emitting ultraviolet light into the chamber,
   receiving the ultraviolet light in a plurality of ultraviolet light detectors disposed at
   respective locations; and regulating the flow of the sterilant fluid responsively to
   signals from the detectors to achieve a desired level of the sterilant fluid in the
   chamber.
LO

                   1/3
10         12
                             26
      28
                             26
   20                           2
         6      /4     86
            /T
                          16
               CONTROLLER

                     2/3
                             PHYSICAL
                               GAP
              32
MT3700N3-UV        D1               44          46
         D2      k MTE28OF11-UV
                         34             MTPD3650D-1.4 R3
                                        D3             l OOK
       825R        R2
          RI       249R
             38    40
                                      36
                   CONTROLLER
                                 DLC
                     GL2DH TX {fRX
                   <VALUE>
                                    48
                   TRANCEIVER,
       El                  TX                    C
                                R              VC
 ANTENNA            lAnt                             BATTERY
                                                     BT1
                   <VALUE>
                 FIG. 2

                              3/3
10"
         50
             52          12
    50
                228                       14    2
    50      ll
               ' I
                                              26
    50             It I
                   'I
    50                                        26
                        52                    26
       20                                         22
                        24
               28                      18
              752                 -\16
        50
                           CONTROLLER
                                             42

                   Hydrogen Peroxide Sterilizer with Multiple UV Sensors
    COPYRIGHT NOTICE
           [0001]    A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material
    that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to
  5 the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclo
    sure, as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records, but
    otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.
    BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
     1. Field of the Invention.
 L0        [0002]    This invention relates to systems that analyze fluids by determining
    their chemical or physical properties. More particularly, this invention relates to
    determining the concentration of a gas in a sterilization chamber.
    2. Description of the Related Art.
           [0003]    One of the standard methods for low temperature sterilization of
 L5 medical equipment is to use a combination of hydrogen peroxide (hydrogen per
    oxide) vapor with a low temperature plasma in a sterilization chamber. During the
    course of the sterilization process the hydrogen peroxide concentration is meas
    ured as it is consumed, and as necessary hydrogen peroxide is added to the
    chamber to maintain the concentration at a satisfactory level. A present method for
20  measuring the hydrogen peroxide concentration uses an ultraviolet light source
    transmitting through the chamber, and the received ultraviolet light is measured
    with a single ultraviolet light detector that is located far from the source. The level
    of the received ultraviolet light is used to calculate a gross hydrogen peroxide
    concentration reading.
25         [0004]    One arrangement for measuring concentration of a sterilant is pro
    posed in U.S. Patent No. 7,880,887 to Olson et al. Measurements of the concentra
    tion of the sterilant in a sterilization chamber are provided through the use of a
    light source, a first detector that receives light from the light source that has not
    passed through the sterilization chamber and a detector that receives light from
30  the light source that has passed through the sterilization chamber. The light con
                                                   1

    tains wavelengths known to be absorbed by the sterilant. A controller receives
    and processes signals received from the two detectors to cancel changes in the
    output of the light source and then apply a modified Beer-Lambert law to deter
    mine the concentration of the sterilant gas.
  5        [0005]    In practice, concentration of a sterilant such as hydrogen peroxide
    may vary within the chamber, especially when sterilizing equipment with narrow
    lumens, such as catheters restricts diffusion of sterilant vapor. There may be areas
    of the chamber, which are exposed to higher or lower concentrations of hydrogen
    peroxide due to such flow restrictions. Thus the gross reading referred to above
 LO may not give an accurate picture of the concentration distribution over the cham
    ber.
           [0006]    The art has recognized that measurements in different areas of the
    sterilization chamber may improve the reliability of the readings of sterilant gas
    concentration. For example, U.S. Patent No. 6,269,680 to Prieve et aL proposes in
 L5 cludes a movable gas cell, which can be moved around the sterilization chamber
    so that measurements of the concentration of hydrogen peroxide can be done at
    various locations inside the sterilization chamber. The ends of the movable gas
    cell are connected to an ultraviolet lamp and a detector with optical fibers.
    SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
  0        [0007]    Embodiments of the invention use multiple ultraviolet (UV) detec
    tors distributed over a sterilization chamber. The detectors may be relatively
    small (of the size of a coin), and may be configured to transmit their readings wire
    lessly to a central processor. In addition, rather than a single UV source, a double
    wavelength source is used to exploit differential absorption. To further improve
25  the accuracy of the concentration readings, the source may be pulsed, which im
    proves the signal-to-noise ratio.
           [0008]    There is provided according to embodiments of the invention a
    sterilization chamber having an inlet for admitting a flow of sterilant fluid into the
    chamber, an ultraviolet light emitter arranged to direct ultraviolet light into the
30  chamber, a plurality of ultraviolet light detectors disposed at respective locations
    for receiving the ultraviolet light, and a controller for regulating the flow of the
    sterilant fluid responsively to signals from the detectors to achieve a desired level
    of the sterilant fluid in the chamber.

           [0009]   According to one aspect of the apparatus, the emitter emits light at a
    first wavelength that is absorbed by the sterilant fluid and at a second wavelength
    that is less well absorbed by the sterilant fluid.
           [0010]   According to a further aspect of the apparatus, the sterilant fluid is
  5 hydrogen peroxide, the first wavelength is 280 nm and the second wavelength is
    370 nm.
           [0011]   According to yet another aspect of the apparatus, the emitter in
    cludes a plurality of emitters having optics arranged to direct light emissions to
    respective detectors.
 LO        [0012]   According to still another aspect of the apparatus, the chamber is
    maintained at lower than atmospheric pressure.
           [0013]   According to an additional aspect of the apparatus, the emitter in
    cludes a plurality of light emitting diodes that are configured to emit at respective
    frequencies.
 L5        [0014]   According to another aspect of the apparatus, the emitter includes a
    plurality of light emitting diodes that are configured to emit at identical frequen
    cies at different time intervals.
           [0015]   There is further provided according to embodiments of the inven
    tion a method, which is carried out by admitting a flow of sterilant fluid into a steri
 >0 lization chamber through an inlet, emitting ultraviolet light into the chamber, re
    ceiving the ultraviolet light in a plurality of ultraviolet light detectors disposed at
    respective locations, and regulating the flow of the sterilant fluid responsively to
    signals from the detectors to achieve a desired level of the sterilant fluid in the
    chamber.
25  BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWINGS
           [0016]   For a better understanding of the present invention, reference is
    made to the detailed description of the invention, by way of example, which is to
    be read in conjunction with the following drawings, wherein like elements are
    given like reference numerals, and wherein:
30         [0017]   Fig. 1 is a schematic diagram of a sterilization chamber in accord
    ance with an embodiment of the invention;
           [0018]   Fig. 2 is an electrical schematic      of components      of the cham
    ber shown in Fig. 1 in accordance with an embodiment of the invention; and
                                                  3

          [0019]    Fig. 3 is a schematic diagram of a sterilization chamber in accord
    ance with an alternate embodiment of the invention.
    DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
          [0020]    In the following description, numerous specific details are set forth
  5 in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various principles of the
    present invention. It will be apparent to one skilled in the art, however, that not all
    these details are necessarily needed for practicing the present invention. In this
    instance, well-known circuits, control logic, and the details of computer program
    instructions for conventional algorithms and processes have not been shown in
 L0 detail in order not to obscure the general concepts unnecessarily.
          [0021]    Documents incorporated by reference herein are to be considered
    an integral part of the application except that, to the extent that any terms are de
    fined in these incorporated documents in a manner that conflicts with definitions
    made explicitly or implicitly in the present specification, only the definitions in the
 L5 present specification should be considered.
          [0022]    Turning now to the drawings, Reference is made to Fig. 1, which is a
    schematic diagram of a sterilization chamber 10 in accordance with an embodi
    ment of the invention. The chamber 10 has a sealed portal 12 for passage of ob
    jects 14, which can be assorted surgical instruments and the like. Hydrogen per
 >0 oxide is admitted into the chamber 10 via an inlet 16 having a regulator or
    valve 18. A portal 20 is provided for admission of air, and gas exits from the
    chamber through a portal 22. The chamber 10 is maintained at lower than atmos
    pheric pressure, typically 0.5 torr, and features an ultraviolet light source 24 that
    transmits ultraviolet light through the chamber, which is received in multiple mu
25  ral ultraviolet light detectors 26 and interior ultraviolet light detectors 28. Op
    tics 30 having appropriate UV (ultraviolet) lenses that are associated with the ul
    traviolet source 24 are configured to illuminate all the detectors 26, 28. The distri
    bution of the detectors 26, 28 in Fig. 1 is by way of example and not of limitation.
    The detectors 26, 28 may be distributed in the chamber such that the measure
30  ments optimally reflect the concentrations of hydrogen peroxide at the objects be
    ing sterilized. The detectors need not be distributed in any particular order, and
    may even be widely scattered about and within the chamber, facing in different
    directions.
                                                  4

           [0023]    The ultraviolet source 24 receives command signals from a control
     ler 42 and readouts from the detectors 26, 28. The valve 18 is adjusted by the con
     troller 42 responsively to the readouts. The valve 18 regulates the inflow of hydro
     gen peroxide so as to achieve a desired optimum level (typically 95% concentra
  5  tion) of hydrogen peroxide within the chamber 10. Once the optimum level is
     achieved, in some embodiments the inflow may be discontinued and the chamber
     maintained in a static condition.
           [0024]    Continued reference is made to Fig. 1 and also to Fig. 2, which is an
     electrical schematic of components of the chamber 10 in accordance with an em
 10  bodiment of the invention. Ultraviolet source 24 is realized as two light emitting
     diodes 32, 34 in parallel, both supplied by a controller 36. The diodes 32, 34 are in
     series with resistors 38, 40 and emit at 280 nm and 370 nm respectively. The di
     odes may emit simultaneously at respective frequencies, or at different time inter
     vals at the same frequency. The Goertzel algorithm may be used in detecting the
 15  signals from the diodes 32, 34. Techniques of dual wavelength ultraviolet spec
     troscopy are known, for example, from U.S. Patent No. 6,269,680, which is herein
     incorporated by reference. In the circuitry shown in Fig. 2 diode 34 acts as a ref
     erence to compensate for internal variations in the circuitry, while diode 32 emits
     at a wavelength that is strongly absorbed by hydrogen peroxide vapor.
  O0       [0025]    A number of other ultraviolet emitters known in the art could be
     used for the ultraviolet source 24, for example, cylindrical low pressure mercury
     UV emitters with a spectral peak at about 254 nm. Such emitters are proposed in
     U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2006/0222576, which is herein incorpo
     rated by reference. Other examples of such light sources include low pressure
25   mercury vapor lamps, deuterium lamps, xenon lamps, light-emitting diodes and
     laser diodes. In general all of these are less convenient or more expensive than
     the dual light emitting diode configuration described above.
           [0026]    The detectors 26, 28 are realized as a charge-coupled detector 44
     across a resistor 46. Signals from the detector 44 are received in the controller 36
30   and conveyed to a remote site, such as a processor (not shown) by transceiver 48,
     where signal processing techniques are applied, including analog-to-digital con
     version, and Fourier analysis, including the above-noted Goertzel algorithm.
                                                  5

    First Alternate Embodiment.
           [0027]   Reference is now made to Fig. 3, which is a schematic diagram of a
    sterilization chamber 10 in accordance with an alternate embodiment of the inven
    tion in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. In this embodiment there
 5  are multiple ultraviolet sources 50, having optics 52 that direct the ultraviolet light
    toward respective detectors 26, 28. The optics of the detectors 26, 28 may include
    a convex lens. The light paths between the sources 50 and the detectors 26, 28 are
    indicated by broken lines.
           [0028]   It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that the present
10  invention is not limited to what has been particularly shown and described
    hereinabove.      Rather,  the   scope   of the   present   invention   includes   both
    combinations       and   sub-combinations     of  the   various   features    described
    hereinabove, as well as variations and modifications thereof that are not in the
    prior art, which would occur to persons skilled in the art upon reading the
15  foregoing description.
           [0029]   In this specification, the terms "comprise", "comprises", "compris
    ing" or similar terms are intended to mean a non-exclusive inclusion, such that a
    system, method or apparatus that comprises a list of elements does not include
    those elements solely, but may well include other elements not listed.
 O0        [0030]   The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should
    not be taken as, an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art
    forms part of the common general knowledge.
                                                   6

    CLAIMS.
           1. An apparatus, comprising:
           a sterilization chamber having an inlet for admitting a flow of sterilant fluid
  5 into the chamber;
           an ultraviolet light emitter arranged to direct ultraviolet light into the
    chamber;
           a plurality of ultraviolet light detectors disposed at respective locations and
    receiving the ultraviolet light; and
 LO        a controller for regulating the flow of the sterilant fluid responsively to
    signals from the detectors to achieve a desired level of the sterilant fluid in the
    chamber.
           2. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the emitter emits light at a
 L5 first wavelength that is absorbed by the sterilant fluid and at a second wavelength
    that is less well absorbed by the sterilant fluid.
           3. The apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the sterilant fluid is hydrogen
    peroxide, the first wavelength is 280 nm and the second wavelength is 370 nm.
 )0
           4. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the emitter comprises a
    plurality of emitters having optics arranged to direct light emissions to respective
    detectors.
25         5. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the chamber is maintained at
    lower than atmospheric pressure.
           6. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the emitter comprises a
    plurality of light emitting diodes that are configured to emit at respective
30  frequencies.
                                                    7

           7. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the emitter comprises a
    plurality of light emitting diodes that are configured to emit at identical
    frequencies at different time intervals.
  5       8. A method, comprising the steps of:
          admitting a flow of sterilant fluid into a sterilization chamber through an inlet;
          emitting ultraviolet light into the chamber;
          receiving the ultraviolet light in a plurality of ultraviolet light detectors
    disposed at respective locations; and
 10       regulating the flow of the sterilant fluid responsively to signals from the
    detectors to achieve a desired level of the sterilant fluid in the chamber.
          9. The method according to claim 8, wherein emitting ultraviolet light
    comprises emitting the ultraviolet light at a first wavelength that is absorbed by
 L5 the sterilant fluid and at a second wavelength that is less well absorbed by the
    sterilant fluid.
           10. The method according to claim 9, wherein the sterilant fluid is hydrogen
    peroxide, the first wavelength is 280 nm and the second wavelength is 370 nm.
           11. The method according to claim 8, wherein emitting ultraviolet light is
    performed with a plurality of emitters having optics arranged to direct light
    emissions to respective detectors.
25         12. The method according to claim 8, further comprising maintaining the
    chamber at lower than atmospheric pressure.
           13. The method according to claim 8, wherein emitting ultraviolet light is
    performed by emitting the ultraviolet light using a plurality of light emitting
30  diodes at respective frequencies.
                                                    8

       14. The method according to claim 8, wherein emitting ultraviolet light is
  performed by emitting the ultraviolet light using a plurality of light emitting
  diodes at identical frequencies at different time intervals.
5      15. The   method    according    to  claim 8,  wherein  regulating comprises
  discontinuing the flow to maintain the chamber in a static condition.
                                                9

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
