ABSTRACT
A penis erection stimulation system comprises a fully implantable drug delivery device for
delivering a drug in relation to a penis to achieve erection of the penis. The drug delivery
device may comprise a catheter adapted to be implanted in the corpora cavernosa (7) of a
penis or in close proximity thereto in order to deliver drugs through said catheter. Alternatively,
one or more infusion needles (11) may be disposed within and implanted along with one or
more housings (12) adjacent the patient's left and right corpora cavernosa. A reservoir (R1, R2)
and a pump (P) may also be implanted inside the patient's body to supply the infusion needle
with infusion liquid. A drive unit (D) also adapted for implantation inside the patient's body is
arranged for advancing and retracting the tip end of the infusion needle such that it penetrates
the housing at least in two different penetration areas either simultaneously or in immediate
time succession, thereby injecting drugs along with the infusion liquid into the patient's body
for stimulating penis erection.
Fig. 20

            15/28
FIG 20                         N 0
                           A
                      C2        31
                               GAS
                                Rl
                             p32   23
                  M2
                             R2
         o                  26
         \724           19
       ~              25
                       ,12
                       11
                  F1
                     DF\
                                      7

                                                  1
 5 STIMULATION OF PENIS ERECTION
   The present application is divided rom Australian patent application No. 2014329595
   (AU'595), the content of which is incorporated herein in its entirety.
   Background of the Invention
10 The present invention relates to the infusion of a drug into a patient's body in order to
   stimulate penis erection.
   When a male is stimulated erotically, connections between arteries and veins are
   closed (arteriovenous anastomoses) so that blood which is normally able to bypass
   the empty spaces or sinuses of the corpora cavernosa is retained in the penis.
15 The main vessels supplying the blood to the cavernous spaces in the erectile tissue of
   the corpora cavernosa are the deep arteries of the penis. They are therefore heavily
   involved in the erection of the penis. They give off numerous branches - the helicine
   arteries - that open directly into the cavernous spaces. When the penis is flaccid,
   these arteries are coiled, restricting blood flow. However, the smooth muscle in the
20 coiled helicine arteries relaxes as a result of parasympathetic stimulation. In their
   relaxed state, the helicine arteries straighten, enlarging their lumina and allowing blood
   to flow into and dilate the cavernous spaces in the corpora of the penis at arterial
   pressure. In combination with the bulbospongiosus and ischiocavernosus muscles
   compressing the veins egressing from the corpora cavernosa, the erectile bodies of
25 the penis become enlarged and rigid, and an erection occurs.
    Patients suffering from erectile dysfunction can cause the penis to become turgid by
   injecting into the corpora cavernosa a medicament, such as papaverine or
   prostaglandin El, causing the smooth muscles to relax. The patients have to learn a
   certain technique under doctor's supervision in order to be able to properly inject the
30 medicament in each of the corpora cavernosa. Only after about 15 minutes after
   administration of the medicament will the medicament become effective. The entire
   procedure is inconvenient, the more so as the medicament must usually first be mixed
   together from a dry substance and a saline solution. Only as a dry substance (and
   typically cooled) are the available medicaments stable.

                                                                         PCT/EP2009/007288
                                            2
   Furthermore, proper administration and dosing is critical since the medicament
   may be transported with the blood into other regions of the patient's body if the
   injection is not done properly.
 5 Recently, a different method has become known under the brand Muse@. In this
   method, a plastic rod comprising the medicament alprostadil is inserted into the
   urethra. Upon pressing a button, the alprostadil is released from the rod into the
   urethra. After removal of the plastic rod, the penis is rolled between the palms of
   the hands so that the medicament dissolves, distributes and is absorbed through
10 the urethra wall.
   It is the object of the present invention to improve the stimulation of an erection so
   that the entire process is more convenient for the patient.
15 Summary of the Invention
   The essence of the invention lies in injecting a drug into the patient's body so as to
   stimulate penis erection using a fully implantable drug delivery device for
   delivering the drug in relation to the patient's penis. This will greatly improve the
20 patient's comfort as he no longer needs to pierce himself with the infusion needle,
   which for many people is not an easy task. More specifically, the drug may be
   supplied, more specifically injected, into both the right and left corpus cavernosum
   and/or the two deep arteries thereof and/or possibly muscle tissue regulating
   blood flow through the right and left corpus cavernosum and/or tissue in close
25 proximity to the left and right corpus cavernosum. According to a first, most simple
   embodiment, the drug delivery device comprises a catheter adapted to be
   implanted outside the corpora cavernosa in close proximity thereto so as to supply
   the drugs through the catheter. Alternatively, the catheter may be adapted to be
   implanted in at least one of the corpora cavernosa so as to supply the drugs
30 directly into the corpus cavernosum through the catheter. The latter alternative is
   more complicated to implant, but more efficient in use.
   According to a preferred, somewhat more complex embodiment, the drug delivery
   device comprises at least one infusion needle for injecting the drugs, wherein the
35 infusion needle is permanently implanted at an appropriate location inside the
   patient's body. Due to the permanent implantation of the infusion needle, the

   WO 2010/040555                                                        PCT/EP2009/007288
                                              3
     injection will always occur at the proper location, said location being selected such
     that the drug is most effective. While there are many conceivable technical
     variations for injecting the drug through the infusion needle into the patient's body,
     such injections are definitely more convenient for the patient once the infusion
 5   needle has been implanted as compared to the alternative of injecting the drug
     into the penis manually from outside the penis. In particular, the infusion needle
     may be integrated in the above-mentioned catheter.
     The infusion needle of the drug delivery device may be adapted to be placed
10   outside the corpora cavernosa in close proximity thereto and may further be
     adapted to change its position outside the corpora cavernosa, when the drug
     delivery device is implanted. Thus, whenever the needle's position is changed
     outside the corpora cavernosa, drugs are delivered through the infusion needle
     into a region outside the corpora cavernosa. Alternatively, the at least one infusion
15   needle being placed outside the corpora cavernosa may be adapted to be
     advanced into and retracted from the at least one of the corpora cavernosa. In this
     case, whenever the needle is advanced into the corpus cavernosum, the drugs are
     delivered through the infusion needle into the corpus cavernosum. This latter
     alternative is more efficient in use.
20
     Most preferably, one or more infusion needles are arranged at least with the tip
     end or ends thereof disposed within (at least one) housing so as to penetrate the
     housing's outer wall or walls in at least one penetration area, more preferably in
     two or more different penetration areas. Arranging the infusion needle's tip end in
25   a housing prevents any fibrosis from growing into the infusion needle. Preferably,
     the needle or needles are fully accommodated in said housing. Where more than
     one needle is provided, the needles - or at least the tip ends thereof - may be
     arranged in separate housings. The housing or housings are adapted for
     implantation inside the patient's body adjacent the two corpora cavernosa and/or
30   the two deep arteries thereof and/or adjacent muscle tissue regulating blood flow
     through the patient's left and right corpus cavernosum and/or adjacent tissue in
     close proximity to the two corpora cavernosa. Where the at least one infusion
     needle is arranged for penetrating the at least one housing in two or more different
     penetration areas, the distance between the different penetration areas to be
35   penetrated by the at least one infusion needle is selected such that the respective
     parts of the patient's body are pierced whenever the drug is to be injected. As will

   WO 2010/040555                                                         PCT/EP2009/007288
                                              4
     be described below, two or more infusion needles may be provided in a single
     housing or in different housings in order to inject the drug in the two or more
     different penetration areas, or a single infusion needle may be provided in a single
     housing along with an appropriate drive unit for displacing the tip end of the
 5   infusion needle so as to penetrate the single housing's outer wall in the respective
     different penetration areas.
     Furthermore, according to the invention, at least one drive unit, which is also
     adapted for implantation inside the patient's body, is coupled to the at least one
10   infusion needle so as to - at least - advance and retract the tip end of the at least
     one infusion needle in such a way that it penetrates at least two of said different
     penetration areas within the housing's or housings' outer wall, so as to allow for
     stimulation of penis erection by injecting the substance through said at least two
     different penetration areas via the at least one infusion needle. For instance, the at
15   least one infusion needle may be arranged for penetrating the at least two
     different penetration areas either simultaneously (e.g. where a plurality of needles,
     i.e. at least two needles, are provided) or in immediate time succession (e.g.
     where a single needle is provided).
20   Preferably, a single command or single action from the patient is sufficient for
     injecting the substance through the at least two penetration areas, either due to a
     corresponding mechanical structure of the drive unit or due to a suitably
     configured control unit controlling the drive unit. This will make the handling of the
     system easy for the patient.
25
     Where two different penetration areas are pierced in immediate time succession,
     the time delay between the penetration of the first and the second of the
     penetration areas is preferably as short as possible, more preferably less than 120
     seconds, and most preferably less than 60 seconds. This can be achieved by
30   means of a properly controlled drive unit. A longer time delay would be
     inconvenient for the patient. Therefore, it is preferred that, once the infusion
     needle has been retracted from a first of the two penetration areas, it is
     immediately advanced to the second of the penetration areas.
35   While it is possible according to one aspect of the invention to actively open the
     outer wall or walls of the at least one housing for allowing the infusion needle to

   WO 2010/040555                                                        PCT/EP2009/007288
                                              5
     penetrate the outer wall, it is preferred according to another aspect of the invention
     to arrange the needle so as to penetrate the outer wall by piercing through the
     outer wall. For that purpose, the outer wall may either comprise flaps to be pushed
     aside by the infusion needle as the infusion needle is advanced, or the outer wall
 5   may be made at least in the penetration areas from a material which is self-sealing
     in respect of penetrations resulting from the at least one infusion needle. While the
     entire housing may be made from the self-sealing material, it is advantageous for
     stability reasons if the self-sealing material forms at least one window area in the
     outer wall, the window area being positioned for penetration by the tip end of the at
10   least one infusion needle. The window area may be formed by a self-sealing
     penetration membrane which is preferably integrated in the outer wall by press
     fitting it into the outer wall.
     Typically, the self-sealing material would be made from a polymer material which
15   preferably comprises silicone. Other biocompatible polymer materials, such as
     polyurethane and the like, may be employed as well.
     The self-sealing material may also be a composite material. A particularly
     preferred embodiment of such composite material comprises at least one outer
20   shape-giving layer and a self-sealing soft material contained within the outer layer.
     Thus, the outer layer forms a shell for the soft material. The outer layer may be
     made from a biocompatible polymer, such as one of those polymers mentioned
     above, and preferably the self-sealing soft material may be a gel.
25   Instead of a self-sealing material, the part of the outer wall to be penetrated by the
     infusion needle may comprise one or more flaps in the penetration areas through
     which the infusion needle or needles can pass. This can reduce the force needed
     for the infusion needle to penetrate the outer wall, as compared to the penetration
     of a self-sealing membrane. The flap is preferably arranged to be pushed aside by
30   the infusion needle upon advancement of the infusion needle.
     Alternatively, the outer wall may comprise at least one door in the penetration
     areas. A drive is connected to the door for actively opening the door so as to allow
     for the infusion needle to be advanced through the opened door. Again, the door
35   may comprise a flap, such as a resilient, normally closed flap. It is particularly
     preferred if the drive connected to the door forms part of the drive unit coupled to

   WO 2010/040555                                                        PCT/EP2009/007288
                                               6
     the infusion needle. More specifically, the arrangement may be such that
     advancement of the infusion needle by means of the drive unit simultaneously
     causes the drive to open the door.
 5   Where a single housing is provided for the at least one infusion needle (or at least
     for the tip ends thereof) or where two or more penetration areas are arranged in a
     single housing, the penetration areas may be arranged in the housing so that they
     can be placed either adjacent to both the right and left corpus cavernosum of the
     patient's penis and/or the two deep arteries of the right and left corpus
10   cavernosum and/or adjacent to muscle tissue regulating blood flow through the
     right and left corpus cavernosum and/or in sufficiently close proximity to another
     type of tissue allowing both the first and second corpus cavernosum to become
     turgid when the particular drug is injected thereinto.
15   The at least one infusion needle preferably has a tube-like body closed at the tip
     end and provided with a laterally arranged delivery exit port for delivery of the drug
     into the particular body part. Therefore, the needle will not cut out any material but
     will simply divide it during penetration. Thus, when the needle penetrates any
     material, such as fibrosis and/or the self-sealing penetration membrane, there will
20   be no material entering and blocking the drug delivery passageway.
     As mentioned above, a separate infusion needle may be provided for each of the
     two or more penetration areas. Thus, where injection is desired to occur in only
     two different areas to provoke penis erection, two separate infusion needles may
25   be advanced through the corresponding penetration area of the respective
     housing - preferably simultaneously - and retracted again after injection.
     According to a preferred embodiment of the invention, a plurality of two or more
     infusion needles are provided for each of the different penetration areas and
30   arranged for penetrating different penetration sites within each of said different
     penetration areas. This allows for penetrating different sites within each
     penetration area at different times, thereby giving the human tissue time to recover
     from the piercing by the infusion needle. This can be achieved with a drive unit
     suitably configured to advance and retract one infusion needle in each of said
35   different penetration areas at one time, and to advance and retract a different
     infusion needle in each of said different penetration areas at a different time.

   WO 2010/040555                                                         PCT/EP2009/007288
                                              7
     The system may further comprise at least one reservoir adapted for implantation
     inside the patient's body, the reservoir being in fluid connection with the at least
     one infusion needle so as to supply to the infusion needle the substance to be
 5   injected into the patient's body. Also, at least one pump, which is also adapted for
     implantation inside the patient's body, may be provided to advance the substance
     from the reservoir to the at least one infusion needle.
     Since it is preferred for reasons of space constraints to implant the reservoir
10   remote from the injection areas, it can be advantageous to employ long infusion
     needles that are flexibly bendable. The tip ends of such infusion needles would
     then be arranged within at least one first housing so as to penetrate the outer wall
     thereof upon advancement of the long infusion needle. The at least one first
     housing accommodating the tip end of such long infusion needle or needles can
15   be arranged in close proximity to the injection area so that the tip end can
     penetrate the outer wall of the first housing upon advancement of the long infusion
     needle. The respective other end of the infusion needle or needles, i.e. the
     infusion needle's rear end, is arranged in at least one second housing which can
     be implanted inside the patient's body remote from the first housing in an area with
20   less space constraints. The injection needle would be sufficiently long to bridge
     the distance from the second housing for remote implantation to the first housing
     and further through the first housing up to the outer wall of the first housing to be
     penetrated by the needle. The long and flexibly bendable infusion needle may be
     guided within a suitable sheath. Since the rear end of the long infusion needle or
25   needles is remotely implanted within the patient's body, other components of the
     system cooperating with rear end of the long infusion needle may also be
      implanted remote from the injection area, such as the reservoir for storing the
     substance to be injected, the pump for advancing the drug from the reservoir to
     the infusion needle and further through the needle into the patient's body, and a
30    motor for actuating the system's active parts. In a particularly preferred
      embodiment, the tip end of the long infusion needle is advanced by advancing the
      entire needle from the infusion needle's rear end. In this context, it is particularly
      advantageous to also arrange at least a part of the drive unit, preferably the entire
      drive unit, for advancing and retracting the tip end of the infusion needle remote
35   from the injection area, preferably within the second housing and even more
      preferably in a common housing with the remotely implanted reservoir. More

   WO 2010/040555                                                         PCT/EP2009/007288
                                                8
     preferably, most or all of the active parts, such as a motor, pump and the like, may
     be accommodated in the remotely implanted second housing, whereas the first
     housing only includes passive elements.
 5   A drive unit according to the present invention includes not only the drive itself,
     such as an electric motor, but also those components which are involved in
     transforming the driving energy provided by the drive into movement of the at least
     one needle, such as transmission gears and the like.
10   For instance, in the case of the long flexibly bendable infusion needle, the drive
     unit may be such that the infusion needle is advanced and/or retracted by turning
     the infusion needle or by turning an element cooperating with the infusion needle.
     More specifically, the drive unit for advancing and retracting the infusion needle
     may comprise a screw drive connection. For instance, the drive of the drive unit
15   may turn a screw threadingly engaged with a rack coupled to the infusion needle
     so that rotation of the screw will cause the infusion needle to be advanced or
     retracted. The screw and rack of the screw drive connection are preferably
     accommodated in the remotely implanted second housing but may also be
     arranged in the housing accommodating the tip end of the needle. Instead of the
20   screw, the infusion needle itself may be rotated by means of a suitable drive so
     that threading on the needle engaging a fixedly mounted rack causes the infusion
     needle to advance or retract upon rotation of the infusion needle. Between the first
     and second housings, the infusion needle is preferably guided in a sheath, so as
     to reduce friction and prevent growth of fibrosis that might hinder movement of the
25   needle.
     According to a particularly preferred aspect of the invention, the tip end or ends of
     the at least one infusion needle are laterally movable, so as to vary the penetration
     sites within a particular penetration area of the at least one housing's outer wall,
30   thereby varying the injection site within the particular injection area in the patient's
     body. As set out above, frequent piercing of the same body part may cause
     irritation, eventually making further piercing difficult or even impossible. Variation
     of the injection site by laterally displacing the needle upon each injection cycle
     may overcome such problems. Accordingly, the at least one drive unit in the
35   common housing is preferably configured to laterally displace the tip end or ends
     of the at least one infusion needle to different penetration sites within a penetration

   WO 2010/040555                                                           PCT/EP2009/007288
                                                 9
     area. More specifically, where two or more infusion needles are provided for
     penetrating two or more different penetration areas, the drive unit is preferably
     configured to laterally displace the tip ends of the infusion needles simultaneously.
     This can be achieved e.g. by jointly mounting the tip ends of the infusion needles
 5   on a movable carriage of the drive unit, such as a turntable and/or a shuttle,
     possibly in the form of a slide. Thus, the drive unit for advancing and retracting the
     tip end or ends of the at least one infusion needle is preferably configured so as to
     also laterally displace a tip end each time the tip end is advanced or retracted.
10   Thus, the lateral displacement and the advancement/retraction of the tip end of an
     infusion needle is coordinated. The lateral displacement of the tip end of the
     infusion needle may take place before and/or after an injection. The mechanism
     may be such that after a certain number of lateral displacements or after lateral
     displacement over a predefined distance, the tip end of the infusion needle is
15   laterally returned to its initial position so that the next number of infusions will take
     place again at locations that have previously been penetrated by the needle. It is
     even preferred to configure the drive unit such that the tip end of the infusion
     needle is displaced in at least two different lateral directions within one penetration
     area. For instance, when the infusion needle has laterally returned to its initial
20   position, the next number of infusions may take place somewhat laterally offset
     above or below the first number of penetration sites. This permits a two
     dimensional array of penetration sites to be obtained. In particular, the drive unit
     may be configured to displace the tip end of the infusion needle along a curved
     path, which will result in a three-dimensional array of penetration sites if the needle
25   is displaceable in different lateral directions.
     Where two or more infusion needles are provided for penetrating two or more
     different penetration areas, the infusion needles or, in the case of the afore
     mentioned long and flexibly bendable infusion needles, at least the tip ends
30   thereof may be contained in a common housing in spaced apart relationship, with
     the drive unit being configured to advance and retract the tip ends of the infusion
     needles so as to penetrate the outer wall of the common housing in said at least
     two different penetration areas, again preferably simultaneously. The infusion
     needles - or at least the tip ends thereof - may be arranged one above the other
35   within the common housing. Generally speaking, it is preferable in such a situation
     that the direction of lateral displacement of the tip ends of the infusion needle

   WO 2010/040555                                                         PCT/EP2009/007288
                                               10
     within different penetration areas is different from, in particular perpendicular to,
     the direction of distance between the different penetration areas. Alternatively,
     where the infusion needles are arranged with great lateral distance between each
     other, the direction of lateral displacement of the tip ends of the infusion needles
 5   within each of two different penetration areas may generally be the same as the
     direction of distance between the two different penetration areas. Placing the two
     or more injection needles - or at least the tip ends thereof - in a common housing
     simplifies the procedure of fixing the needles in place close to the injection areas.
     Furthermore, a single drive unit may be used for advancing and retracting the tip
10   ends of the plurality of infusion needles, this making the entire system less
     voluminous. The use of a single drive unit is particularly advantageous where a
     major part of the drive unit is also contained in the common housing, i.e. where a
     major part of the drive unit is also to be implanted close to the very constrained
     injection area.
15
     Instead of providing two or more infusion needles for penetrating two or more
     different penetration areas, it is likewise possible to provide a single infusion
     needle or the tip end of a single needle within the housing and to implant the
     housing within the patient's body adjacent the two or more injection areas. In this
20   case, the drive unit may be configured so as to laterally displace the tip end of the
     single one infusion needle between various lateral positions such that the infusion
     needle can penetrate the housing's outer wall in the different penetration areas.
     The distance of lateral displacement of the single infusion needle between the
     different penetration areas would amount to 3 mm, 4 mm, 5 mm or even more
25   upon each successive injection. Such successive injections are preferably in
     immediate time succession, preferably not exceeding 120 seconds between two
     injections, more preferably not exceeding 60 seconds. Most preferably, the drive
     unit will be adapted to initiate advancement of the one infusion needle to a second
     one of the plurality of penetration areas once it has been retracted from a first one
30   of the penetration areas.
     An implantable infusion device comprising a single, laterally displaceable infusion
     needle contained within a housing so as to penetrate the housing's outer wall at
     different penetration sites is generally known from WO 2007/051563. However,
35   this prior art infusion device is not aimed at being used for the stimulation of penis
     erection. Also the prior art device is neither intended nor configured for injecting

   WO 2010/040555                                                          PCT/EP2009/007288
                                              11
     drugs simultaneously or quasi-simultaneously in immediate time succession in two
     or more different injection areas. The drive unit of the prior art device is instead
     configured to administer the drug at a different penetration site of a single injection
     area at each time of operation. For instance, the prior art device may be placed
 5   along a blood vessel so as to inject drugs at different injection sites within a single
     injection area of the blood vessel. Thus, the distance of lateral displacement of the
     tip end of the infusion needle between one injection and a next following injection
     is not configured in the prior art device such that different injection areas within the
     patient's body could be reached.
10
     Turning back to the present invention, it is again preferable, when the patient
     desires to achieve another penis erection at a later point of time, that the single
     infusion needle does not penetrate the same penetration site within the particular
     penetration area of the housing's outer wall, but that the drive unit is configured to
15   laterally displace the tip end of the one infusion needle to different penetration
     sites within each of the different penetration areas. Again, the direction of lateral
     displacement of the tip end of the one infusion needle within each of the different
     penetration areas may either be the same as the direction of lateral displacement
     of the tip end of the infusion needle between the different penetration areas, or
20   may be different from, in particular perpendicular to, the direction of lateral
     displacement of the tip end of the infusion needle between the different
     penetration areas. Depending upon the particular configuration of the system, this
     may be achieved with a single, multifunctional drive unit or with a plurality of
     different drive units suitably arranged to work in coordinated fashion. Even a
25   combination of these alternatives is possible. For instance, when after a number of
     infusion cycles the single infusion needle has laterally returned to its initial
     position, the next number of infusions within the same penetration area may take
     place somewhat laterally offset above or below the first number of penetration
     sites. Thus, a two-dimensional array of penetration sites can be obtained in each
30   penetration area, thereby keeping the maximum dimensions of the penetration
     areas at a minimum.
     Where the housing or at least the window area thereof is formed spherically, even
     a three-dimensional array of penetration sites through the housing's outer wall can
35   be obtained by means of a suitably adapted drive unit for the needle displacement.
     This greatly increases the system's flexibility of use.

   WO 2010/040555                                                          PCT/EP2009/007288
                                              12
     Regardless of the number of needles involved and regardless of the particular
     penetration site array to be achieved, it is preferable to configure the drive unit
     such that the lateral displacement of the tip end of the infusion needle or needles
 5   is achieved automatically during advancement and/or retraction of the tip end of
     the needle or needles. For instance, where the infusion needle is mounted on a
     movable carriage for the lateral displacement of the tip end of the needle, such as
     on a turntable or a shuttle, e.g. in the form of a slide, the drive unit may comprise a
     stepper which is adapted to automatically advance the movable carriage a
10   predefined distance upon each advancement and/or retraction of the infusion
     needle.
     Now, turning to the reservoir, it should be considered that long term storage is not
     possible with many currently available drugs, this being particularly true of drugs
15   stimulating penis erection. Where long term storage is desired, the drug to be
     injected would typically be provided as a first substance and mixed with a second
     substance for injection shortly before the injection is performed. Therefore,
     according to a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the reservoir of the
     system comprises at least one first compartment, e.g. for accommodating an
20   infusion liquid such as a saline solution, and at least one second compartment,
     e.g. containing a drug, in particular a drug in dry form, for mixing with the infusion
     liquid of the first compartment. The drug may be in powder form and, more
     specifically, may be a freeze-dried drug. In particular, the drug contained in the
     second compartment would be a drug for stimulating penis erection. A mixing
25   chamber may be provided for mixing the substance from the first compartment
     with the substance from one or more of the at least one second compartment.
     The number of the second compartments may be huge, such as 50 or more, in
     particular 100 or more. This would not constitute a particular problem in terms of
30   space constraints since the amount of drugs required for each stimulation of penis
     erection is extremely little and would amount to a few micrograms. Furthermore,
     the reservoir may be adapted for implantation within the patient's body remote
     from the housing containing the needle, such as close to the symphyseal bone.
     There is a lot of space available above the patient's symphyseal bone, and the
35   drugs could be delivered to the tip end of the needle through an appropriate
     conduit. If desired, one can inject pure saline solution after the drug injection has

   WO 2010/040555                                                         PCT/EP2009/007288
                                              13
     been completed so as to clean the conduit and needle from any drug residue.
     Such cleaning injection could be done through a different penetration area of the
     housing's outer wall into tissue of the patient which would not affect penis
     stimulation.
 5
     Preferably, the second compartments containing the drug are liquid-tightly sealed
     against the first compartment, with a mechanism being provided for individually
     opening a connection between the second compartments and the first
     compartment.
10
     According to a preferred embodiment, the second compartments are mounted in a
     plate so as to open towards a first side of the plate and the opening mechanism is
     adapted to act on the second compartments from a second side of the plate
     opposite the first side of the plate so that the compartments open to the first side
15   of the plate. Thus, the second compartments may be pushed from their rear side
     (second side of the plate) so as to open frontward into e.g. a mixing chamber in
     which the content of the opened second compartments mixes with the content of
     the first compartment of the reservoir, such as with saline solution. More
     specifically, the second compartments may be mounted in the plate as
20   displaceable drug containers and the opening mechanism may be adapted to
     displace the drug containers such that they deliver their drug contents in the
     manner described.
     Alternatively, the plate may be rotatable so as to allow the drug containers to be
25   brought into alignment with a conduit upon rotation of the plate. Thus, when the
     drug is brought into alignment with such conduit, it may be mixed with e.g. saline
     solution pumped through the conduit towards the infusion needle.
     According to another preferred embodiment, the second compartments are
30   mounted on a tape wound up on a reel. A plurality of rows of the second
     compartments may be arranged on the tape in side-by-side relationship in a
     direction different to the winding direction of the tape. This way, the length of the
     tape can be reduced. It is particularly preferable if the tape is contained in a
     replaceable cassette. Thus, when all of the second compartments of the tape are
35   emptied, the tape can be easily replaced by replacing the cassette.

   WO 2010/040555                                                          PCT/EP2009/007288
                                             14
     As mentioned above, while the reservoir may generally be part of the housing
     accommodating the at least one infusion needle, it is preferred to arrange the
     reservoir separate from the housing for remote implantation within the patient's
     body.
 5
     At least a section of a periphery of the first compartment of the reservoir may be
     made from a flexible material permitting volume changes of the first compartment
     by deformation of the flexible material as infusion liquid is filled into or drawn out of
     the reservoir. Thus, the reservoir may be of balloon type. The flexible material may
10   comprise a polymer membrane. A bellows construction is preferable having pre
     bent creases to reduce long term degradation.
     According to a particular embodiment, drawing liquid from the reservoir may cause
     a pressure decrease in at least part of the reservoir so that a negative pressure is
15   attained as compared to the pressure in front of the infusion needle. For instance,
     the first compartment of the reservoir may comprise a gas chamber and a liquid
     chamber, said chambers being separated by a membrane, e.g. the polymer
     membrane. When liquid is drawn from the liquid chamber, the pressure in the gas
     chamber will decrease accordingly.
20
     The reservoir may have an injection port for injecting liquid from outside the
     human body into the implanted reservoir. That way, the reservoir implanted in the
     patient's body along with the drug delivery device may be kept relatively small
     since the reservoir can be refilled easily at appropriate time intervals, possibly with
25   a doctor's aid.
     Preferably, the injection port comprises a self-sealing material in respect of
     penetrations caused by a replenishing syringe that would be typically used to refill
     the reservoir through the patient's skin. It is preferable to implant the self-sealing
30   injection port of the reservoir subcutaneously in the patient's body so that it is
     easily accessible for refill by means of the syringe.
     The conduit or conduits for connecting the remotely implanted reservoir with the
     infusion needle or needles should have a length sufficient to bridge the distance
35   between the patient's symphyseal bone and the inferior fascia of the patient's

   WO 2010/040555                                                       PCT/EP2009/007288
                                             15
      urogenital diaphragm, where the housing is preferably to be placed. Accordingly,
     the conduit should have a length of 10 cm or more.
     While it has already been pointed out that drugs, in particular the drugs for
 5   stimulating penis erection, may degrade upon long term storage, another
     important influence on drug degradation is the storage temperature. Some drugs
     have to be stored in a refrigerator at low or at least moderate temperature. A
     preferred embodiment of the invention therefore provides for a cooling device for
     keeping the content within at least one compartment of the reservoir at a
10   temperature below 370C. This can be achieved with relatively little energy supply if
     the amount of drugs to be cooled is extremely little, as explained above, and if
     furthermore the drug compartment within the reservoir is thermally insulated. For
     instance, the reservoir may be comprised in an insulation chamber.
15   It is preferred to provide the cooling device with a heat exchanger for exchanging
     with the patient's body heat generated by the cooling device. Such heat exchanger
     may be implanted within the patient's body remote from the cooling device to
     safely dissipate the heat energy in an area where it cannot adversely affect the
     content of the reservoir.
20
     The cooling device can be of a variety of different types. According to a first
     embodiment, the cooling device may contain at least two different chemicals
     reacting with each other, thereby consuming thermal energy which energy is
     drawn from the contents within the reservoir so that a cooling effect on the
25   contents is achieved. The two chemicals may be provided in separate chambers
     and a flow control device may be provided to bring together certain amounts of the
     two different chemicals so as to control the amount of thermal energy drawn from
     the contents within the reservoir.
30   According to a second embodiment, the cooling device may comprise at least one
     Peltier element. A Peltier element is an electrothermal converter causing a
     temperature difference to occur when an electric current is flowing through the
     element, based on the Peltier effect. While one part of the Peltier element cools
     down, a different part thereof heats up. Such heat may again be removed by
35   means of a heat exchanger or simply by providing the particular part generating

   WO 2010/040555                                                           PCT/EP2009/007288
                                                16
     the heat with an enlarged surface so that the heat is directly dissipated into the
     adjacent body part of the patient.
     According to a third embodiment, the cooling device may be of a refrigerator-type
 5   construction. That is, heat exchanging pipes within a chamber to be cooled and
     heat exchanging pipes outside the chamber for dissipating the heat energy
     absorbed in the cooling chamber are provided along with a compressor for
     compressing the refrigerant gas when it exits the cooling chamber and an
     expansion valve for expanding the refrigerant gas before it re-enters the cooling
10   chamber.
     Turning now to the pump for advancing the infusion liquid from the reservoir to the
     infusion needle or needles, such pump may be a manually driven pump or an
     automatically driven pump. The manually driven pump may be formed from a
15   balloon which may be manually compressed if suitably arranged under the
     patient's skin. The balloon type pump may at the same time serve as a reservoir
     for the infusion liquid, in particular for the saline solution. Preferably, however, an
     automatically driven pump is used. While the type of pump is not critical, one
     specific type of pump is particularly preferred. More particularly, an implantable
20   pump preferably comprises a valve device having a first and a second valve
     member, each having a smooth surface facing each other so as to form a sealing
     contact between the first and second valve members and further having different
     liquid channels that can be brought into alignment by displacement of the two
     smooth surfaces relative to one another while maintaining the sealing contact.
25   This type of pump is described in great detail in WO 2004/012806 Al. The first
     and second valve members are preferably made from a ceramic material for its
     excellent sealing capabilities over a long period of time and its inertness to many
     substances.
30   The pump may be a membrane type pump, as also described in WO 2004/012806
     Al, but is not restricted to this type of pump. The membrane type pump may
     comprise a membrane displaceable by a piston as the piston moves, the piston
     being coupled to the valve device so as to slidably displace the first and second
     valve members relative to one another as the piston moves. Preferably, the pump
35   will be implanted separate from the housing accommodating the needle or needles
     for remote implantation within the patient's body.

   WO 2010/040555                                                         PCT/EP2009/007288
                                              17
     Due to the space constraints within the patient's body in the area where injection is
     to take place, it is advantageous to implant as many components of the system as
     possible remote from the housing accommodating the infusion needle or needles.
 5   In this context, the drive unit may comprise a mechanical drive element for
     transmitting kinetic energy from a remote location within the patient's body to the
     at least one infusion needle. The mechanical drive element may comprise a
     rotating shaft by which a considerable distance can be bridged within the patient's
     body. The rotating shaft may, upon rotation about its axis of rotation, cause
10   movement of the infusion needle either directly or indirectly. More specifically, the
     rotating shaft may be in the form of a worm screw which, when turned, causes the
     infusion needle or needles to advance and retract and/or causes the infusion
     needle or needles to move laterally upon each advancement/retraction. Individual
     rotating shafts or worm screws may be provided for each individual infusion needle
15   and/or for advancing and retracting the tip end of the infusion needle or needles
     on the one hand and laterally displacing the tip end of the infusion needle or
     needles on the other hand. Most preferably, the rotating shaft or worm screw is
     flexibly bendable, so that it can be freely arranged within the patient's body.
20   Alternatively or in addition, the drive unit may comprise at least one wire directly or
     indirectly cooperating with the infusion needle so as to cause movement of the
     infusion needle upon actuation of the wire. Thus, the wire may be pulled at one
     end thereof which is located within the patient's body remote from the injection
     sites. Preferably, the wire extends through the same conduit which connects the
25   infusion needle or needles with the reservoir. More specifically, pulling the wire
     may cause the tip end of the infusion needle or needles to displace laterally from a
     first to a second of the different penetration areas or from a first penetration site to
     a second penetration site within a single one of the different penetration areas. A
     single pulling wire may be sufficient to cause movement of the infusion needle in
30   one direction, whereas a spring element or any other pretensioning means may be
     provided to urge the infusion needle back to the initial starting position or to a
     different starting position. Alternatively, two pulling wires may be provided to move
     the infusion needle back and forth in a single dimension.
35   According to a preferred embodiment, the infusion needle is arranged for two
     dimensional lateral displacement. This can be achieved by means of two pulling

   WO 2010/040555                                                        PCT/EP2009/007288
                                              18
     wires, preferably cooperating again with spring elements or other pretensioning
     means to provide a counterforce to be overcome by pulling the wires. Alternatively,
     three pulling wires may be provided to laterally displace the tip end of the infusion
     needle back and forth along at least two directions within a two-dimensional plane.
 5
     A pulling wire may also be arranged to advance or retract the infusion needle by
     pulling the wire. Again, a spring element or other pretensioning means may be
     provided to urge the infusion needle back to its initial starting position or to a
     different starting position.
10
     Alternatively, the drive unit may comprise a hydraulic drive for transmitting
     hydraulic energy from a remote location within the patient's body to the at least
     one infusion needle for advancing the tip end thereof and/or for laterally displacing
     the tip end thereof. The infusion liquid itself may be used as the hydraulic medium
15   providing the hydraulic energy, or a secondary liquid different from the infusion
     liquid may be used.
     Further alternatively, the drive unit may comprise one or more electric motors
     inside the housing accommodating the at least one infusion needle. In this case,
20   energy may be transmitted from a remote location within the patient's body to the
     at least one motor by means of appropriate wiring. Again, as in the two afore
     described alternatives, a single motor may be provided for advancing and
     retracting the tip end of the infusion needle or needles and for laterally displacing
     the tip end of the infusion needle or needles, or individual motors may be provided
25   for each individual infusion needle and/or for advancing the tip ends of the infusion
     needle or needles on the one hand and laterally displacing the infusion needle or
     needles on the other hand.
     Even further alternatively, the drive unit may comprise an electromagnetic drive for
30   laterally displacing and/or for advancing and retracting the tip end of the infusion
     needle or needles. For instance, the electromagnetic drive may comprise a group
     of electromagnets composed of a plurality of laterally spaced apart electromagnet
     first parts and at least one electromagnet second part, the electromagnet second
     part cooperating with an energized one of the electromagnet first parts. The
35   electromagnet second part is fixedly connected to the infusion needle or needles
     either directly or indirectly so that upon energization of one or more of the

   WO 2010/040555                                                         PCT/EP2009/007288
                                              19
     electromagnet first parts the electromagnet second part and, thus, the infusion
     needle or needles will be caused to move. The arrangement of the electromagnet
     first parts and second part may be such that the electromagnet first parts are
     arranged in a first plane and the electromagnet second part is movable in front of
 5   or behind the first plane. Alternatively, the electromagnet first parts may face each
     other, thereby defining a first plane between them, and the electromagnet second
     part may be movable within the first plane. Depending on which one or ones of the
     electromagnet first parts are energized, the electromagnet second part with the
     infusion needle or needles fixed thereto will move accordingly. The electromagnet
10   first parts preferably each include a magnetic coil.
     In either one of the aforementioned alternatives, it is advantageous to transmit the
     driving energy through the conduit that connects the at least one infusion needle
     with the remotely implanted reservoir. That is, in the case of a mechanical drive
15   element in the form of a wire or rotating shaft, the wire/shaft and the infusion liquid
     may be guided through a common conduit. The common conduit may comprise
     two separate paths, one for the shaft or wire and one for the infusion liquid. Such
     a common conduit facilitates the handling and arrangement of the system during
     implantation. Similarly, the wiring for transmitting electric energy to the motor or to
20   the electromagnetic drive may be guided through a conduit connecting the infusion
     needle or needles with the reservoir.
     Where the pump and/or drive unit is not actuated manually, a drive in the form of a
     motor may be arranged e.g. for electrically, magnetically or electromagnetically
25   actuating the pump and/or drive unit or for hydraulically actuating the pump and/or
     drive unit. The motor is preferably arranged for actuating either the pump or the
     drive unit, thereby causing simultaneous actuation of the other, e.g. the drive unit
     or the pump. A motor may also be provided for actuation of any other energy
     consuming part of the drug delivery device. More specifically, a plurality of motors
30    may be provided, e.g. an individual motor for each infusion needle and/or an
      individual motor for displacing the tip end of the infusion needle in a lateral
     direction on the one hand and for advancing the tip end of the infusion needle
     through the housing's outer wall on the other hand.
35   Again, for reasons of space constraints in the area of implantation of the housing
      accommodating the infusion needle or needles, it is advantageous to remotely

    WO 2010/040555                                                         PCT/EP2009/007288
                                               20
       implant the motor within the patient's body separate from the housing. Again,
       actuating means may be provided for manual activation of the motor or motors,
       such actuating means preferably being adapted for subcutaneous implantation.
  5   The term "motor' according to the present invention includes anything that
      employs energy other than manual power and either automatically transforms
      such energy into kinetic or hydraulic or another type of energy or directly uses
      such energy to activate the pump, drive unit and/or other part of the overall
      system. As such, it is possible that part of the drive unit also forms part of the
 10   motor, e.g. in the case of an electromagnetically actuated drive unit.
      Coupling elements may be provided either for conductive or for wireless energy
      transfer from outside the patient's body to the motor. For instance, the motor may
      be arranged for being wirelessly driven by an external electromagnetic field.
15
      An energy source for providing energy to at least one of the pump, the drive unit
      and the drive (motor) for driving the drive unit, and any other energy consuming
      part of the system may be provided. For instance, an external energy source for
      use outside the patient's body, such as a primary energy source or a battery, in
20    particular a rechargeable battery, that may be mounted on the patient's skin, may
      be used to provide energy to the pump and/or drive unit and/or any other energy
      consuming part of the system. The energy source may in particular be connected
      to the at least one motor for actuating these components. An external energy
      source for wireless energy transfer may be adapted to create an external field,
25    such as an electromagnetic field, magnetic field or electrical field, or create a wave
      signal, such as an electromagnetic wave or sound wave signal.
      Where the energy is wirelessly transferred to the implanted components, a
     transforming device for transforming the wirelessly transferred energy into electric
30    energy may be provided. Such transforming device is preferably adapted to be
      placed directly under the patient's skin so as to minimize the distance and the
     amount of tissue between the transforming device and the energy supply means
     outside the patient's body.
35    Instead of or in addition to an external energy source, the system may comprise
     an internal power supply for implantation within a patient's body. While such

   WO 2010/040555                                                          PCT/EP2009/007288
                                              21
     implantable power supply may be part of or may be contained within the housing
     accommodating the infusion needle or needles, it is preferred to provide the
     implantable energy source separate from the housing for remote implantation
     within the patient's body. Such implantable power supply preferably comprises
 5   energy storage means for long term storage of energy, such as a long-life battery
     or, more preferably, an accumulator. The accumulator has the advantage of being
     rechargeable. Preferably, the accumulator comprises a rechargeable battery
     and/or a capacitor.
10   Again, coupling elements for conductive or wireless energy transfer from an
     external power supply outside the patient's body to the accumulator may be
     provided for charging the accumulator from outside the patient's body when the
     device is implanted in the patient's body. Similarly, the accumulator may comprise
     coupling elements for conductive and/or wireless energy supply to the at least one
15   motor of the drug delivery device.
     A feedback subsystem, which may be part of a control unit described below, can
     advantageously be provided to send feedback information relating to the energy to
     be stored in the energy storage means from inside the human body to the outside
20   thereof. The feedback information signal may be sent wirelessly. The feedback
     information is used for adjusting the amount of energy supply, in particular the
     amount of wireless energy transmitted by the energy transmitter. The feedback
     information preferably includes information on a parameter related to the charging
     process for controlling the charging process. It may specifically relate to an energy
25   balance which is defined as the balance between an amount of wireless energy
     received inside the human body and an amount of energy consumed by the at
     least one energy consuming part. Alternatively, the parameter may relate to an
     energy balance which is defined as the balance between a rate of wireless energy
     received inside the human body and a rate of energy consumed by the at least
30   one energy consuming part. The consumed energy preferably includes the energy
     that is consumed by the process of charging the implantable power supply.
     Preferably, a control unit is provided for controlling an amount of infusion liquid to
     be administered through the at least one injection needle. A single command from
35   the patient to the control unit, such as a single actuation of a press button or other
     type of switch, is sufficient for causing the control unit to control the injection of the

   WO 2010/040555                                                          PCT/EP2009/007288
                                                 22
     drugs at two different locations within the patient's body. The control unit may be
     provided for controlling at least one of the pump, the drive unit and the motor and
     any other energy consuming part of the system and, where the system includes an
     internal or external energy source, said energy source. Again, the control unit is
 5   preferably separate from the housing accommodating the infusion needle or
     needles so as to be implantable within the patient's body. The control unit may be
     adjusted such that the appropriate amount of drugs will be administered at the
     appropriate time to the particular one of the injection sites. Automatic
     administration will substantially relieve the patient.
10
     Preferably, the control unit has a data transfer port for data transfer between an
     external data processing device outside the patient's body and the control unit
     implanted in the patient's body, regardless of whether the control unit is contained
     in the housing accommodating the infusion needle or needles or whether it is
15   implanted within the patient's body remote from said housing. The data transfer
     port allows for monitoring the control unit to adapt the system to changing needs
     of the patient. Preferably, the data transfer port is a wireless transfer port for the
     data transfer, so as to provide easy data exchange between the control unit and
     the external data processing device, e.g. during a visit to the doctor. Most
20   preferably, the control unit is programmable to further increase its adaption
     flexibility. Instead of or in addition to the external data processing device, the
     control unit may comprise an external component for manual operation by the
     patient for setting into operation the control unit.
25   Apart from or as a part of the control unit, feedback may be provided on
     parameters relevant for the treatment. Such parameters may be either physical
     parameters of the patient and/or process parameters of the system. For this
     purpose, at least one feedback sensor is provided for detecting such parameters.
     For instance, the feedback sensor may be adapted to detect one or more
30   parameters relating to any of the following: drug level, flow volume in blood vessel,
     pressure, electrical parameters, distension, distance, etc.
     The feedback sensors may be connected to the control unit and the control unit
     may comprise a control program for controlling drug delivery in response to one or
35   more signals from the feedback sensors. In addition or alternatively, feedback

   WO 2010/040555                                                         PCT/EP2009/007288
                                                23
     data may be transferred from the control unit to the external data processing
     device. Such feedback data may be useful for the doctor's diagnosis.
     The penetration areas of the wall or walls of the housing or housings within which
 5   the infusion needle or needles are disposed may be arranged in the patient's body
     at various locations. For instance, they may be arranged adjacent the left and right
     corpora cavernosa and/or the two deep arteries running through the left and right
     corpora cavernosa and/or muscle tissue regulating blood flow through the patient's
     left and right corpora cavernosa and/or another kind of tissue in close proximity to
10   the left and right corpora cavernosa.
     A holder may be used to secure the corpora cavernosa to the housing or housings
     so that the housing rests in place.
15   Other components of the system are preferably remotely implanted, such as
     adjacent the patient's symphyseal bone. As discussed above, some components
     of the system may be implanted subcutaneously. Subcutaneous implantation
     increases the possibilities of wireless energy and/or data transfer between the
     implanted and the extracorporal parts of the system. Also, refilling the reservoir
20   through an injection port by means of a replenishing needle penetrating through
     the patient's skin is substantially facilitated when an injection port of the reservoir
     is implanted subcutaneously. In particular, the compartment of the reservoir
     containing the saline solution might need to be refilled frequently, whereas the
     other compartments comprising individual small doses of the drug would need no
25   refill. It should be understood, however, that depending upon the circumstances
     any implantable component of the system may be placed in the abdomen or even
     in the thorax. Activating means for direct manual operation by the patient may also
     be provided to be implanted subcutaneously, e.g. for setting into operation one or
     more of the aforementioned motors or for simply setting into operation the control
30   unit of the system. Such activating means may be in the form of a subcutaneously
     implantable switch manually operable by the patient from outside the patient's
     body.
     The various aforementioned features of the invention may be combined in any way
35   if such combination is not clearly contradictory. The invention will now be
     described in more detail in respect of preferred embodiments and with reference

   WO 2010/040555                                                       PCT/EP2009/007288
                                            24
     to the accompanying drawings. Again, individual features of the various
     embodiments may be combined or exchanged unless such combination or
     exchange is clearly contradictory to the overall function of the device. In particular,
     while most of the embodiments described hereinafter relate to systems having one
 5   or more infusion needles entirely accommodated within one or more housings, it is
     likewise possible in all of these embodiments to employ long, flexibly bendable
     needles having only the front ends thereof accommodated in said housing or
     housings and having the respective rear ends disposed in one or more second
     housings remotely implanted within the patient's body.
10
     Brief Description of the Drawings
     Figure 1 shows the muscles of the perineum,
15   Figure 2 shows a cross-section through the penis,
     Figure 3 shows a top view of a first embodiment of the invention including a single
     needle,
20    Figure 4 shows a top view of a second embodiment of the invention including a
     single needle and a motor accommodated in a common housing,
      Figure 5 shows a top view of a third embodiment of the invention including two
      needles in a common housing,
25
      Figure 6 shows a plan view of a part of the drug delivery device of Figures 4 and
     5,
      Figure 7 shows a cross-sectional view of a penetration membrane made from a
30    composite material,
      Figure 8 shows a cross-sectional view through the outer wall with flaps in the
      penetration area,
35    Figure 9 shows a cross-sectional view through the outer wall with an actively
      openable door in the penetration area,

   WO 2010/040555                                                       PCT/EP2009/007288
                                            25
     Figure 10 shows a cross-sectional view through the outer wall with an actively
     openable door according to another embodiment,
 5   Figure 11 shows a fourth embodiment including a plurality of needles within a
     common housing,
     Figure 12 shows a side view of a fifth embodiment of the invention comprising a
     single needle which is laterally and vertically displaceable,
10
     Figure 13 shows a side view of a sixth embodiment of the invention similar to the
     fifth embodiment, but with more steps for laterally displacing the needle,
     Figure 14 shows a seventh, spherical embodiment of the invention for obtaining a
15   three-dimensional array of penetration sites,
     Figure 15 shows a side view of an eighth embodiment of the invention comprising
     two needles in a common housing which are laterally and vertically displaceable,
20   Figure 16 shows a side view of a ninth embodiment of the invention comprising
     two needles similar to the eighth embodiment, but with more steps for laterally
     displacing the needle,
     Figure 17 shows a tenth embodiment with a principle of advancing and retracting
25   an infusion needle by means of a pull wire,
     Figure 18 shows an eleventh embodiment with a principle of laterally displacing an
     infusion needle by means of pull wires,
30   Figure 19 shows a twelfth embodiment with a principle of advancing and retracting
     a needle and laterally displacing a needle by means of rotating shafts,
     Figure 20 shows the overall system of the invention implanted in a patient's body
     according to a first variation,
35

   WO 2010/040555                                                       PCT/EP2009/007288
                                           26
     Figure 21 shows the overall system of the invention implanted in the patient's body
     according to a second variation,
     Figure 22 shows the overall system of the invention implanted in the patient's body
 5   according to a third variation,
     Figure 23 shows drug compartments as part of the reservoir of the system
     according to a first principle,
10   Figure 24 shows drug compartments mounted on a tape wound on a reel in a
     replaceable cassette as part of the reservoir of the system according to a second
     principle,
     Figure 25 shows a part of the tape of Figure 20 in greater detail,
15
     Figure 26 shows the principle of operation of the replaceable cassette of Figure
     24,
     Figure 27 shows drug compartments as part of the reservoir of the system
20   according to a third principle,
     Figure 28 shows a cross-sectional view of the drug compartments of Figure 27
     including an insulation chamber and cooling device,
25   Figure 29 shows the principle of the cooling device of Figure 28 in combination
     with a heat exchanger,
     Figure 30 shows a specific embodiment for the cooling device of Figure 28,
30   Figure 31 shows a part of the system implanted in the patient's body comprising
     separate needles for the right and the left corpus cavernosum,
     Figure 32 diagrammatically shows the system of Figure 31,
35   Figure 33 diagrammatically shows the system of Figure 30 with a long, flexibly
     bendable infusion needle,

   WO 2010/040555                                                         PCT/EP2009/007288
                                              27
     Figure 34 shows a part of the system of Figure 32 and 33, respectively, including a
     tube into which the needle can be advanced,
 5   Figures 35A to 35C show a first and second embodiment for electromagnetically
     displacing the infusion needle in a plurality of lateral directions,
     Figures 36A and 36B show a third embodiment for electromagnetically displacing
     the infusion needle in a plurality of lateral directions,
10
     Figure 37 shows the overall system of the invention implanted in a patient's body
     according to a fourth variation,
     Figure 38 shows the overall system of the invention implanted in the patient's body
15   according to a fifth variation, and
     Figure 39 shows the overall system of the invention implanted in the patient's body
     according to a sixth variation.
20   Detailed Description of the Drawings
     Figure 1 shows the muscles of the perineum of a male. Reference numerals 1, 2
     and 3 designate the ischiocavernosus muscles, bulbospongiosus muscles and
     superficial transverse perineal muscles, respectively. The bulbospongiosus muscle
25   surrounds lateral aspects of the bulb of the penis at the most proximal part of the
     body of the penis inserting into the perineal membrane, and further surrounds the
     dorsal aspect of the corpus spongiosum 4 surrounding the urethra 5 and the left
     and right corpora cavernosa 6, 7. The ischiocavernosus 1 embraces the crus of
     the penis, inserting onto the inferior and medial aspects of the crus and to the
30   perineal membrane medial to the crus. While the buibospongiosus muscle assists
     the erection by compressing outflow via the deep perineal vein and by pushing
     blood from the bulb into the body of the penis, the ischiocavernosus muscle 1
     maintains erection of the penis by compressing outflow veins and pushing blood
     from the root of the penis into the body of the penis. Figure 2 is a cross-sectional
35   view through the penis. As can be seen, the penis is composed of three cylindrical
     bodies of erectile cavernous tissue: the paired corpora cavernosa 6, 7 dorsally and

    WO 2010/040555                                                          PCT/EP2009/007288
                                               28
       the single corpus spongiosum ventrally. Deep arteries 9, 10 run distally near the
       center of the corpora cavernosa, supplying the erectile tissue in these structures.
       The deep arteries of the penis are the main vessels of the cavernous spaces in
      the erectile tissue of the corpora cavernosa and are therefore involved in the
  5    erection of the penis. They give off numerous branches that open directly into the
       cavernous spaces. When the penis is flaccid, these arteries are coiled, restricting
       blood flow.
       For reasons of simplification, the following figures only display the corpora
 10   cavernosa 6, 7. Figure 3 shows a top view on a part of the system according to a
      first embodiment. More specifically, a single infusion needle 11 is arranged in a
      housing 12 with a tip end 13 of the needle 11 being positioned such that it can be
      advanced and retracted through a self-sealing window area 14 in the housing's 12
      outer wall 15 in a longitudinal direction 16, so as to pierce the corpus cavernosum
15    6 or 7 located adjacent the window area 14.
      Two window areas 14 are provided in the outer wall 15 of the housing 12, one
      adjacent each of the two corpora cavernosa 6, 7. The infusion needle is
      displaceable in a lateral direction 17 between the two window areas 14 by means
20    of a drive unit D. The same drive unit D or a different drive unit may cause the
      infusion needle 11 to be advanced and retracted. For this purpose, the infusion
      needle 11 is mounted on a slide 18 for longitudinal advancement and retraction. A
      conduit 19 is connected to one end of the infusion needle 11 to supply infusion
      liquid through the infusion needle 11 to the tip end 13 thereof.
25
      In operation, the infusion needle 11 will first be advanced with the tip end 13
      thereof to penetrate one of the two self-sealing penetration windows 14, injection
      fluid containing a drug for stimulation of penis erection will be injected into the
      corpus cavernosum 7 through the infusion needle 11 and, thereafter, the infusion
30    needle 11 will be retracted again. Upon retraction of the infusion needle, the
      infusion needle will be laterally displaced along the direction 17 so that the tip end
      13 thereof comes to lie in front of the other of the two self-sealing window areas
      14, the infusion needle 11 will be advanced again so that infusion liquid can be
      injected through the tip end 13 thereof into the other corpus cavernosum 7 and
35   then the infusion needle 11 will be retracted again. At the end of this procedure,
     the infusion needle 11 will return to its initial position shown in Figure 3.

   WO 2010/040555                                                         PCT/EP2009/007288
                                               29
     The structure of the system shown in Figure 3 may be purely mechanical. For
     instance, as will be described in more detail below, the pressure with which the
     infusion liquid is advanced through the conduit 19 towards the needle 11 may in
 5   cooperation with spring elements cause the needle 11 to be advanced, retracted
     and laterally displaced to the other window area 14. Thus, after two pulses of
     injection fluid advanced through the conduit 19 towards the needle 11, the needle
     11 will automatically return to its starting position shown in Figure 3.
10   However, it is likewise possible to incorporate a motor M or a plurality of motors M
     within the housing 15 in order to achieve the desired needle displacement by
     means of the drive unit D. This is schematically shown in Figure 4. Of course, the
     motor M will have to be provided with energy and will need to be controlled in an
     appropriate manner so as to obtain the desired effect. This is not specifically
15   shown in Figure 4. The energy is preferably transmitted to the motor M from an
     energy source either remotely implanted inside the patient's body or provided
     externally of the patient's body.
     The drive D may be configured such that after each penetration cycle (consisting
20   of two injections) the infusion needle 11 stops at a position different from the
     starting position so that the tip end 13 thereof penetrates the window areas 14 in
     the next following injection cycle at different sites as compared to the foregoing
     injection cycle.
25   Figure 5 shows a top view on a third embodiment which differs from the first and
     second embodiments in that it comprises two infusion needles 11 contained in the
     housing 15. Thus, when infusion liquid is guided through the conduit 19 towards
     the two infusion needles 11, both needles are advanced and retracted
     simultaneously along the direction 16, so that injection of infusion liquid occurs at
30   exactly the same time. The drive unit D or a separate drive unit may be used to
     turn the turntable 20 on which the infusion needles 11 are mounted, stepwise in
     the direction 17 so that the window areas 14 will be penetrated by the tip end of
     the infusion needle 11 at different penetration sites during the next following
     injection cycle. Again, one or more motors M, not shown in Figure 5, may be used
35   for driving one or more of the components of the drive unit D.

   WO 2010/040555                                                         PCT/EP2009/007288
                                              30
     The principle of a guide structure for laterally displacing the infusion needle will
     now be described in context with Figure 6. Such guide structure may be used e.g.
     for each of the two infusion needles 11 shown in Figure 5 or may also be used
     slightly modified for the lateral displacement of the infusion needle 11 shown in
 5   Figures 3 and 4.
     The guide structure 28 is securely fixed adjacent the self-sealing window area 14
     which itself is implanted adjacent the patient's corpus cavernosum 7. The guide
     structure 28 comprises a guide pin 27 securely connected to the infusion needle
10   11 (not shown) such that the infusion needle 11 cooperates with the guide
     structure 28. Upon advancement or retraction of the infusion needle 11, the guide
     pin 27 will be guided in the guide structure 28 and thereby laterally displace the
     infusion needle 11, which lateral displacement causes rotation of the turntable 20
     (not shown in Figure 6). Resilient flaps 28a, 28b within the guide structure 28
15   serve to guide the guide pin 27 through the entire guide structure 28 upon
     repeated advancement and retraction of the infusion needle 11. The guide
     structure 28 is designed to provide different penetration sites through the self
     sealing window area 14 into the corpus cavernosum 7. Where it is desired, the
     trajectory of guide structure 28 may include a return path 28c for the guide pin 27
20   to return to its starting position shown in Figure 6. Such return action will be
     caused by a return spring 29 which is permanently fixed to a rigid part of the
     housing 15.
     The same structure can likewise be used in the embodiments shown in Figures 3
25   and 4 to displace the single infusion needle 11 laterally between the two window
     areas 14. Of course, the structure would have to be slightly adapted to
     accommodate for the larger distance to be overcome between the two window
     areas 14.
30   Figure 7 shows a preferred embodiment of a penetration membrane to be used as
     the self-sealing window area 14 in the outer wall 15 of the housing 12. The
     penetration membrane 30 is made from a composite material. The same material
     can also be used for other flexible wall portions or for an infusion port that will be
     described below in connection with another embodiment. The composite material
35   of penetration membrane 30 shown in Figure 7 comprises an outer shape-giving
     layer 30a defining a volume in which a self-sealing soft material 30b is contained.

   WO 2010/040555                                                         PCT/EP2009/007288
                                               31
     Self-sealing soft material 30b can be of gel type having a viscosity such that it
     does not flow through any penetrations caused by the infusion needle 11 during
     penetration of the outer shape-giving layer 30a. Instead of a single outer shape
     giving layer 30a, the shape-giving layer 30a may comprise a plurality of layers.
 5   The outer shape-giving layer 30a preferably comprises silicone and/or
     polyurethane, since such materials can be produced to have self-sealing
     properties in respect of penetrations resulting from the infusion needle 11.
     Instead of a self-sealing membrane, the window area 14 in the outer wall 15 of the
10   housing 12 may be formed by one or more flaps, as shown in Figure 8. Two flaps
     30' being made from a resilient, biocompatible material are arranged so as to form
     a slit which is normally closed and through which the infusion needle 11 can pass
     when it is advanced. Upon advancement of the infusion needle 11, the needle will
     push aside the normally closed flaps 30', and when the needle 11 is retracted
15   again, the flaps 30' will return to their normally closed position so as to form a seal
     against ingression of body liquid.
     Figure 9 shows a different embodiment. In this case, the self-sealing window 14 in
     the outer wall 15 comprises a door 30" which can be opened by mechanical
20   action. In the embodiment shown, the door is formed by a flap made from a
     resilient, biocompatible material which keeps the window area 14 closed in its
     normal position. A pull wire 300 is attached to one end of the door 30" in order to
     allow for opening the door by pulling the pull wire 300. The pull wire 300 or any
     other drive connected to the door 30" forms part of the drive unit coupled to the
25   infusion needle 11. For instance, as is shown in Figure 10, the pull wire 300 may
     be attached directly to the infusion needle 11 so that advancement of the infusion
     needle 11 will simultaneously cause the door 30" to be lifted up so that the infusion
     needle 11 can pass underneath the door 30" and thus penetrate the outer wall 15
     easily. Due to the resiliency of the door material, the door 30" will automatically
30   close when the force, such as the pulling force exerted via the pull wire 300, is
     released. Instead or in addition, the closing action may be supported by at least
     one spring element urging the door into its closed position.
     Figure 11 shows a fourth embodiment comprising a plurality of infusion needles for
35   each of the two window areas 14. In this embodiment it is not necessary to provide
     a turntable by which the needles can be pivoted stepwise in order to laterally

   WO 2010/040555                                                         PCT/EP2009/007288
                                              32
     displace the needles from one penetration site to a different penetration site within
     the same window area 14. Instead, upon successive injection cycles a different
     one of the plurality of injection needles will be advanced and retracted for each of
     the two window areas 14. Thus, the effect achieved is the same as in the
 5   embodiment shown in Figure 5. However, instead of the turntable 20 (Figure 5) a
     valve V is needed to direct the infusion liquid to only one of the plurality of infusion
     needles 11 in each of the two window areas 14. More specifically, depending upon
     the position of the valve V, a first one of the infusion needles 11 in the first window
     area 14 and a first one of the plurality of the infusion needles 11 in the second
10   window area 14 will be advanced and retracted simultaneously, and during the
     next following infusion cycle, another one of the plurality of infusion needles will be
     advanced and retracted in the two window areas 14.
     Figure 12 shows a side view of a fifth embodiment which differs from the first and
15   second embodiments shown in Figures 3 and 4 in that the single infusion needle
     11 is not only laterally displaceable in the direction 17 between the two window
     areas 14 but also laterally displaceable between different penetration sites 21
     within the same penetration area 14. More specifically, the direction of lateral
     displacement of the tip end of the infusion needle 11 within each of said different
20   penetration areas 14 is perpendicular to the direction of lateral displacement
     between the different penetration areas 14. To achieve this result, the drive unit D
     is configured to longitudinally advance and retract the infusion needle 11 along a
     direction 16, to pivot the infusion needle 11 by means of a turntable 20 between
     the two penetration areas 14 along a pivoting direction 17 and to raise or lower the
25   infusion needle 11 along a third direction 22 perpendicular to the longitudinal
     direction 16. A suitable purely mechanical construction may perform this function.
     However, one or more motors may also be provided to perform one and/or the
     other of these functions.
30   Figure 13 shows a side view of a sixth embodiment similar to the fifth embodiment
     shown in Figure 12. In contrast to Figure 12, the infusion needle 11 is not only
     laterally displaceable between different penetration sites 21 within the same
     penetration area 14 in a direction perpendicular to the direction of lateral
     displacement between the two penetration areas 14, but is also laterally
35   displaceable within the same penetration area 14 in a direction parallel to the
     direction of lateral displacement between the different penetration areas 14. In

   WO 2010/040555                                                         PCT/EP2009/007288
                                              33
     other words, the tip end of the infusion needle 11 is laterally displaceable in two
     dimensions within the same penetration area 14.
      Figure 14 shows a seventh embodiment which enables the infusion needle 11 to
 5   be moved along a three-dimensional, spherically curved array of penetration sites.
      In this embodiment, a part of the housing 12, more specifically the window area
      14, is spherically curved and the needle 11 is mounted in a sphere so that upon
     rotation of the sphere along the directions 17a and 17b the tip end 13 of the
     needle 11 can be moved to any position in front of the window area 14. Once an
10   appropriate position has been adjusted for the tip end 13, the needle 11 can be
     advanced on the slide 18 so as to penetrate the window area 14. Instead of
     accommodating the slide inside the sphere, it may likewise be mounted on the
     outer surface of the sphere. Similarly, the infusion needle 11 itself can be mounted
     on the outer surface of the sphere. The mechanism for moving the sphere along
15   the directions 17a, 17b can be of many different types, such as mechanical by
     means of rollers or magnetic.
     Figure 15 shows a side view of an eighth embodiment similar to the third
     embodiment shown in Figure 5. That is, two needles 11 are provided in a common
20   housing so as to be longitudinally movable in order to advance and retract the tip
     ends thereof through the penetration areas 14. The infusion needles 11 is
     mounted on a turntable 20, as in the third embodiment of Figure 5, so as to
     change the injection sites 22 within a penetration area 14 upon each injection
     cycle. In addition, the two injection needles can be raised and lowered along a
25   direction 22, similar to the fifth embodiment described above in relation to Figure
     12. Again, the result is that the direction of lateral displacement of the tip ends of
     the two infusion needles 11 within each of the two different penetration areas 14 is
     perpendicular to the direction of distance between the two different penetration
     areas 14. Of course, this embodiment, like the sixth embodiment shown in Figure
30   13, can also be modified such that the tip ends of the two infusion needles 11 are
     laterally displaceable in two dimensions within the same penetration area 14. This
     is shown in Figure 16, displaying a side view of a ninth embodiment. In this
     embodiment, like in the sixth embodiment shown in Figure 13, the tip ends of the
     two infusion needles 11 are laterally displaceable in two dimensions within the
35   same penetration area 14.

   WO 2010/040555                                                         PCT/EP2009/007288
                                               34
     Figure 17 shows a tenth embodiment with a principle of advancing and retracting
     the infusion needle 11 by means of a pull wire 101. The pull wire 101 is redirected
     about a pin 102 such that by pulling the wire 101 at an end remotely located
     somewhere in the patient's body the tip end of the infusion needle 11 will be
 5   advanced through the window of the housing 12. A helical spring provides a
     counterforce so that the infusion needle 11 will be retracted once the pulling force
     on the pull wire 101 is released. This principle can be combined with other
     embodiments described hereinbefore and hereinafter. Instead of the helical spring
      104, a second pull wire may be provided to retract the infusion needle 11. It is
10   even possible to use a single pull wire 101 running around two pins 102 in a loop,
     so that pulling the wire 101 in the one direction or in the other direction will cause
     advancement or retraction of the infusion needle 11.
     The pull wire 101 and the conduit 19 for the infusion liquid are guided in a
15   common sheath 103. The common sheath 103 has various functions. First, it gives
     support to the pull wire 101 in bending sections. Second, it facilitates implantation
     of the conduit 19 along with the pull wire 101. Third, it protects the pull wire 101
     against any build-up of fibrosis. In the case that the infusion needle 11 is long and
     flexibly bendable, the pull wire 101 and the long infusion needle may be guided in
20   the common sheath 103.
      Figure 18 shows an eleventh embodiment which involves remotely actuated pull
     wires 105, 106 guided within a common sheath 103 along with the conduit 19 for
     the infusion liquid. The pull wires 105 and 106 are directly attached to the infusion
25    needle 11 on opposite sides thereof so that the infusion needle 11 which is
      mounted on a turntable 20 will be laterally displaced in the one direction or in the
     other direction depending on whether the wire 105 or the wire 106 is pulled.
      Instead of using two wires 105, 106, one of the wires may be replaced with a
     pretensioning means, such as the helical spring 104 in Figure 17. In addition, a
30   further wire, in particular third wire (not shown), may be provided for lateral
     displacement of the infusion needle 11 in a further direction, so that a two
     dimensional lateral displacement can be achieved by pulling the appropriate wires.
     The pull wires may alternatively be attached to an element other than the infusion
35    needle 11, provided that the infusion needle 11 is connected to such other
      element, so that when the other element is moved or turned by pulling one or

   WO 2010/040555                                                          PCT/EP2009/007288
                                              35
     more of the wires the tip end of the infusion needle 11 will be displaced
     accordingly.
     In the case that a long, flexibly bendable needle is provided with the tip end
 5   thereof being arranged in a first housing for penetrating the outer wall of the first
     housing and the other end is arranged in a remotely implanted second housing,
     one can dispense with the turntable 20 and achieve accurate lateral displacement
     of the tip end of the needle by pulling the appropriate one of three pull wires which
     are attached either directly or indirectly to the circumference of the front end of the
10   infusion needle at regularly spaced intervals.
     Figure 19 shows a twelfth embodiment with a different principle of advancing and
     retracting the tip end of the infusion needle, on the one hand, and laterally
     displacing the tip end of the infusion needle 11, on the other hand. Instead of pull
15   wires, rotating shafts 107, 108 are provided. The drive for driving the rotating
     shafts 107, 108 is remotely located somewhere in the patient's body. The front
     ends of the rotating shafts have a threading 109, 110, e.g. in the form of a worm
     screw, meshing with the teeth of a rack 111, 112 formed either directly or indirectly
     on the infusion needle 11 and on the turntable 20, respectively. Thus, by turning
20   the rotating shaft 107, the infusion needle 11 will advance or retract, as the case
     may be, due to the cooperation of the worm screw 109 and the rack 111. The
     gearing 109, 111 may likewise be arranged remote from the first housing, i.e.
     within the second housing accommodating the respective other end of the needle
     (which is particularly suitable when a long, flexibly bendable needle is used - not
25   shown). Similarly, by turning the rotating shaft 108, the infusion needle 11 will be
     displaced laterally in the one or the other direction due to the cooperation of the
     worm screw 110 and the rack 112 of the turntable 20. Again, the rotating shafts
     107, 108 are guided in a common sheath 103 along with the conduit 119 for the
     infusion liquid (or, in the case of a long, flexibly bendable infusion needle, along
30   with the long needle - not shown).
     In Figures 18 and 19, the action of the pull wires 105, 106 and the rotating shaft
     108 make it possible to laterally displace the tip end of the infusion needle 11
     between two different penetration areas and/or from a first penetration site to a
35   second penetration site within a single penetration area.

   WO 2010/040555                                                          PCT/EP2009/007288
                                               36
     Figure 20 shows a first variation of an overall system comprising any one of the
     first to twelfth embodiment described above. Specifically shown in the variation
     shown in Figure 20 is a housing 12 with a single infusion needle 11 and a drive
     unit D as described in relation to Figure 12. The housing 12 is implanted with its
 5   windows areas 14 positioned adjacent the corpora cavernosa 6, 7, of which
     window areas 14 only one is shown in Figure 20. A motor M is contained in the
     housing 12 for driving the drive unit D. While the motor M in the housing 12 may
     be designed to move the tip end of the infusion needle 11 in all directions as
     indicated in Figure 20, it is particularly preferable in context with a long, flexibly
10   bendable infusion needle to cause advancement and retraction of the front end of
     the long infusion needle by advancing and retracting the entire infusion needle
     from its rear end using an additional motor, so as to minimize the motor size in the
     housing 12 for reasons of space constraints in the injection area. The additional
     motor may be accommodated in a separate second housing - not shown in Figure
15   20 - along with the rear end of the long infusion needle and possibly along with
     further components remotely implanted in the patient's body. The motor M within
     the housing 12 (and likewise the afore-mentioned additional motor) is controlled by
     means of a control unit C2 constituting the implantable part of a control system
     which further comprises an external data processing device C1 by which
20   commands and any other kind of data can be sent to the control unit C2. For
     instance, the external data processing device C1 may be used to initiate an
     injection cycle from outside the patient's body, this being done wirelessly as
     indicated by arrow 23. The implanted control unit C2 not only controls the motor M
     inside the housing 12 but also controls the energy supply from an accumulator A
25   to the motor M inside the housing 12.
     The external data processing device C1 may likewise be used to program the
     implanted control unit 02. Also, a data transfer port for transferring data between
     the external data processing device C1 and the implanted control unit C2 may be
30   adapted to transfer data in both directions.
     A feedback sensor F implanted inside the patient's penis is shown here as being
     connected to the motor M inside the housing 12 and may likewise be connected to
     the implantable control unit C2 . The feedback sensor F can sense one or more
35   physical parameters of the patient, such as the drug level inside the corpora
     cavernosa, the flow volume through the corpora cavernosa, the pressure inside

   WO 2010/040555                                                          PCT/EP2009/007288
                                              37
     the corpora cavernosa and the like. Other feedback sensors may be provided at a
     different location so as to sense process parameters of the system, such as
     electrical parameters, distention, distance and the like.
 5   The conduit 19 connecting the needle 11 with a reservoir comprising
     compartments R1 and R2 and the wiring 24 for transmitting electric energy from the
     energy source A to the motor M inside the housing 12 are guided through a
     common conduit 25. Alternatively, where a long and flexibly bendable needle is
     used, the conduit 19 may guide the long infusion needle 11 between the reservoir
10   and the housing 12.
     In the variation of the entire system shown in Figure 20, the reservoir comprises a
     first compartment R1 with e.g. a saline solution included therein, and a second
     compartment R2 with e.g. a drug in powder form or freeze-dried form included
15   therein. A pump P driven by a second motor M2 is arranged to pump infusion liquid
     from the reservoir R1 to the infusion needle 11. The infusion liquid pumped by the
     pump P will pass through a mixing chamber 26 into which drugs will be released
     from the reservoir R2 in appropriate time coordination. The motor M2 or a different
     motor may cause the drugs to be released from the second reservoir R2. The
20   motor M2 is also controlled by the control unit C2. Thus, infusion liquid pumped via
     the pump P from the relatively large first reservoir R1 through the mixing chamber
     26, in which it is mixed with the drugs released from the second reservoir R2 , will
     reach the infusion needle 11 which has meanwhile penetrated the self-sealing
     window area 14 of the housing 12 and will flow into the corpus cavernosum 7.
25
     In addition to or instead of the control unit C2, a pressure sensitive switch for
     activating the motor M inside the housing 12 and/or the motor M2 may be arranged
     subcutaneously.
30   Although the embodiment shown in Figure 20 may comprise one of a great variety
     of reservoir types, a particular reservoir type will now be described. The volume of
     the reservoir R1 is divided into two sections by means of a membrane 31. One
     section is filled with gas whereas the other section is filled with the infusion liquid
     (saline solution). An infusion port 32 allows for refilling the reservoir R1 with
35   infusion liquid by means of a replenishing needle. When the reservoir R1 is in its
     full state, the gas section is at ambient pressure or over-pressurized. As infusion

   WO 2010/040555                                                        PCT/EP2009/007288
                                             38
     liquid is drawn from the reservoir R1 by means of the pump P upon each infusion
     cycle, the pressure in the gas section will decrease below ambient pressure, i.e. to
     a negative relative value. Depending upon the particular type of pump P, it may be
     advantageous to provide a single acting ball valve to prevent any backflow from
 5   the pump P to the reservoir R1.
     There are various ways of providing the motors M and M2 with energy. In the
     variation shown in Figure 20, energy is supplied from outside the patient's body
     either for direct use by the motors and/or for charging the accumulator A, which
10   may be in the form of a rechargeable battery and/or a capacitor. An extracorporal
     primary energy source E transmits energy of a first form through the patient's skin
     100 to an energy transforming device T which transforms the energy of the first
     form into energy of a second form, such as electric energy. The electric energy is
     used to recharge the accumulator A which provides secondary energy to the motor
15   M upon demand.
     The external primary energy source E may be adapted to create an external field,
     such as an electromagnetic field, magnetic field or electrical field, or create a wave
     signal, such as an electromagnetic wave or sound wave signal. For instance, the
20   energy transforming device T as shown in Figure 20 may act as a solar cell, but
     adapted to the particular type of wave signal of the primary energy source E. The
     energy transforming device T may also be adapted to transform temperature
     changes into electrical energy.
25   Instead of the external primary energy source E, an implantable primary energy
     source E may be used, such as a regular long-life battery instead of the
     accumulator A.
     The energy signal may also be used to transmit signals from the external data
30   processing device C1 by appropriate modulation of the energy signal, regardless of
     whether the energy is transmitted wirelessly or by wire, the energy signal thereby
     serving as a carrier wave signal for the digital or analog control signal. More
     particularly, the control signal may be a frequency, phase and/or amplitude
     modulated signal.
35

   WO 2010/040555                                                        PCT/EP2009/007288
                                              39
     Figure 21 shows a second variation of the entire system which basically differs
     from the system of Figure 20 only in that the motor M inside the housing 12 is
     dispensed with. Instead, the motor M2 is used to drive the drive unit D. This is
     achieved by means of a rotating shaft 33 in the form of an elastically bendable
 5   worm screw, the rotating shaft 30 replacing the wiring 24 of the system shown in
     Figure 20. Alternatively, where the infusion needle 11 is long and flexible, the
     infusion needle may be advanced by engagement of two helical gears, one of
     which being formed on the rear end of the infusion needle, or by a similar gearing
     cooperating with the infusion needle's rear end.
10
     Figure 22 shows a third variation of the entire system which operates purely
     mechanically. The reservoir R1 containing the infusion liquid, i.e. the saline
     solution, is of balloon type, thereby functioning both as a reservoir and as a pump
     if it is compressed manually from outside the patient's body. The pressure
15   generated in the reservoir R1 will act on the reservoir R2 containing the drug. Upon
     a certain pressure, the drug will be released from the reservoir R2 into the mixing
     chamber 26 and upon further increase of the pressure the infusion liquid will be
     allowed to enter the mixing chamber 26, mix with the drug released from the
     reservoir R2 , flow towards the infusion needle 11, and build up pressure on the
20   infusion needle 11 such that the drive unit D is caused to advance the infusion
     needle 11 through the self-sealing window area 14 into the patient's corpus
     cavernosum. Once the pressure is released, the infusion needle 11 will retract
     automatically due to mechanical spring forces or the like and move into a different
     position in which it can penetrate the second of the two self-sealing window areas
25   14 when the reservoir R1 is compressed again. Where two infusion needles 11 are
     provided, a single compressing action on the reservoir R1 would be sufficient to
     inject the drug into both the left and right corpora cavernosa.
     Figure 23 shows a first principle of how drugs within a plurality of compartments
30   34 of the reservoir R2 can be released one at a time by a purely hydromechanical
     solution. As the infusion liquid is urged from the reservoir R1 towards the conduit
     19 leading to the infusion needle or needles, it is first blocked by a spring-loaded
     ball valve 34 which opens only when a certain pressure is exceeded. The pressure
     building up in front of the ball valve 34 is guided by means of a stepper valve V
35   sequentially onto one of a plurality of compartments 35. The compartments are
     each formed as a cavity 35 within a piston 36. Once a certain pressure is

   WO 2010/040555                                                         PCT/EP2009/007288
                                              40
     exceeded, the piston 36 will be pushed into a position where the compartment 35
     is in flow communication with a mixing chamber 26. In the state shown in Figure
     23, three pistons 36 have already been pushed into such position. When the
     pressure in the reservoir R1 is further increased, the spring force of the ball valve
 5   34 will be overcome and the infusion liquid urged from the reservoir R1 towards the
     conduit 19 will take with it the drug that has been released into the mixing chamber
     26.
     Figures 24 to 26 show a second principle of realizing the reservoir R2 comprising a
10   plurality of small drug compartments 35, 35a, 35b. The drug compartments are
     integrally formed in a tape 201 which is wound on a first reel 202 and can be
     unwound from said first reel 202 onto a second reel 203. The reels 202, 203 and
     the tape 201 are contained in a cassette 200 which may be inserted in the entire
     system so as to form part of the reservoir. The cassette 200 is preferably
15   replaceable.
     As can be seen in Figure 25, the compartments 35, 35a, 35b containing the drug
     e.g. in powder form or freeze-dried form are arranged in a plurality of rows as
     seen in the transporting direction (indicated by the arrow). However, the
20   compartments 35 of one row are a certain distance offset in the transporting
     direction from the compartments 35a and 35b of the other rows. Thus, when the
     tape 201 is wound from reel 202 to reel 203, it is guided through a conduit 204
     forming part of the cassette 200 through which the infusion liquid is pumped from
     the reservoir R1 to the infusion needle or needles, and the compartments 35, 35a,
25   35b will enter the conduit 204 one after the other.
     While it is conceivable to open one of the compartments 35, 35a, 35b that has
     entered the conduit 204 by mechanical action, such as a hammer or piercing
     element, the opening of the compartments 35 in the embodiment shown in Figures
30   24 to 26 needs no further action other than winding the tape 201 onto the reel 203.
     That is, as can be seen from Figure 26, when the tape 201 enters the conduit 204
     through a first slit 205, the compartments 35 will not be damaged due to the fact
     that the slit 205 is relatively wide and is closed by two soft sealing lips 206.
     However, when the tape 201 exits the conduit 204 on the other side thereof, it will
35   have to pass a narrower second slit 207 with front edges 208 that are not resilient.
     The compartments 35 will therefore burst on their way out of the conduit 204 when

   WO 2010/040555                                                       PCT/EP2009/007288
                                            41
     they slip between the edges 208 of the narrow slit 207. Soft seals 209 in the slit
     207 prevent liquid from leaking from the conduit 204.
     The entry 210 and the exit 211 of the conduit 204 within the cassette 200 each
 5   include a valve that automatically closes when the cassette 200 is removed from
     the system and automatically opens when the cassette 200 is installed in the
     system. This allows for replacement of the cassette 200 without adversely
     affecting the remaining components of the overall system.
10   Figures 27 and 28 show a third principle of realizing the reservoir R2 comprising a
     plurality of small drug compartments 35. While Figure 27 shows a cross-sectional
     plan view according to section BB in Figure 28, Figure 28 shows a cross-sectional
     side view thereof according to section AA in Figure 27. The compartments 35
     containing the drug in powder form or freeze-dried form are arranged in a
15   rotatable plate 37. A motor M2 is provided to rotate the plate 37 about an axis 38.
     The motor M2 is controlled to advance the plate 37 stepwise so as to bring one
     compartment 35 at a time in line with the conduit 39 connecting the reservoir R1
     containing the saline solution with the infusion needle or needles. Energy is
     supplied to the motor M2 from the accumulator A via the control unit C1.
20
     The rotatable plate 37 is mounted in a fixed base plate 39 which itself is fixedly
     mounted in a housing 40 insulating the base plate 39 and the rotatable plate 37
     thermally against an outer housing 42. A cooling device 41 is provided to cool a
     liquid surrounding the base plate 39 and rotatable plate 37 down to a temperature
25   below 370C. This serves to protect the drugs inside the compartment 36 from
     degrading too quickly. The accumulator A supplies the cooling device 41 with
     energy.
     Figure 29 shows a general principle of cooling the reservoir R2 containing the drug
30   to be cooled. The cooling device 41 may be an electrothermal cooler, i.e. based on
     the Peltier effect consuming electric energy, or may be of the refrigerator type.
     Accordingly, the cold part of the cooler 41 is placed on the side to be cooled
     whereas the warm part of the cooling device 41 is placed on the other side so that
     the heat energy can be dissipated to the outside. An increased surface 41 a on the
35   warm side of the cooling device 41 serves to increase heat dissipation.
      Furthermore, a heat exchanging fluid may be passed through a conduit 41b along

   WO 2010/040555                                                       PCT/EP2009/007288
                                             42
     the increased surface 41 a to transfer the dissipated heat energy to a remote
     location within the patient's body where the heat is dissipated into the patient's
     body through a specific heat exchanging surface 41 c.
 5   Figure 30 shows a different principle of cooling the drugs contained in the
     reservoir R2. In this embodiment, two chemicals X1 and X2 are contained separate
     from each other in respective compartments of the cooling device 41. When the
     chemicals X1 and X2 are brought together, they will react with each other and
     such reaction will consume energy which is absorbed as thermal energy from the
10   surroundings. By means of two pistons 41 d, 41 e, the chemicals X1, X2 are
     dispensed into a cooling line 41f in a controlled manner, which cooling line is
     preferably in contact with the housing 40 containing the reservoir R2. The chemical
     mixture X1-X2 displaced within the cooling line 41f will flow back into the chamber
     containing the chemicals X1, X2, but onto the other side of the pistons 41 d, 41 e.
15
     A further embodiment is shown in Figure 31. In this embodiment, again, two
     separate needles are provided, one infusion needle for each of the left and right
     corpora cavernosa. However, unlike the previously discussed embodiments, the
     two needles each have their own housing 12 implanted in the patient's body with
20   their respective self-sealing window area 14 adjacent the left and right corpora
     cavernosa, respectively. This principle is shown in Figure 32 in more detail with
     respect to one of the two needles. The drive unit D comprises a piston 50, to
     which the hollow infusion needle 11 is attached. The piston 50 separates a first
     chamber 51 a in front of the piston 50 and a second chamber 51 b behind the
25   piston 50. While the pressure in the first chamber 51 a corresponds to the pressure
     exerted by the pump P, the pressure in the second chamber 51 b can be kept at a
     lower value. The second chamber 51 b may be filled with a liquid, such as the
     infusion liquid, and the liquid may be urged into a flexible volume 52. The flexible
     volume 52 could be of simple balloon type so as to fill up without exerting any
30   strong counterforce.
     Instead of the flexible volume 52, a conduit 53 may connect the second chamber
     51b with the reservoir R1. Thus, when the needle 11 is advanced, liquid will be
     dispelled from the second chamber 51 b through the conduit 53 into the reservoir
35   R1 , and as the needle 11 is retracted by means of a return spring 55, liquid will be

   WO 2010/040555                                                        PCT/EP2009/007288
                                             43
     drawn from the reservoir R1 through the conduit 53 back into the second chamber
     51 b.
     The injection process is carried out as follows. As the pressure is increased in the
 5   first chamber 51 a by means of the pump P, the needle 11 will be displaced against
     the force of the spring 55 of the drive unit B. Thus, the tip end 13 of the infusion
      needle 11 will penetrate through the self-sealing window area 14 press-fitted into
     the wall 15 of the housing 12 and will further penetrate any fibrosis having built up
     in front of the housing. When the return spring 55 is completely compressed and
10   the pressure built up by the pump P is further increased, a ball valve 56 will be
     displaced against a second return spring 57 which is stronger than the first return
     spring 55. That way, as long as the pressure is held at a sufficiently high level,
     infusion liquid will be pumped from the reservoir R1 through the conduit 19, the
     hollow infusion needle 11 and the needle's laterally arranged exit port into the
15   patient's body. Upon pressure release, the ball valve 56 will close due to the return
     springs 55 and 57, and then the needle 11 will be retracted to its initial position
     shown in Figure 23.
      Figure 33 shows the same principle, however, employing long, flexibly bendable
20   infusion needle with only their respective front ends accommodated in the housing
      12. As the pressure is increased in the first chamber 51a by means of the pump P
     remote from the housing 12 accommodating the tip end 13 of the infusion needle
      11, the entire infusion needle 11 which is guided in the conduit 19 will be displaced
     against the force of the spring 55 of the drive unit B.
25
      It may be advantageous not to pierce any living tissue by means of the injection
     needle 11 once it is advanced through the outer wall 15 of the housing 12.
     Therefore, as shown in Figure 34, a tube 58 may be placed in front of the window
     area 14. The cross-sectional form of the tube 58 may be adapted to the cross
30   sectional form of the window area 14, i.e. where the window area 14 is
     rectangular, the tube 58 likewise has a rectangular cross-section.
     The exit end of the tube 58 has an open area 59 sufficiently large to prevent
     growth of fibrosis from spanning over the open area. Fibrosis will slowly grow into
35   the tube along the tube's inner surface, before it reaches the window area 14 after
     a relatively long time. The tip end 13 of the needle 11 will therefore not have to

   WO 2010/040555                                                         PCT/EP2009/007288
                                              44
     penetrate any fibrosis during the first while after implantation of the system.
     Preferably, the open area 59 has an opening width of at least 3 mm. The length of
     the tube 58 may be in the range of 4 mm to 30 mm. The opening width 59 and the
     length of the tube 58 should be adjusted such that the substance injected into the
 5   tube 58 can safely seep into the patient's body. Thus, the longer the tube is, the
     larger the opening width thereof should be.
     Figures 35A and 35B show a first embodiment for displacing the tip end of the
     infusion needle 11 in two or more different directions, i.e. a two-dimensional
10   displacement. More specifically, Figure 35A shows a plan view, whereas Figure
     35B shows a side elevational view schematically. As can be seen, a plate 60 to
     which the infusion needle 11 is fixedly mounted has a projection 61 extending into
     a frame 62 within which the projection 61 is free to move in any direction.
     Electromagnetic coils 63 are mounted on the sides of the frame 62 and are
15   individually energizable. The electromagnetic coils 63 constitute the first part of an
     electromagnetic drive whereas the projection 61 is configured to constitute the
     second part of the electromagnetic drive. Thus, when one or more of the
     electromagnetic coils are energized, an electromagnetic field is created in the
     frame 62 and the electromagnet second part, i.e. the projection 61, will adjust its
20   position within such field accordingly. Due to the fact that the infusion needle 11 is
     fixedly mounted to the plate 60, the infusion needle 11 will move along with the
     projection 61. This way, the infusion needle 11 can be advanced and retracted and
     can also be displaced laterally.
25   Of course, the infusion needle 11 may be attached to the electromagnetic drive in
     a different manner, e.g. perpendicular to the plane defined by the electromagnetic
     coils 63 (rather than in parallel as in Figure 35B). As a result, the infusion needle
     would be laterally displaceable in a plurality of directions (rather than being
     advanceable and retractable).
30
     Alternatively, the electromagnetic drive may be such as to displace the infusion
     needle in any lateral direction and, in addition, to advance and retract the infusion
     needle. This can be achieved e.g. with a structure as schematically shown in
     Figure 35C relating to a second embodiment for displacing the tip end of the
35   infusion needle 11. Figure 35C shows an elevational side view similar to Figure
     35B, but the electromagnetic coils 63 do not define a single plane, but rather a

   WO 2010/040555                                                            PCT/EP2009/007288
                                                45
     plurality of planes is defined one above the other by providing additional
     electromagnetic coils 63 in a vertical direction. The top plan view would be similar
     to Figure 35A. This way, the electromagnet second part 61 fixedly connected to
     the needle 11 moves within a three-dimensional frame 62 depending on the
 5   energization of respective ones of the magnetic coils 63.
     Figures 36A and 36B show a plan view and a side view of a third embodiment of
     an electromagnetic drive for moving the infusion needle 11 in a plurality of
     directions. In this embodiment, the electromagnetic coils 63 constituting the
10   electromagnet first parts are arranged in a first plane and the electromagnet
     second part constituted by the protrusion 61 fixedly connected to the infusion
     needle 11 via the plate 60 is movable in a plane in front of or behind the plane
     defined by the electromagnet first parts. However, the electromagnetic coils 63 are
     oriented differently in this third embodiment. Again, depending upon the
15   energization of the individual electromagnetic coils, the electromagnet second
     part, i.e. the protrusion 61, will adjust its position in the created electromagnetic
     field within the frame 62.
     Figure 37 shows an overall system of the invention implanted in a patient's body
20   according to a fourth variation. This variation differs from the first to third variations
     described in relation to Figures 21 to 23 in that the infusion needle is not
     accommodated in a housing so as to be laterally displaceable. The infusion needle
     11 is instead guided in a catheter 19 ending inside the patient's corpus
     cavernosum. Accordingly, two separate needles 11 are provided, which are long
25   and flexibly bendable. They are advanced from the rear ends thereof so as to
     penetrate a window area 14 at the front end of the catheter, whenever a drug is
     injected to achieve an erection. While the variation shown in Figure 37 is purely
     mechanic, similar to the variation shown in Figure 23, the overall system may be
     more complex, e.g. similar to the variations described in relation to Figures 21 and
30   22.
     Figure 38 shows an overall system of the invention according to a fifth variation
     which is similar to the afore-mentioned fourth variation, except that there is no
     needle provided in the catheter 19. The substances from the reservoirs R1 and R2
35   are delivered to the corpus cavernosum through the catheter 19. Accordingly, the

   WO 2010/040555                                                         PCT/EP2009/007288
                                             46
     catheter 19 has an open end or, more preferably, an end that can be opened
     when needed, e.g. mechanically as described above.
     Figure 39 shows an overall system of the invention according to a sixth variation
 5   which is similar to the afore-mentioned fifth variation, except that the catheter does
     not end in the corpus cavernosum, but ends in close proximity thereto, such as in
     muscle tissue regulating blood flow through the patient's left and right corpus
     cavernosum and/or in another kind of tissue in close proximity to the patient's left
     and right corpus cavernosum. Alternatively, the catheter 19 may guide an infusion
10   needle, such as the infusion needle 11 as described in the fourth variation in
     relation to Figure 37. Thus, when the catheter 19 is implanted, the drugs are
     delivered through the catheter 19 or through the infusion needle 11, as the case
     may be, outside the corpora cavernosa.
15   It should be appreciated that the features of all the above described variations and
     embodiments may be combined and/or inter-exchanged deliberately, unless this is
     technically impossible.
     A method of treating a human being (or an animal) by implanting at least part of
20   the system in the patient's body comprises the steps of cutting the skin, dissecting
     free an area near the left and right corpus cavernosum, placing the fully
     implantable drug delivery device within said dissected area with the a least one
     catheter arranged next to the left and right corpus cavernosum and/or the two
     deep arteries of the right and left corpus cavernosum and/or muscle tissue
25   regulating blood flow through the patient's left and right corpus cavernosum and/or
     another kind of tissue in close proximity to the patient's left and right corpus
     cavernosum, so as to allow for stimulation of penis erection by delivering a drug
     through said at least one catheter, and closing at least the skin after implantation
     of at least parts of the system.
30
     A method of treating a human being (or an animal) may likewise comprise the
     steps of cutting the skin, dissecting free the left and right corpus cavernosum,
     placing the drug delivery device within said dissected area with the a least one
     catheter ending in the left and right corpus cavernosum and/or the two deep
35   arteries of the right and left corpus cavernosum and/or muscle tissue regulating
     blood flow through the patient's left and right corpus cavernosum and/or another

   WO 2010/040555                                                           PCT/EP2009/007288
                                               47
     kind of tissue in close proximity to the patient's left and right corpus cavernosum,
     so as to allow for stimulation of penis erection by delivering a drug through said at
     least one catheter, and closing at least the skin after implantation of at least parts
     of the system.
 5
     The method of treating a human being (or an animal) may particularly comprise
     the steps of cutting the skin, dissecting free a first area near the left and right
     corpus cavernosum, placing the at least one housing accommodating the at least
     one infusion needle within said dissected area such that the tip end of the at least
10   one infusion needle can penetrate, when penetrating the housing's outer wall, into
     at least one of the left and right corpus cavernosum and/or at least one of the two
     deep arteries of the right and left corpus cavernosum and/or into muscle tissue
     regulating blood flow to the patient's left and right corpus cavernosum and/or into
     another kind of tissue in close proximity to the patient's left and right corpus
15   cavernosum allowing stimulation of erection of the two corpora cavernosa, and
     finally closing at least the skin after implantation of at least parts of the system.
     Where parts of the system are implanted remote from the corpora cavernosa, a
     second area remote from the first area may be dissected free in order to place e.g.
20   the at least one reservoir in the patient's body at the remote second area, with a
     conduit connecting the reservoir with the at least one infusion needle
     accommodated in the at least one housing. In this case, it is preferable to place
     the reservoir adjacent the patient's symphyseal bone.
25   One or more of the following elements may be placed within the patient's body
     remote from the housing or housings accommodating the at least one needle:
     -      at least part of the drive unit D,
     -      the reservoir R1, R2 ,
     -      the pump P,
30   -      at least one motor M, M2 for actuation of the drive unit D or a drive driving
            the drive unit, and/or the pump P or any other energy consuming part of the
            system,
     -      energy storage means A for providing the at least one motor with energy,
     -      galvanic coupling elements between either an external energy source E or
35          the energy storage means A and the motor M, M2 for transmitting energy to
            the motor in contacting fashion,

   WO 2010/040555                                                        PCT/EP2009/007288
                                               48
     -     wireless coupling elements adapted to connect either the motor M, M2 or the
            energy storage means A or both to an extracorporal primary energy source
           for transmitting energy to either the motor or the energy storage means or
            both in non-contacting fashion,
 5   -      control unit C1 for controlling the motor M, M2,
     -      a data transmission interface for wirelessly transmitting data from an
            external data processing device C2 to the control unit C1,
     -     the feedback sensor F,
     -     wireless energy transforming means, and
10   -     the injection port 32 for refilling the reservoir R1.

   WO 2010/040555                                                         PCT/EP2009/007288
                                             49
     CLAIMS
     1.    A penis erection stimulation system, comprising a fully implantable drug
           delivery device for delivering a drug in relation to a penis to achieve erection
           of the penis.
 5
     2.    The system of claim 1, wherein the drug delivery device comprises at least
           one catheter adapted to be implanted outside the corpora cavernosa in close
           proximity thereto and wherein the drug delivery device is further adapted to
           supply drugs through the catheter.
10
     3.    The system of claim 1, wherein the drug delivery device comprises at least
           one catheter adapted to be implanted in at least one of the corpora
           cavernosa and wherein the drug delivery device is further adapted to supply
           drugs into the corpus cavernosum through the catheter.
15
     4.    The system of either of claims 1 or 2, wherein the drug delivery device
           comprises at least one infusion needle adapted to be placed outside the
           corpora cavernosa in close proximity thereto, and wherein the at least one
           infusion needle is adapted to change position outside the corpora cavernosa,
20         when the drug delivery device is implanted, and wherein the drug delivery
           device is further adapted to deliver drugs through the infusion needle outside
           the corpora cavernosa, when the needle's position is changed outside the
           corpora cavernosa.
25   5.    The system of any of claims 1 to 3, wherein the drug delivery device
           comprises at least one infusion needle adapted to be placed outside the
           corpora cavernosa in close proximity thereto, and wherein the infusion
           needle is adapted to be advanced into and retracted from at least one of the
           corpora cavernosa, when the drug delivery device is implanted, and wherein
30         the drug delivery device is further adapted to deliver drugs through the
           infusion needle into the corpus cavernosum, whenever the needle is
           advanced into the corpus cavernosum.
     NEEDLE
35

    WO 2010/040555                                                           PCT/EP2009/007288
                                               50
      6.     The system of either of claims 4 to 5, wherein the at least one infusion
             needle has a tube-like body closed at the tip end and having a laterally
             arranged delivery exit port.
  5   NEEDLE IN HOUSING
      7.     The system of any of claims 4 to 6,
      -      wherein the at least one infusion needle is disposed at least partly within at
             least one housing with a tip end of the at least one infusion needle arranged
 10         for penetrating the at least one housing's outer wall , the at least one
             housing being adapted for implantation inside a patient's body, and
      -     wherein at least one drive unit (D) adapted for implantation inside the
             patient's body is provided, the at least one drive unit being coupled to the at
             least one infusion needle and arranged at least for advancing and retracting
 15         the tip end of the at least one infusion needle so that the at least one
            infusion needle penetrates, upon advancement of the tip end or ends
            thereof, said outer wall in at least one penetration area (14) so as to allow for
            stimulation of penis erection by injecting the substance through said at least
            one penetration area via the at least one infusion needle.
20
      TWO-DIMENSIONAL PENETRATION SITES
      8.    The system of any of claims 1 to 7, wherein the drive unit is configured to
            laterally displace the tip end of at least one of said at least one infusion
25          needle in at least two different lateral directions to different penetration sites
            within said at least one penetration area.
     TWO PENETRATION AREAS
30   9.     The system of either of claims 7 to 8, wherein the at least one infusion
            needle (11) is arranged for penetrating the at least one housing's outer wall
            (15) in at least two different penetration areas (14).
     10.   The system of claim 9, wherein the system is adapted such that the at least
35         one infusion needle penetrates said at least two different penetration areas
            upon a single command or single action from the patient.

   WO 2010/040555                                                       PCT/EP2009/007288
                                              51
     11.   The system of either of claims 9 to 10, wherein the at least one drive unit is
           adapted for advancing and retracting the tip end of the at least one infusion
           needle in such way that it penetrates, upon advancement of the tip end or
 5         ends thereof, said at least two different penetration areas either
           simultaneously or in immediate time succession.
     12.   The system of any of claims 9 to 11, wherein the system is adapted such
           that the time delay between the penetration of a first and a second of said at
10         least two different penetration areas does not exceed 120 seconds, and
           preferably does not exceed 60 seconds.
     13.   The system of any of claims 9 to 13, wherein the system is adapted such
           that once the at least one infusion needle has been retracted from a first of
15         the at least two different penetration areas, advancement of the at least one
           infusion needle to a second of the at least two different penetration areas is
           initiated.
     SELF-SEALING MATERIAL
20
     14.   The system of any of claims 7 to 14, wherein at least in the penetration area
           or areas the outer wall is made from a material which is self-sealing in
           respect of penetrations resulting from said at least one infusion needle.
25   15.   The system of claim 14, wherein the self-sealing material forms at least two
           window areas in said outer wall, said window areas being positioned for
           penetration by the tip end of the at least one infusion needle.
     16.   The system of either of claims 14 to 15, wherein the self-sealing material
30         comprises a penetration membrane integrated in the outer wall by being
           sealingly press-fitted into the outer wall.
     17.   The system of any of claims 14 to 16, wherein the self-sealing material
           comprises at least one polymer selected from the group of materials
35         comprising silicon and polyurethane.

   WO 2010/040555                                                       PCT/EP2009/007288
                                             52
     18.   The system of any of claims 14 to 17, wherein the self-sealing material is
           made from a composite material.
     19.   The system of claim 18, wherein the composite material comprises at least
 5         one outer shape-giving layer and a self-sealing soft material contained within
           the outer layer.
     20.   The system of claim 19, wherein the self-sealing soft material is a gel.
10   FLAPS FORMING THE PENETRATION AREAS
     21.   The system of any of claims 7 to 13, wherein the outer wall comprises at
           least one flap in the penetration area or areas through which the at least one
           infusion needle can pass, said flap being arranged to be pushed aside by
15         the at least one infusion needle upon advancement of said infusion needle.
     ACTIVELY OPENED WINDOW AREAS
     22.   The system of any of claims 7 to 13, wherein the outer wall comprises at
20         least one door in the penetration area or areas, wherein a drive is connected
           to the at least one door for actively opening the door so as to allow for the at
           least one infusion needle to be advanced through the opened door.
     23.   The system of claim 22, wherein the drive connected to the door forms part
25         of the drive unit coupled to the infusion needle.
     24.   The system of either of claims 22 to 23, wherein the door comprises a
           normally closed, resilient flap.
30   25.   The system of any of claims 22 to 24, comprising at least one spring
           element urging the door into its closed position.
     26.   The system of any of claims 7 to 25, wherein at least two penetration areas
           are arranged in a single one of said at least one housing so that they can be
35         placed either adjacent to both the right and left corpus cavernosum of the
           patient's penis and/or the two deep arteries of the right and left corpus

   WO 2010/040555                                                         PCT/EP2009/007288
                                              53
            cavernosum and/or adjacent to muscle tissue regulating blood flow through
            the right and left corpus cavernosum.
     LONG FLEXIBLE NEEDLES
 5
     27.    The system of any of claims 7 to 18, wherein the at least one infusion needle
            is flexibly bendable, wherein the tip end of each of the at least one infusion
            needle is arranged for penetrating the outer wall of a first housing and the
            other end thereof is arranged in a second housing for remote implantation
10          inside the patient's body, the injection needle being sufficiently long to bridge
            the distance from the second housing for remote implantation to the first
            housing and further through the first housing up to the outer wall of the first
            housing.
15   28.    The system of claim 27, wherein at least a part of the drive unit for
            advancing and retracting the tip end of the infusion needle is contained in
            the second housing.
     29.    The system of either of claims 27 to 28, wherein the drive unit for advancing
20          and retracting the infusion needle comprises a screw drive connection.
     30.    The system of claim 29, wherein the screw drive connection comprises a
            threading on the infusion needle engaging a fixedly mounted rack.
25   31.    The system of any of claims 27 to 30, wherein the infusion needle is guided
            in a sheath between the first and second housings.
     NEEDLES and DRIVE UNIT
30   (Plurality of needles)
     32. The system of any of claims 7 to 31, wherein a separate one infusion needle
            is provided for each of at least two different penetration areas.
     (Individual needle for each penetration site)
35   33. The system of claim 32, wherein two or more infusion needles are provided
           for each of said two different penetration areas and are arranged for

   WO 2010/040555                                                          PCT/EP2009/007288
                                              54
            penetrating different penetration sites within each of said two different
            penetration areas.
     34.   The system of claim 33, wherein the drive unit is configured to advance and
 5          retract one infusion needle in each of said two different penetration areas at
           one time, and to advance and retract a different infusion needle in each of
           said two different penetration areas at a different time.
      (Two or more needles in common housing / Lateral needle displacement)
10   35. The system of claim 32, wherein at least two infusion needles or the tip ends
           thereof are contained in a common one of said at least one housing in
           spaced apart relationship, the drive unit being configured to advance and
           retract the tip end of a first one of said at least two infusion needles so as to
           penetrate the outer wall of the common housing in a first one of said at least
15         two different penetration areas and advance and retract the tip end of a
           second one of said at least two infusion needles so as to penetrate the outer
           wall of the common housing in a second one of said at least two different
           penetration areas.
20   36.   The system of claim 35, wherein the drive unit is configured to advance and
           retract the tip ends of said at least two infusion needles simultaneously.
     37.   The system of either of claims 35 to 36, wherein the drive unit is configured
           to laterally displace the tip end of each of said at least two the infusion
25         needles to different penetration sites within each of said two different
           penetration areas.
     38.   The system of any of claims 35 to 37, wherein the drive unit is configured to
           displace the tip end of each of said at least two infusion needles in at least
30         two different lateral directions.
     39.   The system of any of claims 35 to 38, wherein the drive unit is configured to
           displace the tip ends the infusion needles two-dimensionally.

   WO 2010/040555                                                         PCT/EP2009/007288
                                              55
     40.   The system of any of claims 35 to 39, wherein the drive unit is configured to
           displace the tip end of each of said at least two infusion needles along a
           three-dimensional array of penetration sites.
 5   41.   The system of any of claims 36 to 40, wherein the drive unit is configured to
           displace the tip ends of the infusion needles-along a curved path.
     42.   The system of either of claims 37 to 41, wherein the drive unit is configured
           to laterally displace the tip ends of the infusion needles simultaneously.
10
     43.   The system of any of claims 37 to 42, wherein a direction of lateral
           displacement of the tip ends of the infusion needles within each of said two
           different penetration areas is the same as the direction of distance between
           said two different penetration areas.
15
     44.   The system of any of claims 37 to 43, wherein a direction of lateral
           displacement of the tip ends of the infusion needles within each of said two
           different penetration areas is different from, in particular perpendicular to,
           the direction of distance between said two different penetration areas.
20
     (Single needle / Lateral needle displacement)
     45. The system of any of claims 7 to 31, wherein the drive unit is configured to
           laterally displace the tip end of one infusion needle of said at least one
           infusion needle between two lateral positions such that said one infusion
25         needle can penetrate the housing's outer wall in at least two different
           penetration areas.
     46.   The system of claim 45, wherein the drive unit is configured to laterally
           displace the tip end of said one infusion needle to different penetration sites
30         within each of said different penetration areas.
     47.   The system of either of claims 45 to 46, wherein the drive unit is configured
           to displace the tip end of said one infusion needle in at least two different
           lateral directions.
35

   WO 2010/040555                                                         PCT/EP2009/007288
                                              56
     48.   The system of any of claims 45 to 47, wherein the drive unit is configured to
            displace the tip end of said one infusion needle two-dimensionally.
     49.   The system of any of claims 45 to 47, wherein the drive unit is configured to
 5         displace the tip end of said one infusion needle within each of said at least
           two different penetration area along a three-dimensional array of penetration
           sites.
     50.   The system of any of claims 45 to 49, wherein the drive unit is configured to
10         displace the tip end of said one infusion needle along a curved path.
     51.   The system of any of claims 46 to 50, wherein a direction of lateral
           displacement of the tip end of said one infusion needle within each of said at
           least two different penetration areas is the same as the direction of lateral
15         displacement of the tip end of the infusion needle between said different
           penetration areas.
     52.   The system of any of claims 46 to 50, wherein a direction of lateral
           displacement of the tip end of the infusion needle within each of said
20         different penetration areas is different from, in particular perpendicular to,
           the direction of lateral displacement of the tip end of the infusion needle
           between said different penetration areas.
     (Manner of needle displacement)
25   53. The system of any of claims 37 to 52, wherein the drive unit is configured
           such that said lateral displacement of the tip end of the at least one infusion
           needle is achieved automatically during advancement and/or retraction of
           the tip end of the at least one infusion needle.
30   54.   The system of any of claims 7 to 53, wherein the drive unit comprises a
           movable carriage on which the at least one infusion needle is mounted for
           lateral displacement of the tip end of the at least one infusion needle.
     55.   The system of claim 54, wherein the movable carriage comprises a
35         turntable.

   WO 2010/040555                                                       PCT/EP2009/007288
                                            57
     56.   The system of either of claims 54 to 55, wherein the movable carriage
           comprises a shuttle.
     57. The system of claim 56, wherein the shuttle is in the form of a slide.
 5
     58.   The system of any of claims 54 to 57, wherein the drive unit comprises a
           stepper adapted to automatically advance the movable carriage a predefined
           distance upon each advancement and/or retraction of the infusion needle.
10   RESERVOIR
     59.   The system of any of claims 1 to 58, further comprising at least one reservoir
           (R1, R2) adapted for implantation inside the patient's body to store the drug
           to be delivered.
15
     60.   The system of claim 59, wherein the reservoir comprises at least one first
           compartment accommodating or adapted to accommodate a first substance
           and at least one second compartment accommodating or adapted to
           accommodate a second substance.
20
     61.   The system of claim 60, wherein the at least one first compartment
           accommodates or is adapted to accommodate an infusion liquid and the at
           least one second compartment accommodates or is adapted to
           accommodate a drug for mixing with the infusion liquid of the first
25         compartment.
     62.   The system of claim 61, wherein the drug contained in the at least one
           second compartment is a drug for stimulating penis erection.
30   63.   The system of any of claims 60 to 62, further comprising a mixing chamber
           for mixing the substance from the at least one first compartment with the
           substance from one or more of the at least one second compartment.
     64.   The system of any of claims 60 to 63, wherein the substance contained in
35         the at least one second compartment is in powder form.

   WO 2010/040555                                                       PCT/EP2009/007288
                                             58
     65.    The system of any of claims 60 to 64, wherein the substance contained in
            the at least one second compartment is in freeze-dried form.
     66.    The system of any of claims 60 to 67, wherein the number of the second
 5          compartments is 50 or more, in particular 100 or more.
     67.    The system of any of claims 60 to 68, wherein a plurality of the second
            compartments is liquid-tightly sealed against the at least one first
            compartment, wherein the system further comprises a mechanism for
10          individually opening a connection between the second compartments and
            the at least one first compartment.
     68.    The system of claim 67, wherein the second compartments are mounted so
            as to open towards a first side of a plate and wherein the opening
15          mechanism is adapted to act on the second compartments so as to open to
            said first side of the plate.
     69.   The system of claim 68, wherein the second compartments are mounted in
           the plate as displaceable drug containers and the opening mechanism is
20         adapted to displace the drug containers such that they deliver their drug
           contents.
     70.   The system of claim 67, wherein the second compartments are mounted in a
           plate which is rotatable so as to allow the drug containers to be brought into
25         alignment with a conduit upon rotation of the plate.
     71.   The system of claim 67, wherein the second compartments are mounted on
           a tape wound up on a reel.
30   72.   The system of claim 71, wherein the tape is contained in a replaceable
           cassette.
     73.   The system of either of claims 69 to 72, wherein a plurality of second
           compartments is arranged on the tape in side-by-side relationship in a
35         direction different to the winding direction of the tape.

   WO 2010/040555                                                            PCT/EP2009/007288
                                               59
     74.   The system of any of claims 60 to 73, wherein at least a section of a
           periphery of the at least one first compartment is made from a flexible
           material permitting volume changes of the first compartment by deformation
           of the flexible material as infusion liquid is filled into or drawn out of the at
 5         least one first reservoir.
     75.   The system of claim 74, wherein the flexible material comprises a polymer
           membrane.
10   76.   The system of claim 75, wherein drawing infusion liquid from the at least one
           first compartment causes a negative pressure in at least part of the
           reservoir.
     77.   The system of claim 76, wherein the at least one first compartment
15         comprises a gas chamber and an infusion liquid chamber, said chambers
           being separated by the polymer membrane.
     78.   The system of any of claims 59 to 77, wherein the reservoir has an injection
           port for refilling the reservoir with infusion liquid.
20
     79.   The system of claim 78, wherein the injection port comprises a material
           which is self-sealing in respect of penetrations caused by a replenishing
           needle.
25   80.   The system of either of claims 78 to 79, wherein the injection port is adapted
           for subcutaneous implantation.
     81.   The system of any of claims 59 to 80, wherein the reservoir is adapted for
           implantation inside the patient's body remote from the housing.
30
     CONDUIT
     82.   The system of claim 81, including any one of claims 2 to 5, comprising at
           least one conduit for connecting the reservoir with the at least one catheter
35         or the at least one infusion needle, respectively.

   WO 2010/040555                                                       PCT/EP2009/007288
                                                60
     83.    The system of claim 82, wherein the at least one conduit has a length
            sufficient to bridge the distance between the patient's symphyseal bone and
            the inferior fascia of the patient's urogenital diaphragm.
 5   84.    The system of claim 83, wherein the at least one conduit has a length of 10
            cm or more.
     85.    The system of any of claims 81 to 84, wherein, where a plurality of infusion
            needles is provided, separate conduits are provided between each of the
10          infusion needles and the reservoir.
     COOLING DEVICE
     86.   The system of any of claims 59 to 85, further comprising a cooling device for
15          keeping the content within at least one compartment of the reservoir at a
           temperature below 37 0C.
     87.   The system of claim 86, wherein the reservoir or the at least one
           compartment thereof is comprised in an insulation chamber.
20
     88.   The system of either of claims 86 to 87, further comprising a heat exchanger
           for exchanging heat generated by the cooling device with the patient's body.
     89.   The system of claim 88, wherein the heat exchanger is adapted for
25         implantation within the patient's body remote from the cooling device and is
           connected to the cooling device via fluid lines for conducting a heat
           exchange fluid.
     90.   The system of any of claims 86 to 89, wherein the cooling device contains at
30         least two different chemicals reacting with each other, thereby consuming
           thermal energy.
     91.   The system of claim 90, wherein the at least two chemicals are provided in
           separate chambers, the system further comprising a flow control device for
35         bringing together certain amounts of the different chemicals.

   WO 2010/040555                                                         PCT/EP2009/007288
                                              61
     92.   The system of any of claims 86 to 89, wherein the cooling device comprises
           at least one Peltier element.
     93.   The system of any of claims 86 to 89, wherein the cooling device is of a
 5         refrigerator-type construction.
     PUMP
     94.   The system of any of claims 59 to 93, further comprising at least one pump
10         (P) adapted for implantation inside the patient's body to advance the drug
           from the reservoir to the at least one drug delivery device.
     95.   The system of claim 94, wherein the pump is adapted for remote
           implantation within the patient's body separate from the housing within which
15         the tip end of the infusion needle is contained.
     MANUAL OPERATION
     96.   The system of any of claims 1 to 95, including claim 7 and/or claim 94,
20         wherein actuating means are provided for direct manual operation of the
           pump of claim 94 and/or the drive unit of claim 7.
     97.   The system of claim 96, wherein the actuating means are arranged for
           directly actuating either the pump or the drive unit, thereby simultaneously
25         indirectly actuating the other, i.e. the drive unit or the pump.
     DRIVE UNIT
     98.   The system of any of claims 7 to 97, wherein the at least one drive unit
30         comprises a mechanical drive element for transmitting kinetic energy from a
           remote location within the patient's body to the at least one infusion needle.
     99.   The system of claim 98, wherein the mechanical drive element comprises at
           least one rotating shaft directly or indirectly cooperating with the infusion
35         needle so as to cause movement of the infusion needle upon rotation of the
           rotating shaft.

   WO 2010/040555                                                          PCT/EP2009/007288
                                               62
     100. The system of claim 99, wherein the rotating shaft is in the form of a worm
           screw.
 5   101. The system of either of claims 99 to 100, wherein the rotating shaft is flexibly
           bendable.
     102. The system of any of claims 99 to 101, including claim 82, wherein the
           rotating shaft extends through the conduit connecting the at least one
10         infusion needle with the at least one reservoir.
     103. The system of any of claims 99 to 102, wherein turning the rotating shaft
           about its rotating axis causes the tip end of the at least one infusion needle
           to displace laterally from a first to a second of said at least two different
15         penetration areas and/or from a first penetration site to a second penetration
           site within a single one of said at least two different penetration areas.
     104. The system of any of claims 99 to 103, wherein turning the rotating shaft
           about its axis of rotation causes the infusion needle to advance and/or
20         retract.
     105. The system of any of claims 98 to 104, wherein the mechanical drive
           element comprises at least one wire directly or indirectly cooperating with the
           infusion needle so as to cause movement of the needle upon actuation of
25         the wire.
     106. The system of claim 105, including claim 82, wherein the at least one wire
           extends through the conduit connecting the at least one infusion needle with
           the at least one reservoir.
30
     107. The system of either of claims 105 to 106, wherein pulling at least one of the
           at least one wire causes the tip end of the at least one infusion needle to
           displace laterally from a first to a second of said at least two different
           penetration areas and/or from a first penetration site to a second penetration
35         site within a single one of said at least two different penetration areas.

    WO 2010/040555                                                            PCT/EP2009/007288
                                                 63
       108. The system of claim 107, wherein at least two, preferably three, pulling wires
             are provided and arranged for allowing a two-dimensional lateral
             displacement of the tip end of the infusion needle.
  5   109. The system of any of claims 105 to 108, wherein pulling at least one of the at
             least one wire causes the infusion needle to advance or retract.
      110. The system of any of claims 7 to 109, wherein the at least one drive unit
             comprises a hydraulic drive for transmitting hydraulic energy from a remote
 10          location within the patient's body to the at least one infusion needle for
             advancing the tip end of the infusion needle.
      111. The system of claim 110, including claim 82, wherein hydraulic fluid of the
             hydraulic drive is guided through the conduit connecting the at least one
15           infusion needle with the at least one reservoir.
      112. The system of claim 111, wherein the system is adapted to use as the
             hydraulic fluid infusion liquid to be injected into the patient's body.
20    113. The system of claim 111, wherein the system is adapted to use as the
             hydraulic fluid a secondary liquid different from an infusion liquid to be
            injected into the patient's body.
      114. The system of any of claims 7 to 113, wherein the at least one drive unit
25          comprises as a drive at least one electric motor inside the housing
            accommodating the at least one infusion needle.
      115. The system of claim 114, further comprising wiring for transmitting electric
            energy from a remote location within the patient's body to the at least one
30          motor.
      116. The system of claim 115, including claim 82, wherein the wiring is guided
            through the conduit connecting the at least one infusion needle with the at
            least one reservoir.
35

   WO 2010/040555                                                         PCT/EP2009/007288
                                             64
     117. The system of any of claims 7 to 116, wherein the at least one drive unit
           comprises an electromagnetic drive.
     118. The system of claim 117, wherein the electromagnetic drive comprises a
 5         group of electromagnets, said electromagnets comprising a plurality of
           laterally spaced apart electromagnet first parts and at least one
           electromagnet second part cooperating with an energized one or more than
           one of the electromagnet first parts, the electromagnet second part being
           fixedly connected to the at least one infusion needle.
10
     119. The system of claim 118, wherein at least some of the plurality of
           electromagnet first parts are arranged in a first plane and the electromagnet
           second part is movable in front of or behind the first plane.
15   120. The system of claim 118, wherein the plurality of electromagnet first parts
           are arranged so as to face each other, thereby defining a first plane, and the
           electromagnet second part is movable within the first plane.
     121. The system of any of claims 118 to 120, wherein the electromagnet first
20         parts each include a magnetic coil.
     122. The system of any of claims 98 to 121, wherein the drive of the at least one
           drive unit is arranged for advancing and/or retracting the tip end of the
           infusion needle.
25
     123. The system of any of claims 98 to 122, wherein the drive of the at least one
           drive unit is arranged for displacing the tip end of the infusion needle in at
           least one lateral direction.
30   124. The system of claim 123, wherein the drive of the at least one drive unit is
           arranged for displacing the tip end of the infusion needle in two or more
           lateral directions.
     125. The system of claim 123, wherein the drive of the at least one drive unit is
35         arranged for displacing the tip end of the infusion needle in at least one
           lateral direction and for advancing and retracting the infusion needle.

    WO 2010/040555                                                        PCT/EP2009/007288
                                               65
      126. The system of claim 123, wherein the drive of the at least one drive unit is
             arranged for displacing the tip end of the infusion needle in two or more
             lateral directions and for advancing and retracting the infusion needle.
  5
      127. The system of any of claims 98 to 126, wherein at least the drive of the drive
             unit is adapted to be implanted at a location remote from the housing
            accommodating the infusion needle.
 10   MOTOR
      128. The system of any of claims 1 to 127, wherein at least one motor (M, M2 ) is
            provided for actuating at least one of the pump (P) of claim 94, the drive unit
            (D) of claim 7 and any other implantable energy consuming part of the
15          system.
      129. The system of claim 128, wherein the at least one motor is arranged for
            actuating either the pump or the drive unit, thereby simultaneously indirectly
            actuating the other, i.e. the drive unit or the pump.
20
      130. The system of either of claims 128 to 129, wherein activating means are
            provided for direct manual operation by the patient thereby setting into
            operation the at least one motor.
25    131. The system of claim 130, wherein said activating means comprise a
            pressure sensitive switch so as to be manually operable by the patient when
            the switch is implanted subcutaneously in a patient's body.
      132. The system of any of claims 128 to 131, wherein the at least one motor is
30          adapted for remote implantation within the patient's body separate from the
            housing within which the tip end of the infusion needle is contained.
      133. The system of any of claims 128 to 132, wherein separate motors are
            provided for separate functions of the system.
35
      ENERGY SUPPLY

    WO 2010/040555                                                          PCT/EP2009/007288
                                                 66
      134. The system of any of claims 1 to 133, wherein coupling elements are
             provided for conductive energy transfer from outside the patient's body
             directly or indirectly to the at least one motor of claim 128 or to any other
  5          energy consuming part of the system.
      135. The system of any of claims 1 to 134, wherein coupling elements are
             provided for wireless energy transfer from outside the patient's body directly
             or indirectly to the at least one motor, of claim 128 or to any other energy
 10          consuming part of the system.
      ENERGY SOURCE
      136. The system of any of claims 1 to 135, further comprising an energy source
15           (E) for providing energy to at least one of the pump of claim 94, the drive
             unit of claim 7, the motor of claim 128 and any other energy consuming part
             of the system.
      137. The system of claim 136, wherein the energy source comprises an internal
20           power supply for implantation within a patient's body remote from the
             housing accommodating the infusion needle.
      138. The system of either of claims 136 to 137, wherein the internal power supply
             comprises energy storage means for long term storage of energy.
25
      139. The system of claim 138, wherein the energy source comprises an external
            power supply for charging the energy storage means from outside the
            patient's body.
30    140. The system of any of claims 136 to 139, wherein the system comprises
            coupling elements for conductive energy transfer from the external power
            supply to the energy storage means for charging the energy storage means
            from outside a patient's body, when the energy storage means is implanted
            in a patient's body.
35

    WO 2010/040555                                                        PCT/EP2009/007288
                                               67
      141. The system of any of claims 136 to 140, wherein the system comprises
             coupling elements (T) for wireless energy transfer from the external power
             supply to the energy storage means for charging the energy storage means
             from outside a patient's body, when the energy storage means is implanted
  5          in a patient's body.
      CONTROL UNIT
      142. The system of any of claims 1 to 141, wherein at least one control unit (C) is
 10          provided for controlling an amount of the drug to be delivered into the
             patient's body.
      143. The system of any of claims 1 to 142, wherein a control unit (C) is provided
            for controlling at least one of the pump of claim 94, the drive unit of claim 7,
 15         the motor of claim 128, any other energy consuming part of the system and,
            where the system includes an internal or external energy source, said
            energy source.
      144. The system of either of claims 142 to 143, wherein the control unit is
20          separate from the housing for remote implantation within a patient's body.
      145. The system of any of claims 142 to 144, wherein the system has a data
            transfer port for data transfer between an external data processing device
            and the control unit.
25
      146. The system of claim 145, wherein the data transfer port is a wireless data
            transfer port for the data transfer.
      147. The system of any of claims 142 to 146, wherein the control unit is
30          programmable.
     148. The system of any of claims 142 to 147, wherein the control unit comprises
            an external component for controlling the system from outside the patient's
            body and an implantable control unit adapted to receive a signal from the
35          external control unit.

    WO 2010/040555                                                        PCT/EP2009/007288
                                               68
      149. The system of claim 148, wherein the external component is adapted for
             wireless remote control from outside the patient's body.
      150. The system of claim 149, wherein the external component of the control unit
  5          is adapted for manual operation by the patient for setting into operation the
             control unit.
      151. The system of any of claims 142 to 149, wherein activating means are
             provided for direct manual operation by the patient for setting into operation
 10          the control unit.
      152. The system of claim 151, wherein said activating means comprise a
             pressure sensitive switch so as to be manually operable by the patient when
            the switch is implanted subcutaneously in a patient's body.
15
      FEEDBACK
      153. The system of any of claims 1 to 154, wherein at least one feedback sensor
            (F) is provided and adapted to sense one or more physical parameters of the
20          patient and/or process parameters of the system.
      154. The system according claim 153, wherein the at least one feedback sensor
            is adapted to sense one or more parameters of a group of parameters
            relating to: drug level, flow volume in a blood vessel.
25
      155. The system of either of claims 153 to 154, wherein the at least one feedback
            sensor is adapted to sense one or more parameters of the group of
            parameters comprising: pressure, electrical parameters, distension,
            distance.
30
     156. The system of any of claims 153 to 155, wherein the at least one feedback
            sensor is connected to the control unit as defined in any of claims 142 to
            152.

    WO 2010/040555                                                        PCT/EP2009/007288
                                               69
       157. The system according claim 156, including claim 128, further comprising a
             control program for controlling the at least one motor in response to one or
             more signals from the at least one feedback sensor.
  5    158. The system of any of claims 1 to 157, including claim 139, comprising a
             feedback subsystem adapted to send a feedback information signal
             including information on a parameter related to the charging process from
             inside the patient's body to the external power supply for controlling the
             charging process.
 10    159. The system of any of claims 156 to 158, wherein the feedback subsystem is
             adapted to wirelessly send the feedback information.
      160. The system of either of claims 158 to 159, wherein the feedback information
             relates to an energy balance which is defined as the balance between an
 15          amount of wireless energy received inside the human body and an amount
            of energy consumed by the at least one energy consuming part.
      161. The system of either of claims 158 to 159, wherein the feedback information
             relates to an energy balance which is defined as the balance between a rate
20          of wireless energy received inside the human body and a rate of energy
            consumed by the at least one energy consuming part.
      162. The system of either of claims 160 to 161, wherein the consumed energy
            includes the energy that is consumed by the process of charging the
25          implantable power supply.
      INJECTION INTO TUBE
      163. The system of any of claims 1 to 162, including claim 7, further comprising at
30          least one tube for injecting thereinto the substance to be injected by means
            of the at least one injection needle.
      164. The system of claim 163, wherein the exit end of the tube has an open area
            sufficiently large to prevent growth of fibrosis from spanning over the open
35          area.

    WO 2010/040555                                                         PCT/EP2009/007288
                                               70
      165. The system of either of claims 163 to 164, wherein the open area has an
             opening width of 3 mm or more.
      166. The system of any of claims 164 to 165, wherein the length of the tube is
  5          between 4 mm and 30 mm.
      METHOD OF IMPLANTATION
      167. A method of treating a human being or an animal by implanting at least part
 10          of a system according to any one of claims 2 to 166 in a patient's body,
             comprising the steps of
             - cutting the skin,
             - dissecting free the left and right corpus cavernosum,
             - placing the drug delivery device within said dissected area with the a least
 15         one catheter ending in the left and right corpus cavernosum and/or the two
            deep arteries of the right and left corpus cavernosum and/or muscle tissue
             regulating blood flow through the patient's left and right corpus cavernosum
            and/or another kind of tissue in close proximity to the patient's left and right
            corpus cavernosum, so as to allow for stimulation of penis erection by
20          delivering a drug through said at least one catheter, and
            - closing at least the skin after implantation of at least parts of the system.
      168. A method of treating a human being or an animal by implanting at least part
            of a system according to any one of claims 3 to 166 in a patient's body,
25          comprising the steps of
            - cutting the skin,
            - dissecting free an area near the left and right corpus cavernosum,
            - placing the drug delivery device within said dissected area with the a least
            one catheter arranged next to the left and right corpus cavernosum and/or
30         the two deep arteries of the right and left corpus cavernosum and/or muscle
           tissue regulating blood flow through the patient's left and right corpus
           cavernosum and/or another kind of tissue in close proximity to the patient's
           left and right corpus cavernosum, so as to allow for stimulation of penis
           erection by delivering a drug through said at least one catheter, and
35         - closing at least the skin after implantation of at least parts of the system.

   WO 2010/040555                                                          PCT/EP2009/007288
                                              71
     169. A method of treating a human being or an animal by implanting at least part
            of a system according to claim 7 in a patient's body, comprising the steps of
            - cutting the skin,
            - dissecting free an area near the left and right corpus cavernosum,
 5          - placing the at least one housing accommodating the at least one infusion
            needle within said dissected area such that the tip end of the at least one
            infusion needle can penetrate, when penetrating the housing's outer wall,
            into the patient's tissue so as to allow for stimulation of penis erection by
            injecting a substance through said at least one penetration area via the at
10          least one infusion needle, and
            - closing at least the skin after implantation of at least parts of the system.
     170. The method of claim 169, the at least one housing accommodating the at
            least one infusion needle is placed within said dissected area such that the
15         tip end of the at least one infusion needle penetrates, when penetrating the
           housing's outer wall, into at least one of the left and right corpus cavernosum
           and/or into at least one of the two deep arteries of the right and left corpus
           cavernosum.
20   171. The method of claim 169, wherein the at least one housing accommodating
           the at least one infusion needle is placed within said dissected area such
           that the tip end of the at least one infusion needle penetrates, when
           penetrating the housing's outer wall, into muscle tissue regulating blood flow
           through at least one of the patient's left and right corpus cavernosum and/or
25         into another kind of tissue in close proximity to the patient's left and right
           corpus cavernosum.
     172. The method of either of claims 170 to 171, comprising the step of securing
           the corpus cavernosum to the housing by means of a holder connected to
30         the housing.
     173. The method of any of claims 170 to 172, comprising the further steps of
           dissecting free a second area remote from the first area and placing at least
           one reservoir in the patient's body in the remote second area, with a conduit
35         connecting the reservoir with the at least one infusion needle accommodated
           in the at least one housing.

    WO 2010/040555                                                          PCT/EP2009/007288
                                                 72
      174. The method of claim 173, wherein the reservoir is placed adjacent the
             patient's symphyseal bone.
  5   175. The method of any of claims 168 to 174, further comprising the steps of
             placing one or more of the following elements within the patient's body
             remote from the housing accommodating the at least one needle:
             - at least part of a drive unit (D),
             - a reservoir (R1 , R2 ),
 10          - apump (P),
             - at least one motor (M, M2 ) for actuation of the drive unit (D) or a drive
             driving the drive unit, and/or the pump (P) or any other energy consuming
             part of the system,
             - energy storage means (A) for providing the at least one motor with
 15         energy,
            - galvanic coupling elements between either an external energy source (E)
            or the energy storage means (A) and the motor (M, M2 ) for transmitting
            energy to the motor in contacting fashion,
            - wireless coupling elements adapted to connect either the motor (M, M2 ) or
20          the energy storage means (A) or both to an extracorporal primary energy
            source for transmitting energy to either the motor or the energy storage
            means or both in non-contacting fashion,
            - a control unit (C1) for controlling the motor (M, M2 ),
            - a data transmission interface for wirelessly transmitting data from an
25          external data processing device (C2) to the control unit (C1),
            - a feedback sensor (F),
            - wireless energy transforming means,
            - an injection port for refilling the reservoir (R1 ), and
           - at least one tube for injecting thereinto a substance to be injected by
30          means of the at least one injection needle.
     REPLENISHMENT OF RESERVOIR
     176. A method of treating a human being or an animal by means of the system of
35         claim 59, comprising the step of replenishing the implanted reservoir (R1) by
           penetrating a replenishing needle through the patient's skin and injecting a

    WO 2010/040555                                                       PCT/EP2009/007288
                                               73
             substance through the replenishing needle directly or indirectly into the
             reservoir.
      METHOD OF USE
  5
      177. A method of treating a patient by means of the system of any of claims 1 to
             166, with the drug delivery device being implanted in the patient's body,
            comprising the step of injecting - by means of the system - a substance into
            the patient's body in predetermined amounts, thereby stimulating penis
 10         erection.
      178. The method of claim 177, wherein said at least one housing is implanted
            adjacent the patient's left and right corpus cavernosum and/or the two deep
            arteries of the right and left corpus cavernosum and/or adjacent the patient's
15          muscle tissue regulating blood flow through the patient's left and right corpus
            cavernosum.
      179. The method of claim 178, comprising the step of directly or indirectly
            controlling at least one element of the system from outside the patient's body
20          by means of an extracorporal data processing device.
      180. The method of claim 177, comprising the step of directly or indirectly
            controlling at least one element of the system from inside the patient's body
            by means of an implanted control unit.
25
      181. The method of claim 180, comprising the step of transferring data between
            an external data processing device and a data transfer port of the control
            unit.
30    182. The method of claim 181, comprising the step of programming the control
            unit via the data transfer port.
      183. The method of either of claims 181 to 182, comprising transferring feedback
            data from the control unit to the external data processing device.
35
      184. The method of any of claims 181 to 184, comprising the steps of

    WO 2010/040555                                                        PCT/EP2009/007288
                                               74
             - transferring a feedback signal from a feedback sensor to the control unit,
             and
             - controlling the system in relation to the feedback signal.
  5   185. The method of any of claims 181 to 184, comprising the steps of
             - transferring a feedback signal from a feedback sensor to the control unit,
             - transferring feedback data from the control unit to an external data
             processing device, and
             - programming the control unit by means of the external data processing
 10         device in relation t6 the feedback data.
      186. The method of any of claims 183 to 185, wherein the feedback signal
            comprises feedback information relating to wireless energy to be stored in
            an energy storage means, further comprising the step of adjusting the
15          amount of wireless energy transmitted by an energy transmitter in relation to
            the feedback information.
      187. The method of claim 186, wherein the feedback information relates to an
            energy balance which is defined as the balance between an amount of
20          wireless energy received inside the human body and an amount of energy
            consumed by the at least one energy consuming part.
      188. The method of claim 186, wherein the feedback information relates to an
            energy balance which is defined as the balance between a rate of wireless
25          energy received inside the human body and a rate of energy consumed by
            the at least one energy consuming part.
      189. The method of either of claims 177 to 188, comprising the steps of:
            - advancing the tip end of the at least one infusion needle through the
30          housing's outer wall in two different areas thereof either simultaneously or in
            succession,
            - delivering the substance through the advanced tip end of the infusion
            needle into the patient's body, and
            - retracting the tip end of the at least one infusion needle,
35          whenever stimulation of penis erection is desired.

   WO 2010/040555                                                         PCT/EP2009/007288
                                               75
     190. The method of claim 189, further comprising the step of laterally moving the
            tip end of the at least one infusion needle within the housing for variation of
            an injection site within the two different areas of the housing's outer wall.
 5   191. The method of any of claims 177 to 190, comprising the steps of mixing a
            first substance from a first compartment of the reservoir with a second
            substance from one or more second compartments of the reservoir in a
            mixing chamber of the system to obtain the infusion liquid to be injected.
10   192. The method of claim 191, wherein the first substance is an infusion liquid
           and the second substance is a drug.
     193. The method of either of claims 191 to 192, wherein the second substance
           provided in the second compartments is in powder form.
15
     194. The method of any of claims 191 to 193, wherein the second substance
           provided in the second compartments is freeze-dried.
     195. The method of any of claims 191 to 194, further comprising the step of
20         individually opening a connection between the second compartments and
           the first compartment whenever the second substance is to be injected into
           the patient's body.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
