Abstract
The present invention relates to a method of preparing a protein composition,
comprising enzymatic modification of milk lecithin using phospholipase. This protein
composition is then included in nutritional products to increase emulsion quality and
heat stability of the final nutritional products.

                                                1
                       COMPOSITIONS AND NUTRITIONAL PRODUCTS
                           WITH IMPROVED EMULSION STABILITY
Field of the invention
The invention relates to the field of nutritional compositions, in particular to protein
compositions comprising hydrolysed protein and methods for the preparation thereof.
In embodiments the present invention relates to a method of preparing a protein
composition, said method comprising enzymatic modification of milk lecithin using
phospholipase. This protein composition is then included in nutritional products to increase
emulsion quality and heat stability of the final nutritional products. The invention also
relates to the protein composition obtainable by the method, to the use of the protein
composition in preparing nutritional products, to methods of preparing nutritional products
comprising the protein compositions, as well as to the nutritional product obtainable by the
methods of the invention.
Background of the invention
Nutritional products which comprise hydrolysed proteins are desired for many reasons.
The hydrolysis of proteins reduces immunogenicity and is used for example in
hypoallergenic nutritional products. Hypoallergenic (H.A.) means products with a reduced
risk for initiation of allergic reactions. Recently, the FDA concluded that current scientific
evidence is appropriate for consideration of a qualified health claim relating to a reduced
risk of atopic dermatitis for feeding of hydrolyzed, 100% whey based formulas.
Further, hydrolysed proteins are more easily absorbed and thus are suitable for use in
nutritional compounds for persons with malabsorption. Such compositions comprising
hydrolysed protein are particularly useful in providing nutrition to malabsorbing patients
with elevated protein requirements. Examples of such compositions are described in
US5549905          (Enternal composition for pediatric patients) or US5661123 (Enteral
composition for malabsorbing patients).
Patients challenged with metabolic stress and injury have a significant need for increased
nutrients and energy. Severe injury, trauma and some disease states are associated with

                                               2
loss of the body's nutrient stores. Non-essential nutrients and substances that a body
typically can synthesize in adequate supply may become limiting. Additionally, absorption
of nutrients from the gut can become compromised even when there is no direct injury to
the gastrointestinal system.
Patients suffering from a loss of nutrients require adequate nutritional support. A lack of
adequate nutritional support can result in malnutrition associated complications, such as
prolonged negative nitrogen balance and depletion of somatic and visceral protein levels.
Thus, the goal of nutritional support is to maintain body mass, provide nitrogen and energy
in adequate amounts to support healing, meet metabolic demands characterized by the
degree of stress, and support immune function.
A traditional form of nutritional support is administering whole protein liquid feedings to the
patient to remedy the protein deficiency. However, some patients requiring nutritional
support have a compromised absorptive capacity and thus cannot tolerate whole protein
liquid feedings. Many diseases or their consequences can cause malabsorption by
impairment of either digestion or absorption. For instance, patients suffering from various
types of inflammatory bowel diseases typically cannot tolerate whole protein feedings. As
a result, semi-elemental and elemental protein diets were developed to treat such
compromised patients.
 However, in addition to the traditional inflammatory bowel type patients, semi-elemental
and elemental protein diets are currently being used in other patient segments. Specific
conditions where these diets are being used include, for example, total parenteral nutrition
patients receiving early transitional feedings, acutely ill, catabolic patients with increased
nitrogen needs yet requiring an elemental diet and critically ill patients not tolerating whole
protein liquid tube feedings.
Still further, many patients currently being treated with elemental diets also require
elevated protein levels. For instance, patients with Crohn's disease who are experiencing
the massive losses of protein associated with protein-losing enteropathy require increased
 amount of protein. Likewise, patients suffering from diarrhea from hypoalbuminemia,

                                                  3
chronic diarrhea with pressure ulcers, and HIV/AIDS related malabsorption and diarrhea
require increased protein for adequate nutritional support.
Such malabsorbing patients with increased protein requirements need an elemental diet
with elevated nitrogen levels to enhance nutrient absorption, replete protein stores,
achieve nitrogen balance and promote anabolism. While a variety of elemental and semi
elemental diets are currently being used in an attempt to treat and/or provide nutritional
requirements to such patients, the inventors of the present invention do not believe the
needs of such patients are being adequately met.
Another application can be the treatment of stressed patients as described in WO
2007/080149.
 However, the provision of compositions which comprise both fat and hydrolysed protein in
aqueous compositions is problematic. Intact proteins are good emulsifiers; however after
 even partial hydrolysis of proteins, their emulsifying properties are strongly reduced and it
 is difficult to get a relatively stable emulsion especially for liquid formulas. Thus, the stable
 emulsification of products, particularly those where all or some of the protein present is in
 the form of hydrolysed protein, is problematic.
 It is known in the art to add artificial emulsifiers to nutritional products. Examples of such
 emulsifiers include mono and diacetyltartatic acid esters of mono/di-glycerides, citric acid
 esters of monoglycerides, sorbitan fatty acid esters, polyethylene sorbitan fatty acid esters,
 sucrose esters of fatty acids, lactic acid esters of monoglycerides, acetic acid esters of
 monoglycerides, polyglycerol esters of fatty acids, propan diol esters of fatty acids and
 sodium or calcium stearyl lactylates.
  However, the use of artificial emulsifiers is perceived negatively by the consumer, and it is
  especially desirable to avoid them in compositions intended for infants and/or health
  support. Furthermore, the application of artificial emulsifiers are strongly limited by national
  regulatory bodies.

                                                 4
Addition of natural emulsifiers to products comprising hydrolysed proteins is also known.
Examples of such emulsifiers include egg yolk as well as emulsifiers from soya. However,
these emulsifiers add allergens into the products and into the manufacturing system which
needs an additional wash-out step. Allergens in food products are therefore to be
excluded, particularly in nutritional products intended for infants and/or health support.
Therefore, a need exists for a nutritional products with improved emulsion quality and
stability, and which can be manufactured using a quick, reliable method.
Summary of the invention
The present invention addresses at least the problems set out above.
Thus, the present invention relates to a method of preparing a protein composition
comprising hydrolysed protein, said method comprising the steps of
a) providing an ingredient mix comprising at least one protein, and milk lecithin;
b) adding at least one phospholipase and performing conversion of milk lecithin,
c) performing hydrolysis of said protein.
The invention relates in a further aspect to a protein composition comprising hydrolysed
 protein, said protein composition being obtainable or obtained according to the above
 method of the invention.
The invention relates in a further aspect to a method of preparing a nutritional product
 comprising the steps of
 - providing the protein composition comprising hydrolysed protein according to the
 invention, and
 - adding one or more nutrients.
 The invention relates in a further aspect to a nutritional product obtainable or obtained by
 the method of the invention.
 The invention relates in a further aspect to the use of the protein composition according to
 the invention in the preparation of a nutritional product.

                                                5
Brief description of the figures
Figure 1 shows a comparison of infant formulas prepared by different methods.
A= Whey protein concentrate (WPC) hydrolysed using trypsin preparation with relatively
low indigenous phospholipase activity; B= WPC hydrolysed using same trypsin as A            +
phospholipase treatment (pancreatic phospholipase A2); C= WPC hydrolysed using
trypsin preparation with relatively low indigenous phospholipase activity + addition of other
stabilisers;  D=     WPC    hydrolysed    using   trypsin with relatively  high   indigenous
phospholipase activity.
The bold black bars delineate the creaming up zone. The dotted black bar delineates the
weak creaming up zone present in sample B. White bars are included to hide the
identifying labels on the bottles.
Figure 2 shows DIC microscopy of samples shown in figure 1. A- D correspond to the
samples in Figure 1.
Figure 3 shows the percent degree of homogenization for the samples A- D.
 Figure 4 shows the amount of Lyso-Lecithin after phospholipase treatment in the samples
A, B and D.
 Definitions
 Prior to discussing the present invention in further details, the following terms and
 conventions will first be defined.
 In the context of the present invention, mentioned percentages are weight/weight
 percentages unless otherwise stated.
 The term "and/or" used in the context of the "X and/or Y" should be interpreted as "X", or
 "Y", or "X and Y".

                                                 6
Numerical ranges as used herein are intended to include every number and subset of
numbers contained within that range, whether specifically disclosed or not. Further, these
numerical ranges should be construed as providing support for a claim directed to any
number or subset of numbers in that range. For example, a disclosure of from 1 to 10
should be construed as supporting a range of from I to 8, from 3 to 7, from 4 to 9, from 3.6
to 4.6, from 3.5 to 9.9, and so forth.
All references to singular characteristics or limitations of the present invention shall include
the corresponding plural characteristic or limitation, and vice versa, unless otherwise
specified or clearly implied to the contrary by the context in which the reference is made.
Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same
meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art.
The term "fat" refers to one or more triglycerides independent of their melting temperature.
The term "fat" comprises both triglycerides that are in liquid form at 250C, as well as
triglycerides that are in solid or semi-solid form at 250C.
The term "emulsion" is defined herein as a mixture of two or more liquids in which one is
present as droplets, of microscopic or ultramicroscopic size, distributed throughout the
other. Emulsions are formed provided that the liquids that are mixed have no (or a very
limited) mutual solubility.
An "oil-in-water emulsion" refers to an emulsion in which the droplets are of oil or fat
distributed throughout a water, or aqueous liquid.
The term "creaming" or "creaming up" refers to the phenomenon where bigger fat particles
or fat particle aggregates are present and leads to a fat emulsion phase concentrating on
the top of liquid products.

                                                  7
The term "stable emulsion" refers to emulsions in which the fat emulsion phase separation
is strongly retarded. This quality criterion is related to avoiding visual fat separation and to
providing a homogeneous formula containing full nutritional quality and digestibility.
The term "degree of hydrolysis" means the percentage of nitrogen in the form of free
alpha-amino nitrogen as compared to total nitrogen. It is a measure of the extent to which
the protein has been hydrolysed. (J Agric Food Chem 1979 27(6), pp 1256-1262)
The term "degree of homogenization" is measured by comparison of fat concentration in
the compositions before and after centrifugation (1600 x g, for 15 min, middle part of
sample is taken), expressed in percent. This method is used to predict the separation of fat
emulsion phase during product storage (called "creaming up").
The term "hypoallergenic" (HA) refers to products with a reduced risk for initiation of
allergic reactions.
The term "phospholipase" refers to an enzyme that hydrolyzes phospholipids into fatty
 acids and other lipophilic substances. The terms "lecitase" and "lecitinase" are synonyms,
 and are used interchangeably with phospholipase.
 Detailed description of the invention
 The present invention relates to a method of preparing a protein composition, said method
 comprising enzymatic conversion of milk lecithin using at least one phospholipase. This
 protein composition is then included in nutritional products to increase emulsion quality
 and heat stability of the final nutritional products.
 The inventors have surprisingly found that the treatment of milk lecithin with phospholipase
 leads to improved emulsions, even in compositions comprising hydrolysed protein. Without
 wishing to be bound by theory, it is believed that phospholipase treatment leads to the
 conversion of milk lecithin to compounds such as free fatty acids and/or lysolecithin, which
 acts to stabilize the emulsion.

                                               8
Surprisingly, already very low concentrations of converted milk lecithin and applied
phospholipase resulted in significant improvement in emulsion quality and stability.
Thus in one aspect, the present invention relates to a method of preparing a protein
composition comprising hydrolysed protein, said method comprising the steps of
a) providing an ingredient mix comprising at least one protein, and milk lecithin;
b) adding at least one phospholipase and performing conversion of milk lecithin, and
c) performing hydrolysis of said protein.
The present invention in a further aspect relates to the protein composition obtainable or
obtained according to the method.
Protein hydrolysis
Protein hydrolysis may be performed prior to, simultaneously with, or subsequent to the
conversion of milk lecithin. In one embodiment protein hydrolysis may be performed at at
least one stage selected from the group consisting of before, simultaneously with, or
subsequent to the addition of at least one phospholipase. In some embodiments, more
than one protein hydrolysis step is performed. In one preferred embodiment of the method
of the invention, the phospholipase step is performed simultaneously with a protein
hydrolysis step.
Preferably the hydrolysis of protein is performed enzymatically. Any proteolytic enzyme or
mixture of enzymes can be applied, such as proteases derived from animal, plant or
microbial    origin.  In a particularly      preferred embodiment,      trypsin,   trypsin-like
endopeptidases or a fraction comprising trypsin is used to hydrolyse the protein. Trypsin,
trypsin-like endopeptidases or trypsin containing preparations can be derived from plants,
animal pancreas or from microbial fermentations. The microbes used may for example be
genetically modified microorganisms. Trypsin preparations usually contain a mixture of
 enzymes in different proportions such as trypsin, chymotrypsin, elastin, carboxypeptidase,
 amylases, lipases and phospholipase. Examples of applications of proteolytic preparations
 using genetically modified microorganism are described in W02012/042013.

                                               9
The trypsin or trypsin-like endopeptidase may be provided in combination with one or more
other proteases.
Thus, the proteolytic preparation may comprise a trypsin-like endopeptidase and/or a
chymotrypsin like endopeptidase, for example produced from any microorganism.
In one embodiment, the trypsin-like endopeptidase is from a microorganism selected from
a strain of Fusarium, preferably Fusarium oxysporum and/or from a strain of Kutzneria,
preferably Kutzneria albida; and the chymotrypsin-like endopeptidase is from a strain of
Nocardiopsis, preferably Nocardiopsis sp. EMBL CDS CA194179, or Metarhizium,
preferably Metarhizium anisopliae and/or a strain of Brachysporiella, preferably
Brachysporiella gayana.
 In a further embodiment, the protein hydrolysis in the method according to the invention is
performed using a mixture of a trypsin-like endopeptidase from Fusarium oxysporum or
Kutzneria albida, combined with a chymotrypsin-like endopeptidase from Nocardiopsis sp.
 or Metarhizium anisopliae.
 Performing the conversion of milk lecithin simultaneously with protein hydrolysis provides a
 streamlined process.
 Further embodiments of the method of preparing a protein composition comprising
 hydrolysed protein include the method wherein protein hydrolysis is performed prior to the
 addition of at least one phospholipase, and/or wherein protein hydrolysis is performed
 subsequent to the addition of at least one phospholipase.
 Protein hydrolysates are useful in protein compositions to be used in preparation of for
 example hypoallergenic nutritional products, such as hypoallergenic infant formulas.
 Further, protein hydrolysates are desired in nutritional products designed to support health
 in individuals with absorption deficiencies, for example due to conditions of the intestines
 which are related to e.g. insufficient function of pancreas or other protease producing
 glands, because hydrolysed protein is easier to digest and absorb. Also for example

                                                10
patients challenged with metabolic stress and injury have a significant need for increased
nutrients and energy.
However, the present invention also relates to methods, compositions and nutritional
products wherein all or most of the protein is intact. It is envisaged that the phospholipase
treatment and conversion of milk lecithin will support and/or improve emulsion stability of
such final nutritional products. Thus, in this embodiment, the method comprises the step of
providing an ingredient comprising milk lecithin and providing at least one phospholipase.
The composition thus formed may be used in the preparation of nutritional products with
improved emulsion stability.
The protein may be from any source or combination of sources. Examples include plant
protein such as one or more of soya, pea, rice and/or animal protein, such as from dairy,
such as whey and/or milk. In a preferred embodiment the protein is milk protein, such as
selected from one or more of casein and whey protein such as beta-lactoglobulin and
alpha-lactalbumin. In a particularly preferred embodiment the protein is provided in the
form of whey, which may be for example a whey protein concentrate (WPC) or a whey
protein fraction (WPF). WPC can be defined as whey protein enriched product, typically
prepared by using membrane filtration processes, whereas whey protein fractions are
more related to chromatographically enriched products or proteins enriched                 by
precipitations. Whey may also be provided as liquid whey, or in dried form.
One embodiment of the invention relates to a method comprising the steps of adding milk
lecithin to a nutritional composition comprising a protein hydrolysate, or to a protein
hydrolysate itself; and addition of at least one phospholipase, such that milk lecithin is
converted and for example fatty acids and lysolecithin is released from the milk lecithin,
contributing to the emulsion stability of the final nutritional products.
Lecithin
Lecithin is a term used to collectively refer to phospholipids. Examples of phospholipids
which may be present in lecithin are phosphatidylinositol (PI), phosphatidyl-L-serine (PS),

                                                11
phosphatidylethanolamine (PE), Phosphatidylcholine (PC) and sphingomyelin (SP). The
term lecithin and phospholipids are used interchangeably herein.
Lecithin is present in plants and animals, and the composition of lecithin differs amongst
them. In Table 1 below, lecithin from soybean, hen egg yolk and bovine milk are
compared. As is apparent, there are differences both in which phospholipids are present in
the lecithin, as well as in the relative amounts of the phospholipids which are present.
Milk lecithin is different in composition as compared to other lecithins, as it contains
substantial and similar concentrations of PE, PC, PS and SP. In contrast, egg lecithin
contains mainly PC, while lecithin from soya beans lacks SP and contains PI and PA in
higher concentrations.
Thus, the structural composition of milk lecithin is different from the structural composition
of egg lecithin and soya lecithin. For this reason, lecithins from different sources find
 different applications.
 It follows that the free fatty acids and lysolecithins generated by phospholipase action on
 milk lecithin are different from those from for example soya or egg.
 Thus, lecithins from different origins or the fractions thereof can provide different
 functionalities. The optimal concentration range varies depending of lecithin type and
 application.
 Surprisingly, the small amount of phospholipase-treated indigenous milk lecithin results in
 better emulsion stability as compared to added relatively high amounts of e.g. soybean
 lecithin.

                                              12
Table 1.
             Soybean     Hen      egg Bovine
             Lecithin    yolk          Milk
             Liquid      lecithin
PI                15            9           6
PE               31            19           34
PA                14
PS                                          3
LPE
PC                33           66           25
SP                              3           24
LPC                7            3
others                                      8
Total PL         100          100          100
Pl= phosphatidylinositol, PA= phosphatidic acid, PS= phosphatidyl-L-serine, PE=
phosphatidylethanolamin, PC= phosphatidylcholine, LPE= lyso-phosphatidylethanolamin,
LPC= Lyso-phosphatidylcholine and SP= sphingomyelin. Others = Ceramides (GluCer,
LacCer)
The percentages in Table 1 are based on levels measured in final liquid formula products.
The concentration for application of soybean lecithin in liquid nutritional formulas can be up
to 0.5 w/w % . This represents about 210 mg phospholipids per 1OOg formula. WPC based
formula contains normally only about 34 mg phospholipids per 1OOg formula.
 In one embodiment of the present invention the milk lecithin may be present in an amount
in the range of 5 mg to 500 mg per 100 g of the ingredient mix, such as 10 to 100mg per
 100g, preferably from 20 to 100 mg per 100 g ingredient mix. Generally, the higher the
degree of protein hydrolysis, the higher the needed milk lecithin amount.

                                                13
Table 2
Nutritional formula containing low amounts Degree of homogenisation
of converted milk lecithin (0.03 g LPC &
LPE /100g)
          with 0.2% w/w soya lecithin                         <40%
              without soya lecithin                           84%
LPC= Lyso-phosphatidylcholine; LPE= lyso-phosphatidylethanolamine.
Table 2 describes the degree of homogenisation obtained in a nutritional product
according to the invention, either without the addition of soya lecithin or with the addition of
soya lectithin. Surprisingly, it was found that inclusion of soya lecithin did not improve
emulsion quality.
Thus, the invention in one embodiment relates to a where nutritional product according to
the invention does not comprise soya lecithin. In further embodiments of the invention, the
only emulsifier present is converted milk lecithin.
In the context of the present application, the term "converted milk lecithin" refers to the
products of the action of phospholipase on milk lecithin, including free fatty acids, lyso
phospholipid, diglycerides, phosphatidyl-compounds, phosphoglycerolipids and the
remaining part (e.g. choline).
 In a preferred embodiment of the method, the milk lecithin provided in a method according
to the invention is native milk lecithin. The term native milk lecithin means that the milk
 lecithin is naturally present in an ingredient present in the ingredient mix, for example in a
whey protein concentrate, and/or dairy products for example milk, whey, butter, cheese,
 cream and buttermilk, or combinations thereof.
 Using native milk lecithin obviates the need for adding extraneous milk lecithin; or indeed
 extraneous lecithins from other sources such as soy lecithins or the like. This again avoids
 introduction of potential allergens to the protein hydrolysate and to the final nutritional

                                              14
product. Furthermore, this embodiment may be implemented using the same basic factory
production line as previously employed, with only small changes.
Whey protein concentrate is one ingredient which would provide native milk lecithin.
One example of such WPCs is Lacprodan@ DI-87 from Arla Foods (DK). Similar products
are also available from e.g. Armor (F), Davisco (USA), DMV (NL), Glanbia (IR), Kerry (IR),
Hilmar (USA), Fonterra (NZ). Typical lecithin concentrations are ranging from about 0.3-2
g1l OOg and protein concentrations from 25-90%.
It is advantageous that the naturally present milk lecithin in whey protein concentrate can
be valorized, without the need of addition of a non-dairy compound.
Thus one embodiment relates to a method according to the present invention wherein the
milk lecithin is included in the whey protein concentrate, i.e. that the provision of an
ingredient such as protein, for example the provision of whey, for example in the form of
WPC, also provides milk lecithin.
Phospholipase
The inventors of the present invention have surprisingly found that addition of
phospholipase to a composition comprising milk lecithin will lead to the conversion of milk
lecithin and release of conversion products such as free fatty acids and/or Lyso
phospholipid, and that this acts to improve emulsion quality in the final nutritional products
containing them.
Free fatty acids and/or lysolecithin are generated by the action of at least one
phospholipase on milk lecithin. The phospholipase according to the present invention may
be one or more selected from phospholipase A2 (PLA2), phospholipase Al (PLA1)
phospholipase B (PLB), phospholipase C (PLC) and/or phospholipase D (PLD).
The phospholipases PLA1 and PLA2 liberate one fatty acid molecule from a phospholipid,
PLA1 at glycerol position SN1 and PLA2 at position SN2. Phospholipase B displays both
PLA1 and PLA2 activities and cleaves both SN-1 and SN-2 acyl chains. Additionally there

                                             15
are two other phospholipase types, in particular phospholipase C (PLC) and
Phospholipase D (PLD). Phospholipase C converts lecithin into diglycerides and
phosphatidyl-compounds. Phospholipase D converts lecithin into phosphoglycerolipids and
the remaining part (e.g. choline). The products of the action of any one of PLA1, PLA2,
PLB, PLC, PLD or combinations thereof, on milk lecithin can be used as emulsifiers
according to the invention. Thus, the invention in a further aspect relates to the use of the
products of the action of any one of PLA1, PLA2, PLB, PLC, PLD or combinations thereof
on milk lecithin, as emulsifiers.
In one embodiment, the at least one phospholipase added in a method according to the
invention is phospholipase Al and/or phospholipase A2.
In one preferred embodiment, the composition of the invention comprises phospholipase
PLA2. PLA2 is normally preferred as the liberation of the fatty acid at SN2 position creates
a more pronounced polar head group and an end standing hydrophobic part at SN1
position, thus producing a more efficient emulsifier.
Table 3
mg/100g hydrolysate        PE PC PE & PC        LPE LPC SP
 No Phospholipase           88    76   164       <4     <4    77
 PhospholipaseAl            19    21    40       37     34    80
 Phospholipase A2           <4    18    18       45     41    84
 PhospholipaseAl &A2        13    13    26        5     12    78
 Pl= phosphatidylinositol, PA= phosphatidic acid, PS=           phosphatidy-L-serine, PE=
 phosphatidylethanolamin, PC= phosphatidylcholine, LPE= lyso-phosphatidylethanolamin,
 LPC= Lyso-phosphatidylcholine and SP= sphingomyelin. Others = Ceramides (GluCer,
 LacCer). The percentages in Table 3 are %w/w based on levels measured in hydrolysate
 product.

                                                16
The use of phopolipase Al and phospholipase A2 permits the production a broad variety
of lecithins, for example, lecithins, lysolecithins with fatty acids at sn-1 position,
lysolecithins with fatty acids at sn-2 position and non hydrolyzed milk sphingomyelin,
providing good emulsion stability.
PLA1 is available from Novozymes under the trademark Phospholipase TMUltra. PLA2 is
available commercially, for example under the trademark Maxapal@ A2 from DSM Food
Specialties B.V., Netherlands.
Phospholipase may be present in an amount in the range of 1 pg to 10 mg per 100 g of the
protein composition comprising hydrolysed protein, such as for example 10 ug to 1 mg,
such as 10 ug to 5 mg, such as 20 ug to 1 mg, such as 500 ug to 1 mg; preferably from
0.01 to 0.1 mg per 100 g protein composition.
The protein compositions may contain protein in the range of 1 - 20% with a degree of
hydrolysis in the range of 8 - 45%. Lecithin is present normally in the range of 5
200mg/100g protein composition.
The protein compositions of the invention may comprise for example 10 pg - 10mg
phospholipase per 10 - 100 mg lecithin present; or for example 0.1 - 100 Units per about
 10-100 mg lecithin presentin the protein composition.
Typically, the phospholipase treatment may be performed at a temperature from 30 to
80"C, such as from 35 to 750C, 40 to 650C, 40 to 600C, preferably at 40-60oC.
The phospholipase treatment may be performed at a pH value of 5 to 9.5, such as a pH
from 5 to 9, from 5.5 to 8.5, from 5.5 to 8, or from 6 to 8.
The phospholipase treatment may be from a few minutes until several hours, such as from
3 minutes to 10 hours, for typically between 30 minutes to 6 hours.

                                                17
As mentioned above, the stability of the emulsion is dependent on both the amount of
protein present, and the degree of hydrolysis of the protein. Thus, decreasing amounts of
protein and/or increasing levels of hydrolysis of the protein will require increased levels of
phospholipid conversion in order to ensure emulsion stability in the final nutritional product.
The levels of phospholipid conversion can be regulated by selection of the amount of the
lecithin, the amount of phospholipase and/or reaction length and other parameters. This
selection is within the skill of the art.
The ratio of phospholipids to fat is an important factor for emulsion stability.
Lecithin and fat are present normally in the range of 10-200mg lecithin/100g respective
0.03 - 6g fat/1 00g. This corresponds to ratios of lecithin to fat of 0.2:99.8 to 67:33.
The phospholipase treatment may be terminated by the inactivation of the phospholipase.
Inactivation may be achieved by for example proteolysis of the phospholipase, heat
inactivation, inhibitor addition or pH inactivation. Examples of heat inactivation include
UHT treatment etc.
 Depending on the type of phospholipase and the applied conditions phospholipase can be
 inactivated by the proteolytic activity. In the case that such conditions are preferable
 phospholipase treatment needs to be performed before proteolytic treatment or after
 inactivation of proteases.
 The inventors of the present invention have thus surprisingly found that small amounts of
 phospholipase added to a composition comprising milk lecithin will result in an improved
 emulsification of the composition without addition of other emulsifying agents.
 Thus, a preferred embodiment of the method of the invention comprises the steps of
 - providing a protein and milk lecithin, for example by providing a whey protein concentrate
 comprising milk lecithin
 - adding at least one phospholipase, such as phospholipase A2, and
 - performing hydrolysis of said protein and simultaneous phospholipase treatment

                                              18
For example WPC is reconstituted to a dry matter concentration of 5 to 30 w/w %, adjusted
to pH range 7 - 7.5 at 40-55*C and treated for 1 to 6 hours with proteolytic enzymes in
combination with phospholipase.
Method of preparing a protein composition
Thus in some embodiments a protein and milk lecithin is provided by providing whey, for
example liquid whey. Liquid whey can for example be provided by in principle any WPC
manufacturer sufficiently close to allow transport of liquid whey, which               is a
microbiologically sensitive raw material. Alternatively, whey powder, such as a whey
protein concentrate or whey protein fraction may be used. In such cases, the whey powder
 is dissolved in water. For example, the whey powder may be dissolved in water which is
heated, for example to a temperature in the range of from 40- 800C, such as from 50 to
700C, such as from 55 to 600C, such as about 600C.
The pH of the solution may be adjusted to a suitable pH. The pH may be selected based
on the basis of the pH requirements of the enzyme or enzymes to be used in protein
 hydrolysis. The pH may be adjusted for example by addition of base solution.
 Preferably, protein hydrolysis is performed using trypsin. The trypsin may be for example a
 commercial trypsin enzyme preparation, or for example may be present in commercial
 microbial enzyme preparation. Trypsin may be present as one enzyme in a mixture of
 proteolytic enzymes.
 When using trypsin, the pH may be in the range of from 7.0 to 8.0, such as from 7.4 to 7.8,
 such as for example 7.4, 7.6, 7.7, or 7.8.
 The amount of enzyme used to perform protein hydrolysis may be selected based on the
 amount of protein substrate.
 The selection of amount of trypsin to be used is based on experimental data. The amount
 of protease generally depends on process conditions such as for example temperature,
 pH, enzymatic activity, three-dimensional structure of proteins (unfolding) and desired

                                               19
degree of protein hydrolysis. The selection of the amount of trypsin or enzyme preparation
needed to achieve proteolysis is within the skill of the art.
The hydrolysis may be terminated by inactivation of the protein, for example heat
treatment. In one example the mixture is heated to at least 800C, such as at least 900C ,
such as for example 93*C, 940C, 950C, 960C, or 970C. The mixture may then be cooled
down. The hydrolysis treatment may be for for example at least 30 mins, such as in the
range of from 30 mins to 8 hrs, such as about 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8 hours.
 Protein hydrolysis may be performed in two stages, for example comprising a first and
second hydrolysis step.
The method of the invention also involves adding one or more                phospholipase and
 performing conversion of milk lecithin to free fatty acids and lysolecithin.
 The conversion of milk lecithin requires phospholipase. The one or more phospholipase
 may be present in the trypsin preparation, for example as indigenous pancreatic
 phospholipase A2. Alternatively, it may be added separately, or it may be a combination of
 these.
 The phospholipase may be added at any suitable time in the process, for example in the
 first or a second hydrolysis step. Optionally phospholipase can be added at later step in
 the process; however it should be added before a final step for enzyme inactivation.
  Process conditions need to be defined corresponding to optimum ranges for lecitase and
 protease enzymes.
 In some embodiments, phospholipase is added in amounts from 0,1 mg till 30 mg/ kg
 WPC, such as from I to 20 mg/kg, for example 1 to 18, 1 to 16, 1 to 14, 1 to 13, 1 to 12, 1
 to 10 mg/ kg WPC; or for example 5 to 25, 5 to 24, 5 to 22, 5 to 20, 5 to 15, 5 to 12 or 5 to
 10 mg/ kg WPC.

                                             20
in other embodiments, phospholipase may be added in amounts corresponding to from
10000 to 1000000 U/kg WPC, such as from 50000 to 500000; such as from 50000 to
250000, for example from 50000 to 225000, 50000 to 200000, 50000 to 175000; or for
example 75000 to 500000, 75000 to 300000, 75000 to 250000, 80000 to 175000, 90000
to 175000, 90000 to 150000, 90000 to 130000, 100000 to 130000, 110000 to 125000 U/kg
WPC, 120000 to 125000 U/kg WPC, or for example about 120000 U/kg WPC.
The protein composition obtainable by the above method
As mentioned above, the present invention in a further aspect relates to a protein
composition comprising hydrolysed protein obtainable according to the above-described
methods of the invention.
The protein composition thus obtained may comprise at least peptides, amino acids,
derived from whey; products of phospholipase conversion of milk lecithin, such as
lysolecithin, free fatty acids; and any remaining native phospholipids derived from milk
lecithin.
This protein composition may be regarded as a starting material for a process of preparing
a nutritional product.
This protein composition may be in liquid form. The protein composition may alternatively
be in dry form, which may thus be reconstituted.
In one embodiment, one or more oil and/or lipids is added to a protein composition
obtainable by the method, and the composition is dried. Drying of the protein composition
which contains protein hydrolysate and the following reconstitution can be advantageous,
if oil is added before drying. The oil-containing protein composition of the invention will
result in improved spray drying behaviour, better powder reconsitution and reduced foam
formation during its reconstitution.
The added oil are preferably oils which are relatively stable against lipid oxidation such as
medium chain triglyceride oil (MCT) or high oleic sunflower oil.

                                             21
Thus, the invention in one embodiment relates to a method according to the invention
comprising a drying step, and a step wherein one or more oil and/or lipids is added prior to
drying.
For example, in one embodiment the invention relates to a method of the invention further
comprising the steps of:
d) adding one one or more oil and/or lipids, such as medium chain triglyceride oil (MCT) or
high oleic sunflower oil, and
e) drying
Use of the protein composition of the invention
The present invention relates in a further aspect to the use of the protein composition
obtainable or obtained from a method of the invention, in the preparation of a nutritional
product.
The present invention also relates to the use of the protein composition obtainable or
obtained according to a method of the invention as an emulsifier and/or to stabilize
emulsions, for example in nutritional products such as infant formulas or health care
nutrional products.
Method of preparing a nutritional product
 In a further aspect, the present invention relates to a method of preparing a nutritional
product, said method comprising the steps of
a) providing the protein composition according to the invention as described above
 b) adding one or more nutrients.
The one or more nutrients may be selected from for example one or more of fats,
 carbohydrates, minerals, trace elements, vitamins, prebiotics and probiotics.
 Water may be added separately, or together with one or more of the nutrients in the form
 of an aqueous solution or suspension of one or more of the nutrients.

                                                22
In one embodiment the method of preparing a nutritional product further comprises a
drying step. The method may also further comprise a step of reconstituting the dried
nutritional product in a liquid, and mixing to form an emulsion.
The method of preparing a nutritional product may further comprise steps for the
homogenisation and/or sterilization of the nutritional product.
Homogenisation may be performed either before or after addition of nutrients, or
alternatively before and after addition. Homogenisation may be for example between 40
800C.
The nutritional product may also be sterilised. In one example, the nutritional product is
sterilised by Ultra High Temperature treatment (UHT), for example by direct steam
injection or indirect heating.
In one embodiment, the nutritional product may be filled and subsequently sterilized.
Sterilisation may be for example from 4 to 12 minutes. The temperature of sterilisation may
be for example from 118 to 124CC.
In one embodiment, the method of preparing a nutritional product may further comprise a
drying step.
The drying step may be for example by spray drying. A dry nutritional product according to
the invention may be reconstituted before use. Thus, in one embodiment the method of
preparing a nutritional product according to the invention comprises a step of reconstituting
the dried nutritional product in a liquid, and mixing to form an emulsion.
 In another embodiment, one or more oil and/or lipids may be added to a nutritional product
 according to the invention, and the nutritional product is dried. Drying of the nutritional
 product of the invention and the following reconstitution can be advantageous, if oil is
 added before drying. The oil-containing nutritional product will result in improved spray

                                                23
drying behaviour, better powder reconsitution and reduced foam formation during
reconstitution of the dried nutritional product according to the invention.
The added oil can be preferably oils which are relatively stable against lipid oxidation such
as medium chain triglyceride oil (MCT) or high oleic sunflower oil.
Thus, the invention in one embodiment relates to a method of making a nutritional product
according to the invention, wherein said method comprises a drying step, and a step
wherein one or more oil and/or lipids is added prior to drying.
For example, in one embodiment the invention relates to a method of the invention further
comprising the steps of
d) adding one one or more oil and/or lipids, such as medium chain triglyceride oil (MCT) or
high oleic sunflower oil, and
e) drying
A nutritional product obtainable or obtained by the method
Further aspects of the invention relate to a nutritional product obtainable according to the
invented methods for preparing a nutritional product.
Thus, in one embodiment the nutritional product according to the invention is a dry
composition, such as a powder, agglomerated powder products or tablets, which may be
suitable for reconstitution in a liquid.
 In another embodiment the nutritional product of the invention is a liquid, such as an
emulsion. Preferably the emulsion is an oil-in-water emulsion. The liquid may be a ready
to-drink formula, or be a concentrate for dilution prior to consumption.
The nutritional product according to the invention may also be characterized by that it
forms stable emulsions in the liquid state.
Visual observation is most relevant for characterization of an emulsion, additionally
 microscopy and particle size distribution (PSD) by laser diffraction (e.g. Malvern or Horiba
 instruments. Volume weighted mean D[3,2] values calculated form PSD data can be used
to characterize emulsion stability.

                                              24
In one embodiment, the invention relates to a nutritional product of the invention
characterized in that the only emulsifiers present in the final nutritional product are derived
from milk lecithin.
In one embodiment, the only emulsifiers present in the final nutritional product of the
invention are the fatty acids, lysolecithins, mono-di-glycerides and phosphoglycerolipids
derived from native milk lecithin produced by the phospholipase treatment.
 In further embodiments, the nutritional product of the invention has a homogenisation
degree of at least 75%, for example over 75%, for example at least 80%, at least 85%, at
least 90%, at least 91%, at least 92%, or for example about 90%.
 In another embodiment the invention relates to a nutritional product according to the
 invention, wherein the fat/aggregates have an average particle size (volume weighted
 mean [4,31) of not more than 2 pm, such as not more than 1 pm, such as no more than 0.6
 pm, such as below 0.6 pm, for example about 0,5 pm, or for example from 0,1 to 0.5 pm,
for example from 0.2 to 0.5 pm, 0.2 to 0.5 pm, 0.3 to 0.5 pm, 0.3 to 0.4 pm.
 In another embodiment, the nutritional product according to the invention has a lecithin
 conversion degree of at least 20%, such as at least 24%, at least 30%, at least 35%, at
 least 40%, at least 50%, at least 60%, at least 70%, at least 80%.
 In preferred embodiments, the nutritional product has a lecithin conversion degree of at
 least 50%, such as at least 60%, at least 70% or at least 80%.
 Thus the invention in one embodiment relates to a nutritional product having a
 homogenisation degree of at least 75%, and a lecithin conversion degree of at least 20% .
 In yet further embodiments, the nutritional product according to the invention has a
 homogenisation degree of at least 75%, an average particle size of no more than 0,6 pm,
 and a lecithin conversion degree of at least 20%.

                                                 25
The nutritional products of the present invention may have an amount of hydrolyzed
protein present in the range of about 1 - 8 g / 100g liquid final nutritional product, such as
about 1 -5 g/100g, 1- 4 g/100g or for example about 2- 4 g/100 g liquid final nutritional
product.
The nutritional products of the present invention may have an amount of phospholipase
conversion products, such as lysolecithin, of at least 5 mg/1 00 g product, such as at least
8, at least 10, at least 12, at least 16, at least 18, at least 20 mg lysolecithin/100 g product.
The nutritional product according to the present invention may be a formula selected from
the group consisting of an infant formula, a health care nutritional formula, and a nutritional
supplement formula.
Infant formulas may be formulated in different ways depending on the nutritional
requirements of the stage or situation of the infant. Thus, the infant formula (IF) of the
invention may be selected from the group consisting of a pre-term , a term IF, a small for
gestational age IF; a large for gestational age IF, post-discharge IF, a starter IF, a follow
on formula, a growing up formula, a toddler's formula, and a human milk fortifier formula.
 Nutritional products of the invention which comprise hydrolysed proteins may be suitable
for use for example as hypoallergenic nutritional products, such as hypoallergenic infant
formulas and/or hypoallergenic health care nutritional formulas. They are also suitable for
supporting nutrition in individuals who have impaired nutrient absorption, such as those
suffering from various types of inflammatory bowel diseases, Crohn's disease, patients
suffering from diarrhea from hypoalbuminemia, chronic diarrhea with pressure ulcers, and
 HIV/AIDS related malabsorption and diarrhea require increased protein for adequate
 nutritional                                                                             support.
A health care nutritional formula refers to a formula for clinical/enteral nutrition for
 malabsorbing patients. Such a formula may be for example a complete elemental diet
designed for the dietary management of Gastro-Intestinal-compromised patients.

                                               26
A nutritional supplement formula is meant to indicate a formula which is given in addition to
other foods, in order to supplement nutrition.
The nutritional product according to the invention may be for example an enteral
composition or an oral composition. In one embodiment the composition may be
formulated as an enteral nutritional product to be administered via feeding tube or the like,
such as an oral tube feeding formula.
The nutritional product according to the invention may for example be an hypoallergenic
 infant formula or an hypoallergenic health care nutritional formula.
Thus, in various embodiments, the nutritional product according to the invention may be
selected from the group consisting of an infant formula, a toddler's formula, a follow-on
formula, a growing-up formula, an enteral nutritional product, a health care nutritional
formula, an oral tube feeding formula, a preterm infant formula, a human milk fortifier.
The term "liquid final nutritional product" refers to the nutritional compositions of the
 invention which are either prepared in a liquid form, or, when prepared as dry formulations,
 the reconstituted form.
 The hydrolysed protein comprised in the nutritional products of the present invention may
 have a degree of hydrolysis in the range of about 5 - 20%, such as 8 - 15%, such as 8
 10%.
 In one embodiment of the nutritional product of the inventions comprise lecithin conversion
 products such as lysolecithins and free fatty acids, and non-hydrolyzed sphingomyelin
 derived from milk lecithin.
 Preferably, the nutritional product is an emulsion, even more preferably an oil-in-water
 emulsion.

                                               27
Thus, in one embodiment the nutritional product of the invention comprises at least
hydrolysed protein, fat, lysolecithin and free fatty acids from milk lecithin.
The invention in a further embodiment relates to the use of a nutritional product according
to the invention for prevention or treatment of atopic dermatitis. In this respect, the
nutritional product of the invention may be considered a medical food.
Combination of disclosures
 It should be noted that embodiments and features described in the context of one of the
aspects of the present invention also apply to the other aspects of the invention.
The methods of making the protein composition and the nutritional products according to
invention, as well as the protein composition and nutritional products themselves, are
herein described in different parameters, such as ingredients etc. It should be noted that
embodiments and features described in the context of the composition according to the
 invention, may also be combined with embodiments and features described in the context
of the nutritional products of the invention, unless expressly stated otherwise.
All patent and non-patent references cited in the present application, are hereby
 incorporated by reference in their entirety.
The invention will now be described in further details in the following non-limiting examples
and figures.
 Examples
 Example 1- Nutritional Composition Manufactured by Batch Hydrolysis
 Materials
Trypsin with 1250 USP U/mg and Lecitase with 10'000 IU/mg were from Novozymes.
 Liquid whey, defined as partially demineralized liquid whey protein concentrate at about
 30-35% dry matter or whey protein concentrate powder was from Foremost Farms,
 Baraboo, WI, US. Lactose monohydrate powder was from Meggle (Germany).

                                               28
Method
16 kg of whey protein concentrate powder and 11 kg lactose monohydrate powder were
dissolved in 54 kg of demineralized water and brought to pH 7.4 by addition of KOH 30%
w/w.
The protein content was calculated by multiplication of total nitrogen concentration with
factor 6.25. Based on this calculation, 65 g of trypsin was required.
Trypsin was added to a final concentration of 0.8 g per kg protein hydrolysate.
The reconstituted protein mix was adjusted to 55CC and 13 g of trypsin was added and the
pH of 7.4 was kept for at least 30 min by addition KOH 30% w/w. The prehydrolyzed mix
was then heat treated at 940C for 5 min and cooled down to about 550C. A portion of 52g
trypsin, and for variant B 195 mg lecitase, was added to start the second hydrolysis. The
pH was kept at 7.4 for about 3 hours and the reaction was completed by thermal
inactivation of the enzymes. Finally, 9 kg of maltodextrin, 13 kg of fat mix and 1.4 kg of
minerals and vitamins were added and homogenized. The final mix was further UHT
treated, homogenized, aseptically filled or sterilized to produce an aseptic liquid form of the
composition which is shelf stable at ambient tempearature, or spray dried to produce a
powder of the composition.
 Example 2- Comparison of test variants
 Four different variants were produced using the method described in Example 1.
    A. Reference variant produced by the method described in Example 1, using a trypsin
        preparation with relatively low indigenous phospholipase activity.
    B. Variant was produced using addition of 3 pg Phospholipase 1OL (pancreatic
        phospholipase A2 ex Novozymes, 10'000 IU/ml) per g of trypsin, equivalent to
        about 3 mg or 11 Units per g of trypsin, added to the second hydrolysis step.
    C. Variant produced in the same manner as A, but with addition of 1.2% high amylase
        starch and 0.03% kappa-carrageenan as stabilisers.
    D. Variant produced in the same manner as A, but using a trypsin preparation with
        relatively high indigenous phospholipase activity.

                                              29
Variant B: 3 pg Phospholipase 1OL (pancreatic phospholipase A2 ex Novozymes, 10'000
IU/ml) per g of trypsin, equivalent to about 3 mg or 30 Units per g of trypsin, was added to
the second hydrolysis step. This corresponds to 27 pg or 270 mUnits per 40 mg
phospholipids present in 100g final formula containing about 1.5 g protein-equivalent.
Protein equivalent mean proteins, peptides and amino acids. Liquid whey means partially
demineralized liquid whey protein concentrate at about 30-35% dry matter.
In contrast to the known processes it has been found that a process according to an
embodiment of the invention typically results in a strong increase in lysolecithins detected
by HPLC.
The lecithin conversion degree was increased from 24% (Variant A) to 81% (Variant B)
detected by HPLC. The resulting homogenization degree was increased from 75%
(Variant A) to 92% (Variant B). Degree of homogenisation is shown in Figure 3.
The variants A- D were analysed for Degree of homogenisation, Sediment value and Fat
particle size volume weighted mean [4,3] and the results are shown below in Table 4.
The degree of homogenisation is measured by comparison of fat concentration in the
formulas before and after centrifugation (1600 x g, for 15 min, middle part of sample is
taken), expressed in percent. The higher the value, the better the emulsion quality/stability
of the product. This method is used to predict the separation of fat emulsion (called
"creaming") during product storage.
The sediment value represents the dried solid parts of the sample at the bottom of the
centrifugation tube after determination of homogenisation degree. Generally, it is desired
that this value should be low.
The Particle size volume weighted mean [4,3] is based on particle size determination by
 laser light diffraction. Volume based particle size equals the diameter of the sphere that
 has same volume as a given particle. Which equals 2*(3*volume(particle)/4/pi)A(1/3). In
this product matrix it is assumed to be mainly related to fat particles/aggregates.

                                              30
Generally, the lower the particle size values, the better the emulsion stability.
Table 4
                      Degree of         Sediment           Particle size      pH value
                   homogenisation         value         volume weighted
                           %                %              mean [4,3],
                                                        micrometers (pm)
        A                75.4              0.06             0.515 pm             6.85
        B                91.5              0.03             0.310 pm             6.82
        C                44.8              5.43             3.276 pm             6.90
        D                 86.2             0.09             0.436 pm             6.88
Lecithin conversion degree is shown in Figure 4 and Table 5 by presentation of non
hydrolysed lecithins vs. lyso-lecithins. Lyso-Lecithins refers to one of the products of
lecithin cleavage with phospholipase A2. For good emulsion stability, the conversion of
native lecithin should be high. Thus, non-hydrolysed lecithin concentrations should be low
and concentration of products of lecithin conversion by phospholipase, such as lyso
lecithin, should be high.
Lecithin conversion is calculated of percentage of Lyso-L (lyso-lecithin LPE & LPC) to sum
of Native-L (non hydrolyzed lecithins except SPH, sum of P1, PE, PC) and Lyso-L.

                                               31
Table 5
mg/100g formula                   A                         B                      D
LYSO-L                             8                       20                      12
Non-hydrolysed-                  25,8                      4,8                    18,3
Lecithin
Total L                          33,8                     24,8                    30,3
Lecithin    conversion          24 %                      81%                     40%
degree
C was not analyzed as phospholipid composition of this variant is expected to be similar to
that of A.
The variants A- D were further analysed and the results are shown in Figures 1, 2 and 3.
Figure 1 shows the variants A - D where strong serum formation and creaming up was
shown in variants A, C, and D, whereas B shows only slight creaming.
Figure 2 shows microscopy pictures of the same variants A-D, were B shows the smallest
fat droplets without substantial fat droplet aggregation, followed by D with some slightly
bigger fat droplets and finally A and C showing bigger fat droplets with partial fat droplet
aggregation.
 Figure 3 represents an overview about homogenization degree values of the products
 shown in Table 2. For acceptable emulsion storage stability values of at least 75% are
 preferred.
 Example 3- Enteral product- Nutritional Composition Manufactured by Batch Hydrolysis
 Product having a moderate degree of protein hydrolysis
 A nutritional composition for enteral nutrition or tube feeding for patients which cannot eat
 any or enough food because of an illness or may have a decreased appetite, difficulties in
 swallowing, or some type of surgery that interferes with eating, was produced in
 accordance with a method of the invention.

                                              32
Liquid whey was used or whey powder was dissolved in water of 600C to form a solution.
The pH was adjusted to 7.4 for the hydrolysis reaction by addition of a base solution. The
temperature of the mixture was adjusted to about 55*C and 0.6% of a commercial trypsin
enzyme preparation, amount of protease based on protein substrate, was added to
catalyse hydrolysis of protein in the mixture. The pH was adjusted to 7.4 for the hydrolysis
reaction and maintained for at least 30 min at this pH value by addition of a base solution.
After about 4 hours the hydrolysis reaction was completed and enzymes thermally
inactivated. Fat was added, homogenized and the hydrolysed composition was finalized by
addition of additional ingredients like minerals, trace elements, carbohydrates and
vitamins. The final mix was further UHT treated, homogenised, aseptically filled, and
sterilised to produce a liquid form of the composition or spray dried to produce a powder
form of the composition.
The amount of phospholipase can be part of trypsin preparation as indigenous pancreatic
phospholipase A2 or added before protease addition. Optionally phospholipase can be
added at later steps in the process; however before a final step for enzyme inactivation.
 In this example, phospholipase was part of trypsin preparation as indigenous pancreatic
phospholipase A2.
Table 6- Homogenisation degree of enteral nutrition formulas
 Enteral nutrition formulas                      Homogenisation degree
 Regular product without phospholipase           49%
Trial product with phospholipase                 95%
Table 6 shows the homogenization degree of enteral nutrition formulas according to the
 Example 3.
 Example 4- Nutritional Composition Manufactured by Continuous Hydrolysis - Product
 having a medium to low degree of protein hydrolysis
A easily digestible nutritional composition was produced in accordance with a method of
the invention.
 Liquid whey was used or whey powder was dissolved in water of 600C to form a solution.
The pH was adjusted to 7.8 for the hydrolysis reaction by addition of a base solution. The

                                              33
temperature of the mixture was adjusted to about 550C and about 1% of a commercial
microbial enzyme preparation, amount of protease based on protein substrate, was
continuously added to the product stream and held for about 10 minutes at about 50 to
about 650C whilst flowing through holding tubes to hydrolyse protein in the mixture. The
microbial enzyme preparation was based on subtilisin, e.g. Alcalase from Novozymes.
Proteolytic activity is about 2.4 AU/g compare to 6.0 AU/g for trypsin.
The enzymatic reaction was terminated by thermal inactivation of the enzyme by heat
treatment. Fat was added, homogenized and the hydrolysed composition was finalized by
addition of additional ingredients like minerals, trace elements, carbohydrates and
vitamins. The final mix was further UHT treated, homogenised, aseptically filled, and
sterilised to produce a liquid form of the composition or spray dried to produce a powder
form of the composition.
The amount of phospholipase can be part of enzyme preparation or added after protease
addition. Optionally phospholipase can be added at later steps in the process; however
 before a final step for enzyme inactivation.
 Example 5
A nutritional composition is produced as described in Example 1, with the exception that
 the protein hydrolysis is performed using microbial proteases.
 Example 6
 A nutritional composition is produced as described in Example 3, with the exception that
 the protein hydrolysis is performed using a mixture of a trypsin-like endopeptidase from
 Fusarium oxysporum or Kutzneria albida;              combined with a chymotrypsin-like
 endopeptidase from Nocardiopsis sp. or Metarhizium anisopliae.
 Example 7
 A nutritional composition is produced as described in Example 4, with the exception that
 the protein hydrolysis is performed using a mixture of a trypsin-like endopeptidase from
 Fusarium oxysporum or Kutzneria albida combined with a chymotrypsin-like
 endopeptidase from Nocardiopsis sp. or Metarhizium anisopliae.

                                          34
   Claims
1. A method of preparing a protein composition comprising hydrolysed protein, said
   method comprising the steps of,
   a) providing an ingredient mix comprising at least one protein, and milk lecithin;
   b) adding at least one phospholipase and performing conversion of milk lecithin,
   c) performing hydrolysis of said protein.
2. The method according to claim 1 wherein protein hydrolysis is performed
   simultaneously with conversion of milk lecithin.
3. The method according to any of the previous claims wherein the protein is a whey
   protein concentrate or a whey protein fraction.
4. The method according to any of the previous claims wherein the milk lecithin is
   native milk lecithin.
5. The method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the at least one
   phospholipase is phospholipase Al and/or phospholipase A2.
6. The method according to any of the preceding claims further comprising the steps
   of
   d) adding oil,
   e) drying
7. A protein composition comprising hydrolysed protein obtainable according to the
   methods according to any of claims 1 to 6.
8. A method of preparing a nutritional product, said method comprising the steps of
   a) providing the protein composition according to claim 7,
   b) adding one or more nutrients.

                                           35
9. A nutritional product obtainable by the method according to claim 8.
10.The nutritional product according to claim 9 characterized in that the only
   emulsifiers present in the nutritional product are derived from milk lecithin.
11.The nutritional product according to any of claims 9 to 10, wherein the composition
   is an emulsion, preferably an oil-in-water emulsion.
12.The nutritional product according to any of claims 9 to 11, wherein the composition
   is an enteral composition or an oral composition.
13.The nutritional product according to any of claims 9 to 12, wherein the composition
   is an hypoallergenic nutritional product, such as an hypoallergenic infant formula or
   an hypoallergenic health care nutritional formula.
14.The nutritional product according to any of claims 9 to 13 wherein the degree of
   lecithin conversion is at least 20%.
15.Use of the protein composition according to claim 7 in the preparation of a
   nutritional product.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
