                                                                     Attorney Docket: L50WO
                                         ABSTRACT
        A method for discharging fluid from a syringe and for mitigating occlusion
conditions includes actuating the plunger of a syringe into a barrel. The method monitors
fluid pressure within the barrel of the syringe and determines that an occlusion exists when
the fluid pressure exceeds a predetermined threshold. The method actuates the plunger out
of the barrel by a predetermined amount in response to the detected occlusion and actuates
the plunger of the syringe into the barrel until a measured fluid pressure within the barrel of
the syringe exceeds another predetermined threshold.
                                              175

WO 2014/100658                             PCT/US2013/077077
                               1/162
                                7
           5                  2
    8                                    O
                                  -                        13
                                                            10
                                           11               12
                          6
                    3       E
               To Patient
                                  FIG. 1

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
                 SYRINGE PUMP, AND RELATED METHOD AND SYSTEM
            This disclosure accompanies a divisional application of AU2013361072, the
   contents of which are incorporated herein in their entirety by reference.
 5
   BACKGROUND
   Relevant Field
   [0001]     The present disclosure relates to pumps. More particularly, the present disclosure
   relates to a system, method, and apparatus for estimating liquid delivery of a syringe pump.
10 Descriptionof Related Art
   [0002]     Syringe pumps are used in a variety of medical applications, such as for
   intravenous delivery of liquid medications, for example a patient in an intensive-care unit
   (ICU), for an extended length of time. Syringe pumps may be designed so that needles,
   tubing, or other attachments are attachable to the syringe pump. Syringe pumps typically
15 include a plunger mounted to a shaft that pushes a liquid out of a reservoir. The reservoir
   may be a tube-shaped structure having a port at one end such that the plunger can push (i.e.,
   discharge) the liquid out of the syringe pump. Syringe pumps can be coupled to an actuator
   that mechanically drives the plunger to control the delivery of liquid to the patient.
   [0003]     Syringe pumps may also be used to deliver various drugs including analgesics,
20 antiemetics, or other fluids. The medication may be administered via an intravenous liquid
   line very quickly (e.g., in a bolus) or over a length of time. Syringe pumps may also be
   used in non-medical applications, such as in microreactors, in laboratory testing, and/or in
   chemical processing applications.
25 SUMMARY
   [0004]    A first aspect of the disclosure provides a syringe pump comprising: a body; a
   motor; a lead screw operatively coupled to the motor, wherein the motor is configured to
   actuate the lead screw; a linear cam moveable between an extended position and a retracted
   position;   and first and second half-nut arms pivotally coupled together, each having first
30 and second ends, wherein the second ends of the first and second half-nut arms are
   configured to engage with the linear cam such that actuation of the linear cam toward the
   extended position causes the second ends of the first and second half-nut arms to pivotally
   approach each other to engage the lead screw.
                                                  1

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [0005]    In an embodiment, the linear cam includes a concave surface, the first and second
   half-nut arms are pivotally coupled together via a pivot, the second ends of the first and
   second half-nut arms are positioned to engage with the concave surface of the linear cam,
   and actuation of the linear cam to the extended position causes the second ends of the first
 5 and second half-nut arms to move toward each other by pivoting along the pivot thereby
   causing the first ends of the first and second half-nut arms to engage with the lead screw.
   [0006]    The syringe pump may further comprise a spacer coupled to one of the first and
   second half-nut arms. The syringe pump may further comprise a pivot pin configured to
   provide the pivotal coupling between the first and second half-nut arms. The linear cam may
10 include two ramping surfaces configured to engaged with the second ends of the first and
   second half-nut arms.
   [0007]    The syringe pump may further comprise a bias member configured to bias the
   second ends of the first and second half-nut arms away from each other. The bias member
   may be a spring. The syringe pump may further comprise a plunger head assembly. The
15 plunger head assembly may include a user actuator operatively coupled to the linear cam to
   actuate the linear cam toward and away from a half-nut assembly.
   [0008]    The syringe pump may further comprise a plunger head assembly, the plunger
   head assembly comprising: a dial having a first position and a second position, wherein the
   dial is configured to actuate between the first position and the second position; a plunger
20 tube configured to slideably engage with the body; and a plunger head operatively coupled
   to the plunger tube. The syringe pump may further comprise a shaft operatively coupled to
   the dial, wherein the shaft and the dial are configured such that actuation of the dial actuates
   the shaft. The syringe pump may further comprise a cam coupled to the shaft. The syringe
   pump may further comprise a rocker arm pivotally coupled to the plunger head assembly,
25 the rocker arm having a cam follower configured to engage the cam. The syringe pump may
   comprise a pivotable jaw member operatively coupled to the rocker arm. The syringe pump
   may further comprise: a first gear coupled to the rocker arm and a pivotable jaw member;
   and a second gear coupled to another pivotable jaw member, wherein the first and second
   gears are configured to engage each other, wherein the pivotable jaw members are
30 configured to grasp onto a syringe plunger flange. The cam and the rocker arm may be
   configured such that additional actuation of the dial toward the second position when the
   pivotable jaw members grasp onto the syringe plunger flange causes the cam follower to
   disengage from the cam. The syringe pump may further comprise a bias member configured
                                                   2

                                                                      Attorney Docket: L50WO
   to urge the cam follower of the rocker arm toward the cam. The cam may include a detent
   configured to interface with the rocker arm such that the cam is held in the first position
   until a predetermined amount of torque is applied to the dial to urge the dial toward the
   second position.
 5 [0009]     A plunger head may include a shaft having a rod actuator coupled thereto. A
   plunger tube may include a rod, wherein the rod may be coupled via a link within a plunger
   head. A rod may be operatively coupled to the linear cam. The first ends of the first and
   second half-nut arms may each include threads configured to engage the lead screw when
   the second ends of the first and second half-nut arms are proximal to one another.
10 [0010]     In accordance with one embodiment of the present disclosure, a pump for
   administering an agent to a patient may comprise a housing. Within said housing may be a
   motor, a gearbox operatively connected to said motor, a means for sensing rotation of said
   motor, a controller acting to control operation of said motor and monitor the quantity of said
   agent delivered to said patient, and a pump assembly. The pump may be configured such
15 that the pump is interchangeable from a syringe pump or peristaltic pump respectively to a
   peristaltic pump or syringe pump via supplanting one pump assembly with a differing pump
   assembly.
   [0011]     In some embodiments, the pump may be field interchangeable from a syringe
   pump or peristaltic pump respectively to a peristaltic pump or syringe pump via supplanting
20 one pump assembly with a differing pump assembly.
   [0012]     In accordance with another embodiment of the present disclosure, a syringe pump
   for administering an agent to a patient may comprise a housing, a lead screw, and a sliding
   block assembly. The sliding block assembly may comprise a cam, a cam projection fixedly
   coupled to the cam, and a threaded portion capable of engaging and disengaging from the
25 lead screw. The threaded portion may be configured to be actuated between engagement
   and disengagement on the lead screw via rotation of the cam and cam projection.
   [0013]     In some embodiments, the sliding block assembly may comprise a slot with a
   straight expanse and an acruated expanse.
   [0014]     In some embodiments, rotation of the cam may cause the cam projection to move
30 within the slot. As the cam projection moves within the straight expanse of the slot, the
   threaded portion may be configured to be actuated between engagement and disengagement
   with the lead screw.
                                                  3

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [0015]    In some embodiments, the syringe pump may further comprise a clamping means
   configured for clamping any of a range of plunger flange sizes.
   [0016]    In some embodiments, the cam projection may not enter the straight expanse of the
   slot until the largest of the range of plunger flange sizes has been released by the means
 5 configured for clamping any of a range of plunger flange sizes.
   [0017]    In some embodiments, the syringe pump may further comprise a plunger head
   assembly coupled to the sliding block and operative to drive a plunger of a syringe into a
   barrel of the syringe. A plunger tube may couple the plunger head assembly to the sliding
   block.
10 [0018]    In some embodiments, the plunger tube may perform at least one or more
   additional functions from a list consisting of: a bushing support for at least one rotating
   shaft, a channel for electrical conduits to and from the plunger head assembly, and a channel
   for data transmission conduits to and from the plunger head assembly.
   [0019]    In some embodiments, the syringe pump may further comprise a barrel flange clip
15 configured to retain a barrel flange of a syringe.
   [0020]    In some embodiments, the barrel flange clip may comprise a means of detecting
   the presence of a barrel flange. The means of detecting the presence of a barrel flange may
   comprise an optical sensor and a light source. The light source may be obscured in the
   presence of the barrel flange.
20 [0021]    In some embodiments, the location of the cam of the sliding block assembly may
   be adjustable such that a user may optimize engagement of the threaded portion on the lead
   screw.
   [0022]    In some embodiments, the sliding block assembly may further include at least one
   bias member. The bias member may be configured to bias the threaded portion to one of an
25 engaged position on the lead screw and a disengaged position on the lead screw.
   [0023]    In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure, a syringe pump for
   administering an agent to a patient may comprise a housing, a lead screw, and a sliding
   block assembly. The sliding block assembly may comprise a threaded section configured for
   engaging and disengaging from the lead screw. The syringe pump may further comprise a
30 plunger head assembly coupled to said sliding block and operative to drive a plunger of a
   syringe into a barrel of said syringe. The syringe pump may further comprise a clamping
   means configured for clamping any of a range of plunger flange sizes. The means
   configured for clamping any of a range of plunger flange sizes may comprise at least a first
                                                   4

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   plunger flange clamp jaw and a second plunger flange clamp jaw. The first and second
   plunger flange clamp jaws may be configured to be actuated from a first position to a
   position in which at least one point of each of the first and second plunger flange clamp
   jaws abut an edge of the plunger flange forcing the plunger flange against the plunger head
 5  assembly and acting as an anti-siphon mechanism.
    [0024]    In some embodiments, the means configured for clamping any of a range of
   plunger flange sizes may comprise a cam, at least one cam follower, and at least one bias
    member. The bias member may bias said means configured for clamping any of a range of
    plunger flange sizes toward a first position. In some embodiments, movement of the at least
10  one cam follower along the cam may overcome the bias member and allow the means
    configured for clamping any of a range of plunger flange sizes to move toward a second
    position.
    [0025]    In some embodiments, the cam, at least one cam follower, and at least one bias
    member may be coupled to a rotatable shaft. The cam may not be rotatable with said shaft
15 but may be displaceable along an axial dimension of said shaft. The at least one cam
    follower may be fixedly coupled to the shaft and rotatable with the shaft. Rotation of the
    shaft may cause movement of the at least one cam follower along the cam thereby
    displacing the cam along the axial dimension of the shaft.
    [0026]    In some embodiments, the bias member may automatically return the means
20  configured for clamping any range of plunger flange sizes to the first position in the absence
    of a force sufficient to overcome the bias member.
    [0027]    In some embodiments, the cam may comprise at least one detent, each of said
    detents being reached by one of the at least one cam followers when the means configured
    for clamping any range of plunger flange sizes has been allowed to move to the second
25  position.
    [0028]    In some embodiments, the plunger head assembly may further comprise a pressure
    sensor for monitoring the pressure of the agent being dispensed from the syringe.
    [0029]    In some embodiments, the plunger flange of the syringe may be held against the
    pressure sensor by the means configured for clamping any range of plunger flange sizes.
30  [0030]    In some embodiments, the syringe pump may further comprise a barrel flange clip.
    The barrel flange clip may be configured to retain a barrel flange of the syringe.
    [0031]    In some embodiments, the barrel flange clip may comprise a means of detecting
    the presence of a barrel flange. The means of detecting the presence of a barrel flange may
                                                    5

                                                                         Attorney Docket: L50WO
   comprise an optical sensor and a light source. The light source may be obscured in the
   presence of said barrel flange.
   [0032]    In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure a syringe pump for
   administering an agent to a patient may comprise a housing a lead screw and a sliding block
 5 assembly. The sliding block assembly may comprise a threaded section configured for
   engagement and disengagement with said lead screw and movable along said lead screw.
   The syringe pump may further comprise a plunger head assembly coupled to said sliding
   block assembly and operative to drive a plunger of a syringe into a barrel of said syringe.
   The syringe pump may further comprise a clamping means configured for clamping any of
10 a range of plunger flange sizes. The syringe pump may further comprise a means of
   monitoring the clamping means. The means of monitoring the clamping means may be
   capable of generating data to determine at least one characteristic of the clamped syringe.
   [0033]    In some embodiments, the means of monitoring the clamping means may be a
   potentiometer.
15 [0034]    In some embodiments, the data generated by the means of monitoring the
   clamping means may be evaluated by referencing said data against a database.
   [0035]    In some embodiments, the data generated by the means of monitoring the
   clamping means may be evaluated by referencing said data against a database and data
   generated by at least one other sensor.
20 [0036]    In some embodiments, the clamping means may comprise a cam, at least one cam
   follower, and at least one bias member. The bias member may bias said clamping means
   toward a first position. Movement of the at least one cam follower along the cam may
   overcome the bias member and allow the clamping means to move toward a second
   position.
25 [0037]    In some embodiments, the cam, at least one cam follower, and at least one bias
   member may be coupled to a rotatable shaft. In some specific embodiments, the cam may
   not be rotatable with the shaft but may be displaceable along an axial dimension of said
   shaft. The at least one cam follower may be fixedly coupled to the shaft and rotatable with
   the shaft. Rotation of the shaft may cause movement of the at least one cam follower along
30 the cam displacing the cam along the axial dimension of the shaft.
   [0038]    In some embodiments, the bias member may automatically return the clamping
   means to the first position in the absence of a force sufficient to overcome the bias member.
                                                   6

                                                                       Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [0039]    In some embodiments, the cam may comprise at least one detent. Each of the
   detents may be reached by one of the at least one cam followers when the means for
   clamping any range of plunger flange sizes has been allowed to move to the second
   position.
 5 [0040]    In some embodiments, the plunger head assembly may further comprise a pressure
   sensor for monitoring the pressure of the agent being dispensed from the syringe.
   [0041]    In some embodiments, a plunger flange of the syringe may be held against the
   pressure sensor by the clamping means.
   [0042]    In some embodiments, the barrel flange clip may comprise a means of detecting
10 the presence of a barrel flange. The means of detecting the presence of said barrel flange
   may comprise an optical sensor and a light source. The light source may be obscured in the
   presence of said barrel flange.
   [0043]    In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure, a syringe pump for
   administering an agent to a patient may comprise a housing, a lead screw, and a plunger
15 head assembly operatively coupled to drive a plunger of a syringe into the barrel of a
   syringe with rotation of said lead screw. The syringe pump may further comprise at least
   one set of redundant sensors. The redundant sensors may be configured such that if part of a
   set of redundant sensors is compromised, the syringe pump may function in a fail operative
   mode for at least the duration of a therapy. One or more of the set of redundant sensors are
20 configured to monitor the volume being infused.
   [0044]    In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure, a syringe pump for
   administering an agent to a patient may comprise a housing and a syringe barrel holder
   which may be movable between a first position and a second position. The syringe barrel
   holder may be biased by a bias member to either the first position or the second position.
25 The syringe pump may further comprise a syringe barrel contacting member. The barrel
   contacting member may be coupled to said syringe barrel holder and configured to hold the
   syringe in place on the housing. The syringe pump may further comprise a detector capable
   of sensing the position of the syringe barrel holder and generating position data based on the
   position of the syringe barrel holder. When a syringe is in place on said housing, the syringe
30 barrel holder may be biased such that the syringe is held in place on said housing. The
   position data generated by said detector may be indicative of at least one characteristic of
   the syringe and evaluated to determine said characteristic.
   [0045]    In some embodiments the detector may be a linear potentiometer.
                                                  7

                                                                         Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [0046]     In some embodiments, the detector may be a magnetic linear position sensor.
   [0047]     In some embodiments, the syringe barrel holder may be configured to be locked in
   at least one of the first position and second position.
   [0048]     In some embodiments, the bias member may cause the syringe barrel holder to
 5 automatically adjust to the size of the syringe.
   [0049]     In some embodiments, position data generated by the detector may be referenced
   against a database to determine the at least one characteristic of the syringe.
   [0050]     In some embodiments, the position data generated by the detector may be
   referenced against a database and data from at least one other sensor to determine the at
10 least one characteristic of the syringe.
   [0051]     In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure, a method of
   administering an agent to a patient via a syringe pump may comprise defining one or a
   number of parameters for an infusion through an interface of the syringe pump. The method
   may further comprise referencing said parameters against a medical database and placing
15 restrictions on further parameters to be defined through the interface of the syringe pump.
   One of the further parameters may be an end of infusion behavior to be executed by the
   syringe pump after a volume to be infused has been infused. The method may further
   comprise infusing said agent to said patient in accordance with the defined parameters for
   infusion and executing the specified end of infusion behavior.
20 [0052]     In some embodiments, the end of infusion behavior may be selected from a list
   consisting of: stopping an infusion, infusing at a keep vein open rate, and continuing to
   infuse at the rate of the finished infusion.
   [0053]     In some embodiments, referencing parameters against a database and placing
   restrictions on further parameters may comprise referencing the agent against the database.
25 [0054]     In accordance with one embodiment of the present disclosure, a syringe pump
   includes a housing, a syringe seat, and a bumper. The syringe seat is coupled to the housing.
   The bumper is coupled to the housing adjacent to the syringe seat. The bumper may at least
   partially surround a corner of the syringe seat.
   [0055]     In another embodiment of the present disclosure, a syringe pump includes a
30 housing, a syringe seat, and a power supply. The syringe seat is coupled to the housing. The
   power supply is coupled to the housing such that the housing is configured as a heat sink for
   the power supply. The syringe pump may include a motor, and the motor may be coupled
                                                    8

                                                                         Attorney Docket: L50WO
   to the housing such that the housing is a heat sink for the motor. The housing may be die
   casted. The housing may comprise at least one metal and/or may be a unitary body.
   [0056]     In another embodiment of the present disclosure, a syringe pump includes a user
   interface, an antenna, and a split-ring resonator. The user interface has a front side and a
 5 backside.    The antenna is disposed on the back side of the user interface.      The split-ring
   resonator is disposed in spaced relation to the user interface and is configured to operate
   with the antenna.
   [0057]     The user interface may include a touchscreen sensor. The split-ring resonator may
   be disposed on a backside of the touchscreen sensor.             A frame may surround the
10 touchscreen sensor that has a gap such that the frame defines the split-ring resonator. A
   dielectric may be disposed within the gap.
   [0058]     In another embodiment of the present disclosure, a syringe pump includes a
   housing, a lead screw, a motor, a rotary position sensor, a sliding block assembly, a linear
   position sensor, and one or more processors. The lead screw is rotatable within the housing.
15 The motor is operatively coupled to the lead screw and is configured to rotate the lead
   screw.    The motor has an integral motor rotation sensor configured to provide a motor
   rotation signal. The rotary position sensor is operatively coupled to the motor or the lead
   screw to provide a rotation signal. The rotary position sensor may be a magnetic encoder
   sensor. The sliding block assembly is configured to engage with the lead screw to actuate
20 the sliding block assembly along the lead screw in accordance with rotation of the lead
   screw. The linear position sensor is operatively coupled to the sliding block assembly and
   is configured to provide a linear position signal. The one or more processors are configured
   to control rotation of the motor.  The one or more processors operatively receive the motor
   rotation signal from the integral motor rotation sensor of the motor, the rotation signal from
25 the rotary position sensor, and the linear position signal from the linear position sensor. The
   one or more processors are configured to determine if a discrepancy exists among the motor
   rotation signal, the rotation signal, and the linear position signal.        The one or more
   processors may be further configured to continue an infusion treatment by ignoring an
   inoperative one of the integral motor rotation sensor, the rotary position sensor, and a linear
30 position sensor.
   [0059]     In another embodiment of the present disclosure, a syringe pump includes a
   housing, a lead screw, a sliding block assembly, a plunger, and first and second pivotal jaw
   members. The lead screw is rotatable within the housing. The sliding block assembly is
                                                   9

                                                                         Attorney Docket: L50WO
   configured for engaging with the lead screw to move along the lead screw in accordance
   with rotation of the lead screw. The plunger head assembly is coupled to the sliding block
   assembly and is configured to drive a plunger of a syringe into a barrel of the syringe. The
   first and second pivotal jaw members are each pivotally coupled to the plunger head
 5 assembly. The first and second pivotal jaw members are configured to pivot toward each
   other to retain a plunger flange of the syringe.     The first pivotal jaw member and/or the
   second pivotal jaw member includes a bend.
   [0060]    The syringe pump may further include a dial coupled to the sliding block
   assembly. The dial may be operatively coupled to the first and second pivotal jaw members
10 to pivotally actuate the first and second pivotal jaw members. The pump may include a bias
   member configured to bias the dial in a direction of rotation. The bias member may be
   configured to automatically return the first and second pivotal jaw members to a position
   away from each other. The bias member may be configured to automatically return the first
   and second pivotal jaw members to a position toward each other.
15 [0061]    In another embodiment, a syringe pump includes a housing, a syringe seat coupled
   to the housing, and a retaining finger.     The retaining finger is pivotally coupled to the
   housing and is configured to rotate toward a syringe disposed within the syringe seat to
   retain the syringe.
   [0062]    In another embodiment of the present disclosure, a method is provided for
20 removing the effects of slack in a syringe pump having a syringe loaded on the syringe
   pump. The syringe has a barrel and a plunger disposed within the barrel.           The method
   includes the acts of: receiving a target flow rate of the syringe loaded on the syringe pump;
   determining a therapy actuation speed corresponding to the target flow rate; actuating the
   plunger of the syringe out of the barrel at a first predetermined speed until a force sensor
25 coupled to the plunger measures a force that is less than a first predetermined force
   threshold; actuating the plunger of the syringe into the barrel at a second predetermined
   speed greater than the therapy actuation speed until the force sensor coupled to the plunger
   measures a force that exceeds a second predetermined threshold; and actuating the plunger
   of the syringe into the barrel at the therapy actuation speed. The therapy actuation speed
30 may correspond to the target flow rate when there is no slack in the syringe pump or the
   syringe. The method may further include the acts of: estimating a volume discharged
   starting from the position of the plunger when the second predetermined threshold was
                                                  10

                                                                         Attorney Docket: L50WO
   exceeded; and/or stopping the syringe pump when the estimated volume discharged is equal
   to or exceeds a target delivery volume.
   [0063]    In another embodiment of the present disclosure, a method is provided for
   removing the effects of slack in a syringe pump having a syringe loaded on the syringe
 5 pump.    The syringe has a barrel and a plunger disposed within the barrel.        The method
   includes the acts of: receiving a target flow rate of the syringe loaded on the syringe pump;
   determining a therapy actuation speed corresponding to the target flow rate; actuating the
   plunger of the syringe out of the barrel at a first predetermined speed until a force sensor
   coupled to the plunger measures a force that is less than a first predetermined force
10 threshold or the plunger travels out of the barrel by a first predetermined distance; actuating
   the plunger of the syringe into the barrel at a second predetermined speed greater than the
   therapy actuation speed until the force sensor coupled to the plunger measures a force that
   exceeds a second predetermined threshold or the plunger travels into the barrel by a second
   predetermined distance; and actuating the plunger of the syringe into the barrel at the
15 therapy actuation speed.
   [0064]    The therapy actuation speed may correspond to the target flow rate when there is
   no slack in the syringe pump or the syringe. The method may further include the acts of:
   estimating a volume discharged starting from the position of the plunger when the second
   predetermined threshold was exceeded; stopping the syringe pump when the estimated
20 volume discharged is equal to or exceeds a target delivery volume; and/or using an alarm if
   the plunger traveled into the barrel by the second predetermined distance without the force
   sensor measuring a force that exceeds the second predetermined threshold.
   [0065]    In another embodiment of the present disclosure, a syringe pump includes a
   housing, a syringe seat, a lead screw, a motor, a sliding block assembly, a plunger head
25 assembly, and one or more processors. The syringe seat is coupled to the housing and is
   configured to retain a syringe having a barrel and a plunger disposed within the barrel. The
   lead screw is rotatable within the housing. The motor is coupled to the lead screw and is
   configured rotate the lead screw.      The sliding block assembly may be configured for
   engaging with the lead screw to move along the lead screw in accordance with rotation of
30 the lead screw. The plunger head assembly is coupled to the sliding block assembly and is
   configured to drive a plunger of a syringe into a barrel of the syringe. The plunger head
   assembly has a force sensor operatively coupled to the plunger of the syringe to measure a
   force of the plunger head assembly on the plunger of the syringe.             The one or more
                                                  11

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   processors are operatively coupled to the motor and are configured to control the rotation of
   the motor to thereby control actuation of the plunger head assembly.         The one or more
   processors are also operatively coupled to the force sensor to receive a measured force
   therefrom and are configured to: receive a target flow rate of the syringe loaded on the
 5 syringe pump; determine a therapy actuation speed corresponding to the target flow rate;
   command the motor to actuate the plunger of the syringe out of the barrel at a first
   predetermined speed until the force sensor coupled to the plunger measures a force that is
   less than a first predetermined force threshold; command the motor to actuate the plunger of
   the syringe into the barrel at a second predetermined speed greater than the therapy
10 actuation speed until the force sensor coupled to the plunger measures a force that exceeds a
   second predetermined threshold; and command the motor to actuate the plunger of the
   syringe into the barrel at the therapy actuation speed. The therapy actuation speed may
   correspond to the target flow rate when there is no slack in the syringe pump or the syringe.
   [0066]    The one or more processors may be configured to estimate a volume discharged
15 starting from the position of the plunger when the second predetermined threshold was
   exceeded.
   [0067]    The one or more processors may be further configured to stop the syringe pump
   when the estimated volume discharged is equal to or exceeds a target delivery volume.
   [0068]    In yet another embodiment of the present disclosure, a syringe pump includes a
20 housing, a syringe seat, a lead screw, a motor, a sliding block assembly, a plunger head
   assembly, and one or more processors. The syringe seat is coupled to the housing and is
   configured to retain a syringe having a barrel and a plunger disposed within the barrel. The
   lead screw is rotatable within the housing. The motor is coupled to the lead screw and is
   configured rotate the lead screw.      The sliding block assembly may be configured for
25 engaging with the lead screw to move along the lead screw in accordance with rotation of
   the lead screw. The plunger head assembly is coupled to the sliding block assembly and is
   configured to drive a plunger of a syringe into a barrel of the syringe. The plunger head
   assembly has a force sensor operatively coupled to the plunger of the syringe to measure a
   force of the plunger head assembly on the plunger of the syringe.            The one or more
30 processors are operatively coupled to the motor and are configured to control the rotation of
   the motor to thereby control actuation of the plunger head assembly.         The one or more
   processors are also operatively coupled to the force sensor to receive a measured force
   therefrom and are configured to: receive a target flow rate of the syringe loaded on the
                                                 12

                                                                      Attorney Docket: L50WO
   syringe pump; determine a therapy actuation speed corresponding to the target flow rate;
   command the motor to actuate the plunger of the syringe out of the barrel at a first
   predetermined speed until a force sensor coupled to the plunger measures a force that is less
   than a first predetermined force threshold or the plunger travels out of the barrel by a first
 5 predetermined distance; command the motor to actuate the plunger of the syringe into the
   barrel at a second predetermined speed greater than the therapy actuation speed until the
   force sensor coupled to the plunger measures a force that exceeds a second predetermined
   threshold or the plunger travels into the barrel by a second predetermined distance; and
   command the motor to actuate the plunger of the syringe into the barrel at the therapy
10 actuation speed. The therapy actuation speed may correspond to the target flow rate when
   there is no slack in the syringe pump or the syringe.
   [0069]    The one or more processors may be further configured to estimate a volume
   discharged starting from the position of the plunger when the second predetermined
   threshold was exceeded and/or to stop the syringe pump when the estimated volume
15 discharged is equal to or exceeds a target delivery volume
   [0070]    The one or more processors may be further configured to issue an alarm if the
   plunger traveled into the barrel by the second predetermined distance without the force
   sensor measuring a force that exceeds the second predetermined threshold.
   [0071]    The syringe pump described herein may further comprise a transceiver, and the
20 one or more processors are configured to communicate via the transceiver with a monitoring
   client.
   [0072]    In some embodiments, the syringe pump includes a Patient-controlled analgesia
   ("PCA") button to deliver at least one pain medication.
   [0073]    Some embodiments of the present disclosure include a system for securing the
25 syringe of a syringe pump to the side of the pump. The side loading mechanism includes a
   pump casing, a platform, a securing arm, and a force mechanism. The platform extends
   horizontally from the side of the pump casing when the pump is oriented for use. The
   securing arm is pivotally connected to the pump casing and to the force mechanism. The
   force mechanism creates a rotational force on the securing arm driving it into the platform,
30 or a syringe placed on the platform. The force mechanism may allow the securing arm to
   lock in an up position, removed from the syringe on the platform. A wire structure may be
   attached to the end of the securing arm opposite the axis of rotation in order to engage the
   syringe. The securing arm may apply between one and three pounds of force on the syringe.
                                                  13

                                                                         Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [0074]     In some embodiments, the force mechanism includes a second arm, a roller, and an
   engaging plate. A first end of the second arm is connected to the first arm. The roller is
   attached to the second arm at the end opposite the first. The engaging plate is positioned to
   be engaged by the second arms and create a force on the arm that translates to the rotational
 5 force in the connected securing arm.
   [0075]     In certain embodiments of the present disclosure, the engaging plate is connected
   to a pivot point at its first end and to a spring at its second end. When the second arm
   engages the plate, the force of the spring and the shape of the plate persuades the arm to
   rotate, ultimately resulting in the rotational force of the securing arm. A section of the
10 surface of the engaging plate engaged by the second arm may define a peak. The plate may
   also be sized to allow the second arm to sustain contact while rotated thirty five degrees.
   [0076]     In another embodiment of the present disclosure, the engaging plate is on a track
   allowing free movement on a plane substantially perpendicular to the surface engaged by
   the second arm. A spring urges the plate towards the engaged secondary arm. The shape of
15 the plate combined with the force of the spring persuades the arm to rotate, ultimately
   resulting in the rotational force of the securing arm. A section of the surface of the engaging
   plate engaged by the second arm may define a peak. The plate may also be sized to allow
   the second arm to sustain contact while rotated thirty degrees.
   [0077]     In yet another embodiment of the present disclosure, the force mechanism includes
20 a second arm and an engaging plate. The second arm comprises a first component connected
   to the securing arm, sharing its axis of rotation, and extending out substantially
   perpendicular to the pivot axis. A second component is attached to the first component at
   the end opposite the pivot and had the ability to slide towards and away from the pivot
   while its other movements remain uniform with the first component. A spring is connected
25 to the first and second components urging the two apart. A roller is attached to the second
   component at the end opposite the pivot. The engaging plate is positioned to be engaged by
   the roller and compress the spring, resulting in forces that persuade the second arm and
   attached securing arm to rotate. A section of the surface of the engaging plate engaged by
   the second arm may define a peak. The plate may also be sized to allow the second arm to
30 sustain contact while rotated five degrees.
   [0078]     In yet another embodiment of the present disclosure, the force mechanism includes
   a shaft, a first cam component, a second cam component, a spring, and a backstop. The shaft
   is pivitally connected to the securing arm having its longitudinal axis align with the securing
                                                   14

                                                                       Attorney Docket: L50WO
   arms axis of rotation. The first cam component is axially disposed around but not connected
   to the shaft. The first cam component is connected to and rotates with the securing arm A
   first end of the first cam component has a planar portion, a portion set back from the planar
   portion, and a portion merging the two portions with a taper. The second cam component is
 5 axially disposed around the shaft immediately next to the first cam but is not connected to
   the shaft. The second component has a fixed rotational orientation and the ability to slide
   back and forth on the shaft. The end of the second component abutting the first end of the
   first cam component mirrors the shape of the first component. The spring is disposed around
   the shaft immediately next to the second cam component on the side opposite the first
10 component. The backstop is positioned to compress the spring resulting in the spring
   forcing the second component towards the first.
   [0079]    In some embodiments a sensor may be used to sense the angle of the securing arm.
   This sensor may be a Halifax sensor. The data from the sensor may be used to determine
   what type of syringe is being used. The system may also use the sensor data along with
15 sensor data from a plunger driver sensor to determine what type of syringe is being used.
   [0080]    Certain embodiments of the present disclosure involve a method for securing the
   syringe of a syringe pump to the side of the pump. The method involves 1.) lifting a
   securing arm loaded with a downward force into a locked up position, 2.) placing a syringe
   onto a syringe holding ledge below the securing arm, and 3.) releasing the securing arm
20 from the locked position to engage the syringe with the force loaded on the securing arm. In
   some embodiments, the downwards force loaded onto the securing arm is created by a
   spring. In other embodiments, a sensor tracks the positions of the arm. The sensor may be a
   Halifax sensor. The position of the arm may be used to indicate the syringe is properly
   position or to determine the type of syringe being used. Data from a plunger sensor may be
25 used along with the position of the securing arm to determine the type of syringe being
   used.
   [0081]    Certain embodiments of the present disclosure use an apparatus for securing the
   syringe of a syringe pump to the side of the pump. The apparatus includes a pump casing, a
   platform, a securing arm, and a force mechanism. The platform projects out horizontally
30 from the side of the pump casing when the casing is positioned for use. The rotating
   securing arm has a first end operatively connected to the pump casing above the ledge. The
   force mechanism is attached to the securing arm and produces a rotational force on the
   securing arm driving the end of the securing arm opposite the pivot onto the top of the
                                                 15

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   ledge. The securing arm may have the ability to lock in an up position, removed from the
   ledge. The securing arm may also have a wire structure, configured to engage a syringe,
   connected at its second end. The securing arm may apply between one and three pounds of
   force on the syringe when in a securing position.
 5 [0082]    In some embodiments, the force mechanism may include a secondary arm, a roller,
   and an engaging plate. The second arm has a first end operatively attached to the secondary
   arm sharing its point of rotation. The roller is attached to the secondary arm at its opposing
   end. The engaging plate is positioned to engage the secondary arm with a force persuading
   the securing arm to rotate onto the top of the ledge.
10 [0083]    In specific embodiments, one end of the engaging plate is operatively attached to
   the pump casing by a pivoting connector and the opposite end is attached to a spring. The
   spring is configured to force the engaging plate towards the engaged second arm, creating
   the rotational force on the connected arms. A section of the surface of the engaging plate
   engaged by the second arm may define a peak. The plate may also be sized to allow the
15 second arm to sustain contact while rotated thirty degrees.
   [0084]    In other embodiments, the engaging plate has a free range of motion in a single
   direction with a spring imparting a force on the plate parallel to the range of motion. The
   spring urges the plate towards the engaged second arm, creating the rotational force on the
   arm. A section of the surface of the engaging plate engaged by the second arm may define a
20 peak. The plate may also be sized to allow the second arm to sustain contact while rotated
   thirty degrees.
   [0085]    In another embodiment of the present disclosure, the force mechanism includes a
   secondary arm and an engaging plate. The secondary arm comprises a first component
   connected to the securing arm, sharing its axis of rotation, and extending out substantially
25 perpendicular to the axis. A second component, connected to the first component at the end
   opposite the axis of rotation, having the freedom to move with respect to the first
   component's longitudinal axis. A spring urges the two components apart. A roller is
   connected to the end of the second component opposite the first component. The engaging
   plate is positioned to be engaged by the roller and compress the spring between the two
30 components creating a force that urges the secondary arm to rotate. A section of the surface
   of the engaging plate engaged by the second arm may define a peak. The plate may also be
   sized to allow the second arm to sustain contact while rotated thirty five degrees.
                                                  16

                                                                          Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [0086]     In another embodiment of the present disclosure, the force mechanism includes a
   shaft, a first cam component, a second cam component, a spring, and a backstop. The shaft
   is connected to the securing arm at its point of rotation aligning its the longitudinal axis with
   the securing arm's axis of rotation. The first cam component is axially disposed around but
 5 not connected to the shaft. The first cam component is connected to and rotates with the
   securing arm. A first end of the component has a planar portion, a portion set back from the
   planar portion, and a portion merging the two portions with a taper. The second cam
   component is also axially disposed around the shaft and positioned immediately next to the
   first end of the first cam. The second component is not connected to the shaft, it is held at a
10 fixed rotation position and able to slide up and down the shaft. The end of the second cam
   component abutting the first cam component mirrors the shape of the first component. The
   spring urges the second cam component against the first, having the ability to urge the first
   component and shaft to rotate depending on the orientation of the cams.
   [0087]     In some embodiments a sensor may be used to sense the angle of the securing arm.
15 This sensor may be a Halifax sensor. The data from the sensor may be used to determine
   what type of syringe is being used. The system may also use the sensor data along with
   sensor data from a plunger driver sensor to determine what type of syringe is being used.
   [0088]     In another embodiment of the present disclosure, a method is provided for
   mitigating lead screw runout. This method can be applied to a syringe pump that uses a lead
20 screw to control delivery of fluid from the syringe. The method includes: tracking the
   rotations of the lead screw using a rotary position sensor; tracking linear output of the lead
   screw using a linear position sensor; converting the rotary position data into distance output
   data, creating error data by comparing distance sensor data and the converted rotational
   data, estimating a phase and amplitude of the error data using a processor; and controlling
25 the output of the lead screw by incorporating the estimated deviations into the assumed
   direct relation of rotation to distance output of the lead screw. Estimating the phase and
   amplitude of runout may be accomplished by cross-correlating a sine and cosine wave with
   the deviation data. Prior to cross-correlating the sensor data, the data may be stored as a
   single value for every degree of lead screw rotation and filtered through a low pass filter.
30 Estimating the runout may include taking into account changes in the deviation amplitude
   when a displacement component of the lead screw nears and end of the threaded drive shaft.
   [0089]     The distance tracking sensor may be an optical mouse sensor. The data from the
   optical mouse sensor may be normalized before it is used to estimate a phase and amplitude
                                                  17

                                                                         Attorney Docket: L50WO
   in order to prevent sensor drift. The CIP data from the optical sensor may be normalized
   every ten degrees of lead screw rotation. The optical sensor may produce data in the range
   of 3000 CPI to 8200 CPI.
   [0090]    In another embodiment of the present disclosure, a system is provided for
 5 mitigating lead screw runout. The system includes a distance sensor, a rotation sensor, a
   processor, and a controller. The distance sensor has the ability to track linear changes in
   distance and is configured to track the changes of a lead screw mechanism output distance
   and create distance data. The rotational sensor has the ability to track rotational changes of a
   shaft, and is configured to track rotations of the lead screw driveshaft and create rotational
10 data. The rotational sensor may be a Halifax sensor. The processor converts the rotational
   data into estimated distance output data and compares that to the distance data of the
   distance sensor. The processor then estimates the amplitude and phase of the difference
   between the distance sensor data and the estimated distance data from the rotational sensor.
   The amplitude and phase may be estimated by cross-correlating a sine and a cosine wave
15 with the distance sensor data. The processor may estimate runout deviation using data from
   only the previous four rotations. The processor may also filter the distance data to a single
   value for every rotational degree. In some instances, the processor may not estimate the
   phase and amplitude of the runout deviation until it has received one hundred and eighty
   degrees of data. The controller controls the output of the lead screw using the rotational
20 sensor to create a linear distance output and incorporating the estimated amplitude and
   phase of the deviations to account for lead screw runout. The controller may assume a
   decrease in the amplitude of runout deviation when the halfnut nears an end of the lead
   screw.
   [0091]    The distance tracking sensor may be an optical mouse sensor. The data from the
25 optical mouse sensor may be normalized before it is used to estimate a phase and amplitude
   in order to prevent sensor drift. The CIP data from the optical sensor may be normalized
   every ten degrees of lead screw rotation. The optical sensor may produce data in the range
   of 3000 CPI to 8200 CPI.
   [0092]    In another embodiment of the present disclosure, an apparatus is provided for
30 supplying an infusion pump with DC power. The apparatus includes a power supply, a
   power entry module, and an outlet adapter. The power entry module is connected to an
   infusion pump and is configured to receive current from the power supply and supply the
   pump with power. The power supply comprises an AC to DC conversion module, a AC in
                                                 18

                                                                         Attorney Docket: L50WO
   jack configured to receive AC current and supply the AC side of the conversion module,
    and a DC out jack configured to receive DC current from the conversion module and output
    DC current. The power supply is configured to be removable from the power entry module.
    The outlet adapter is in electrical communication with the AC in jack of the power supply,
 5  and is configured to plug into a wall outlet and supply power to the power source. A
    processor may be used to monitor power needs of the pump and adjust the output of the
    power source based on the pumps needs.
    [0093]     When attached, the power supply may be located on the top, bottom, back, or side
    of the infusion pump. The display of the pump may be biased towards the side of the pump
10  in which the power supply is located when attached.
    [0094]    An AC in cord may be used to connect the outlet adapter and the AC in jack of the
    power supply. The power supply may have a spooling structure attached to it outside which
    is configured to have the AC in cord wrapped around it when the cord is not plugged into
    the wall. The power supply may also have a port configured to receive the outlet adapter
15  once the cord has been wrapped around the spooling structure. The power supply may also
    incorporate a mechanism that automatically reels in the cord when commanded by a user.
    [0095]    A DC out cord may be used to connect the DC out jack of the power supply to the
    power entry module. The DC out cord may be removable from the power entry module.
    [0096]     The power entry module may be configured to attach to a rack, making the rack or
20  power supply interchangeable.
    [0097]     In some instances, the power supply may be attached to a pole on which pumps it
    is supplying power to are mounted.
    [0098]     The power supply may also include a batter having a negative terminal in
    electrical communication with the DC out jack of the power supply and the positive
25  terminal in electrical communication with the power entry module. A processor and an
    electric circuit may also be included. The processor and electric circuit will be configured to
    charge the battery when the power supply is receiving AC power and discharge the battery
    when no AC power is being received.
    [0099]     In some embodiments, the power supply will need to be removed from the pump
30  in order to attach the pump to a poll.
    [00100] In another embodiment of the present disclosure, a system is provided for
    providing power to an infusion pump. The system comprising a power supply and a pump.
    The pump includes a DC in jack (hereinafter also referred to as a DC in port). The power
                                                  19

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   supply comprises an AC to DC converter, an AC in port (hereinafter also referred to as an
   AC in jack), and a DC out port, and is configured to supply the pump with power through
   the DC in jack. The power supply may have the ability to be removed from the pump.
   [00101] The DC out port of the power supply may connect directly into the DC in jack of
 5 the pump, securing the power supply to the pump. The power supply may be located on the
   top, bottom, side, or back of the pump when attached.
   [00102] A power out cord may be used to connect the DC out port of the power module
   with the DC in jack on the pump, putting the two in electrical communication. For instances
   when the power supply is connected to the pump by a cord, a holster configured to hold the
10 power supply maybe mounted on the pump.
   [00103] A power in corn may connected to the AC in port of the power supply to a wall
   outlet adapter, putting the two in electrical communication. The power in cord may be
   removable from the power supply. The power supply may include a spooling structure
   configured to have the power in wire wrapped around it. The power supply may also
15 include a port configured to receive the wall outlet adapter once the cord is wound up.
   [00104] A power supply may be configured to power multiple pumps. The power supply
   may be coupled to a pole on which a pump is mounted. The DC jack of the pump may be
   configured to attach the pump to a rack when the power source is not attached.
   [00105] The power supply may include a battery configured to be charged by the power
20 supply when current is flowing into the AC port, and supply power to the DC out port when
   no power is flowing into the AC in port. The AC port of the power supply has to receive
   current and convert it to the DC current before charging the battery.
   [00106] In another embodiment, a syringe pump includes a body, a motor, a lead screw, a
   syringe seat, and a plunger head assembly. The syringe seat may be configured to slope
25 toward an angle down. The motor is operatively coupled to the body. The lead screw is
   operatively coupled to the motor, and the motor is configured to actuate the lead screw. The
   plunger head assembly includes a dial, a plunger tube, a plunger head, and a half-nut
   assembly.   The dial has a fully open position and a fully closed position. The dial is
   configured to actuate between the fully open position and the fully closed position. The
30 plunger tube is configured to slideably engage with the body.            The plunger head is
   operatively coupled to the plunger tube.      The half-nut assembly is configured to engage
   the lead screw when the dial is actuated by a predetermined amount from the fully open
                                                 20

                                                                         Attorney Docket: L50WO
   position toward the fully closed position.    The predetermined amount may be less than a
   halfway actuation position between the fully open position and the fully closed position.
   [00107] The plunger head assembly may include two pivotable jaw members configured to
   grasp onto a syringe positioned within the syringe seat. The dial may be configured to
 5 actuate the pivotal jaw members into an open position.
   [00108] The syringe pump may further includes a shaft operatively coupled to the dial such
   that the shaft and dial are configured so that actuation of the dial actuates the shaft. A cam
   may be coupled to the shaft.     A rocker arm may be pivotally coupled to the plunger head
   assembly. The rocker arm may have a cam follower configured to engage the cam. One or
10 more pivotable jaw members may be operatively coupled to the rocker arm.
   [00109] The syringe pump may further includes first and second gears. The first gear is
   coupled to the rocker arm and the pivotable jaw member. The second gear is coupled to
   another pivotable jaw member. The first and second gears are configured to engage each
   other and to grasp onto a syringe disposed within the syringe seat. The cam and rocker arm
15 may be configured such that addition actuation of the dial toward the closed position when
   the pivotable jaw members grasp onto the syringe causes the cam follower to disengage
   from the cam. A spring may urge the cam follower of the rocker arm toward the cam. The
   cam may include a detent configured to hold the cam in the detent until a predetermined
   amount of torque is applied to the dial to urge the dial toward the closed position.        The
20 plunger head may a shaft having a rod actuator coupled thereto.          The plunger tube may
   include a rod and the rod is coupled to a link within the plunger head.            The half-nut
   assembly further comprises a linear cam and the rod may be operatively coupled to the
   linear cam.
   [00110] The half-nut assembly may further include first and second half-nut arms each
25 having a first end and a second end. The first ends of the first and second half-nut arms are
   configured to engage with the leadscrew.        The first and second half-nut arms may be
   pivotally coupled together. The second ends of the first and second half-nut arms may be
   configured to engage with the linear cam such that actuation of the linear cam toward the
   half-nut assembly causes the second ends of the first and second half-nut arms to pivotally
30 approach each other.     The first ends of the first and second half-nut arms each includes
   threads configured to engage the leadscrew when the second ends of the first and second
   half-nut arms approach each other.
                                                  21

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [00111]         In another embodiment, a syringe pump includes a body, a motor, a lead
   screw, a syringe seat, and a plunger head assembly. The motor is operatively coupled to the
   body. The lead screw is operatively coupled to the motor and is configured to actuate the
   lead screw. The plunger head assembly includes a dial, a plunger tube, a plunger head
 5 assembly, and a half-nut assembly. The dial has a fully open position and a fully closed
   position. The dial is configured to actuate between the fully open position and the fully
   closed position. The plunger tube is configured to slideably engage with the body. The
   plunger head is operatively coupled to the plunger tube.           The half-nut assembly is
   configured to engage the lead screw when the dial is actuated by at least a predetermined
10 amount from the fully open position toward the fully closed position.            The half-nut
   assembly includes first and second half-nut arms pivotally coupled together and configured
   to engage with the lead screw.
   [00112] In another embodiment, a system for securing a syringe to a syringe pump includes
   a pump casing, a platform, a pivotal securing arm, a force mechanism, and a display. The
15 platform (a syringe seat) extends horizontally from a side of the casing.         The pivotal
   securing arm is configured to engage a syringe resting on the platform.              The force
   mechanism is connected to the arm and is configured to apply a rotational force to the arm
   which results in a downward force applied to the syringe. The display may be coupled to a
   side of the casing. The display may further include a power button, an alarm silence button,
20 and/or a menu button. A monitoring client may be provided that is configured to at least
   one of receive data from the syringe pump or control the syringe pump as described herein.
   The monitoring client may be a tablet computer.
   [00113]         A method for discharging fluid from a syringe and for mitigating occlusion
   conditions includes actuating the plunger of a syringe into a barrel. The method monitors
25 fluid pressure within the barrel of the syringe and determines that an occlusion exists when
   the fluid pressure exceeds a predetermined threshold. The method actuates the plunger out
   of the barrel by a predetermined amount in response to the detected occlusion and actuates
   the plunger of the syringe into the barrel until a measured fluid pressure within the barrel of
   the syringe exceeds another predetermined threshold.
30 [00114] In accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure, a system for securing
   a syringe to a syringe pump may include having a pump casing, a platform extending
   horizontally from a side of the casing, a pivotal securing arm configured to engage a syringe
   resting on the platform, and a force mechanism, connected to the securing arm. The force
                                                  22

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   mechanism may be configured to apply a rotational force to the securing arm which results
   in a downward force applied to the syringe.
   [00115] In some embodiments of the system, the force mechanism may include a second
   arm having a first end connected to the securing arm and an opposite second end. In some
 5 embodiments, a roller may be attached to the second arm at the second end. An engaging
   plate configured to engage the roller and urge the second arm in a direction that creates the
   rotational force in the connected securing arm may be included.
   [00116] In some embodiments, such a system may include a first end of the engaging plate
   connected to a pivot point and an opposite second end attached to a bias member. The bias
10 member may be configured to create a force that urges the second arm. The bias member
   may be a spring.
   [00117] In some embodiments, a surface of the engaging plate engaged by the second arm
   may define a peak. The plate may be sized to allow the second arm to sustain contact while
   rotated at least thirty degrees. The engaging plate may be configured to move freely in a
15 plane substantially perpendicular to a surface engaged by the second arm. A bias member
   urging the engaging plate towards the second arm may be included. The engaging plate may
   be oriented to create a force that urges the second arm. A surface of the engaging plate
   engaged by the second arm may define a peak. The engaging plate may be sized to allow
   the second arm to sustain contact with the engaging plate while rotated substantially at least
20 thirty degrees.
   [00118] In some embodiments, the force mechanism may include a second arm connected
   to a securing arm. A first component having a first end connected to the securing arm and
   an opposite second end may be included. A second component attached to the first
   component at its second end may be included. The second component may be configured to
25 move back and forth with regard to a longitudinal axis of the first component while
   movements in other directions are in tandem with movement of the first component. A bias
   member connected to the first and second components urging the two apart may be
   included. A roller attached to an end of the second component opposite the first component
   may be included. An engaging plate positioned to be engaged by the roller thereby
30 imparting a force on the second arm that creates the rotational force in the securing arm may
   be included. A surface of the engaging plate engaged by the second arm may define a peak.
   The engaging plate may be sized to allow the second arm to sustain contact with the
   engaging plate while rotated substantially at least thirty degrees.
                                                 23

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [00119]    In some embodiments, the force mechanism may include a shaft attached to the
   securing arm wherein a longitudinal axis of the shaft is coaxial with an axis of rotation of
   the securing arm. A first cam component disposed around the shaft configured to rotate with
   the securing arm may be included. A first end of the component may have a planar portion,
 5 a portion set back from the planar portion, and a taper portion merging the two portions with
   a taper. A second cam component disposed around the shaft adjacent to the first end of the
   first cam component may be included. The component may have a fixed rotational
   orientation and an ability to translate back and forth on the shaft. An end of the second cam
   component abutting the first cam component may mirror the shape of the first cam
10 component. A bias member may be disposed around the shaft adjacent to the second cam
   component on a side opposite the first cam component. A backstop positioned to bias the
   bias member and translate a force of the bias member to urge the second cam component
   towards the first may be included. The taper portions of the cams may be tapered at about a
   forty five degree angle with respect to the planar portion. Each cam component may have
15 two tapered sections.
   [00120] In some embodiments, the force mechanism may be configured to allow the
   securing arm to lock in an up position, removed from the syringe on the platform.
   [00121] Some embodiments may further comprise a wire structure connected to an end of
   the securing arm opposite an axis of rotation. The wire structure may be configured to
20 engage a syringe when the arm is rotated down.
   [00122] In some embodiments, the securing arm may apply between about one and about
   three pounds of force on a syringe when in a securing position. Some embodiments may
   further comprise a sensor configured to track an angle of the securing arm. The sensor may
   be a hall effect sensor. Data from the sensor may be used to determine one or more
25 characteristic of the syring. In some embodiments, data from the sensor, in conjunction with
   data from a plunger driver sensor, may be used to determine one or more characteristic of
   the syringe.
   [00123] In accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure, a method for
   securing a syringe to a syringe pump includes: Overcoming a bias force by displacing a
30 securing arm to a first, locked position;, placing a syringe onto a syringe holding platform
   below the securing arm, and releasing the securing arm from the first position to thereby
   secure the syringe with securing arm via the bias force.
                                                  24

                                                                       Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [00124] In some embodiments, the bias force may be created by a spring. Some
   embodiments may further include sensing the position of the securing arm.               Some
   embodiments of the method may include alerting a user if the securing arm is not properly
   securing the syringe based on the position of the securing arm. Some embodiments of the
 5 method may further include determining at least one characteristic of the syringe using data
   gleaned from sensing the position of the securing arm. Some embodiments may further
   include using a processor to determining the fluid flow based on change in position of a
   plunger of the syringe in conjunction with the determined at least one characteristic of the
   syringe. Some embodiments may include using data from a plunger driving arm in
10 conjunction with a position of the securing arm to determine at least one characteristic of
   the syringe.  Some embodiments of the method may further include using a processor to
   determining the fluid flow based on change in position of a plunger in the syringe in
   conjunction with the determined at least one characteristic of the syringe. In some
   embodiments a Hall effect sensor is used to sense the position of the securing arm.
15 [00125] In accordance with another embodiment of the present disclosure, an apparatus for
   securing a syringe to a syringe pump may include a pump casing having a top, bottom, and
   two sides; a platform projecting out horizontally from a side of the pump casing; a rotating
   securing arm having a first end attached to the pump casing above the platform and an
   opposite second end configured to engage a top of the platform in a rotational position of
20 the securing arm; and a force mechanism attached to the securing arm. The force
   mechanism may be configured to produce a rotational force on the securing arm to thereby
   urge the second end towards the top of the platform, in some embodiments, the force
   mechanism may include a secondary arm having a first end operatively attached to the
   securing arm sharing its axis of rotation and an opposite second end. A roller attached to the
25 secondary arm at the second end wherein the roller extends past the second end of the
   secondary arm may be included. An engaging plate configured to engage the roller with a
   force that causes the second arm to rotate in a direction that translates to the downward
   force of the securing arm may be included. A first end of the engaging plate may be
   operatively attached to the pump casing by a pivoting connector. A second end of the
30 engaging plate may be operatively attached to a bias member. The bias member may urge
   the engaging plate towards the engaged second arm thereby creating a force inducing the
   second arm to rotate. A surface of the engaging plate which may be engaged by the second
   arm may define a peak. The engaging plate may be sized to allow the second arm to sustain
                                                 25

                                                                         Attorney Docket: L50WO
   contact with a the engaging plate while rotated substantially at least thirty degrees. The
   engaging plate may have a linear free range of motion on a single plane in one degree of
   freedom. A bias member may impart a force on the engaging plate, at least a component of
   the force may be in the direction of the range of motion. The bias member may urge the
 5 engaging plate towards the engaged second arm, to thereby create induce the second arm to
   rotate. A section of a surface of the engaging plate engaged by the second arm may define a
   peak. The engaging plate may be sized to allow the second arm to sustain contact with a
   portion of the engaging plate while the second arm is rotated substantially at least thirty
   degrees. In some embodiments, the force mechanism may include a secondary arm
10 operatively attached to the securing arm such that it shares its axis of rotation. The second
   arm may include a first component having a first end connected to the securing arm and a
   second end extending from the first end and oriented substantially perpendicular to the axis
   of rotation. A second component having a first end connected to the second end of the first
   component and an opposite second end may be included. The second component may have
15 a single degree of freedom to move, but otherwise be constrained to movement in tandem
   with the first component. A bias member having a first portion attached to the first
   component and a second portion attached to the second component may be included. The
   bias member may be configured to impart a biasing force biasing the first component and
   second component apart from one another. A roller attached to the second end of the second
20 component may be included. The roller may extend past the second end of the second
   component. An engaging plate configured to be engaged by the roller to thereby compress
   the bias member and thereby generate the rotational force translated to the securing arm
   may be included.
   [00126] In some embodiments, a surface of the engaging plate engaged by the second arm
25 may define a peak. The engaging plate may be sized to allow the second arm to sustain
   contact with a portion of the engaging plate while the second arm is rotated substantially at
   least thirty degrees.
   [00127] In some embodiments, the force mechanism may include a shaft attached to the
   securing arm such that it shares it axis of rotation and having its longitudinal axis align with
30 the axis of rotation. A first cam component disposed around the shaft configured to rotate
   with the securing arm may be included. A first end of the component may have a planar
   portion, a portion set back from the planar portion, and a taper portion merging the two
   portions with a taper. A second cam component disposed around the shaft adjacent to the
                                                   26

                                                                      Attorney Docket: L50WO
   first end of the first cam component may be included. The component may have a fixed
   rotational orientation and the ability to translate back a forth on the shaft. An end of the
   component abutting the first cam component may mirror the shape of the first cam
   component. A bias member configured to urge the second cam component towards the first
 5 cam component may be included.
   [00128] In some embodiments, the force mechanism may be configured to allow the
   securing arm to lock in an up position, in which the securing arm does not contact the
   platform. A wire structure connected the second end of the securing arm, configured to
   engage a syringe when the arm is rotated to a securing position may be included. The
10 securing arm may apply between about 1 and about 3 pounds of force on a syringe when in
   a securing position. A sensor configured to sense the angle of the securing arm may be
   included. The sensor may be a hall effect sensor. Data from the sensor may be used to
   determine at least one characteristic of the syringe. In some embodiments, data from the
   sensor in conjunction with data from a plunger driver sensor may be used to determine one
15 or more characteristic of the syringe.
   [00129] According to an embodiment of the present disclosure, an apparatus to supply an
   infusion pump with DC power may include at least one power entry module connected to a
   housing of an infusion pump, configured to receive DC current from a power supply and
   supply an infusion pump with power. The module may hav a port configured to receive
20 current. The power supply may be configured to be removably attached to the power entry
   module creating electrical communication between the power supply and the power entry
   module when attached. The power supply may include an AC to DC conversion module
   configured to convert AC current to DC current and supply the pump with current of a
   constant voltage. An AC in jack configured to receive AC current and supply an AC side of
25 the conversion module may be included. A DC out jack configured to receive DC current
   from the conversion module and output DC current may be included. An outlet adapter in
   electrical communication with the AC in jack of the power supply, configured to plug into
   an AC wall outlet to thereby supply the AC in jack with AC current may be included. The
   power supply, when attached, may be located on any one of a top, a bottom, a back, or a
30 side of the infusion pump. A display may be disposed proximal to the location of the power
   supply when the power supply is attached. An AC in cord (hereinafter also referred to as a
   power cord) may connect the outlet adapter to the AC in jack of the power supply. The AC
   in cord may be removable from the power supply. A spooling structure attached to an
                                                 27

                                                                      Attorney Docket: L50WO
   outside of the power supply configured to have the power cord wrapped around it when the
   cord is not plugged in may be included. The power supply may include a port configured to
   receive the outlet adapter once the cord has been wrapped around the spooling structure. An
   enclosed reel configured to automatically reel the power cord up when commanded by a
 5 user may be included. A DC out cord to connected the DC out jack of the power supply to
   the power entry module, creating electrical communication between the two may be
   included. The DC out cord may be removable from the power entry module. The power
   entry module may be configured to attach to a rack, making the rack or power supply
   interchangeable. Connecting the power supply to the power entry module may secure the
10 power supply to the pump. The power supply may be configured to supply multiple pumps
   with power. Multiple DC out cords configured to connect the DC out jack of the power
   supply to the power entry modules of the multiple pumps, creating electrical communication
   between the power supply and the pumps may be included.          The power supply may be
   mounted on a pole on which pumps it is supplying power to are also mounted. A battery
15 having a negative terminal operatively connected to the DC out jack of the power supply
   and the positive terminal operatively connected to the power entry module may be included.
   A processor and an electric circuit configured to charge the battery when the power supply
   is receiving AC current and discharge the battery when no AC current is being received may
   be included. In some embodiments, the power supply must be removed from the pump in
20 order to attach the pump to a pole. A processor to monitor power needs of the pump and
   adjust an output of the power source based on those needs may be included. The conversion
   module may regulate a voltage and a current of the electricity entering the pump. In some
   embodiments, the pole may include a power supply and one or more attachment features for
   attaching an infusion pump to the pole.
25 [00130] In accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure, a system for
   providing DC power to an infusion pump may include a pump, including a DC in jack and a
   power supply configured to supply the pump with power through the DC in jack. The power
   supply may be removable from the pump. The pump may include an AC to DC converter,
   an AC in adapter, a DC out adapter, and an AC outlet adapter configured to plug into an AC
30 outlet being in communication with with the AC in adapter of the power supply. The DC
   out adapter of the power supply may connect directly into the DC in jack of the pump,
   securing the power supply to the pump and creating electrical communication between the
   power supply and DC out adapter. The attached power supply may be located on any one of
                                                 28

                                                                         Attorney Docket: L50WO
    a back, a side, a top, and a bottom of the pump. The power supply may further comprise an
    DC out cord configured to connect the DC out adapter of the power module to the DC in
   jack of the pump thereby creating electrical communication between the two. The pump
    may include a holster configured to secure the AC to DC converter of the power supply to
 5  the pump. An AC in cord having a first end configured to connect to the AC in port of the
   power supply and a second end having a wall outlet adapter may be included. The AC in
    cord may be removable from the power supply. The power supply may further comprises a
    spooling mechanism for wrapping up the AC in cord. The spooling structure may be
    configured to have the AC in cord wrapped around it by a user. The power supply may
10  include a port configured to receive the wall outlet adapter once the cord is wound up. A
    single power supply may be configured to power multiple pumps. The power supply may be
    capable of being coupled to the pole, the pole including at least one attachment feature for
    an infusion pump. The DC in jack of the pump may be configured to secure the pump to a
    rack and receive current from the rack when the power source is not attached. The power
15  supply may include a battery configured to be charged by the power supply when current is
    flowing into the AC in port, and supply power to the DC out port when no current is
    flowing into the AC in port.
    [00131] In accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure a method for
    mitigating lead screw runout error may include tracking the rotations of a lead screw using a
20  rotary position sensor. The method may include tracking distance output of a lead screw
    mechanism using a linear position sensor. The method may include converting the rotary
   position sensor output to a linear displacement output of the lead screw mechanism. The
    method may include creating error data by determining the difference between data from the
    linear position sensor and converted data from the rotary position sensor. The method may
25  include estimating, based on the error data, a phase and amplitude of deviations from an
    assumed direct relation of rotations to distance output of the lead screw mechanism, using a
   processor. The method may include controlling, with a controller, the output of the lead
    screw mechanism. The controller may compensate for the estimated devaitions.
    [00132] In some embodiments, the linear position sensor may be an optical mouse sensor.
30  The optical mouse sensor may output data at a frequency of about 3000 CPI to about 8200
    CPI. The method may further comprise normalizing the optical mouse sensor data prior to
    estimating a phase and amplitude to thereby mitigate sensor drift. Normalizing the optical
    mouse sensor data may involve recalibrating the optical mouse sensor CPI every ten degrees
                                                  29

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   of rotation of the lead screw. Estimating the phase and amplitude may involve cross
   correlating a sine and cosine wave with the deviation data. The method may further
   comprise storing the error data for a single degree of lead screw rotation into one value prior
   to cross-correlation. The estimating step may take into account a change in the deviation
 5 amplitude when a displacement component of the lead screw nears an end of the lead
   screw's threaded driveshaft. The rotary position sensor may be a hall effect sensor. The
   phase and amplitude of runout deviation may be estimated using data from only four
   previous rotations of the lead screw. The method may further comprise filtering the error
   data prior to estimating its phase and amplitude. The error data may be filtered using a low
10 pass filter.
   [00133] In accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure, a system for
   mitigating lead screw runout may include a linear position sensor configured to track a
   distance output of a lead screw mechanism and generate distance data. A rotary position
   sensor configured to track rotations of the lead screw and generate rotational data may be
15 included. A processor may be include. The processor may be configured to convert the
   rotational data into converted distance output of the lead screw mechanism. The processor
   may be configured to create error data by determining the difference between the converted
   rotational data and the distance data. The processor may be configured to estimate the
   amplitude and phase of the error data. A controller configured to control the distance output
20 of the lead screw mechanism may be included. The controller may compensate for the phase
   and amplitude of the error data.
   [00134] In some embodiments, the linear position sensor may be an optical mouse sensor.
   The optical mouse sensor may output data at a frequency of 3000 CPI to 8200 CPI. The
   distance data, prior to creating the error data, may be normalized to account for drift. The
25 distance data may be normalized by the processor every ten degrees of lead screw rotation.
   The phase and amplitude of the error data may be estimated by cross correlating a sine and a
   cosine wave with the error data. The rotation sensor may be a hall effect sensor. The
   controller may assume a decrease in error data amplitude when a half nut of the lead screw
   mechanism nears an end of the lead screw. The phase and amplitude of the error data may
30 be estimated using error data from only the four previous rotations. Distance data may be
   filtered to a single value for every rotational degree of lead screw displacement. The
   processor may not estimate the phase and amplitude of the error data until it has received
                                                  30

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
    one hundred and eighty degrees of sensor data. The error data may be filtered prior to
    estimating its phase and amplitude. The error data may be filtered using a low pass filter.
    [00135] In accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure, a syringe pump may
    include a body, a motor, and a lead screw operatively coupled to the motor. The motor may
 5 be configured to actuate the lead screw. A syringe seat and a plunger head assembly may be
    included. The plunger head assembly may include a dial having a first position and a second
   position. The dial may be configured to actuate between the first position and the second
   position. A plunger tube configured to slideably engage with the body may be included. A
   plunger head may be operatively coupled to the plunger tube. A half-nut assembly
10  configured to engage the lead screw when the dial is actuated by a predetermined amount
    from the first position toward the second position may be included. The predetermined
    amount may be less than a halfway position between the first position and the second
   position.
    [00136] In some embodiments, the plunger head assembly may include two pivotable jaw
15  members configured to grasp onto a plunger positioned within the syringe seat. The dial
    may be configured to actuate the pivotal jaw members. A shaft may be operatively coupled
    to the dial. The shaft and dial may be configured such that actuation of the dial actuates the
    shaft. A cam may be coupled to the shaft. A rocker arm pivotally coupled to the plunger
    head assembly may be included. The rocker arm may have a cam follower configured to
20  engage the cam. A pivotable jaw member may be operatively coupled to the rocker arm.
    [00137] In some embodiments a first gear coupled to the rocker arm and the pivotable jaw
    member may be included. A second gear coupled to another pivotable jaw member may be
    included. The first and second gears may be configured to engage each other. The pivotable
   jaw members may be configured to grasp onto a plunger. The cam and rocker arm may be
25  configured such that additional actuation of the dial toward the second position when the
   pivotable jaw members grasp onto the plunger causes the cam follower to disengage from
    the cam. A bias member configured to urge cam follower of the rocker arm toward the cam
    may be included. The cam may include a detent configured to hold the cam in the detent
   until a predetermined amount of torque is applied to the dial to urge the dial toward the
30  second position. The plunger head may include a shaft having a rod actuator coupled
    thereto. The plunger tube may include a rod. The rod may be coupled via a link within the
   plunger head. The half-nut assembly may comprise a linear cam. The rod may be
    operatively coupled to the linear cam. The half-nut assembly may further include first and
                                                 31

                                                                       Attorney Docket: L50WO
   second half-nut arms, each having a first end and a second end. The first ends of the first
   and second half-nut arms may be configured to engage with the leadscrew. The first and
   second half-nut arms may be pivotally coupled together. The second ends of the first and
   second half-nut arms may be configured to engage with the linear cam such that actuation of
 5 the linear cam toward the half-nut assembly causes the second ends of the first and second
   half-nut arms to pivotally approach each other. The first ends of the first and second half
   nut arms each may include threads configured to engage the leadscrew when the second
   ends of the first and second half-nut arms approach each other. The syringe seat may
   include at least one sloped face.
10 [00138] According to an embodiment of the present disclosure, a syringe pump may
   include a body, a motor, and a lead screw operatively coupled to the motor. The motor may
   be configured to actuate the lead screw. A syringe seat and a plunger head assembly may be
   included. The plunger head assembly may include a dial having a fully open position and a
   fully closed position. The dial may be configured to actuate between the fully open position
15 and the fully closed position. A plunger tube configured to slideably engage with the body
   may be included. A plunger head may be operatively coupled to the plunger tube. A half-nut
   assembly configured to engage the lead screw when the dial is actuated by a at least a
   predetermined amount from the fully open position toward the fully closed position may be
   included. The half-nut assembly may include first and second half-nut arms pivotally
20 coupled together and configured to engage with the lead screw.
   [00139] In accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure, a system for securing
   a syringe to a syringe pump may include a pump casing. A platform extending horizontally
   from a side of the casing may be included. A pivotal securing arm configured to secure a
   syringe resting on the platform may be included. A force mechanism, connected to the arm,
25 configured to apply a rotational force to the arm which results in a securing force applied to
   the syringe may be included. A user interface coupled to the casing may be included.
   [00140] In some embodiments, the user interface may further include a power button, an
   alarm silence button, and a menu button.
   [00141] A monitoring client may be configured to at least one of receive data from the
30 syringe pump or control the syringe pump. The monitoring client may be a tablet computer.
   A monitoring monitoring client may be configured to receive data from the syringe pump.
   [00142] In accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure, a syringe pump
   includes a housing, a syringe seat, a plunger head, a pressure sensor, and a motor, and one
                                                 32

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   or more processors.        The syringe seat is operatively coupled to the housing and is
   configured to retain a syringe. The plunger head is configured to engage with a plunger of
   the syringe to actuate the plunger of the syringe.      The pressure sensor is configured to
   coupled to the syringe to operatively estimate a fluid pressure within the syringe. The
 5 motor is operatively coupled to the plunger head to actuate the plunger head to thereby
   actuate the plunger of the head.
   [00143] The one or more processors may be configured to cause the actuator to actuate in a
   first direction to thereby cause the syringe to discharge fluid. The processor(s) may monitor
   the pressure sensor to estimate the fluid pressure within the syringe and determine an
10 occlusion exists when the fluid pressure exceeds a predetermined threshold.                The
   processor(s) may         cause the actuator to actuate the plunger out of the barrel by a
   predetermined amount, and cause the actuator to actuate the plunger of the syringe into the
   barrel until a measure of fluid pressure within the syringe exceeds another predetermined
   threshold.
15 [00144] In some embodiments, the predetermined amount the plunger may be actuated out
   of the barrel may be a function of an inner diameter of the barrel.               The another
   predetermined threshold may be a function of an inner diameter of the barrel.
   [00145] In some embodiments, the predetermined threshold may be in a plurality of
   predetermined thresholds located within a lookup table.          The predetermined threshold
20 corresponds to a syringe model number as found in the lookup table.
   [00146] In some embodiments, the another predetermined threshold is in a plurality of
   predetermined thresholds located within a lookup table. The another predetermined
   threshold may correspond to a syringe model number as found in the lookup table.
   [00147] The predetermined amount the plunger is actuated out of the barrel is in a plurality
25 of predetermined amounts located within a lookup table. The predetermined amount the
   plunger is actuated out of the barrel may correspond to a syringe model number.
   [00148] In some embodiments, a force sensor coupled to the plunger may be used to
   monitor the fluid pressure within the barrel of the syringe. The predetermined amount may
   be a predetermined distance of actuation of the plunger out of the syringe and/or may be a
30 predetermined change in volume of expansion within the barrel.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
                                                   33

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [00149] These and other aspects will become more apparent from the following detailed
   description of the various embodiments of the present disclosure with reference to the
   drawings wherein:
   [00150] Fig. 1 is an illustration of an electronic patient-care system having a syringe pump
 5 in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00151] Figs. 2-5 show several views of a patient bedside system in accordance with an
   embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00152] Fig. 6 shows a close-up view of a portion of an interface of a clamp that is
   attachable to a pump shown in Figs. 2-5 in accordance with an embodiment of the present
10 disclosure;
   [00153] Fig. 7 shows another close-up view of another portion of the interface shown in
   Fig. 6 in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00154] Fig. 8 shows a perspective view of a pump attachable to the patient bedside system
   of Figs. 2-5 in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
15 [00155] Fig. 9 shows a perspective view of a pump shown in Figs. 2-5 in accordance with
   an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00156] Figs. 10-13 show several views of a syringe pump in accordance with an
   embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00157] Fig. 14 shows several of the syringe pump of Figs. 10-13 mounted on a pole in
20 accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00158] Figs. 15-16 illustrate portions of the operation of the syringe pump of Figs. 10-13
   in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00159] Figs. 17-18 illustrate several medical devices mounted on a pole in accordance
   with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
25 [00160] Figs. 19-22 show several views of a medical device of Figs. 17-18 in accordance
   with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00161] Fig. 23 shows several mounts mounted on a pole in accordance with an
   embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00162] Figs. 24-26 show several views of a mount of Fig. 23 in accordance with an
30 embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00163] Fig. 27 shows a circuit diagram having a speaker and battery in accordance with
   an embodiment of the present disclosure;
                                                  34

                                                                    Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [00164] Fig. 28 shows a view of an exemplary embodiment of a syringe pump in
   accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00165] Fig. 29 shows a front view of an exemplary embodiment of a syringe pump in
   accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
 5 [00166] Fig. 30 is a view of an exemplary embodiment of the syringe pump assembly in
   accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00167] Fig. 31 is another view of an exemplary embodiment of the syringe pump
   assembly in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00168] Fig. 32 is another view of an exemplary embodiment of the syringe pump
10 assembly in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00169] Fig. 33 is another view of an exemplary embodiment of the syringe pump
   assembly in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00170] Fig. 34 is another view of an exemplary embodiment of the syringe pump
   assembly in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
15 [00171] Fig. 35 is a view of an exemplary embodiment of the plunger head assembly,
   plunger tube, and sliding block assembly of the syringe pump assembly in accordance with
   an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00172] Fig. 36 is another view of an exemplary embodiment of the plunger head
   assembly, plunger tube, and sliding block assembly of the syringe pump assembly in
20 accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00173] Fig. 37 is an exploded view of an exemplary embodiment of the top of the plunger
   head assembly with half of the plunger head assembly removed in accordance with an
   embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00174] Fig. 38 is an assembled view of an exemplary embodiment of the top of the
25 plunger head assembly with half of the plunger head assembly removed in accordance with
   an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00175] Fig. 39 is a bottom view of an exemplary embodiment of the top of the plunger
   head assembly in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00176] Fig. 40 is an assembled top view of an exemplary embodiment of the bottom of
30 the plunger head assembly and plunger tube in accordance with an embodiment of the
   present disclosure;
                                               35

                                                                      Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [00177] Fig. 41 is an exploded view of an exemplary embodiment of the dial shaft and
   related parts of the syringe pump in accordance with an embodiment of the present
   disclosure;
   [00178] Fig. 42 is an assembled view of the exemplary embodiment of Fig. 41 in
 5 accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00179] Fig. 43 is a partially assembled view of an exemplary embodiment of the plunger
   head assembly and plunger tube in accordance with an embodiment of the present
   disclosure;
   [00180] Fig. 44 is a view of an exemplary embodiment of the plunger head assembly with
10 the plunger head assembly housing top removed in accordance with an embodiment of the
   present disclosure;
   [00181] Fig. 45 is a top view of the exemplary embodiment of Fig. 44 in accordance with
   an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00182]    Fig. 46 is a partial view of an exemplary embodiment of the plunger head
15 assembly in which the D-shaped connector is shown in cross section in accordance with an
   embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00183]    Fig. 47 is a view of an exemplary embodiment of the plunger head assembly,
   plunger tube, and sliding block assembly in which the sliding block assembly is exploded in
   accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
20 [00184]    Fig. 48A is an exploded view of an exemplary embodiment of the sliding block
   assembly in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00185]    Fig. 48B is a view an exemplary embodiment of the lead screw, half nut, barrel
   cam, and drive shaft in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00186]    Fig. 49 is a partial front view of an exemplary embodiment of the half nut and
25 barrel cam in which the half nut is shown as transparent in accordance with an embodiment
   of the present disclosure;
   [00187]    Fig. 50 is a front view of an exemplary embodiment of the sliding block assembly
   in which the half nut is in an engaged position in accordance with an embodiment of the
   present disclosure;
30 [00188]    Fig. 51 is a front view of an exemplary embodiment of the sliding block assembly
   in which the half nut is in the engaged position in accordance with an embodiment of the
   present disclosure;
                                                 36

                                                                      Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [00189]    Fig. 52 is a front view of an exemplary embodiment of the sliding block assembly
   in which the half nut is in the disengaged position in accordance with an embodiment of the
   present disclosure;
   [00190]    Fig. 53 is a cross sectional view of an exemplary embodiment of the sliding block
 5 assembly on the lead screw and guide rod in accordance with an embodiment of the present
   disclosure;
   [00191]    Fig. 54 is a view of an exemplary embodiment of the rear face of the syringe
   pump assembly in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00192]    Fig. 55 is another view of an exemplary embodiment of the rear face of the
10 syringe pump assembly with the gearbox in place in accordance with an embodiment of the
   present disclosure;
   [00193]    Fig. 56 is an interior view of an exemplary embodiment of the syringe pump
   assembly in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00194]    Fig. 57A is another interior view of an exemplary embodiment of the syringe
15 pump assembly with the sliding block assembly and linear position sensors in place in
   accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00195]    Fig. 57B is a top view of an embodiment of a magnetic linear position sensor in
   accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00196]    Fig. 58 is a partially assembled front view of an exemplary embodiment of the
20 sliding block assembly, plunger tube, and plunger head assembly in accordance with an
   embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00197]    Fig. 59A is a view of an exemplary embodiment of the syringe pump assembly in
   accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00198]    Figs. 59B-59J are electrical schematics of the syringe pump in accordance with
25 an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00199]    Fig. 60 is a bottom partial view of an exemplary embodiment of the syringe pump
   assembly in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00200]    Fig. 61 is a partial view of an exemplary embodiment of the syringe pump
   assembly in which a barrel flange of a small syringe has been clipped by the barrel flange
30 clip in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00201]    Fig. 62 is a partial view of an exemplary embodiment of the syringe pump
   assembly in which a barrel flange of a large syringe has been clipped by the barrel flange
   clip in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
                                                  37

                                                                     Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [00202]    Fig. 63 is a view of an exemplary embodiment of the syringe barrel holder in
   accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00203]    Fig. 64 is a partial view of an exemplary embodiment of the syringe barrel holder
   in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
 5 [00204]    Fig. 65 is a view of an exemplary embodiment of the syringe barrel holder in
   which the syringe barrel holder is locked in the fully open position in accordance with an
   embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00205]    Fig. 66 is a view of an exemplary embodiment the syringe barrel holder linear
   position sensor in which the linear position sensor printed circuit board is shown as
10 transparent in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00206]    Fig. 67 is a view of an exemplary embodiment of a phase change detector linear
   position sensor in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00207]    Fig. 68 shows a schematic of the exemplary view of a phase change detector
   linear position sensor in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
15 [00208]    Fig. 69 shows a schematic of the exemplary view of a phase change detector
   linear position sensor in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00209]    Fig. 70 shows a schematic of the exemplary view of a phase change detector
   linear position sensor in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00210]    Fig. 71 shows a perspective view of a pump with the graphic user interface shown
20 on the screen in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00211]    Fig. 72 shows an example infusion programming screen of the graphic user
   interface in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00212]    Fig. 73 shows an example infusion programming screen of the graphic user
   interface in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
25 [00213]    Fig. 74 shows an example infusion programming screen of the graphic user
   interface in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00214]    Fig. 75 shows an example infusion programming screen of the graphic user
   interface in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00215]    Fig. 76 shows an example infusion programming screen of the graphic user
30 interface in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00216]    Fig. 77 shows an infusion rate over time graphical representation of an example
   infusion in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
                                                  38

                                                                     Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [00217]    Fig. 78 shows an infusion rate over time graphical representation of an example
   infusion in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00218]    Fig. 79 shows an infusion rate over time graphical representation of an example
   infusion in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
 5 [00219]    Fig. 80 shows an infusion rate over time graphical representation of an example
   infusion in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00220]    Fig. 81 shows an infusion rate over time graphical representation of an example
   infusion in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00221]    Fig. 82 shows an example drug administration library screen of the graphic user
10 interface in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00222]    Fig. 83 shows a block software diagram in accordance with an embodiment of the
   present disclosure;
   [00223]    Fig. 84 shows a state diagram illustrating a method of providing a watchdog
   functionality in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
15 [00224]    Figs. 85A-85F show a circuit diagram of a watchdog system that is one
   embodiment that implements the watchdog functionality of the state diagram of Fig. 84 in
   accordance with another embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00225]    Fig. 86 shows another embodiment of syringe pump having a bumper in
   accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
20 [00226]    Fig. 87 shows an exploded view of the syringe pump of Fig. 86 in accordance
   with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00227]    Fig. 88 shows a close-up view of the upper housing, the lower housing, and the
   power supply of the syringe pump of Fig. 86 in accordance with an embodiment of the
   present disclosure;
25 [00228]    Fig. 89A shows a front view of the display of the pump of Fig. 86 in accordance
   with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00229]    Fig. 89B shows a back view of the display of the pump of Fig. 86 in accordance
   with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00230]     Fig. 90 shows the back of the sensor portion of the touchscreen and a frame
30 based split-ring resonator of for use with a near-field antenna in accordance with an
   embodiment of the present disclosure;
                                                39

                                                                       Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [00231]    Fig. 91 shows a diagram illustrating the use of the sensors of the pump of Fig. 86
   when one or more of the sensors are unavailable in accordance with an embodiment of the
   present disclosure;
   [00232]    Fig. 92 shows a side view of a syringe pump having a retaining finger to retain a
 5 syringe in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00233]    Fig. 93 shows a close-up view of the syringe pump of Fig. 92 in accordance with
   an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00234]    Fig. 94 shows a circuit for storing data within an RFID tag associated with a
   syringe pump in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
10 [00235]    Fig. 95 shows an equivalent circuit for impedance as seen from the RFID tag of
   Fig. 94 in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00236]    Fig. 96 shows another circuit for storing data within an RFID tag associated with
   a syringe pump in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00237]    Fig. 97 shows a split-ring resonator used with the circuit of Fig. 96 in accordance
15 with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00238]    Fig. 98 shows a flow chart diagram illustrating a method for removing the effects
   of slack in a syringe pump having a syringe loaded on the syringe pump in accordance with
   an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00239]    Fig. 99A shows a perspective view of an apparatus for side loading a syringe onto
20 an infusion pump showing a syringe securing arm of the apparatus in a loading position in
   accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00240]    Fig. 99B shows another perspective view of the apparatus of Fig. 99A showing
   the syringe securing arm in a securing position in accordance with an embodiment of the
   present disclosure;
25 [00241]    Fig. 100A shows an embodiment of a force mechanism driving a syringe securing
   arm, the syringe securing arm shown in a securing position, in accordance with an
   embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00242]    Fig. 1OOB shows the force mechanism driving the syringe securing arm of Fig.
   100A with the syringe securing arm in a loading position in accordance with an
30 embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00243]    Fig. 1OA shows another embodiment of a force mechanism driving a syringe
   securing arm, the syringe securing arm shown in a securing position, in accordance with an
   embodiment of the present disclosure;
                                                 40

                                                                      Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [00244]    Fig. 101B shows the force mechanism driving the syringe securing arm of Fig.
   1OA with the syringe securing arm in a loading position in accordance with an
   embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00245]    Fig. 102A shows another embodiment of a force mechanism driving a syringe
 5 securing arm, the syringe securing arm shown in a loading position, in accordance with an
   embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00246]    Fig. 102B shows the force mechanism driving the syringe securing arm of Fig.
   102A with the syringe securing arm in a securing position in accordance with an
   embodiment of the present disclosure;
10 [00247]    Fig. 103A shows another embodiment of a force mechanism driving a syringe
   securing arm, the syringe securing arm shown in a loading position, in accordance with an
   embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00248]    Fig. 103B shows the force mechanism driving the syringe securing arm of Fig.
   103A with the syringe securing arm in a securing position in accordance with an
15 embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00249]    Fig. 104A shows the cam of the force mechanisms of Figs. 103A-103B when the
   securing arm is in the securing position in accordance with an embodiment of the present
   disclosure;
   [00250]    Fig. 104B shows the cam of the force mechanisms of Figs. 103A-103B when the
20 securing arm is in an intermediate position in accordance with an embodiment of the present
   disclosure;
   [00251]    Fig. 104C shows the cam of the force mechanisms of Figs. 103A-103B when the
   securing arm is in a loading position in accordance with an embodiment of the present
   disclosure;
25 [00252]    Fig. 105 shows a flow chart diagram of a method for side loading a syringe on an
   infusion pump in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00253]    Fig. 106 shows an embodiment of a system for mitigating lead screw runout error
   in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00254]    Fig. 107 shows a flow chart diagram of a method for mitigating lead screw runout
30 error in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00255]    Fig. 108 shows a side view of a pump with a modular power supply attached to
   the back of the pump in according with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
                                                 41

                                                                       Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [00256]    Fig. 109 shows a side view of a pump with an external power supply in
   accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00257]    Fig. 110 shows a side view of a pump with a power supply attached to the bottom
   of the pump in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
 5 [00258]    Fig. 111 shows a side view of a pump with a power supply attached to the top of
   the pump in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00259]    Fig. 112 shows a structure for securing a power cord to power supply in
   accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00260]    Fig. 113 shows a system having a rack with a power supply for powering several
10 pumps secured to the rack in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00261]    Figs. 1 14A-1 14J show several views of a syringe pump assembly in accordance
   with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00262]    Figs. 115A-115B show two views of a retaining clip of the syringe pump
   assembly shown in Figs. 114A-114J in accordance with an embodiment of the present
15 disclosure;
   [00263]    Figs. 116A-116C show several views of the syringe pump assembly shown in
   Figs. 1 14A-1 14J with the syringe seat removed in accordance with an embodiment of the
   present disclosure;
   [00264]    Figs. 117A-117C show several views of the syringe seat of the syringe pump
20 assembly shown in Figs. 114A-114J in accordance with an embodiment of the present
   disclosure;
   [00265]    Fig. 118A-118B show several views of the syringe pump assembly shown in
   Figs. 1 14A-1 14J with the syringe seat removed in accordance with an embodiment of the
   present disclosure;
25 [00266]    Figs. 1 19A-1 19B shows several views of the syringe pump assembly shown in
   Figs. 1 14A-1 14J to illustrate the jaw member's action of grasping onto a flange of a plunger
   of a syringe in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00267]    Fig. 120 shows the plunger head with the cover removed of the syringe pump
   assembly shown in Figs. 1 14A-1 14J to illustrate the mechanical effects of rotation of the
30 dial in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00268]    Figs. 121A-121C show several views of the plunger head with the cover removed
   and a circuit board removed of the syringe pump assembly shown in Figs. 1 14A-1 14J to
                                                42

                                                                         Attorney Docket: L50WO
   illustrate the mechanical effects of rotation of the dial in accordance with an embodiment of
   the present disclosure;
   [00269]     Figs. 122A-122B show two views of a cam used within the plunger head
   assembly of the syringe pump assembly shown in Figs. 1 14A-1 14J in accordance with an
 5 embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00270]     Figs. 123A-123B show two close-up views of the inner cavity of the plunger head
   assembly of the syringe pump assembly shown in Figs. 114A-1 14J in accordance with an
   embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00271]     Fig. 124 shows the plunger head assembly of the syringe pump assembly shown
10 in Figs. 1 14A-1 14J in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00272]     Figs. 125A-125B show two views of the plunger head assembly of the syringe
   pump assembly shown in Figs. 1 14A-1 14J with the plunger tube removed in accordance
   with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00273]     Figs. 126A-1261 show several additional views of the syringe pump assembly of
15 Figs. 1 14A-1 14J in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
   [00274]     Fig. 127 shows a perspective, side-view of the syringe pump assembly shown in
   Figs. 1 14A-1 14J in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure wherein the
   assembly is coupled to a display; and
   [00275]     Fig. 128 shows a flow chart diagram of a method for discharging fluid from a
20 syringe and for providing mitigation for an occlusion condition in accordance with an
   embodiment of the present disclosure.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   [00276]     Fig. 1 shows an exemplary arrangement of a system 1 for electronic patient care
25 in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure.           The system 1 includes a
   monitoring client 2 that is linked to a number of patient-care devices via docks 3 and 11,
   including an infusion pump 4 connected to and delivering from a smaller bag of liquid 5, an
   infusion pump 6 connected to and delivering from a larger bag of liquid 7, a drip detection
   device 8 connected to tubing from the smaller bag 5, and a microinfusion pump 9. System 1
30 also includes a syringe pump 10 connected wirelessly to the monitoring client 2. In some
   embodiments, the monitoring client 2 may communicate with these patient-care devices in a
   wired fashion, as shown in Fig. 1 for the infusion pumps 4 and 6, and the microinfusion
   pump 9 (via docks 3 and 11). Additionally or alternatively, the monitoring client 2 may
                                                  43

                                                                       Attorney Docket: L50WO
   communicate wirelessly with patient-care devices, as suggested by the absence of a wired
   connection between the syringe pump 10 and the monitoring client 2.
   [00277]    In some embodiments, a wired connection between the monitoring client 2 and a
   patient-care device also affords an opportunity for electrical power to be supplied to the
 5 patient-care device from the monitoring client 2.       In this exemplary embodiment, the
   monitoring client 2 may include the electronic circuitry necessary to convert the voltage to
   power the patient-care device from either a battery attached to the monitoring client 2 or
   from an Alternating Current ("AC") line voltage fed into the monitoring client 2 from a
   power outlet (not shown) in a patient's room. Additionally or alternatively, the dock 3
10 supplies power to the infusion pumps 4 and 6, and to the microinfusion pump 9, e.g., from a
   signal generated from an AC line voltage.
   [00278]    In an embodiment, the monitoring client 2 is capable of receiving information
   about each patient-care device with which it is linked either directly from the device itself,
   or via a docking station, such as, for example, the dock 3 onto which the patient-care device
15 may be mounted.       The dock 3 may be configured to receive one or more patient-care
   devices via a standardized connection mount, or in some cases via a connection mount
   individualized for the particular device.   For example, infusion pumps 4 and 6 may be
   mounted to the dock 3 via a similar connection mount, whereas the microinfusion pump 9,
   for example, may be mounted to the dock 3 via a connection mount configured for the
20 particular dimensions of the microinfusion pump's 9 housing.
   [00279]    The dock 3 may be configured to electronically identify the particular patient-care
   device being mounted on the docking station, and to transmit this identifying information to
   the monitoring client 2, either wirelessly or via a wired connection.         Additionally or
   alternatively, wireless patient-care devices may transmit the identifying information
25 wirelessly to the monitoring client 2, e.g., during a discovery protocol. Additionally, the
   particular patient-care device may be preprogrammed with treatment information (e.g.,
   patient-treatment parameters such as an infusion rate for a predetermined infusion liquid)
   that is transmitted to the monitoring client 2.     For example, the syringe pump 10 may
   include identity information and treatment information, such as what medication has been
30 prescribed to the patient, what liquid is within the syringe pump's 10 reservoir, how much
   and how long the liquid is prescribed to be delivered to the patient, who are the authorized
   caregivers, etc.  In some embodiments of the present disclosure, the monitoring client 2
   communicates with EMR records to verify that the preprogrammed treatment information is
                                                 44

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   safe for an identified patient and/or the preprogrammed treatment information matches the
   prescribed treatment stored in the EMR records.
   [00280]     In some embodiments, the drip detection device 8 may communicate with the
   monitoring client 2 either wirelessly or in a wired connection. If an aberrant liquid flow
 5 condition is detected (e.g., because the tubing to the patient has become occluded), a signal
   may be transmitted to monitoring client 2, which (1) may display the flow rate of liquid
   from the liquid container 5 in a user interface either locally on the monitoring client 2, or
   more remotely to a user interface at a nurse's station or a handheld communications device,
   (2) may trigger an auditory or visual alarm, and/or (3) may cause the monitoring client 2 to
10 alter the rate of infusion of a pump 4 connected to a bag 5, by either terminating the infusion
   or otherwise changing the pumping rate The aberrant liquid flow condition may also cause
   an audible alarm (and/or vibration alarm) on the infusion pump 4 or the drip detection
   device 8, or cause the infusion pump 4 to modify or stop the pumping, e.g., when the
   aberrant liquid flow condition exceed predefined ranges of operation.
15 [00281]     The alarms may occur simultaneously on several devices or may follow a
   predetermined schedule. For example, when an occlusion occurs in a line connected to the
   infusion pump 4, (1) the drip detection device 8 alarms using its internal speaker and an
   internal vibration motor, (2) thereafter, the infusion pump 4 alarms using its internal speaker
   and an internal vibration motor, (3) next, the monitoring client 2 alarms using its internal
20 speaker and an internal vibration motor, and (4) finally, a remote communicator (e.g., a
   smart phone, blackberry-based phone, Android-based phone, iphone, etc.) alarms using its
   internal speaker and an internal vibration motor. In some embodiments, the syringe pump
   10 may be connected to the drip detection device 8 and detect aberrant liquid flow
   conditions as described above.
25 [00282]     In some embodiments, the syringe pump 10 may be programmable to allow for
   continued operation at a predetermined pumping rate should communications fail between
   the monitoring client 2 and the syringe pump 10, either because of a malfunction in the
   monitoring client 2, in the communications channel between the monitoring client 2 and the
   syringe pump 10, or in the syringe pump 10 itself. In some embodiments, this independent
30 function option is enabled when the medication being infused is pre-designated for not
   being suspended or held in the event of a malfunction in other parts of the system. In some
   embodiments, the syringe pump 10 is programmed to operate independently in a fail safe
   mode and may also be configured to receive information from a drip detection device 8
                                                   45

                                                                       Attorney Docket: L50WO
   directly, rather than through a monitoring client 2 (e.g., in embodiment where the drip
   detection device 8 is used in conjunction with the syringe pump 10); with this option, the
   syringe pump 10 may be programmed, in some embodiments, to stop an infusion if the drip
   detection device 8 detects an aberrant flow condition (such as, e.g., a free-flow condition or
 5 an air bubble present in the infusion line). In some embodiments, one or more of the pumps
   4, 6, and 10 may have internal liquid flow meters and/or can operate independently as a
   stand-alone device.    Additionally or alternatively, an internal liquid flow meter of the
   syringe pump 10 may be independently determined by a flow meter of the drip detection
   device 8 by the monitoring client 2, in embodiments where the devices 8 and 10 are used
10 together.
   [00283]    The monitoring client 2 may also remotely send a prescription to a pharmacy.
   The prescription may be a prescription for infusing a fluid using the syringe pump 10. The
   pharmacy may include one or more computers connected to a network, e.g., the internet, to
   receive the prescription and queue the prescription within the one or more computers. The
15 pharmacy may use the prescription to compound the drug (e.g., using an automated
   compounding device coupled to the one or more computers or manually by a pharmacists
   viewing the queue of the one or more computers), pre-fill a fluid reservoir or cartridge of a
   syringe pump 10, and/or program the syringe pump 10 (e.g., a treatment regime is
   programmed into the syringe pump 10) at the pharmacy in accordance with the prescription.
20 The reservoir or cartridge may be automatically filled by the automated compounding
   device and/or the syringe pump 10 may be automatically programmed by the automated
   compounding device. The automated compounding device may generate a barcode, RFID
   tag and/or data. The information within the barcode, RFID tag, and/or data may include the
   treatment regime, prescription, and/or patient information.    The automated compounding
25 device may: attach the barcode to the syringe pump 10 or to the reservoir, cartridge, or
   disposable portion of the syringe pump 10; attach the RFID tag to the syringe pump 10 or
   the reservoir, cartridge, or disposable portion of the syringe pump 10; and/or program the
   RFID tag or memory within the syringe pump 10 or the reservoir, cartridge, or disposable
   portion of the syringe pump 10 with the information or data. The data or information may
30 be sent to a database that associates the prescription with the syringe pump 10 or the
   reservoir, cartridge, or disposable portion of the syringe pump 10, e.g., using a serial
   number or other identifying information within the barcode, RFID tag, or memory.
                                                  46

                                                                          Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [00284]     The syringe pump 10 may have a scanner, e.g., an RFID interrogator that
   interrogates a reservoir, disposable portion, or cartridge of the syringe pump 10 to determine
   that it is the correct fluid within the fluid reservoir     or it is the correct fluid reservoir,
   disposable portion or cartridge, the treatment programmed into the syringe pump 10
 5 corresponds to the fluid within the fluid reservoir, disposable portion or cartridge, and/or the
   syringe pump 10 and reservoir, disposable portion or cartridge of the syringe pump 10 are
   correct for the particular patient (e.g., as determined from a patient's barcode, RFID, or
   other patient identification). For example, a serial number of a reservoir, disposable portion
   as scanned by the syringe pump 10 is compared to a serial number in electronic medical
10 records to determine if it correctly corresponds to a patient's serial number within the
   electronic medical records; the syringe pump 10 may scan a RFID tag or barcode of a
   patient to obtain a serial number of a patient which is also compared to the patient's serial
   number within the electronic medical records (e.g., the serial number of a reservoir,
   disposable portion, or cartridge of the syringe pump 10 or a serial number stored within
15 memory of the syringe pump 10 should be associated with the patient's serial number as
   scanned within the electronic medical records). The syringe pump 10 may issue an error or
   alarm if the serial numbers do not match, in some specific embodiments.          Additionally or
   alternatively, the monitoring client 2 may scan the reservoir, disposable portion, cartridge,
   or syringe pump 10 to determine that it is the correct fluid within the fluid reservoir, it is the
20 correct fluid reservoir, the treatment programmed into the syringe pump 10 corresponds to
   the fluid within the fluid reservoir or cartridge, and/or the fluid reservoir and syringe pump
   10 are correct for the particular patient (e.g., as determined from a patient's barcode, RFID,
   or other patient identification).   Additionally or alternatively, the monitoring client 2 or
   syringe pump 10 may interrogate an electronic medical records database and/or the
25 pharmacy to verify the prescription or download the prescription, e.g., using a barcode serial
   number on the syringe pump 10, or a reservoir, cartridge, or disposable portion of the
   syringe pump 10.
   [00285]     The liquid being delivered to a patient may be monitored by the monitoring client
   2 to determine if all the medications being delivered are safe for the patient. For example,
30 the monitoring client 2 may log the medication delivered from the syringe pump 10 as
   communicated by the syringe pump 10 to the monitoring client 2, and the monitoring client
   2 may also log the medication being delivered by the infusion pumps 4 and 6, and/or the
   microinfusion pump 9. The monitoring client 1 may make a determination from the logged
                                                    47

                                                                      Attorney Docket: L50WO
   data to determine if the aggregate amounts and types of medication being delivered are safe.
   For example, the monitoring client 2 may determine if the IV bag 5 is contraindicated with
   the medication     in the syringe pump        10.  Additionally or alternatively,    in some
   embodiments, the monitoring client 2 may monitor the delivery of the liquid in the IV bag 8
 5 and one or more boluses delivered by the syringe pump 10 to determine if the total dose
   exceeds a predetermined threshold, e.g., the medication in the IV bag 5 and syringe pump
   10 may be the same type or class of drug, and the monitoring client 2 may determine if the
   drugs are safe when combined as delivered to the patient. The syringe pump 10 may also
   communicate with the infusion pumps 4 and 6, and/or the microinfusion pump 9 to make
10 the same determination;      In this exemplary embodiment, the syringe pump 10 may
   communicate with the devices directly (via wirelessly or wired communications) or through
   the monitoring client 2 (via wirelessly or wired communications). In some embodiments of
   the present disclosures, one or more communication modules (e.g., each having the
   capabilities to communicate via one or more protocols) may be connected to the syringe
15 pump 10 and/or may be connected together and then connected to the syringe pump 10 to
   enable the syringe pump 10 to communicate via the communication modules.
   [00286]    The syringe pump 10 includes a touch screen interface 11 (which may be
   detachable), a start button 12, and a stop button 13.         However, in some alternative
   embodiemtns, the button 12 is a PCA button to deliver pain medicine to a patient. The user
20 interface 11 may be used to program treatment regimes, such as flow rates, bolus amounts,
   or other treatment parameters.     After a treatment regime is programmed into the syringe
   pump 10, the syringe pump 10 may query a database (e.g., Electronic Medical Records
   ("EMR"), Drug Error Reduction System ("DERS"), or other database) to determine if the
   treatment regime is safe for the particular patient or for any patient.    For example, the
25 syringe pump 10 may query the EMR database (e.g., via a wireless link, wired link, WiFi,
   cell-phone network, or other communications technology) to determine if the treatment
   regime from the syringe pump 10 is safe based upon patient information stored (e.g., age,
   weight, allergies, condition, etc.) in the EMR records.    Additionally or alternatively, the
   syringe pump 10 may query the DERS database (e.g., via a wireless link, wired link, WiFi,
30 cell-phone network, or other communications technology) to determine if the treatment
   regime from the syringe pump 10 is safe based upon predetermined safety criteria in the
   DERS records
                                                  48

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [00287]     In some embodiments, if the treatment regime is determined to be safe, a prompt
   may request user confirmation of the treatment regime. After user confirmation, the user
   (e.g., caregiver, nurse, or other authorized person) may press the start button 12. In some
   embodiments, the stop button 13 may be pressed at any time to stop treatment.
 5 [00288]     In some embodiments, if the EMR and/or DERS determines that the treatment
   regime exceeds a first set of criteria, treatment may continue if the user confirms the
   treatment (e.g., with an additional warning, user passcode, and/or additional authentication
   or authorization, etc.); in this embodiment, the EMR or DERS may prevent the treatment
   from being delivered if the EMR and/or DERS determines that the treatment regime
10 exceeds a second set of criteria, e.g., the treatment is not safe under any circumstances for
   any patient, for example.
                           EXEMPLARY BEDSIDE ARRANGEMENT
   [00289]     Figs. 2-9 show various views related to a system 200. Fig. 2 shows a system 200
   that includes several pumps 201, 202, and 203. The pumps 201, 202, 203 can be coupled
   together to form a group of pumps that are connectable to a pole 208.         The system 200
15 includes two syringe pumps 201, 202 and a peristaltic pump 203; however, other
   combinations of various medical devices may be employed.
   [00290]     Each of the pumps 201, 202, 203 includes a touch screen 204 which may be used
   to control the pumps 201, 202, 203. One of the pumps' (e.g., 201, 202, 203) touch screen
   204 may also be used to coordinate operation of all of the pumps 201, 202, 203 and/or to
20 control the other ones of the pumps 201, 202, 203.
   [00291]     The pumps     201, 202, and 203 are daisy chained together such that they are in
   electrical communication with each other. Additionally or alternatively, the pumps 201,
   202, and/or 203 may share power with each other or among each other; For example, one of
   the pumps 201, 202, and/or 203 may include an AC/DC converter that converts AC
25 electrical power to DC power suitable to power the other pumps.
   [00292]     Within the system 200, the pumps 201, 202, and 203 are stacked together using
   respective Z-frames 207. Each of the Z-frames 207 includes a lower portion 206 and an
   upper portion 205. A lower portion 206 of one Z-frame 207 (e.g., the lower portion 206 of
   the pump 201) can engage an upper portion 205 of another Z-frame 207 (e.g., the upper
30 portion 205 of the Z-frame 207 of the pump 202).
                                                  49

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [00293]     A clamp 209 may be coupled to one of the pumps 201, 202, 203 (e.g., the pump
   202 as shown in Fig. 3). That is, the clamp 209 may be coupled to any one of the pumps
   201, 202, 203. The clamp 209 is attachable to the back of any one of the pump 201, 202,
   203.    As is easily seen in Fig. 5, each of the pumps 201, 202, 203 includes an upper
 5 attachment member 210 and a lower attachment member 211.                A clamp adapter 212
   facilitates the attachment of the clamp 209 to the pump 202 via a respective pump's (e.g.,
   201, 202, or 203) upper attachment member 210 and lower attachment member 211.              In
   some embodiments, the clamp adapter 212 may be integral with the clamp 209.
   [00294]     Fig. 6 shows a close-up view of a portion of an interface of a clamp (i.e., the
10 clamp adapter 212) that is attachable to the pump 202 (or to pumps 201 or 203) shown in
   Figs. 2-5 in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure. The clamp adapter
   212 includes a hole 213 in which a lower attachment member 211 (see Fig. 5) may be
   attached to. That is, the lower attachment member 211 is a curved hook-like protrusion that
   may be inserted into the hole 213 and thereafter rotated to secure the lower attachment
15 member 211 therein.
   [00295]     As is easily seen in Fig. 7, the clamp adapter 212 also includes a latch 214. The
   latch 214 is pivotally mounted to the clamp adapter 212 via pivots 216. The latch 214 may
   be spring biased via springs 218 that are coupled to the hooks 220.         Stop members 219
   prevent the latch 214 from pivoting beyond a predetermined amount. After the hole 213 is
20 inserted into the lower attachment member 211 (see Figs. 5 and 6), the clamp adapter 212
   may be rotated to bring the latch 214 towards the upper attachment member 210 such that
   the latch 214 is compressed down by the upper attachment member 210 until the protrusion
   215 snaps into a complementary space of the upper attachment member 210. The hooks
   220 help secure the clamp adapter 212 to the pump 202.
25 [00296]     Each Z-frame 207 of the pumps 201, 202, 203 includes a recessed portion 223
   (see Fig. 5) and a protrusion 224 (see Fig. 8). A protrusion 224 of the Z-frame 207 of one
   pump (e.g., pumps 201, 202, or 203) may engage a recessed portion 223 of another pump to
   enable the pump to be stacked on top of each other. Each of the pumps 201, 202, 203
   includes a latch engagement member 221 that allows another one of the pumps 201, 202,
30 203 to be attached thereto via a latch 222 (see Fig. 8). The latch 222 may include a small
   spring loaded flange that can "snap" into the space formed under the latch engagement
   member 221.      The latch 222 may be pivotally coupled to the lower portion 206 of the Z
   frame 207.
                                                   50

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [00297]    As is seen in Fig. 3, the latch 222 of the pump 201 may be pulled to withdraw a
   portion of the latch 222 out of the space under the latch engagement member 221 of the
   pump 202. Thereafter, the pump 201 may be rotated to pull out the protrusion 224 of the
   pump 201 out of the recessed portion 223 of the Z-frame 207 of the pump 202 such that the
 5 pump 201 may be removed from the stack of pumps 202, 203 (see Fig. 4).
   [00298]    Each of the pumps 201, 202, 203 includes a top connector 225 (see Fig. 9) and a
   bottom connector 226 (see Fig. 8). The connectors 225 and 226 allow the stacked pumps
   201, 202, and 203 to communication between each other and/or to provide power to each
   other. For example, if the battery of the middle pump 202 (see Fig. 2) fails, then the top
10 pump 201 and/or the bottom pump 203 may provide power to the middle pump 202 as a
   reserve while audibly alarming.
                   EXEMPLARY SYRINGE PUMP EMBODIMENT AND RELATED
                                   BEDSIDE ARRANGEMENT
   [00299]    Figs. 10-13 show several views of a syringe pump 300 in accordance with an
15 embodiment of the present disclosure.       The syringe pump 300 may have a syringe 302
   loaded either facing to the left (as shown in Figs. 10-13) or to the right (refer to Fig. 16,
   described below). That is, the syringe pump 300 is a bidirectional syringe pump.
   [00300]     The syringe 302 may be loaded into a syringe holder 306 of the syringe pump
   300. The flange endpiece 310 of the syringe 302 may be placed in the left flange receiver
20 311 or in the right flange receiver 312. When the flange endpiece 310 is inserted into the
   left flange receiver 311, the syringe 302 faces towards the left outlet 308, which may hold a
   tube that is fluidly coupled to the syringe 302.      An engagement member 314 may be
   coupled to an end fitting 315 of the syringe 302 when or after the syringe 302 is loaded into
   the syringe holder 306. A threaded shaft 315 that is coupled to a motor may be rotated to
25 move the engagement member 314 in any direction to discharge fluid from the syringe 302.
   [00301]     The syringe 302 may also be loaded to the right (not shown in Figs. 10-13). The
   syringe holder 306 may be moved and/or adjusted such that it is moved to the right so the
   syringe 302 may be loaded. The syringe holder 306 may be manually moved and/or an
   electric motor may move the syringe holder 306 to the right. In some embodiments of the
30 present disclosure, the syringe holder 306 extends sufficiently to the left and to the right
   such that no adjustment is used.
                                                 51

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [00302]    In the case where the syringe 302 is loaded facing the right, the flange endpiece
   310 is loaded into the right flange receiver 312. The engagement member 314 thereafter
   moves to the right such that fluid may be discharged through a tube that traverses through a
   right outlet 309.
 5 [00303]    The pump 300 may be controlled via a touch screen 304 to set the flow rate, flow
   profile, and/or to otherwise monitor or control the syringe pump 300. A clamp 316 may be
   used to secure the syringe pump 300 to a pole (e.g., using a screw-type clamp).
   [00304]    Fig. 14 shows several of the syringe pumps 300 of Figs. 10-13 mounted on a pole
   322 in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure. That is, Fig. 14 shows a
10 system 320 that uses several syringe pumps 300 mounted on the pole 312. The pole 322
   may be used in a hospital and/or in a home setting.
   [00305]    Figs. 15-16 illustrate portions 327 of the operation of the syringe pump 300 of
   Figs. 21-24 in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure. Fig. 15 shows the
   syringe 302 loaded facing the left, and Fig. 16 shows the syringe 302 loaded to the right.
15 As shown in Figs. 15-16, a motor 326 is coupled to the threaded shaft 315 such that the
   motor 326 can rotate the threaded shaft 315.
   [00306]    A left syringe diameter sensor 324 measures the diameter of the syringe 305 to
   estimate the cross-sectional size of the internal space of the barrel of the syringe 302. The
   left syringe diameter sensor 325 may be a bar that is attached to a post such that the bar is
20 lifted to cover the syringe 302; the post's movement out of the body of the syringe pump
   300 may be measured by a linear sensor to estimate the diameter of the barrel of the syringe
   302. Any linear sensor may be used including a linear potentiometer technology, an optical
   linear sensor technology, a hall-effect sensor technology, etc. The motor's 326 movement
   may thereby be correlated to fluid discharged from the syringe 302 using the estimate of the
25 diameter of the internal space of the barrel of the syringe 302. Similarly, the right syringe
   diameter sensor 325 may be used to estimate the internal diameter of the barrel of the
   syringe 302, which may be used to estimate the fluid discharged from the syringe 302 to the
   right.
   In some embodiments of the present disclosure, the touch screen 304 requests information
30 from the user when the syringe 302 is loaded into the syringe pump 300 (in either the left or
   right configuration) and the syringe diameter sensor 324 or 325 is used to estimate the
   diameter of the internal space of the barrel of the syringe 305; The user is prompted by a
   touch screen 304 request for the user to enter into the touch screen 304 the manufacturer of
                                                  52

                                                                         Attorney Docket: L50WO
   the syringe 305. An internal database within the syringe pump 300 may be used to narrow
   down the range of possible model numbers associated with an estimate of the diameter of
   the syringe 305. When the user enters in the manufacturer of the syringe 305, the database
   may be used to identify a particular model number of the syringe 305 and/or a subset of
 5 possible model numbers corresponding to the estimate of the diameter of the syringe 305
   and the user entered information, which in turn, may provide a more accurate internal
   diameter value (as stored within the database). The user may be prompted by the display on
   the touch screen 304 to select the syringe model from a list or enter the model of the syringe
   that will deliver the medication. The user may be guided through a selection process on the
10 touchscreen 304 to identify the syringe loaded into the machine using one or more of the
   following aspects: syringe barrel size, plunger head size, manufacturer names, images of
   syringes, and model numbers.        The selection process may access a database of syringes
   including manufacturer, model, internal diameter and image. The syringe pump 300 may
   use the identified syringe to set the internal diameter value for volume calculations.
15                        EXEMPLARY BEDSIDE ARRANGEMENTS
   [00307]    Figs. 17-18 illustrate several medical devices 402 mounted on a pole 403 in
   accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure. Figs. 19-22 show several views
   of the medical device 402 of Figs. 17-18. The medical device 402 is mounted to the pole
20 via the clamp 401.     The clamp 401 allows the medical device 402 to be pulled out and
   adjusted. The medical device 402 may be any medical device, such as an infusion pump, a
   syringe pump, a monitoring client, etc.
   [00308]    The medical device 402 is coupled to the pole 403 via arms 403 such that the
   medical device 402 may be pulled away from the pole (see Fig. 20) and/or pivoted on the
25 arms 403.
   [00309]    Fig. 23 shows several mounts 406 mounted on a pole 405, and Figs. 24-26 show
   several views of a mount of Fig. 23 in accordance with an embodiment of the present
   disclosure. Each of the mounts 406 includes a clamp 407 (e.g., a screw-type clamp), a first
   arm 408 pivotally mounted to the clamp 407, and a second arm 411 pivotally mounted to
30 the first arm 408 via a hinge 409.       The end of the second arm 411 includes a coupling
   member 410 that can be coupled to a medical device.
                           EXEMPLARY BATTERY AND SPEAKER TEST
                                                   53

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [00310]    Fig. 27 shows a circuit diagram 420 having a speaker 423 and a battery 421 in
   accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure.          The battery 421 may be a
   backup battery and/or the speaker 423 may be a backup alarm speaker. That is, the circuit
 5 420 may be a backup alarm circuit, for example, a backup alarm circuit in a medical device,
   such as a syringe pump.
   [00311]    In some embodiments of the present disclosure, the battery 421 may be tested
   simultaneously with the speaker 423. When a switch 422 is in an open position, a voltmeter
   425 may be used to measure the open circuit voltage of the battery 421.         Thereafter, the
10 switch 422 may be closed and the closed-circuit voltage from the battery 421 may be
   measured. The internal resistance of the battery 421 may be estimated by using the known
   impedance, Z, of the speaker 423.       A processor may be used to estimate the internal
   resistance of the battery 421 (e.g., a processor of a syringe pump).       The processor may
   correlate the internal resistance of the battery 421 to the battery's 421 health.      In some
15 embodiments of the present disclosure, if the closed-circuit voltage of the battery 421 is not
   within a predetermined range (the range may be a function of the open-circuit voltage of the
   battery 421), the speaker 423 may be determined to have failed.
   [00312]    In some additional embodiments of the present disclosure, the switch 422 may be
   modulated such that the speaker 423 is tested simultaneously with the battery 421.           A
20 microphone may be used to determine if the speaker 423 is audibly broadcasting a signal
   within predetermined operating parameters (e.g., volume, frequency, spectral compositions,
   etc.) and/or the internal impedance of the battery 421 may be estimated to determine if it is
   within predetermined operating parameters (e.g., the complex impedance, for example).
   The microphone may be coupled to the processor.           Additionally or alternatively, a test
25 signal may be applied to the speaker 423 (e.g., by modulating the switch 422) and the
   speaker's 423 current waveform may be monitored by an current sensor 426 to determine
   the total harmonic distortion of the speaker 423 and/or the magnitude of the current; a
   processor may be monitored these values using the current sensor 426 to determine if a fault
   condition exists within the speaker 423 (e.g., the total harmonic distortion or the magnitude
30 of the current are not within predetermined ranges).
   [00313]    Various sine waves, periodic waveforms, and/or signals maybe applied to the
   speaker 423 to measure its impedance and/or to measure the impedance of the battery 421.
   For example, a processor of a syringe pump disclosed herein may modulate the switch 422
                                                 54

                                                                         Attorney Docket: L50WO
   and measure the voltage across the battery 421 to determine if the battery 421 and the
   speaker 423 has an impedance within predetermined ranges; if the estimated impedance of
   the battery 421 is outside a first range, the processor will determine that the battery is in a
   fault condition, and/or if the estimated impedance of the speaker 423 is outside a second
 5 range, the processor will determine that the speaker 423 is in a fault condition. Additionally
   or alternatively, if the processor cannot determine if the battery 421 or the speaker 423 has a
   fault condition, but has determined that at least one exists in a fault condition, the processor
   may issue an alert or alarm that the circuit 420 is in a fault condition. The processor may
   alarm or alert a user or a remote server of the fault condition. In some embodiments of the
10 present disclosure, the syringe pump will not operate until the fault is addressed, mitigated
   and/or corrected.
                         EXEMPLARY SYRINGE PUMP EMBODIMENT
   [00314]    In an example embodiment, as shown in Fig. 28, a syringe pump 500 is depicted.
   The syringe pump 500 may be used to deliver an agent, such as but not limited to, an
15 analgesic, medicament, nutrient, chemotherapeutic agent, etc. to a patient. The syringe
   pump may be used to precisely delivery a quantity of an agent to a patient or deliver a
   precise quantity of an agent over a period of time. The syringe pump 500 may be used in
   any suitable application, such as though not limited to, intravenous deliver, intrathecal
   delivery, intra-arterial delivery, enteral delivery or feeding, etc.
20 [00315]      The syringe pump 500 comprises a housing 502 and a syringe pump assembly
   501. In the example embodiment in Fig. 28, the housing 502 is substantially a rectangular
   box. In alternative embodiments, the housing 502 may take any of a variety of other suitable
   shapes. The housing 502 may be made of any of a number of materials or combination of
   materials including, but not limited to, metal or plastic. The housing 502 may be extruded,
25 injection molded, die cast, etc. In some embodiments, the housing 502 may be comprised of
   a number of separate parts which may be coupled together by any suitable means. In some
   embodiments, the housing 502 may be taken apart or comprise a removable panel to allow
   the syringe pump 500 to be easily serviced.
   [00316]    As shown in Fig. 28, a syringe 504 may be seated on the syringe pump assembly
30 501. The syringe 504 may be a glass, plastic, or any other type of syringe 504. The syringe
   504 may be a syringe 504 of any capacity. In some embodiments, including the embodiment
                                                    55

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   in Fig. 28, the syringe 504 may be seated on a syringe seat 506 comprising part of the
   syringe pump assembly 501. The syringe seat 506 may comprise a contour which allows the
   syringe 506 to be cradled by the syringe seat 506. The syringe seat 506 may be made of the
   same material as the rest of the housing 502, a different material, or may be made of several
 5 materials. The syringe seat 506 may be coupled to the housing 502 by a mount 508 which
   may also serve as a spill, splash, drip, fluid, or debris guard.
   [00317]    In some embodiments, the syringe seat 506 may comprise part of the housing
   502. In the embodiment shown in Fig. 28, the syringe seat 506 is part of a syringe pump
   assembly housing 503 of the syringe pump assembly 501. In some embodiments the syringe
10 pump assembly housing 503 may be at least partially formed as an extrusion. In such
   embodiments, the contours of the syringe seat 506 may be formed during extrusion.
   [00318]    The syringe pump assembly 501 may be inserted into the housing 502 or may be
   coupled thereto. In the example embodiment in Fig. 28, the syringe pump assembly 501 is
   mostly disposed inside the housing 502. The syringe seat 506, syringe barrel holder 518,
15 barrel flange clip 520, plunger head assembly 522, and plunger tube 524, each a part of the
   syringe pump assembly 501, are not disposed inside the housing 502 in the exemplary
   embodiment shown in Fig. 28. In embodiments where the syringe seat 506 is not part of the
   housing 502, the mount 508 may comprise a gasket which functions as a seal to keep
   unwanted foreign material from entering the housing 502 and getting into portions of the
20 syringe pump assembly 501, which are disposed inside the housing 502. In some
   embodiments, the mount 508 may overhang the syringe seat 506 and may function as a drip
   edge, splash guard, etc. which will shed liquid off and away from the syringe pump 500
   [00319]    In some embodiments, the syringe pump 500 may be converted into a different
   device such as, though not limited to, a peristaltic large volume pump. This may be
25 accomplished by removing the syringe pump assembly 501 from the housing 502 and
   replacing the syringe pump assembly 501 with another desired assembly. Replacement
   assemblies may include for example, other infusion pumps assemblies such as a peristaltic
   infusion pump assembly.
   [00320]    In some embodiments, a clamp 510 may be coupled to the housing 502. The
30 clamp 510 may be any type of clamp, for example, a standard pole clamp 510 or a quick
   release pole clamp 510 (shown). The clamp 510 may be used to keep the syringe pump 500
   at a desired location on an object such as an I.V. pole. The clamp 510 may be removably
   coupled to the housing 502 through a clamp mount 512. In some embodiments, the clamp
                                                    56

                                                                       Attorney Docket: L50WO
   mount 512 may comprise any of a variety of fasteners such as screws, bolts, adhesive, hook
   and loop tape, snap fit, friction fit, magnets, etc. In some embodiments, the clamp 510 or a
   part of the clamp 510 may be formed as an integral part of the housing 502 during
   manufacture.
 5 [00321]    As shown in Fig. 28, the housing 502 may also include a display 514. The display
   514 may function as a graphic user interface and allow a user to program and monitor pump
   operation. The display 514 may be an electronic visual display such as a, liquid crystal
   display, touch screen, L.E.D. display, plasma display, etc. In some embodiments, the
   display may be complimented by any number of data input means 516. In the example
10 embodiment, the data input means 516 are several user depressible buttons. The buttons
   may have fixed functions such as "power", "stop", "silence", "emergency stop", "start
   therapy", or "lock". The lock function may lock all the user inputs to avoid inadvertent
   commands from being issued to the syringe pump 500, due to a touch screen display 514
   being touched, buttons being depressed or touched, or any other inadvertent gesture. The
15 data input means 516 of other embodiments may differ. In embodiments where the display
   514 is a touch screen display, the data input means 516 may include a number of physically
   depressible buttons. The physically depressible button data input means 516 may be a back
   up for the touch screen display 514 and may be used in the event that the touch screen
   display 514 is compromised or becomes otherwise non-functional.
20 [00322]    In a non-limiting example embodiment, the data input means 516 may be built
   into the function of a touch screen display 514. The touch screen display may detect the
   position of a user's finger or fingers on the screen. The touch screen may be a capacitive
   touch screen or any other type of touch screen. The software may display virtual buttons,
   slides, and other controls. The software may also detect the user's touch or the touch of a
25 stylus to control the machine and interact with remote computers that may communicate
   with the syringe pump 500. The software may also recognize multi-touch gestures which
   may control: the display, functioning of the syringe pump 500, interaction of the syringe
   pump 500 with one or more remote computers, etc. In some embodiments, the syringe pump
   500 may include sensors that detect user gestures when the user is not in contact with the
30 display. These motion detection sensors may comprise a device that transmits invisible
   near-infrared light, measuring its "time of flight" after it reflects off objects. Such a
   measurement may allow the syringe pump 500 to detect the location of objects and the
   distance from the syringe pump 500 to said objects. The syringe pump 500 may thus be able
                                                   57

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   to monitor and take commands via a user's limbs, hands, and fingers or movements of a
   user's limbs, hands, and fingers. One example of a motion detector is the PrimeSense 3D
   sensor made by the company PrimeSense of Israel. In some embodiments, the display 514
   and data input means may be mounted onto the housing 502 during manufacture of the
 5 syringe pump 500. The display 514 may be removed and replaced during servicing if
   necessary.
   [00323]     The syringe pump 500 may include a syringe barrel holder 518. The syringe
   barrel holder 518 may securely hold the syringe barrel 540 against the syringe seat 506. The
   syringe barrel holder 518 may easily be adjusted by a user to accommodate syringes 504 of
10 various sizes. In some embodiments, the syringe barrel holder 518 may be biased so as to
   automatically adjust to the diameter of any size syringe 504 after the syringe barrel holder
   518 is pulled out by a user. The syringe barrel holder 518 will be further elaborated upon
   later in the specification.
   [00324]     The syringe pump 500 may also include a barrel flange clip 520. The barrel
15 flange clip 520 in the example embodiment depicted in Fig. 28 is disposed on an end of the
   syringe pump assembly housing 503 and is capable of holding the syringe barrel flange 542
   in place against the end of the syringe pump assembly housing 503. The barrel flange clip
   520 is also capable of retaining any of a variety of syringe barrel flange 542 types and sizes
   which may be available to a user. The barrel flange clip 520 will be further elaborated upon
20 later in the specification. For a more detailed description of the barrel flange clip 520, see
   Fig. 61 and Fig. 62.
   [00325]     The syringe pump 500 may additionally include a plunger head assembly 522.
   The plunger head assembly 522 may be attached to the syringe pump assembly 501 by a
   plunger tube 524. In the example embodiment depicted in Fig. 28, the plunger head
25 assembly 522 and plunger tube 524 extend out of the housing 502 toward the right of the
   page.
   [00326]     The syringe pump 500 may also comprise a downstream pressure sensor 513 as
   shown in Fig. 28. The downstream pressure sensor 513 may comprise part of the syringe
   pump assembly 501 or the housing 502. The downstream pressure sensor 513 may take
30 pressure measurements from a fluid line i.e. tubing extending from the syringe 504 to a
   patient. In some embodiments, the fluid line may include a span of tubing which is different
   from the rest of the tubing. For example, a span of the fluid line may be made of a
                                                 58

                                                                         Attorney Docket: L50WO
   deformable PVC material. Such embodiments may make fluid line pressures easier to
   determine.
   [00327]    The downstream pressure sensor 513 may comprise a cradle with a pressure
   sensor, such as a force sensor. In such embodiments, the fluid line may be held against the
 5 cradle and pressure sensor of the downstream pressure sensor 513 by a non-deformable or
   deflectable structure. The downstream pressure sensor 513 may cause the syringe pump 500
   to alarm if the detected pressure falls outside of an acceptable range. The measurement of
   the downstream pressure sensor 513 may be referenced against a look-up table to determine
   the pressure in the fluid line. If an abnormal pressure reading (e.g. a high pressure generated
10 during an occlusion event beyond a predetermined threshold) is taken, a control system of
   the syringe pump 500 may stop delivering fluid. In some embodiments, the syringe pump
   500 may be caused to back up and relieve some of the pressure in response to the detection
   of pressures suggestive of an occlusion.
   [00328]    Fig. 29 shows the syringe pump 500 from another perspective. In this view, the
15 display 514 and data input means 516 coupled to the housing 502 face the front of the page.
   The clamp 510 is coupled to the housing 502 by a clamp mount 512. The syringe pump
   assembly 501 is disposed mostly inside the housing 502. The syringe seat 506, which
   comprises part of the syringe pump assembly 501, forms a substantial part of one side of the
   housing 502. The mount 508 retains the syringe pump assembly 501 and helps seal the
20 interior of the housing 502 from exposure to debris. In embodiments where the mount 508
   functions as a drip edge the mount 508 may cover the syringe pump assembly 501 and help
   shed liquid away from the interior of the housing 502. The syringe barrel clamp 518 extends
   through the syringe seat 506. In the depicted position in Fig. 29, the syringe barrel clamp
   518 has been pulled away from its resting position and is biased such that it may
25 automatically retract back toward the housing 502. In some embodiments, the syringe barrel
   clamp 518 may be locked in a non-resting position, such as the position depicted in Fig. 31.
   The barrel flange clip 520 is visible and disposed on the end of the syringe pump assembly
   housing 503 closest to the plunger head assembly 522. The plunger tube 524 connects the
   plunger head assembly 522 to the rest of the syringe pump assembly 501 as described
30 above. The downstream pressure sensor 513 is disposed on the syringe seat 506.
   [00329]    In some specific embodiments, a camera 8127 is positioned to view the syringe.
   The camera 8127 may be coupled to the RTP 3500 and/or to the processor 3600 of Fig. 59J
   to provide image data thereto.       The camera 8127 may include a CCD image sensor, a
                                                  59

                                                                         Attorney Docket: L50WO
   CMOS image sensor, or any other type of imaging sensor. In some embodiment of the
   present disclosure, the camera 8127 includes an array of image sensors.
   [00330]    An image of the syringe loaded into the syringe seat 506 may be displayed on the
   display 514 as seen from the camera 8127. The processors 3500 and/or 3600 may use the
 5 images from the camera 8127 to: read QR codes on the syringe to identify the syringe,
   detect particulates or bubbles in the syringe, measure the location of the plunger to measure
   the volume delivered and thus the volume remaining, determine when the syringe state has
   changed, determine if the syringe is present, estimate bolus discharges, check the color of
   the fluid to determine if it is the correct fluid, and/or determine if syringe is missing or an
10 improperly loaded.
   [00331]    By using frame differencing to detect motion and a Gaussian filter to help reduce
   camera's 8127 shot noise (which looks like an impurity, but smaller), the moving impurities
   can be detected. To locate the syringe's plunger, the fiducials on the syringe may be used,
   template matching (the plunger being the template) may use pattern recognition to locate the
15 fiducials and thus the plunger.
   [00332]    Figs. 30-34 illustrate how a user may place a syringe 504 into the syringe pump
   assembly 501. The syringe pump assembly 501 is shown by itself in Fig. 30. The syringe
   504 is not seated against the syringe seat 506. As shown, the plunger head assembly 522
   comprises two jaws, an upper plunger clamp jaw 526 and a lower plunger clamp jaw 528.
20 The upper plunger clamp jaw 526 and lower plunger clamp jaw 528 are in the open
   position. The upper plunger clamp jaw 526 and lower plunger clamp jaw 528 are capable of
   clamping and retaining the plunger flange 548 on the plunger 544 of the syringe 504. The
   upper plunger clamp jaw 526 and lower plunger clamp jaw 528 may be actuated to open or
   closed positions via rotation of a dial 530 comprising part of the plunger head assembly
25 522. The plunger head assembly 522 may also comprise a plunger pressure sensor 532.
   [00333]    In Fig. 31, the syringe pump assembly 501 is again shown by itself. The syringe
   504 which had not been seated on the syringe seat 506 in Fig. 30 is seated in place on the
   syringe seat 506 in Fig. 31. The syringe barrel flange 542 is clipped in place by the barrel
   flange clip 520. The syringe barrel holder 518, has been pulled out so the syringe 504 may
30 be placed into the syringe pump assembly 501, but has not yet been allowed to
   automatically adjust to the diameter of the syringe barrel 540. In the example embodiment
   shown in Fig. 31, the syringe barrel holder 518 has been rotated 900 clockwise from its
   orientation in Fig. 30 to lock it in position. Alternate embodiments may require counter
                                                   60

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   clockwise rotation, a different degree of rotation, or may not require rotation to lock the
   syringe barrel holder 518 in position. The plunger tube 524 and attached plunger head
   assembly 522 are fully extended away from the rest of the syringe pump assembly 501.
   Since the dial 530 has not been rotated from the orientation shown in Fig. 30, the upper
 5 plunger clamp jaw 526 and the lower plunger clamp jaw 528 are still in the open position.
   [00334]     In Fig. 32, the syringe pump assembly 501 is again shown by itself. The syringe
   504 is seated against the syringe seat 506. The syringe barrel holder 518 has been rotated
   out of the locked position and has been allowed to automatically adjust to the diameter of
   the syringe barrel 540. The syringe barrel holder 518 is holding the syringe 504 in place on
10 the syringe pump assembly 501. The syringe 504 is additionally held in place on the syringe
   pump assembly 501 by the barrel flange clip 520 which retains the syringe barrel flange
   542. The plunger tube 524 and attached plunger head assembly 522 are fully extended away
   from the rest of the syringe pump assembly 501. Since the dial 530 has not been rotated
   from the orientation shown in Fig. 30, the upper plunger clamp jaw 526 and the lower
15 plunger clamp jaw 528 are still in the open position.
   [00335]     In Fig. 33, the syringe pump assembly 501 is again shown by itself. The syringe
   504 is seated against the syringe seat 506. The syringe barrel holder 518 is pressing against
   the syringe barrel 540 and holding the syringe 504 in place on the syringe pump assembly
   501. The barrel flange clip 520 is holding the syringe barrel flange 542 and helping to the
20 hold the syringe 504 in place on the syringe pump assembly 501. The amount that the
   plunger tube 524 extends away from the rest of the syringe pump assembly 501 has been
   adjusted such that the plunger head assembly 522 is in contact with the plunger flange 548
   on the syringe plunger 544. Since the dial 530 has not been rotated from the orientation
   shown in Fig. 30, the upper plunger clamp jaw 526 and the lower plunger clamp jaw 528
25 are still in the open position. The plunger flange 548 is in contact with the plunger pressure
   sensor 532.
   [00336]     In Fig. 34 the syringe pump assembly 501 is again shown by itself. The syringe
   504 is seated against the syringe seat 506. The syringe barrel holder 518 is pressing against
   the syringe barrel 540 and holding the syringe 504 in place on the syringe pump assembly
30 501. The barrel flange clip 520 is clipping the syringe barrel flange 542 and helping to the
   hold the syringe 504 in place on the syringe pump assembly 501. The amount that the
   plunger tube 524 extends away from the rest of the syringe pump assembly 501 has been
   adjusted such that the plunger head assembly 522 is in contact with the plunger flange 548
                                                  61

                                                                       Attorney Docket: L50WO
    on the syringe plunger 544. The dial 530 has been rotated from the orientation depicted in
    Figs. 30-33. Consequentially, the upper plunger clamp jaw 526 and lower plunger clamp
   jaw 528 have moved to a closed position in which the plunger flange 548 of the syringe
    plunger 544 is retained by the plunger head assembly 522. Since the upper plunger clamp
 5 jaw 526 and lower plunger clamp jaw 528 close about the horizontal centerline of the
    plunger head assembly 522, the plunger flange 548 has been centered on the plunger head
    assembly 522.
    [00337]    In the preferred embodiment, the upper plunger clamp jaw 526 and lower plunger
    clamp jaw 528 each comprise a fin 529 as illustrated in Fig. 34. The fins 529 bow out away
10  from the plunger head assembly 522 and toward the left of the page (relative to Fig. 34).
    The fins 529 are disposed about the upper plunger clamp jaw 526 and lower plunger clamp
   jaw 528 such that the fins 529 are the only part of the upper plunger clamp jaw 526 and
    lower plunger clamp jaw 528 to contact a plunger flange 548 when a syringe 504 is placed
    on the syringe pump assembly 501. As the upper plunger clamp jaw 526 and lower plunger
15  clamp jaw 528 are closed down on a plunger flange 548 the thickness and diameter of the
    plunger flange 548 determine when the upper plunger clamp jaw 526 and lower plunger
    clamp jaw 528 stop moving. At least some part of the fins 529 will overhang the plunger
    flange 548 and ensure the plunger flange 548 is retained. Since the upper plunger clamp jaw
    526 and lower plunger clamp jaw 528 do not deflect, this forces the plunger flange 548
20  against the rest of the plunger head assembly 522. That is, the angle of contact of the upper
    plunger clamp jaw 526 and lower plunger clamp jaw 528 on the plunger flange 548 results
    in a force with a component that pushes the plunger flange 548 against the plunger head
    assembly 522. This resultant force additionally has a component which centers the plunger
    flange 548 on the plunger head assembly 522. This is especially desirable because such an
25  arrangement does not allow for any "play" of the plunger flange 548 between upper plunger
    clamp jaw 526 and lower plunger clamp jaw 528 and the rest of the plunger head assembly
    522. Additionally, such an arrangement is desirable because it not only securely holds the
    plunger flange 548 in place against the plunger head assembly 522, but also doubles as an
    anti-siphon mechanism. Such an arrangement furthermore, ensures that the plunger flange
30  548 consistently contacts the plunger pressure sensor 532. Any force component generated
    by the upper plunger clamp jaw 526 and lower plunger clamp jaw 528 which may affect
    readings of the plunger pressure sensor 532 may be predictable and subtracted out or
    otherwise compensated for.
                                                 62

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [00338]    In other embodiments, the upper plunger clamp jaw 526 and lower plunger
   clamp jaw 528 may not comprise fins 529. Instead the upper plunger clamp jaw 526 and
   lower plunger clamp jaw 528 overhang a portion of the plunger flange 548 when in the
   clamped position. The upper plunger clamp jaw 526 and lower plunger clamp jaw 528 may
 5 stop moving when they abut the cruciform which comprises the plunger stem 546. In other
   embodiments, the upper plunger clamp jaw 526 and lower plunger clamp jaw 528 may
   clamp a plunger stem 546 that need not be a cruciform. In another embodiment, the upper
   plunger clamp jaw 526 and lower plunger clamp jaw 528 may include a wedge, ramp, or
   tapered rib feature on the surfaces of the jaws that faces the pump head assembly 522. The
10 wedge, ramp or tapered rib serve to push the plunger flange 548 toward the pump head
   assembly 522 until the plunger flange 548 is securely held against the pump head assembly
   522.
   [00339]    To dispense the contents of the syringe 504, the syringe pump 500 may actuate
   the plunger head assembly 522 to thereby push the plunger 544 into the syringe barrel 540.
15 Since the contents of the syringe 504 may not flow through or past the plunger pusher 550,
   the contents of the syringe 504 are forced out of the syringe outlet 552 as the plunger 544 is
   advanced into the syringe barrel 540. Any pressure generated as the plunger 544 advances
   into the syringe barrel 540 is transmitted to the plunger pressure sensor 532. The plunger
   pressure sensor 532, may, in some embodiments, comprise a force sensor such as a strain
20 beam. When an occlusion occurs, fluid within the syringe barrel 540 and/or the fluid lines
   prevents movement of the plunger 544. When the plunger head assembly 522 continues to
   advance, high forces are produced between the plunger 544 and the plunger head assembly
   522. The pressure transmitted to the plunger pressure sensor 532 may have a programmed
   acceptable range so that possible occlusions may be identified. If the pressure applied to the
25 plunger pressure sensor 532 exceeds a predetermined threshold, the syringe pump 500 may
   alarm or issue an alert.
   [00340]    Fig. 35 shows the plunger head assembly 522 with the upper plunger clamp jaw
   526 and lower plunger clamp jaw 528 in the fully closed position. The dial 530 is oriented
   such that the raised part of the dial 530 is on a plane substantially parallel to the top and
30 bottom faces of the plunger head assembly 522. The plunger tube 524 is shown extending
   from the plunger head assembly 522 to the sliding block assembly 800. One end of a flex
   connector 562 is attached to the sliding block assembly 800. A position indicator mark has
   been placed on the dial 530 for illustrative purposes in Fig. 35 and Fig. 36.
                                                  63

                                                                           Attorney Docket: L50WO
    [00341]    The view shown in Fig. 36 is similar to the view shown in Fig. 35. In Fig. 36, the
    dial 530 on the plunger head assembly 522 has been rotated approximately 1350 clockwise.
    This rotation has in turn caused the upper plunger clamp jaw 526 and lower plunger clamp
   jaw 528 to separate and move to the fully open position. In alternate embodiments, the dial
 5  530 may require more or less rotation than the approximately 135' shown in the example
    embodiment to transition the upper plunger clamp jaw 526 and lower plunger clamp jaw
    528 from a fully open position to a fully closed position. The plunger head assembly may be
    capable of holding itself in this position (described later in the specification).
    [00342]    An exploded view of the top half of the plunger head assembly 522 is shown in
10  Fig. 37. As shown, the upper plunger clamp jaw 526 comprises two racks 570. In other
    embodiments, there may only be one rack 570. In some embodiments, there may be more
    than two racks 570. When the plunger head assembly 522 is fully assembled, the racks 570
    may interdigitate with a corresponding number of upper jaw pinion gears 572. The upper
   jaw pinion gears 572 spin about the axis of an upper jaw drive shaft 574. The upper jaw
15  drive shaft 574 may also comprise an upper jaw drive gear 604 which will be elaborated
   upon later.
    [00343]    The plunger head assembly 522 may comprise a number of bearing surfaces for
    the upper jaw drive shaft 574. In the example embodiment in Fig. 37, the plunger head
    assembly 522 comprises two upper bearing surfaces 576 and a lower bearing surface 578
20  for the upper jaw drive shaft 574. The upper bearing surfaces 576 may be coupled into the
   plunger head assembly housing top 600. The upper bearing surfaces 576 may be coupled to
    the plunger head assembly housing top 600 by any of a variety of means including, but not
    limited to, screws bolts, adhesive, snap fit, friction fit, welds, a tongue in groove
    arrangement, pins, or may be formed as a continuous part of the plunger head assembly
25  housing top 600 (shown). The upper bearing surfaces 576 provide a bearing surface for at
    least a span of the top half of the upper jaw drive shaft 574.
    [00344]    The lower bearing surface 578 is coupled into the plunger head assembly housing
    top 600. The lower bearing surface 578 may be coupled to the plunger head assembly
    housing top 600 by any suitable means such as, but not limited to, screws 580 (shown),
30 bolts, adhesive, snap fit, friction fit, magnets, welds, a tongue in groove arrangement, etc. In
    some embodiments, the lower bearing surface 578 may be formed as a continuous part of
    the plunger head assembly housing top 600. The lower bearing surface 578 provides a
   bearing surface for at least a span of the bottom half of the upper jaw drive shaft 574.
                                                    64

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
    [00345]    In some embodiments, there may also be an upper dial shaft bearing surface 651
    which couples into the plunger head assembly housing top 600. The upper dial shaft bearing
    surface 651 may be coupled into the plunger head assembly housing top 600 by any of a
    variety of means including, but not limited to, screws, bolts, adhesive, snap fit, friction fit,
 5  welds, a tongue in groove arrangement (shown), pins, or may be formed as a continuous
    part of the plunger head assembly housing top 600. The upper dial shaft bearing surface 651
    will be further elaborated upon later.
    [00346]     The upper jaw drive shaft 574 may also comprise a D-shaped span 582. The D
    shaped span 582 may be located on an end of the upper jaw drive shaft 574 as shown in the
10  example embodiment in Fig. 37. The D-shaped span 582 of the upper jaw drive shaft 574
    may couple into a complimentary shaped orifice in one side of a D-shaped connector 584.
    The D-shaped span 582 of the upper jaw drive shaft 574 may not extend all the way through
    the D-shaped connector 584. In some embodiments, the orifice may run through the entire
    D-shaped connector 584. The other side of the D-shaped connector 584 may couple onto a
15  D-shaped shaft 586 projecting out of a plunger clamp jaws position sensor 588. Any
    rotation of the upper jaw drive shaft 574 may cause the D-shaped connector 584 to rotate as
    well. In turn, this may cause rotation of the D-shaped shaft 586 projecting from the plunger
    clamp jaws position sensor 588. In some embodiments, the D-shaped span 582 of the upper
   jaw drive shaft 574 may extend directly into the plunger clamp jaws position sensor 588. In
20  such embodiments, the D-shaped connector 584 and D-shaped shaft 586 may not be needed.
    In some embodiments, the D-shaped span 582, the D-shaped connector 584, and D-shaped
    shaft 586 need not be D-shaped. In some embodiments they may be have a triangular shape,
    square shape, star shape, etc.
    [00347]    In some embodiments, the plunger clamp jaws position sensor 588 may comprise
25  a potentiometer. As the D-shaped shaft 586 projecting from the plunger clamp jaws position
    sensor 588 rotates, the wiper of the potentiometer is slid across the resistive element of the
   potentiometer thus varying the resistance measured by the potentiometer. The resistance
    value may then be interpreted to indicate the position of the upper plunger clamp jaw 526
    and lower plunger clamp jaw 528. Alternatively, the plunger clamp jaws position sensor
30  588 may comprise a magnet on the end of the upper jaw drive shaft 574 and a rotary
    encoder such as the AS5030ATSU by Austrianmicrosytems of Austria. Alternatively, the
   position of the upper jaw 526 and or lower jaw 528 can be measured with a linear encoder
    or a linear potentiometer.
                                                  65

                                                                      Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [00348]    By obtaining a position from the plunger clamp jaws position sensor 588, the
   syringe pump 500 may be able to determine a number of things. The position may be used
   to indicate whether a plunger flange 548 has been clamped by the plunger head assembly
   522. The position may indicate whether a plunger flange has been correctly clamped by the
 5 plunger head assembly 522. This may be accomplished by referencing the determined
   position against a position or a range of positions which may be acceptable for a specific
   syringe 504. The information about the specific syringe 504 being used may be input by a
   user or may be gathered by one or more other sensors comprising other parts of the syringe
   pump 500.
10 [00349]    Since the position measured by the plunger clamp jaws position sensor 588
   depends on the diameter and thickness of a clamped plunger flange 548, the positional
   information may also be used to determine information about the specific syringe 504 being
   used (for example, its type, brand, volume, etc.). This may be accomplished by referencing
   the measured position against a database of positions which would be expected for different
15 syringes 504. In embodiments where there are a number of sensors gathering information
   about the syringe 504, the positional information generated by the plunger clamp jaws
   position sensor 588 may be checked against data from other sensors to make a more
   informed decision on which specific syringe 504 is being utilized. If the position measured
   by the plunger clamp jaws position sensor 588 does not correlate with data gathered by
20 other sensors, the syringe pump 500 may alarm.
   [00350]    As shown in Fig. 37, the plunger head assembly housing top 600 may also house
   the plunger pressure sensor 532 mentioned earlier. The plunger pressure sensor 532 may
   comprise a plunger pressure sensor push plate 590. The plunger pressure sensor push plate
   590 may be a nub, a disc, or any other suitable shape. The plunger pressure sensor push
25 plate 590 may be flat or rounded. The plunger pressure sensor push plate 590 may extend
   out of the plunger head assembly 522 such that it may physically contact a plunger flange
   548 clamped against the plunger head assembly 522. The plunger pressure sensor push plate
   590 may directly transmit any force applied to it to a plunger pressure sensor input surface
   596. In some embodiments, the plunger pressure sensor push plate 590 may be attached to a
30 plunger pressure sensor lever 592. The plunger pressure sensor lever 592 may be pivotally
   coupled to a plunger pressure sensor pivot 594. The plunger pressure sensor pivot 594 may
   be disposed at any point along the length of the plunger pressure sensor lever 594. In the
   example embodiment in Fig. 37, any force applied to the plunger pressure sensor push plate
                                                66

                                                                       Attorney Docket: L50WO
    590 is transmitted through the plunger pressure sensor lever 592 to the plunger pressure
    sensor input surface 596. In some specific embodiments, the plunger pressure sensor lever
    592 and plunger pressure sensor pivot 594 may serve to constrain the motion of the plunger
    pressure plate 590 to a plane perpendicular to the plunger flange 548 and minimize
 5  resistance to free movement of the plunger pressure plate 590. Although the location of the
    plunger pressure sensor pivot 594 in relation to the plunger pressure sensor push plate 590
    does not multiply the force exerted against the plunger pressure sensor input surface 596 in
    Fig. 37, other embodiments may use different arrangements to create a mechanical
    advantage.
10  [00351]    The force measurement which is read via the plunger pressure sensor 532 may be
    interpreted to determine the hydraulic pressure of the fluid being dispensed. This may
    contribute to safety of operation because the sensed fluid pressure may be useful in
    identifying possible occlusions so that they may be corrected. The pressure may be
    monitored such that if the pressure exceeds a predefined value, the syringe pump 500 may
15  alarm. The pressure measurement from the plunger pressure sensor 532 may be checked
    against the pressure measurement from the downstream pressure sensor 513 (see Fig. 28) in
    embodiments including both a plunger pressure sensor 532 and a downstream pressure
    sensor 513. This may help to ensure greater accuracy. If the pressure measurements do not
    correlate, an alarm may be generated. Additionally, since the sensors are redundant, if one
20  of the plunger pressure sensor 532 or downstream pressure sensor 513 fails during a
    therapy, the syringe pump 500 may function on only one of the sensors in a fail operative
    mode.
    [00352]    As shown in Fig. 37, a number of electrical conduits 598 run to and from the both
    the plunger pressure sensor 532 and the plunger clamp jaws position sensor 588. The
25  conduits 598 provide power to the plunger pressure sensor 532 and plunger clamp jaws
   position sensor 588. The electrical conduits 598 also comprise the data communication
   pathways to and from the plunger pressure sensor 532 and the plunger clamp jaws position
    sensor 588.
    [00353]    Fig. 38 shows an assembled view of the top half of the plunger head assembly
30  522. In Fig. 38, the upper plunger clamp jaw 526 is in a closed position. The two racks 570
    on the upper plunger clamp jaw 526 are engaged with the two pinion gears 572 on the upper
   jaw drive shaft 574 such that any rotation of the upper jaw drive shaft 574 translates into
                                                 67

                                                                       Attorney Docket: L50WO
   linear displacement of the upper plunger clamp jaw 526. The upper jaw drive shaft 574 is
   surrounded by the upper bearing surfaces 576 and the lower bearing surface 578.
    [00354]    The D-shaped span 582 of the upper jaw drive shaft 574 and the D-shaped shaft
   586 of the plunger clamp jaws position sensor 588 are coupled together by the D-shaped
 5 connector 584. Any rotation of the upper jaw drive shaft 574 will cause rotation of the D
   shaped span 582, D-shaped connector 584, and D-shaped shaft 586. As mentioned above
   this rotation may cause the wiper to slide across the resistive element of the plunger clamp
   jaws position sensor 588 in embodiments where the plunger clamp jaws position sensor 588
   comprises a potentiometer.
10  [00355]    The plunger pressure sensor 532 is also shown in Fig. 38. The plunger pressure
   sensor push plate 590 may extend out of the plunger head assembly 522 such that it may
   physically contact a plunger flange 548 (see Fig. 30) clamped against the plunger head
   assembly 522. The plunger pressure sensor push plate 590 may directly transmit any force
   applied to it to a plunger pressure sensor input surface 596. In some embodiments, including
15 the one shown in Fig. 38, the plunger pressure sensor push plate 590 may be attached to a
   plunger pressure sensor lever 592. The plunger pressure sensor lever 592 may be pivotally
   coupled to a plunger pressure sensor pivot 594. The plunger pressure sensor pivot 594 may
   be disposed at any point along the length of the plunger pressure sensor lever 592. In the
   example embodiment in Fig. 38, any force applied to the plunger pressure sensor push plate
20 590 is transmitted through the plunger pressure sensor lever 592 to the plunger pressure
   sensor input surface 596. Although the location of the plunger pressure sensor pivot 594 in
   relation to the plunger pressure sensor push plate 590 does not multiply the force exerted
   against the plunger pressure sensor input surface 596 in Fig. 38, other embodiments may
   use different arrangements to create a mechanical advantage.
25  [00356]    The plunger head assembly housing top 600 also includes the top half of a dial
   shaft passage 648 for a dial shaft 650 (not shown) which will be explained later in the
   specification. In the example embodiment shown in Fig. 38, the dial shaft passage 648
   passes through the right face of the plunger head assembly housing top 600.
    [00357]    Fig. 39 shows another assembled view of the top half of the plunger head
30 assembly 522. As shown in Fig. 39 the plunger head assembly housing top 600 may
   comprise upper jaw guides 569. The upper jaw guides 569 are sized and disposed such that
   they form a track-way in which the upper plunger clamp jaw 526 may move along. In the
   example embodiment, the upper jaw guides 569 are formed as a continuous part of the
                                                  68

                                                                      Attorney Docket: L50WO
   plunger head assembly housing top 600 and span the entire height of the side wall of the
   plunger head assembly housing top 600. In other embodiments, the upper jaw guides 569
    may only span a part of the height of the side wall of plunger head assembly housing top
    600.
 5  [00358]   As shown in Fig. 39, the plunger pressure sensor 532 may comprise a plunger
   pressure sensor force concentrator 595. In embodiments where the plunger pressure sensor
   push plate 590 transmits force directly to the plunger pressure sensor input surface 596, the
   plunger pressure sensor force concentrator 595 may help to concentrate the force applied to
    the plunger pressure sensor push plate 590 while exerting it against the plunger pressure
10  sensor input surface 596. In embodiments where the plunger pressure sensor 532 comprises
    a plunger pressure sensor lever 592 on a plunger pressure sensor pivot 594, the plunger
    pressure sensor force concentrator 595 may be on the end and face of the plunger pressure
    sensor lever 592 which presses against the plunger pressure sensor input surface 596. This
    may help to concentrate the force exerted against the plunger pressure sensor input surface
15  596 which may increase accuracy. It may also help to concentrate the force at the center of
    the plunger pressure sensor input surface 596, making measurements more consistent and
    accurate.
    [00359]    The bottom half of the plunger head assembly 522 and the plunger tube 524 are
    shown in Fig. 40. As shown, the lower plunger clamp jaw 528 comprises two lower plunger
20  clamp jaw racks 610. In other embodiments, there may only be one lower plunger clamp
   jaw rack 610. In some embodiments, there may be more than two lower plunger clamp jaw
    racks 610. Each lower plunger clamp jaw rack 610 interdigitates with a lower plunger clamp
   jaw pinion gear 612. The lower plunger clamp jaw pinion gears 612 are capable of rotating
    about the axis of a lower clamp jaw drive shaft 614. A lower jaw drive gear 620 is also
25  disposed on the lower clamp jaw drive shaft 614. The lower jaw drive gear 620 will be
    elaborated upon later.
    [00360]    Similar to the upper half of the plunger head assembly 522 the lower half of the
   plunger head assembly 522 may comprise a number of bearing surfaces for the lower jaw
    drive shaft 614. In the example embodiment in Fig. 40, the plunger head assembly 522
30  comprises one upper bearing surface 616 and two lower bearing surfaces 618 for the lower
   jaw drive shaft 614. The upper bearing surface 616 is coupled into the plunger head
    assembly housing bottom 602. The upper bearing surface 616 may be coupled to the
    plunger head assembly housing bottom 602 by any of a variety of means including, but not
                                                  69

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   limited to, screws 617 (shown), bolts, adhesive, snap fit, friction fit, welds, a tongue in
   groove arrangement, pins, or may be formed as a continuous part of the plunger head
   assembly housing bottom 602. The upper bearing surface 616 provide a bearing surface for
   at least a span of the top half of the lower jaw drive shaft 614.
 5 [00361]     The lower bearing surfaces 618 are coupled into the plunger head assembly
   housing bottom 602. The lower bearing surfaces 618 may be coupled to the plunger head
   assembly housing bottom 602 by any suitable means such as, but not limited to, screws,
   bolts, adhesive, snap fit, friction fit, magnets, welds, a tongue in groove arrangement, pin
   (shown), etc. In some embodiments, the lower bearing surfaces 618 may be formed as a
10 continuous part of the plunger head assembly housing bottom 602. The lower bearing
   surfaces 618 provide a bearing surface for at least a span of the bottom half of the lower jaw
   drive shaft 614.
   [00362]     In some embodiments, there may also be a lower dial shaft bearing surface 649
   which is coupled to the plunger head assembly housing bottom 602. The lower dial shaft
15 bearing surface 649 may be coupled into the plunger head assembly housing bottom 602 by
   any of a variety of means including, but not limited to, screws, bolts, adhesive, snap fit,
   friction fit, welds, a tongue in groove arrangement, pins, or may be formed as a continuous
   part of the plunger head assembly housing bottom 602 as shown. The lower half of the dial
   shaft passage 648 mentioned above is cut through the right face of the plunger head
20 assembly housing bottom 602 The lower dial shaft bearing surface 649 and dial shaft
   passage 648 will be further elaborated upon later.
   [00363]     As shown in Fig. 40, the plunger tube 524 may be coupled into the bottom half of
   the plunger head assembly 522. In the example embodiment shown in Fig. 40, the plunger
   tube 524 is coupled by two screws 630 onto a plunger tube cradle 631. In other
25 embodiments, the number or type of fastener/coupling method may be different. For
   example, the plunger tube 524 may be coupled to the plunger tube cradle 631 by any other
   suitable means such as, but not limited to, bolts, adhesive, snap fit, friction fit, magnets,
   welds, a tongue in groove arrangement, pin, etc. The plunger tube cradle 631 may comprise
   arcuated ribs 633 which are arced such that they are flush with the outside surface of the
30 plunger tube 524 and support the plunger tube 524. In some embodiments, a portion of the
   arc of the plunger tube 524 may be eliminated on the span of the plunger tube 524 which is
   coupled inside of the plunger head assembly 522 when the syringe pump 500 is fully
   assembled. In the embodiment shown in Fig. 40, about a 1800 segment, or the upper half of
                                                   70

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   the plunger tube 524 has been eliminated. The end of the plunger tube 524 opposite the end
   of the plunger tube 524 coupled to the plunger tube cradle 631 may comprise a number of
   plunger tube cutouts 802 which will be explained later. There may also be a conduit
   opening 632 near the plunger tube cutouts 802.
 5 [00364]    In Fig. 41, the dial 530 of the plunger head assembly 522 is shown exploded
   away from a dial shaft 650 to which it couples onto when assembled. As shown, the dial
   shaft 650 comprises a square shaped end 653. The square shaped end 653 of the dial shaft
   650 fits into a square shaped orifice 655 in the dial 530 such that as the dial 530 is rotated,
   the dial shaft 650 is caused to rotate as well. In other embodiments, the square shaped end
10 653 of the dial shaft 650 and square shaped orifice 655 on the dial 530 need not necessarily
   be square shaped, but rather D-shaped, hexagonal, or any other suitable shape.
   [00365]    A dial shaft gear 652 may be disposed about the dial shaft 650. As the dial shaft
   650 is rotated, the dial shaft gear 652 may be caused to rotate about the axis of the dial shaft
   650. A dial shaft cam 654 may be slidably coupled to the dial shaft 650 such that the dial
15 shaft cam 654 is capable of sliding along the axial direction of the dial shaft 650 and the dial
   shaft 650 freely rotates inside the dial shaft cam 654. The dial shaft cam 654 may comprise
   one or more dial shaft cam ears 656. The dial shaft cam ears 656 may also be referred to as
   dial shaft cam guides since they perform a guiding function. In the example embodiment,
   the dial shaft cam 654 comprises two dial shaft cam ears 656. In the example embodiment,
20 the cam surface of the dial shaft cam 654 is substantially a section of a double helix. At the
   end of cam surface of the dial shaft cam 654 there may be one or more dial shaft cam
   detents 660. The end of the dial shaft cam 654 opposite the cam surface may be
   substantially flat.
   [00366]    A dial shaft cam follower 658 may be coupled into the dial shaft 650 such that it
25 rotates with the dial shaft 650. In the example embodiment shown in Fig. 41 the dial shaft
   cam follower 658 runs through the dial shaft 650 such that at least a portion of the dial shaft
   cam follower 658 projects from the dial shaft 650 on each side of the dial shaft 650. This
   effectively creates two dial shaft cam followers 658 which are offset 1800 from each other.
   Each end of the dial shaft cam follower 658 follows one helix of the double helix shaped
30 cam surface of the dial shaft cam 654.
   [00367]    A bias member may also be placed on the dial shaft 650. In the example
   embodiment, a dial shaft compression spring 662 is placed on the dial shaft 650. The dial
   shaft compression spring 662 may have a coil diameter sized to fit concentrically around the
                                                   71

                                                                         Attorney Docket: L50WO
   dial shaft 650. In the example embodiment depicted in Fig. 41, the dial shaft compression
   spring 662 is retained on each end by dial shaft washers 664. A dial shaft retaining ring 665
   may fit in an annular groove 666 recessed into the dial shaft 650.
   [00368]     In Fig. 41, the end of the dial shaft 650 opposite the square shaped end 653
 5 features a peg-like projection 770. The peg-like projection 770 may couple into a joint of a
   double universal joint 772. The peg-like projection 770 may couple into the double
   universal joint 772 by any suitable means such as, but not limited to, screws, bolts,
   adhesive, snap fit, friction fit, magnets, welds, a tongue in groove arrangement, pin (shown),
   etc. The other joint of the double universal joint 772 may also couple onto a driven shaft
10 774. The other joint of the double universal joint 772 may be coupled onto the driven shaft
   774 by any suitable means such as, but not limited to, screws, bolts, adhesive, snap fit,
   friction fit, magnets, welds, a tongue in groove arrangement, pin (shown), etc. The dial shaft
   650 and the driven shaft 774 may be oriented approximately perpendicular to each other.
   [00369]     In some embodiments, a driven shaft bushing 776 may be included on the driven
15 shaft 774. In the example embodiment shown in Fig. 41 the driven shaft bushing 776 is a
   sleeve bushing. The inner surface of the driven shaft bushing 776 comprises the bearing
   surface for the driven shaft 774. The outer surface of the driven shaft bushing 776 may
   comprise a number of driven shaft bushing projections 778 which extend outwardly from
   the outer surface of the driven shaft bushing 776. In the example embodiment in Fig. 41, the
20 driven shaft bushing projections 778 are spaced approximately 1200 apart from each other
   along the arc of the outer surface of the driven shaft bushing 776. In the example
   embodiment shown in Fig. 41, the driven shaft bushing projection 778 which projects
   toward the top of the page comprises a nub 780 which extends from the top edge of the
   driven shaft bushing projection 778 toward the top of the page. The driven shaft bushing
25 776 is held in place on the drive shaft 774 by driven shaft retaining rings 782. One of the
   driven shaft retaining rings 782 may be clipped into place on the driven shaft 774 on each
   side of the driven shaft bushing 776. The end of the driven shaft 774 not coupled into the
   double universal joint 772 may comprise a driven shaft D-shaped segment 784.
   [00370]     When assembled, as shown in Fig. 42, the dial shaft compression spring 662
30 biases the dial shaft cam 654 against the dial shaft cam follower 658 such that the ends of
   the dial shaft cam follower 658 are at the bottom of the cam surface of the dial shaft cam
   654. One dial shaft washer 664 abuts the dial shaft retaining ring 665 and the other dial
   shaft washer 664 abuts the flat side of the dial shaft cam 654. Preferably, the distance
                                                   72

                                                                         Attorney Docket: L50WO
   between the dial shaft washers 664 is at no point greater than or equal to the resting length
    of the dial shaft compression spring 662. This ensures that there is no "slop" and that the
    dial shaft cam 654 is always biased against the ends of the dial shaft cam follower 658.
    [00371]    As shown, the double universal joint 772 connects dial shaft 650 to the driven
 5  shaft 774 when assembled. The driven shaft bushing 776 is clipped into place on the driven
    shaft 774 by driven shaft retaining rings 782 (see Fig. 41). In the embodiment depicted in
    Fig. 42 the dial shaft 650 functions as the drive shaft for the driven shaft 774. Any rotation
    of the dial shaft 650 generated through rotation of the dial 530 will be transmitted via the
    double universal joint 772 to the driven shaft 774.
10  [00372]    Fig. 43 shows the whole plunger head assembly 522 with the plunger tube 524
    coupled in place. The top half of the plunger head assembly 522 is exploded away from the
   bottom half of the plunger head assembly 522. The bottom half of the dial shaft 650 is
    sitting in the lower dial shaft bearing 649 on the plunger head assembly housing bottom
    602. Another span of the bottom half of the dial shaft 650 is seated on the portion of the dial
15  shaft passage 648 located on the plunger head assembly housing bottom 602. As shown, the
    dial shaft passage 648 functions as a second bearing surface for the dial shaft 650. The
    square shaped end 653 of the dial shaft 650 extends beyond the dial shaft passage 648 and
    couples into the square shaped orifice 655 on the dial 530.
    [00373]    As shown in Fig. 43, the dial shaft gear 652 on the dial shaft 650 interdigitates
20  with the lower jaw drive gear 620. As the dial 530 is rotated, the dial shaft 650 and dial
    shaft gear 652 also rotate. Rotation is transmitted through the dial shaft gear 652 to the
    lower jaw drive gear 620. Rotation of the lower jaw drive gear 620 rotates the lower clamp
   jaw drive shaft 614 and the lower clamp jaw pinion gears 612 on the lower clamp jaw drive
    shaft 614. Since the lower clamp jaw pinion gears 612 interdigitate with the lower plunger
25  clamp jaw racks 610, any rotation of the lower clamp jaw pinion gears 612 is translated into
    linear displacement of the lower plunger clamp jaw 528. Thus, in the shown embodiment,
    rotating the dial 530 is the means by which a user may actuate the lower plunger clamp jaw
    528 to an open or clamped position.
    [00374]    In the embodiment shown in Fig. 43, rotation of the dial 530 also causes a linear
30  displacement of the dial shaft cam 654 away from the dial 530 and in the axial direction of
    the dial shaft 650. As shown in the example embodiment, the upper bearing surface 616 for
    the lower clamp jaw drive shaft 614 comprises a dial shaft cam ear slit 690 which functions
    as a track for a dial shaft cam ear 656. One of the dial shaft cam ears 656 projects into the
                                                  73

                                                                          Attorney Docket: L50WO
   dial shaft cam ear slit 690. This ensures that the dial shaft cam 654 may not rotate with the
   dial 530 and dial shaft 650 because rotation of the dial shaft cam ear 656 is blocked by the
   rest of the upper bearing surface 616 for the lower clamp jaw drive shaft 614.
   [00375]     The dial shaft cam ear slit 690 does, however, allow the dial shaft cam 654 to
 5 displace linearly along the axial direction of the dial shaft 650. As the dial 530 and dial shaft
   650 are rotated, the dial shaft cam follower 658 also rotates. The dial shaft cam follower's
   658 location on the dial shaft 650 is fixed such that the dial shaft cam follower 658 is
   incapable of linear displacement. As the ends of the dial shaft cam follower 658 ride up the
   cam surface of the dial shaft cam 654, the dial shaft cam 654 is forced to displace toward
10 the right face of the plunger head assembly housing bottom 602 (relative to Fig. 43). The
   dial shaft cam ears 656 also slide in this direction within the dial shaft cam ear slit 690. This
   causes the dial shaft compression spring 662 to compress between the dial shaft washer 664
   abutting the dial shaft cam 654 and the dial shaft washer 664 abutting the dial shaft
   retaining ring 665. The restoring force of the dial shaft compression spring 662 serves to
15 bias the dial 530, and all parts actuated by the dial 530 to their original positions prior to any
   dial 530 rotation. If the dial 530 is released, the dial 530 and all parts actuated by the dial
   530 will be caused to automatically return to their original orientations prior to any dial 530
   rotation due to the expansion of the compressed dial shaft compression spring 662. In the
   example embodiment, the original position prior to any dial 530 rotation, is the position
20 depicted in Fig. 35 where the upper plunger clamp jaw 526 and lower plunger clamp jaw
   528 are fully closed.
   [00376]     In some embodiments, including the embodiment shown in Fig. 43, the dial shaft
   cam 654 may comprise a dial shaft cam detent 660 along the cam surface of the dial shaft
   cam 654. The dial shaft cam detent 660 may allow a user to "park" the dial shaft cam
25 follower 658 at a desired point along the cam surface of the dial shaft cam 654. In the
   example embodiment, the dial shaft cam detent 660 may be reached by the dial shaft cam
   follower 658 when the dial 530 has been fully rotated. When the dial shaft cam follower 658
   is in the dial shaft cam detent 660, the dial shaft compression spring 662 may not
   automatically return the dial 530 and all parts actuated by the dial 530 to their orientation
30 prior to any rotation of the dial 530. A user may need to rotate the dial 530 such that the dial
   shaft cam follower 658 moves out of the dial shaft cam detent 660 before the restoring force
   of the compressed dial shaft compression spring 662 may be allowed to expand the dial
   shaft compression spring 662 to a less compressed state.
                                                   74

                                                                         Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [00377]    Fig. 44 shows a similar view to the view illustrated in Fig. 43. In Fig. 44, the
   plunger head assembly housing top 600 and some parts comprising the top half of the
   plunger head assembly 522 are not visible. Among the parts that are visible are the upper
   dial shaft bearing 651, upper clamp jaw drive shaft 574, the upper clamp jaw pinion gears
 5 572, and the upper jaw drive gear 604. As shown in Fig. 44, when assembled the dial shaft
   650 is sandwiched between the upper dial shaft bearing 651         and lower dial shaft bearing
   649, the dial shaft gear 652 on the dial shaft 650 interdigitates with the upper jaw drive gear
   604. As the dial 530 is rotated, the dial shaft 650 and dial shaft gear 652 also rotate.
   Rotation is transmitted through the dial shaft gear 652 to the upper jaw drive gear 604.
10 Rotation of the upper jaw drive gear 604 rotates the upper clamp jaw drive shaft 574 and the
   upper clamp jaw pinion gears 572 on the upper clamp jaw drive shaft 574.
   [00378]    Referring back to Fig. 38, the upper clamp jaw pinion gears 572 interdigitate with
   the upper plunger clamp jaw racks 570. Any rotation of the upper clamp jaw pinion gears
   572 is translated into linear displacement of the upper plunger clamp jaw 526. Thus rotation
15 of the dial 530 is the means by which a user may actuate the upper plunger clamp jaw 526
   (not shown in Fig. 44) to an open or clamped position.
   [00379]    The lower bearing surface 578 for the upper jaw drive shaft 574 is also visible in
   Fig. 44. The lower bearing surface 578 for the upper jaw drive shaft 574 may comprise a
   second dial shaft cam ear slit 690 in embodiments where the dial shaft cam 654 comprises
20 more than one dial shaft cam ear 656. The second dial shaft cam ear slits 690 may functions
   as a track for a dial shaft cam ear 656. One of the dial shaft cam ears 656 projects into the
   second dial shaft cam ear slit 690. This ensures that the dial shaft cam 654 may not rotate
   with the dial 530 and dial shaft 650 because rotation of the dial shaft cam ear 656 is blocked
   by the rest of the lower bearing surface 578 for the upper clamp jaw drive shaft 574.
25 [00380]     The second dial shaft cam ear slit 690 does, however, allow the dial shaft cam
   654 to displace linearly along the axial direction of the dial shaft 650. As the dial 530 and
   dial shaft 650 are rotated, the dial shaft cam follower 658 also rotates. The dial shaft cam
   follower's 658 location on the dial shaft 650 is fixed such that the dial shaft cam follower
   658 is incapable of linear displacement. As the ends of the dial shaft cam follower 658 ride
30 up the cam surface of the dial shaft cam 654, the dial shaft cam 654 is forced to displace
   toward the right face of the plunger head assembly housing bottom 602 (relative to Fig. 44).
   A dial shaft cam ear 656 also slides in this direction within the second dial shaft cam ear slit
   690. This causes the dial shaft compression spring 662 to compress between the dial shaft
                                                  75

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   washer 664 abutting dial shaft cam 654 and the dial shaft washer 664 abutting the dial shaft
   retaining ring 665. The dial shaft compression spring 662, dial 530, and all parts actuated by
   the dial 530 may then behave per the above description.
   [00381]    In some embodiments, the upper jaw drive gear 604 (best shown in Fig. 37) and
 5 lower jaw drive gear 620 (best shown in Fig. 43) may be substantially identical gears.
   Additionally, the upper jaw pinion gears 572 (best shown in Fig. 37) and lower clamp jaw
   pinion gears 612 (best shown in Fig. 40) may be substantially identical gears. In such
   embodiments, the upper plunger clamp jaw 526 and lower plunger clamp jaw 528 (see Figs.
   30-34) will experience an equal amount of linear displacement per degree of rotation of the
10 dial 530. Since the point of interdigitation of the upper jaw drive gear 604 on dial shaft gear
   652 is opposite the point of interdigitation of the lower jaw drive gear 620 on the dial shaft
   gear 652, the upper plunger clamp jaw 526 and lower plunger clamp jaw 528 will linearly
   displace in opposite directions.
   [00382]    Fig. 45 shows a view similar to the view shown in Fig. 44. Fig. 45 depicts an
15 assembled view of the plunger head assembly 522 from a slightly different perspective. As
   shown in Fig. 45, the dial 530 is coupled to the dial shaft 650. The dial shaft gear 652 is in
   an interdigitating relationship with both the upper jaw drive gear 604 and the lower jaw
   drive gear 620. The upper jaw drive gear 604 is disposed on the upper jaw drive shaft 574
   along with two upper jaw pinion gears 572. The upper jaw pinion gears 572 may be spaced
20 apart by the lower bearing surface 578 for the upper jaw drive shaft 574 as shown in Fig.
   45.
   [00383]    The plunger pressure sensor 532 in the embodiment depicted in Fig. 45 comprises
   a plunger pressure sensor push plate 590 which extends out of the plunger head assembly
   522 such that it may physically contact a plunger flange 548 (as shown in Fig. 34) clamped
25 against the plunger head assembly 522. The plunger pressure sensor push plate 590 is
   attached to a plunger pressure sensor lever 592. The plunger pressure sensor lever 592 is
   pivotally coupled to a plunger pressure sensor pivot 594. The plunger pressure sensor pivot
   594 is disposed at the left end of the plunger pressure sensor lever 594 (relative to Fig. 45).
   In the example embodiment in Fig. 45, any force applied to the plunger pressure sensor
30 push plate 590 is transmitted through the plunger pressure sensor lever 594 to the plunger
   pressure sensor input surface 596. Although the location of the plunger pressure sensor
   pivot 594 in relation to the plunger pressure sensor push plate 590 does not multiply the
   force exerted against the plunger pressure sensor input surface 596 in Fig. 45, other
                                                  76

                                                                       Attorney Docket: L50WO
   embodiments may use different arrangements to create a mechanical advantage. The
   plunger pressure sensor 532 in Fig. 45 also comprises a plunger pressure sensor force
   concentrator 595 which is a small projection extending from the plunger pressure sensor
   lever 592 to the plunger pressure sensor input surface 596. The plunger pressure sensor
 5 force concentrator 595 concentrates force exerted against the plunger pressure sensor input
   surface 596 to help promote a more accurate pressure reading.
    [00384]    Fig. 46 shows a close up of how the upper jaw drive shaft 574 is connected to the
   D-shaped shaft 586 projecting from the plunger clamp jaws position sensor 588. In the
   embodiment depicted in Fig. 46, the upper jaw drive shaft 574 comprises a D-shaped span
10 582. The D-shaped span 582 of the upper jaw drive shaft 574 projects into a complimentary
   shaped orifice in the D-shaped connector 584. The D-shaped connector 584 in Fig. 46 is
   shown in cross-section. A D-shaped shaft 586 projecting out of the plunger clamp jaws
   position sensor 588 also projects into the D-shaped connector 584. Any rotation of the upper
   jaw drive shaft 574 may cause the D-shaped connector 584 to rotate as well. In turn, this
15 may cause rotation of the D-shaped shaft 586 projecting from the plunger clamp jaws
   position sensor 588. As mentioned above this rotation may cause the wiper to slide across
   the resistive element of the plunger clamp jaws position sensor 588 in embodiments where
   the plunger clamp jaws position sensor 588 comprises a potentiometer.
    [00385]    Fig. 46 also shows the dial shaft 650 connected to the double universal joint 772.
20 As shown in the example embodiment in Fig. 46, the driven shaft 774 is also coupled to the
   double universal joint projects down the interior of the hollow plunger tube 524. The nub
   780 on the driven shaft bushing projection 778 of the driven shaft bushing 776 is seated in a
   plunger tube notch 786 recessed into the edge of the plunger tube 524 to lock the nub 780
   within the plunger tube notch 786. Seating the nub 780 in the plunger tube notch 786
25 restricts the driven shaft bushing 776 from rotation because the nub 780 may not rotate
   through the sides of the plunger tube notch 786. Each of the driven shaft bushing projection
   778 abuts the interior surface of the plunger tube 524 which keeps the driven shaft bushing
   776 centered in the plunger tube 524.
    [00386]    The plunger tube 524 may also serve as a channel for the electrical conduits 598
30 to and from the plunger clamp jaws position sensor 588 and the plunger pressure sensor
   532. Since the plunger tube 524 is sealed to liquid when the syringe pump is fully
   assembled, the plunger tube 524 protects the electrical conduits 598 from exposure to liquid.
                                                  77

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   The electrical conduits 598 exit the plunger tube 524 through the conduit opening 632 of the
   plunger tube 524 shown in Fig. 47.
   [00387]     Fig. 47 depicts an exploded view of a sliding block assembly 800. As shown, the
   plunger tube 524 which extends from the plunger head assembly 522 comprises two plunger
 5 tube cutouts 802. The plunger tube cutouts 802 are cut into the front and back sides of the
   plunger tube 524. In Fig. 47, only the front plunger tube cutout 802 is visible. The plunger
   tube cutouts 802 allow the plunger tube to be non-rotationally coupled to the sliding block
   assembly 800. In the example embodiment, two plunger tube coupling screws 804 run
   through a plunger tube bracket 806, down the plunger tube cutouts 802 and into a plunger
10 tube support 808. The plunger tube 524, is thus tightly sandwiched between the plunger
   tube bracket 806 and the plunger tube support 808. Any rotation of the plunger tube 524 is
   obstructed by plunger tube coupling screws 804 which abut the top and bottom edges of the
   plunger tube cutouts 802. Similarly, any axial displacement of the plunger tube 524 is
   obstructed by the plunger tube coupling screws 804 which abut the sides of the plunger tube
15 cutouts 802. In other embodiments, the plunger tube 524 may be coupled to the sliding
   block assembly 800 by any other suitable means such as, but not limited to, bolts, adhesive,
   snap fit, friction fit, magnets, welds, a tongue in groove arrangement, pin, etc.
   [00388]     A closer exploded view of the sliding block assembly 800 is shown in Fig. 48A.
   The sliding block assembly 800 comprises a number of parts. The sliding block assembly
20 800 comprises a half nut housing 810, a barrel cam 820, a half nut 830, and a half nut cover
   plate 840. The half nut housing 810 may be manufactured from any suitable strong material
   will not significantly deform under the applied loads such as, metal, nylon, glass-filled
   plastics, molded plastic, a polyoxymethylene plastic such as Delrin, etc. The half-nut 830 is
   preferably fabricated from bearing metals such as brass, bronze etc that interact well with
25 stainless steel surfaces typical of lead screws. The barrel-cam 820 is preferably fabricated
   from a hard metal such as stainless to form a good bearing pair with the half nut 830. The
   half nut housing 810 comprises a lead screw void 810A. The lead screw void 810A allows
   the lead screw 850 (not shown, see Fig. 48B) to pass through the half nut housing 810. The
   lead screw void 810A has a diameter larger than the lead screw 850 which ensures that the
30 lead screw 850 passes uninhibited through the lead screw void 810A irrespective of the
   point on the lead screw 850 at which sliding block assembly 800 is located. The sliding
   block assembly 800 includes a ribbon cable 562 to receive power from and for
   communications with the circuit board 1150 (refer to Fig. 58A).
                                                   78

                                                                      Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [00389]    The half nut housing 810 may also comprise a guide rod bushing 810B. The
   guide rod bushing 810B in the example embodiment depicted in Fig. 48A is formed as
   continuous piece of the half nut housing. The guide rod 852 (not shown, see Fig. 48B)
   extends through the guide rod bushing 810B in the half nut housing 810 with the interior
 5 surface of the guide rod bushing 810B serving as a bearing surface for the guide rod 852. In
   some embodiments, the guide rod bushing 810B may not be formed as a continuous part of
   the half nut housing 810 but rather coupled to the half nut housing 810 in any number of
   suitable ways. The guide rod bushing 810B may be made from a lubricious material such as
   bronze, brass, PTFE, delrin etc, which provides a low friction surface to mate with a hard
10 surface of a guide rod 852 (Fig. 48B).
   [00390]    The half nut housing 810 may also comprise a barrel cam void 810C. The barrel
   cam void 810C may be sized such that it has a diameter slightly larger than the diameter of
   the barrel cam 820. When the sliding block assembly 800 is fully assembled, the barrel cam
   820 may fit into the barrel cam void 810C on the half nut housing 810. In some
15 embodiments, the barrel cam void 810C may extend all the way through the half nut
   housing 810. In the example embodiment shown in Fig. 48A, the barrel cam void 810C
   does not extend all the way through the half nut housing 810. The barrel cam void 810C
   may function as a bushing for the barrel cam 820 when the sliding block assembly 800 is
   fully assembled. The barrel cam void 810C and barrel cam 820 may be manufactured with
20 a clearance fit. In one example the diametrical clearance between the barrel cam void 810C
   and the barrel cam 820 is 0.001 to 0.005 inches.
   [00391]    In some embodiments, including the embodiment depicted in Fig. 48A, the half
   nut housing 810 may include a half nut void 810D. The half nut void 810D, may be
   recessed into the half nut housing 810 such that the half nut 830 may fit in the half nut void
25 810D when the sliding block assembly 800 is fully assembled. In some embodiments, the
   lead screw void 810A, barrel cam void 810C, and half nut void 810D may all be part of a
   single void recessed into the half nut housing 810.
   [00392]    The half nut housing 810 may comprise a driven shaft aperture 810E. The driven
   shaft aperture 810E extends through the half nut housing 810 and into the barrel cam void
30 810C. In Fig. 48A the driven shaft D-shaped segment or shaft collar 784 is shown
   protruding into the barrel cam void 810C through the driven shaft aperture 810E.
   [00393]    The half nut housing 810 may additionally comprise a half nut housing groove
   810F. In the example embodiment in Fig. 48A, the half nut housing groove 810F is
                                                 79

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   recessed into the half nut housing 810. The half nut housing groove 810F is recessed along
   the entire side of the half nut housing 810. The half nut housing groove 810F extends in a
   direction parallel to the direction of elongation of the plunger tube 524, lead screw 850, and
   guide rod 852 (shown, e.g., in Fig. 48B).
 5 [00394]    In some embodiments, the half nut housing 810 may comprise at least one limit
   switch 810G (not shown). In the example embodiment depicted in Fig. 48A, the half nut
   housing 810 may comprise two limit switches 810G (not shown). One limit switch 810G is
   located on the front of the half nut housing 810 and the other limit switch 810G is located
   on the back of the half nut housing 810. The limit switch(es) 810G may be used to limit the
10 range of movement of the sliding block assembly along the lead screw 850 (Fig. 48B). The
   limit switches 810G will be further elaborated upon later.
   [00395]    As previously mentioned, the barrel cam 820 fits into the barrel cam void 810C in
   the half nut housing 810 when the sliding block assembly 800 is fully assembled. As shown,
   the barrel cam 820 comprises a D-shaped orifice 820A which extends through the entire
15 barrel cam 820 along the axial direction of the barrel cam 820. The D-shaped orifice 820A
   is sized and shaped to allow the barrel cam 820 to be coupled onto the driven shaft D
   shaped segment 784. When the D-shaped orifice 820A of the barrel cam 820 is coupled
   onto the driven shaft D-shaped segment 784 any rotation of the driven shaft 774 and driven
   shaft D-shaped segment 784 causes the barrel cam 820 to rotate as well. The barrel cam
20 820 may be joined to the driven shaft 774 in any of the standard methods including but not
   limited to set screws, pins, adhesive, friction fit, welds, etc.
   [00396]    As shown in Fig. 48A the barrel cam 820 is generally a truncated cylinder, and
   comprises a barrel cam flat 820B which is cut into the barrel cam 820 along a chord of the
   front facing base of the cylinder of the barrel cam 820. The barrel cam flat 820B may be cut
25 such that some distance from the barrel cam center-line so that the full diameter of the
   barrel cam 820 remains. The remaining material of barrel cam 820 on the far side of the
   centerline relative to the half-nut 830B bearing surface provides a bearing surface to transfer
   forces from the half-nut 820 to the barrel cam void 820C along the entire length of the
   barrel cam 820.
30 [00397]    The barrel cam flat 820B may not extend along the entire barrel cam 820 leaving
   some of the cylinder of the barrel cam 820 to have an unadulterated, classic cylindrical
   shape. This is desirable because the classic cylindrically shaped portion of the barrel cam
   820 may act as a journal within the barrel cam void 810C which may act as a bushing. In
                                                   80

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   the example embodiment depicted in Fig. 48A, the barrel cam flat 820B extends along the
   barrel cam 820 until a barrel cam shoulder 820C begins. The barrel cam shoulder 820C may
   extend perpendicularly from the surface of the barrel cam flat 820B. In the example
   embodiment in Fig. 48A, the expanse of the barrel cam 820 with the unadulterated, classic
 5 cylindrical shape is the barrel cam shoulder 820C.
   [00398]    As shown, the barrel cam 820 may also comprise a barrel cam pin 820D. The
   barrel cam pin 820D in the example embodiment in Fig. 48A projects perpendicularly from
   the front facing base of the cylinder of the barrel cam 820. The barrel cam pin 820D
   projects from the front facing base of the barrel cam 820 near the chord from which the
10 barrel cam flat 820B has been extended into the cylinder of the barrel cam 820.
   [00399]    The sliding block assembly 800 may also comprise a half nut 830 as mentioned
   above. In the example embodiment in Fig. 48A, the half nut 830 comprises a half nut slot
   835. The half nut slot 835 is sized such that it may act as a track-way for the barrel cam pin
   820D. The half nut slot 835 comprises an arcuate section 835A and an end section 835B
15 which is not curved or arced. The half nut slot 835 may be cut into a half nut slot plate 835C
   which extends perpendicularly from a half nut cam follower surface 830B. The half nut cam
   follower surface 830B and the half nut slot 835 will be further elaborated on in the
   following paragraphs.
   [00400]    The half nut 830 may comprise a guide rod bushing void 830A. The guide rod
20 bushing void 830A of the half nut 830 allows the guide rod bushing 810B to pass through
   the half nut 830. In the example embodiment shown in Fig. 48A, the guide rod bushing void
   830A is substantially larger than the diameter of the guide rod bushing 810B. Additionally,
   the guide rod bushing void 830A in the half nut 830 may have an elliptical shape or stadium
   shape. Such a shape allows the guide rod bushing 810B to fit comfortably within the guide
25 rod bushing void 830A when the half nut 830 is engaged, disengaged, or in transition
   between either position.
   [00401]    The half nut 830 may also comprise a span of half nut threads 830C. The half nut
   threads 830C are capable of engaging the threads of the lead screw 850 (not shown, see Fig.
   48B). In the example embodiment shown in Fig. 48A, the half nut threads 830C are V
30 shaped threads. V-shaped threads may be desirable because such a shape may help to self
   align the half nut threads 830C on the lead screw 850.
   [00402]    As mentioned above, the sliding block assembly 800 may also comprise a sliding
   block cover plate 840. The sliding-block, cover plate 840 may be coupled onto the half nut
                                                 81

                                                                       Attorney Docket: L50WO
   housing 810 such that the barrel cam 820 and half nut 830 are kept in place within the
   sliding block assembly 800 when the sliding block assembly 800 is fully assembled. In the
   example embodiment shown in Fig. 48A the sliding block cover plate 840 may be coupled
   onto the half nut housing 810 by sliding block cover plate screws 840A as shown, or by
 5 any suitable means such as, but not limited to, bolts, adhesive, snap fit, friction fit, magnets,
   welds, a tongue in groove arrangement, pin, etc. The sliding block cover plate 840 may
   comprise a cover plate groove 840B to assist in guiding the half nut housing 810. The cover
   plate groove 840B may be recessed into the sliding block cover plate 840. In the example
   embodiment shown in Fig. 48A the cover plate groove 840B is recessed along an entire side
10 edge of the sliding block cover plate 840. The cover plate groove 840B may sized and
   disposed such that it lines up with the half nut housing groove 810F on the half nut housing
   810.
   [00403]    The sliding block cover plate 840 may comprise a guide rod bushing aperture
   840C. The guide rod bushing aperture 840C is sized and disposed such that the guide rod
15 bushing 810B may project through the guide rod bushing aperture 840C. The guide rod
   bushing aperture 840C may have a diameter substantially equal to, or slightly larger than,
   the outer diameter of the guide rod bushing 810B.
   [00404]    The edge of the sliding block cover plate 840 opposite the cover plate groove
   840B, may comprise a lead screw trough 840D. The lead screw trough 840D may be an
20 arced section recessed into the edge of the sliding block cover plate 840. The lead screw
   trough 840D, in conjunction with the lead screw void 810A of the half nut housing 810
   allows the sliding block assembly 800 to be placed on the lead screw 850.
   [00405]    In operation, the sliding block assembly 800 may be caused to move along the
   axial direction of the lead screw 850 and guide rod 852 as a result of lead screw 850
25 rotation. The sliding block assembly 800 may also be moved along the axial direction of the
   lead screw 850 and guide rod 852 by a user. For a user to move the sliding block assembly
   800 along the axial direction of the lead screw 850 the user may need to adjust the location
   of the plunger head assembly 522 relative to the rest of the syringe pump assembly 501 as
   shown and described in relation to Figs. 32-33. This may only be done by a user when the
30 half nut 830 is not engaged with the lead screw 850
   [00406]    Fig. 48B shows the half nut 830 in an engaged position on the lead screw 850.
   The half nut housing 810, and half nut cover plate 840 visible in Fig. 48A have been
   removed in Fig. 48B. When the half nut 830 is in engagement with the lead screw 850, the
                                                  82

                                                                          Attorney Docket: L50WO
   half nut threads 830C may operatively be engaged with the threads of the lead screw 850.
   Any rotation of the lead screw 850 may cause the half nut 830 to move in the axial direction
   of the lead screw 850.
   [00407]     To move the half nut 830 between an engaged and disengaged position on the
 5 lead screw 850, the barrel cam 820 must be rotated. As the barrel cam 820 is rotated, the
   barrel cam pin 820D may move along the half nut slot 835 in the half nut slot plate 835C. In
   the example embodiment shown in Fig. 48B, when the barrel cam pin 820D is located in the
   arcuate section 835A of the half nut slot 835, the half nut 830 is engaged with the lead
   screw 850. The arcuate section 835A of the half nut slot 835 may be shaped such that any
10 movement of the barrel cam pin 820D within the arcuate section 835A of the half nut slot
   835 does not result in any movement of the half nut 830.
   [00408]    When the barrel cam 820 is rotated such that the barrel cam pin 820D enters the
   straight, end section 835B of the half nut slot 835, further rotation of the barrel cam 820
   may cause the half nut 830 to disengage from the lead screw 850. The straight nature of the
15 end section 835B ensures that the further rotation of the barrel cam 820 causes the barrel
   cam pin 820D to pull the half nut 830 away from the lead screw 850 until the barrel cam pin
   820D reaches the end of the end section 835B. Rotation of the barrel cam 820 in the
   opposite direction will cause the barrel cam pin 820D to push the half nut 830 back into
   engagement with the lead screw 850.
20 [00409]    In the example embodiment in Fig. 48B, when the barrel cam 820 has disengaged
   the half nut 830 from the lead screw 850, the half nut cam follower surface 830B rests in the
   void created by the barrel cam flat 820B. When the half nut 830 is disengaged, the distance
   between the half nut threads 830C and their point of full engagement on the lead screw 850
   is less than or equal to the length of the sagitta of the cylindrical segment removed from the
25 barrel cam 820 to create the barrel cam flat 820B. As the barrel cam 820 is rotated to engage
   the half nut 830 with the lead screw 850, , the pin 820D in the straight, end section 835B
   moves the half-nut toward the lead screw 850 until the half-nut 830 is at least partial
   engaged with the lead screw 850.         As the pin 820D exits the end section 835B, the
   untruncated arc of barrel cam 820 rotates onto the half nut cam follower surface 830B of the
30 half nut 830. The untruncated arc of the barrel may push the half nut 830 into full
   engagement with the lead screw 850 and supplements the action of the barrel cam pin 820D
   in the half nut slot 835.
                                                   83

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [00410]    Referring back to the example embodiment shown in Fig. 48A, the driven shaft
   774 to which the barrel cam 820 is coupled may not deflect when the barrel cam 820 has
   engaged, disengaged, or is transitioning the half nut 830 from an engaged or disengaged
   position on the lead screw 850. As shown, the barrel cam void 810C in the half nut housing
 5 810 supports the barrel cam 820 when the sliding block assembly 800 is fully assembled.
   Consequently, any force promoting deflection of the driven shaft 774 is checked by the
   barrel cam 820 abutting the sides of the barrel cam void 810C. This ensures that the half nut
   threads 830C may not skip on the threads of the lead screw 850 under high axial loads. It
   also creates minimal drag as the sliding block assembly 800 travels along the lead screw
10 850 with rotation of the lead screw 850.
   [00411]    In some embodiments, the fit of the half nut 830 and the barrel cam 820 may be
   adjustable. In such embodiments, a portion of the barrel cam housing 810 that defines the
   barrel cam void 810C may have an adjustable position relative to the guide rod that can be
   adjusted for example by rotation of a set screw or other adjustment means. This may also
15 allow a user to adjust the barrel cam 820 to an optimal or near optimal position.
   Alternatively, inserts may be added to the barrel cam void 81 OC or the barrel cam 820 may
   be replaced with different sized barrel cam 820 to position the half-nut 830D/barrel cam 820
   interface at the optimal location. In such a position, the barrel cam 820 may engage the half
   nut threads 830C on the lead screw 850 such that there is zero or minimal backlash without
20 loading the half nut threads 830C against the lead screw 850 and creating excessive drag.
   [00412]    In alternate embodiments, the barrel cam pin 820D may be optional. In some
   alternate embodiments, the barrel cam pin 820D may be replaced by one or more bias
   members. The bias members may bias the half nut 830 to the disengaged position. In such
   embodiments, rotation of the barrel cam 820 may cause the half nut 830 engage or
25 disengage with the lead screw 850. When the barrel cam flat 820B is not contacting the half
   nut cam follower surface 830B the one or more bias members may be overcome and the
   half nut threads 830C may be engaged with the threads of the lead screw 850. As the barrel
   cam flat 820B rotates onto the half nut cam follower surface 830B, the bias member(s) may
   act as a spring return which automatically biases the half nut 830 out of engagement with
30 the lead screw 850 and against the barrel cam flat 820B. The barrel cam 820 may include a
   transitional cam surface between the barrel cam flat 820 B and the untruncated arc of barrel
   cam 820 to facilitate displacing the half nut 830 toward the lead screw 850. Use of the
   barrel cam pin 820D may be desirable because such an arrangement requires less torque to
                                                  84

                                                                       Attorney Docket: L50WO
   engage or disengage the half nut 830 than embodiments which may employ one or more
   bias members as a substitute. Some embodiments may use both the barrel cam pin 820D
   and one or more bias members to effect engagement or disengagement of the half nut 830.
   [00413]     In some embodiments, the bias member may bias the half nut 830 towards the
 5 engaged position, in which case, the barrel cam pin 820 may be configured to lift the half
   nut threads 830C off the lead screw 850.
   [00414]     In another alternative embodiment, the barrel cam 820 may not comprise a barrel
   cam pin 820D and the half nut 830 may not comprise a half nut slot 835. In such
   embodiments, the barrel cam flat 820B may comprise a magnet and the half nut cam
10 follower surface 830B may also comprise a magnet. Instead of using the barrel cam pin
   820D to pull the half nut 830 away from the lead screw 850, the magnet on the half nut cam
   follower surface 830B may be attracted to the magnet on the barrel cam flat 820B and be
   pulled off the lead screw 850 toward the barrel cam flat 820B when the barrel cam 820 has
   been rotated the appropriate amount. In some embodiments, the barrel cam 820 may be a
15 simple two pole magnet. In such embodiments, the barrel cam 820 may be disposed such
   that it may repel or attract a magnet on the half nut cam follower surface 830B. When like
   poles of the magnets face each other, the half nut is forced into engagement with the lead
   screw 850. By rotating the driven shaft 774 and therefore the magnetic barrel cam 820,
   opposite poles may be made to face each other. In turn, this may cause the half nut 830 to
20 disengage from the lead screw 850 as it is attracted to the magnetic barrel cam 820.
   [00415]     In some embodiments, a magnet may be configured to bias the half nut 830
   towards the engaged position, in which case, the barrel cam pin 820 may be configured to
   lift the half nut threads 830C off of the lead screw 850.
   [00416]     The guide rod 852 is also visible in Fig. 48B. In Fig. 48B the guide rod 852
25 extends in an axial direction parallel to that of the lead screw 850. The guide rod passes
   through the guide rod bushing void 830A in the half nut 830. In the example embodiment,
   the guide rod 852 is made of a hard and durable material. For example, in some
   embodiments, the guide rod 852 may be made of a material such as stainless steel. In other
   embodiments, the guide rod 852 may be chromium plated.
30 [00417]     Fig. 49 shows a close up view of the half nut slot plate 835C. The half nut slot
   plate 835C is transparent in the Fig. 49. The half nut slot 835 is shown in the half nut slot
   plate 835C. As described above, the half nut slot 835 comprises an arcuate section 835A
   and a straight, end section 835B. The barrel cam 820 is shown behind the transparent half
                                                   85

                                                                           Attorney Docket: L50WO
   nut slot plate 835C. As shown, the barrel cam pin 820D is located in the arcuate section
   835A of the half nut slot 835. As mentioned above, when the barrel cam pin 820D is in the
   arcuate section 835A of the half nut slot 835 the half nut 830 is engaged with the lead screw
   850 as shown in Fig. 48B. The barrel cam 820 is disposed in the barrel cam void 810C in
 5 the half nut housing 810. The barrel cam void 810C acts as a bushing for the barrel cam 820
   and supports the barrel cam 820.
   [00418]     Figs. 50-52 show sliding block assembly 800 with the half nut cover plate 840
   and half nut 830 shown as transparent. In Figs. 50-52, the half nut 830 transitions from an
   engaged position (Fig. 50) to a disengaged position (Fig. 52). As shown in Fig. 50 the half
10 nut 830 is in the engaged position. The barrel cam pin 820D is located in arcuate section
   835A of the half nut slot 835. The half nut threads 830C are at the far left extent (relative to
   Figs. 50-52) of their range of movement. The guide rod bushing 810B of the half nut
   housing 810 projects through the guide rod bushing void 830A of the half nut 830. As
   shown, the guide rod bushing 810B is located at the far right end of the guide rod bushing
15 void 830A. In the example embodiment shown in Figs. 50-52 the guide rod bushing void
   830A in the half nut 830 is roughly stadium shaped.
   [00419]     The barrel cam 820 has been rotated such that the barrel cam pin 820D is about to
   cross from the arcuate section 835A of the half nut slot 835 and into the end section 835B of
   the half nut slot 835 in Fig. 51. As shown, the half nut threads 830C have not moved from
20 the engaged position and are still at the far left extent (relative to Figs. 50-52) of their range
   of movement. Similarly, the half nut 830 may not have moved relative to the guide rod
   bushing 810B from the position depicted and described in relation to Fig. 50.
   [00420]     In Fig. 52 the barrel cam 820 has been rotated such that the barrel cam pin 820D
   has moved into the straight, end section 835B of the half nut slot 835. As described above,
25 further rotation of the barrel cam 820 once the barrel cam pin 820D enters the end section
   835B of the half nut slot 835 causes the half nut 830 to disengage. As shown, the half nut
   830, and consequentially the half nut threads 830C, have moved from the far left extent
   (relative to Figs. 50-52) of their range of movement and toward the right of the page. The
   half nut 830 has moved in relation to the guide rod bushing 810B, such that the guide rod
30 bushing 810B is now near the far left end of the guide rod bushing void 830A.
   [00421]     Fig. 53 shows a cross section of most of the components comprising an
   embodiment of the sliding block assembly 800. The sliding block assembly 800 is depicted
   fully assembled in Fig. 53. The lead screw 850 and guide rod 852 are not depicted in cross
                                                   86

                                                                      Attorney Docket: L50WO
   section in Fig. 53. As shown, the lead screw 850 extends through the lead screw void 810A
   in the half nut housing 810 and over the lead screw trough 840D in the half nut cover plate
   840. The guide rod extends through the guide rod bushing 810B. The guide rod bushing
   810B extends through both the guide rod bushing void 830A in the half nut 830 and the
 5 guide rod bushing aperture 840C in the half nut cover plate 840.
   [00422]    In the example embodiment shown in Fig. 53, the half nut 830 is in the
   disengaged position. The half nut threads 830C are not operatively interdigitated with the
   threads of the lead screw 850. The guide rod bushing 810B is near the top of the guide rod
   bushing void 830A in the half nut 830. The half nut cam follower surface 830B is near or is
10 abbuting (depending on the embodiment) the barrel cam flat 820B on the barrel cam 820.
   Additionally, the barrel cam pin 820D is at the end of the straight, end section 835B of the
   half nut slot 835 which is cut into the half nut slot plate 835C.
   [00423]    Fig. 53 also shows the D-shaped orifice 820A of the barrel cam 820 coupled onto
   the driven shaft D-shaped segment 784 of the driven shaft 774.        The plunger tube 524
15 through which the driven shaft 774 is disposed can be seen coupled onto the sliding block
   assembly 800 by means of screws running through the plunger tube cutouts 802 and into the
   plunger tube support 808.
   [00424]     Fig. 54 shows a view of a portion of an embodiment of the syringe pump
   assembly 501. At the left side of Fig. 54, a section of the plunger head assembly 522 is
20 visible. As shown in Fig. 54, the rear face 900 of the syringe pump assembly 501 may
   comprise a rear face guide rod hole 901. The rear face guide rod hole 901 may run through
   the entire rear face 900 of the syringe pump assembly 501 at an angle perpendicular to the
   rear face 900 of the syringe pump assembly 501. As shown, the guide rod hole 901 may be
   substantially cylindrical.
25 [00425]    The rear face 900 of the syringe pump assembly 501 may comprise a gearbox
   depression 902. As shown, the gearbox depression 902 is recessed into the rear face 900 of
   the syringe pump assembly 501. In the example embodiment, the gearbox depression 902 is
   a roughly rectangular shaped depression. In other embodiments, the gearbox depression 902
   may have alternative shapes.
30 [00426]    As shown in Fig. 54, an anti-rotation pin 904 projects out of the gearbox
   depression 902. The anti-rotation pin 904 in the example embodiment shown in Fig. 54 is
   cylindrical. In alternate embodiments, the anti-rotation pin 904 may take any other suitable
   shape. As shown in Fig. 54, the gearbox depression 902 in the rear face 900 of the syringe
                                                  87

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   pump assembly 501 may also comprise a lead screw void 906. The lead screw void 906 may
   be cut all the way through the rear face 900 of the syringe pump assembly 501 and allow at
   least a portion of the lead screw 850 to project beyond of the rear face 900 of the syringe
   pump assembly 501. As shown in the example embodiment, the section of the lead screw
 5 850 which projects beyond the rear face 900 of the syringe pump assembly 501 is not
   threaded.
   [00427]     In the example embodiment shown in Fig. 54, the section of the lead screw 850
   that is visible is smaller in diameter than the lead screw void 906. This is desirable because
   it may allow a rear face lead screw bearing 908 to be placed in the lead screw void 906 to
10 provide a bearing surface for the lead screw 850. In the example embodiment in Fig. 54 a
   lead screw bearing is disposed in the lead screw void 906 to provide a bearing surface for
   the lead screw 850.
   [00428]     As shown, the end of the of the section of the lead screw 850 which projects out
   of the rear face 900 may comprise a threaded bore 910. In the example embodiment shown
15 in Fig. 54, a gearbox attachment fastener 912 is coupled into the threaded bore 910 on the
   end of the lead screw 850. In the example embodiment, the gearbox attachment fastener 912
   is a screw with a hex socket head. In other embodiments, any other suitable fastener, or
   fastener head may be used.
   [00429]     In Fig. 55, another view of a portion of an embodiment of the syringe pump
20 assembly 501 is shown. At the left side of Fig. 55, part of the plunger head assembly 522 is
   also visible. The gearbox 940 is shown in place in the gearbox depression 902 on the rear
   face 900 of the syringe pump assembly 501. As shown, the anti-rotation pin 904 may
   project through an anti-rotation pin hole 942 in the gearbox 940. The anti-rotation pin 904
   ensures that the gearbox 940 causes rotation of the lead screw 850 and that the gearbox 940
25 may not rotate around the axis of the lead screw 850. As shown, the anti-rotation pin 942
   does not help to hold the gearbox 940 against the rear face 900 of the syringe pump
   assembly 501. In alternate embodiments, the anti-rotation pin 904 may have a threaded anti
   rotation pin bore 944 (not shown) similar to that of the end of the lead screw 850 described
   in above in relation to Fig. 54. An anti-rotation pin gearbox fastener 946 may be threaded
30 into the thread anti-rotation pin bore 944 to help hold the gearbox 940 against the back face
   900 of the syringe pump assembly 501. The gearbox 940 may be friction locked onto the
   lead screw 850 to ensure that rotation of the gears in the gearbox 940 is transmitted to the
   lead screw 850 with zero or minimal backlash.
                                                  88

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [00430]    In embodiments where the syringe pump assembly 501 may be removed from the
   housing 502 (see Fig. 28) and replaced with another assembly such as a peristaltic large
   volume pump assembly, the gearbox 940 may be compatible with a replacement assembly.
   [00431]    Fig. 56 shows an embodiment of the interior of the syringe pump assembly 501.
 5 As shown, the front face 888 of the syringe pump assembly 501 is shown as transparent. As
   shown, the guide rod 852 projects perpendicularly from the interior of the rear face 900 of
   the syringe pump assembly 501 and toward the front of the page. The lead screw 850 may
   similarly project into the interior of the syringe pump assembly 501 through the rear face
   lead screw bearing 908 at an angle perpendicular to the interior of the rear face 900 of the
10 syringe pump assembly 501. The guide rod 852 and lead screw 850 may run parallel to each
   other. In the example embodiment in Fig. 56, the lead screw 850 is offset toward the left of
   the page from the guide rod 852.
   [00432]    As shown, one end of the guide rod 852 is seated in the rear face guide rod hole
   901. The other end of the guide rod 852 is seated in the front face 888 of the syringe pump
15 assembly 501. In the example embodiment depicted in Fig. 56, the end of the guide rod 852
   facing the front of the page is smaller in diameter than the rest of the guide rod 852. This
   section of the guide rod 852 may be placed in a guide rod hole 1002 in the front face 888 of
   the syringe pump assembly 501 when the syringe pump assembly 501 is fully assembled.
   The guide rod hole 1002 may extend through the entire front face 888 of the syringe pump
20 assembly 501 at an angle substantially perpendicular to the front face 888. The smaller
   diameter section of the guide rod 852 may have a diameter slightly though not substantially
   smaller than the diameter of the guide rod hole 1002 such that the guide rod 852 may fit
   snuggly in the guide rod hole 1002 when the syringe pump assembly 501 is assembled. The
   end of the guide rod 852 may be flush with the plane of the front face 888 of the syringe
25 pump assembly 501. Though both the guide rod hole 1002 and the section of the guide rod
   852 seated in the guide rod hole 1002 are cylindrical in the example embodiment shown in
   Fig. 56, their shape may differ in alternate embodiments.
   [00433]     The lead screw 850 is seated in a lead screw depression 1000 in the front face 888
   of the syringe pump assembly 501. In the example embodiment shown in Fig. 56, the depth
30 of the lead screw depression 1000 is substantially the thickness of the front face 888 of the
   syringe pump assembly 501. In embodiments where the depth of the lead screw depression
   1000 is substantially the depth of the front face 888, a circular plateau 1004 may be raised
   off the front face 888 of the syringe pump assembly 501 to accommodate the depth of the
                                                  89

                                                                       Attorney Docket: L50WO
   lead screw depression 1000. The center of the circular plateau 1004 may be concentric with
   the center of a cylindrical lead screw depression 1000 as shown in Fig. 56. In some
   embodiments, the edges of the circular plateau 1004 may extend perpendicularly from the
   front face 888 of the syringe pump assembly 501 to the raised circular plateau. In the
 5 example embodiment illustrated in Fig. 56, the edges of the circular plateau 1004 curve up
   from the front face 888 of the syringe pump assembly 501 to the circular plateau 1004.
   [00434]    As shown, the lead screw depression 1000 may house a front face lead screw
   bearing 1006 which surrounds the end of the lead screw 850 and provides a bearing surface
   for the lead screw 850. In some embodiments, such as the embodiment depicted in Fig. 56,
10 a Belleville washer 1008 may be seated against the bottom of the lead screw depression
   1000. The Belleville washer 1008 may ensure that there is no "play" of the lead screw 850
   when the lead screw 850 is seated in the lead screw depression 1000.
   [00435]    In some embodiments, the Belleville washer 1008 may be replaced by non
   compliant end cap which loads the front face lead screw bearing 1006 against the lead screw
15 850. In such embodiments, the end cap may be threaded on its out diameter. The lead screw
   depression 1000 may feature complimentary threads to which the end cap may screw into.
   Again the end cap may also ensure that there is no "play" of the lead screw 850 when the
   lead screw 850 is seated in the lead screw depression 1000.
   [00436]    Fig. 57 shows a view of the interior of the syringe pump assembly 501. The front
20 face 888 which is shown as transparent in Fig. 56, is not present in Fig. 57A. As shown, the
   sliding block assembly 800 described above is in place within the syringe pump assembly
   501. The guide rod 852 extends through the guide rod bushing 810B in the half nut housing
   810. The when the half nut 830 is disengaged from the lead screw 850, the sliding block
   assembly 800 may be free to slide about the axial direction of the guide rod 852.
25 [00437]    Movement of the sliding block assembly 800 is also guided by a syringe pump
   assembly guide rail 1010. In the example embodiment shown in Fig. 57, the syringe pump
   assembly guide rail 1010 extends from the interior face of the syringe seat 506. The syringe
   pump assembly guide rail 1010 is shaped such that the half nut housing groove 810F and
   cover plate groove 840B on the sliding block assembly 800 may fit on the syringe pump
30 assembly guide rail 1010 and slide along the syringe pump assembly guide rail 1010. The
   syringe pump assembly guide rail 1010 also ensures that the sliding block assembly 800
   may not rotate within the syringe pump assembly 501. The syringe pump assembly guide
                                                 90

                                                                      Attorney Docket: L50WO
   rail 1010 may be formed as part of the extrusion in embodiments where the syringe pump
   assembly housing 503 is formed by extrusion.
   [00438]    As shown in Fig. 57, when half nut 830 of the sliding block assembly 800 is
   engaged with the lead screw 850, the lead screw 850 may cause linear movement of the
 5 sliding block assembly 800 along the axial direction of the lead screw 850. To cause linear
   movement of the sliding block assembly 800, the lead screw 850 must be rotated. In the
   example embodiment in Fig. 57, the rotational motion of the lead screw 850 causes the half
   nut 830 and consequently the sliding block assembly 800 to move along the lead screw 850
   due to the pitch of the threads of the lead screw 850. The amount of linear movement per
10 360' rotation of the lead screw 850 may vary depending on the pitch of the threads of the
   lead screw 850 which may differ in various embodiments.
   [00439]    As mentioned above, the half nut housing 810 of the sliding block assembly 800
   may comprise one or more limit switches 810G. In the example embodiment in Fig. 57, a
   limit switch 810G is not shown, although it is indicated that a limit switch 810G may be
15 located on the front of the half nut housing 810. In other embodiments, there may be
   multiple limit switches 810G which may be disposed about other portions of the sliding
   block assembly 800. In embodiments where a limit switch may be disposed on the front of
   the half nut housing 810, the limit switch 810G may prevent the sliding block assembly 800
   from being driven into the front face 888 (shown in Fig. 56) of the syringe pump assembly
20 501.
   [00440]    In embodiments comprising a limit switch 810G, the limit switch 810G may be a
   micro switch, although hall sensors and magnets, optical sensors, etc. could also be used. In
   embodiments where the limit switch 810G comprises a micro switch, the micro switch may
   be actuated when the sliding block assembly 800 nears a predefined location along the lead
25 screw 850. In some embodiments, when the limit switch 810G is in the actuated position,
   the lead screw 850 may not be further rotated to advance the sliding block assembly 800 in
   the direction of the predefined location.
   [00441]    As shown in Fig. 57, the syringe pump assembly 501 may additionally comprise
   a sliding block linear position sensor 1050 to determine the sliding block assembly's 800
30 location on the lead screw 850. In some embodiments, the sliding block linear position
   sensor 1050 may be used to determine the amount of contents left in a syringe 504 which
   may be in place on the syringe pump assembly 501. In such embodiments, the sliding block
   linear position sensor 1050 may be used to determine a quantified volume of syringe 504
                                                 91

                                                                      Attorney Docket: L50WO
   contents or may be used as a "gas gauge" which generates a more general syringe 504
   contents volume reading.
   [00442]     In some embodiments, the sliding block linear position sensor 1050 may
   comprise a linear potentiometer. In such embodiments, the wiper of the sliding block linear
 5 position sensor 1050 may be disposed such that it slides across the resistive element of the
   potentiometer with movement of the sliding block assembly 800 along the lead screw 850.
   The resistance measured by the sliding block linear position sensor 1050 may be used to
   determine the location of the sliding block assembly 800 along the lead screw 850.
   [00443]     In some embodiments, including the example embodiment shown in Fig. 57, the
10 sliding block linear position sensor 1050 may comprise an array of sliding block magnetic
   linear position sensors 1054. The sliding block magnetic linear position sensors 1054 may
   be any suitable magnetic linear position sensor. An example of a suitable magnetic linear
   position sensor is the "AS5410 Absolute Linear 3D Hall Encoder" available from
   Austriamicrosystems of Austria. As shown, the sliding block assembly 800 may include a
15 sliding block assembly magnet 1056 which is mounted a suitable distance away from the
   sliding block magnetic linear position sensors 1054 and may be used in conjunction with the
   array of sliding block magnetic linear position sensors 1054 in order to determine the
   location of the sliding block assembly 800 on the lead screw 850. In some embodiments, the
   location of the sliding block magnetic linear position sensors 1054 may differ. As shown,
20 the sliding block 800 includes a second magnet 1057 disposed such that it may interact with
   the sliding block magnetic linear position sensors 1054 when they are placed in an alternate
   location.
   [00444]    Fig. 57B shows an example of a possible linear position sensor 1100 arrangement
   to estimate the position of a sliding block assembly 800. In the example linear position
25 sensor 1100 arrangement, the linear position sensor 1100 comprises an array of magnetic
   linear position sensors 1102 such as the "AS5410 Absolute Linear 3D Hall Encoder"
   available from Austriamicrosystems of Austria mentioned above. A position changing block
   1104 (e.g., the sliding block assembly 800) is depicted at a position along a position
   changing block lead screw 1106. A position changing block arm 1108 projects off the page
30 as indicated by the broken line defining its rightmost edge. An object attached to the
   position changing block arm 1108 may be caused to move with the position changing block
   1104 as the position changing block 1104 moves along the lead screw 1106. The position
                                                 92

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
    changing block 1104 in Fig. 57B may be considered the sliding block assembly 800 in Fig.
    57A.
    [00445]    In the example linear position sensor 1100 arrangement shown in Fig. 57B, the
    position changing block 1104 comprises a position changing block magnet 1110. As shown,
 5  the position changing block magnet is located on the face of the position changing block
    closest to the array of magnetic linear position sensors 1102. The position changing block
    magnet 1110 is a dipole magnet. The north pole of the position changing block magnet 1110
    is oriented to face toward the right of the page while the south pole faces the left of the
    page. As the position changing block 1104 moves along the position changing block lead
10  screw 1106, the position changing block magnet 1110 also moves. This movement may be
    measured by the array of magnetic linear position sensors 1102 and analyzed to determine
    an absolute location of the position changing block 1104 along the position changing block
    lead screw 1106. In some embodiments, the array of magnetic linear position sensors 1102
    may be used to determine differential movements of the position changing block 1104.
15  [00446]    As shown in Fig. 58 an embodiment of the sliding block assembly 800 is shown
    assembled with the half nut cover plate 840 (see Fig. 48) removed. The half nut 830 is
    depicted in the engaged position and is shown as transparent so that the half nut housing
    810 and the barrel cam 820 may be seen behind it. The driven shaft D-shaped segment 784
    of the driven shaft 774 is shown in the D-shaped orifice 820A of the barrel cam 820. The
20  driven shaft 774 extends through the plunger tube 524 which couples the sliding block
    assembly 800 and plunger head assembly 522 together.
    [00447]    Referring back to Fig. 42, the driven shaft 774 couples into a double universal
   joint 772. The double universal joint 772 translates any rotational motion from the dial 530
    which rotates the dial shaft 650 to rotational motion of the driven shaft 774. Rotational
25  motion of the driven shaft 774 in turn causes rotation of the barrel cam 820. Rotation of the
   barrel cam 820 engages or disengages the half nut 830 as described above.
    [00448]    As also detailed above, rotation of the dial 530 causes linear displacement of the
   upper plunger clamp jaw 526 and lower plunger clamp jaw 528. The dial 530 is thus multi
    functional. When rotated, the dial 530 both engages or disengages the half nut 830 and
30  opens or closes the upper plunger clamp jaw 526 and lower plunger clamp jaw 528. It
    should be noted that the arcuate section 835A of the half nut slot 835 is shaped such that the
    half nut 830 does not begin to disengage until the largest plunger flange 548 (not shown)
    which can be accepted by the upper plunger clamp jaw 526 and lower plunger clamp jaw
                                                  93

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   528 has been released by the upper plunger clamp jaw 526 and lower plunger clamp jaw
   528. When the plunger flange 548 (not shown) has been released and the half nut 830 has
   disengaged, the dial shaft cam follower 658 on the dial shaft 650 may sit in the dial shaft
   cam detents 660 of the dial shaft cam 654 as described in relation to Fig. 43. As put forth in
 5 the detailed description of Fig. 43, this would allow a user to "park" the dial 530 in the fully
   rotated position where the half nut 830 is disengaged and the upper plunger clamp jaw 526
   and lower plunger clamp jaw 528 are in the open position. In the example embodiment
   depicted in Fig. 58, when the dial 530 is in the "parked" position, a user may remove their
   hand from the dial 530 and easily adjust the plunger head assembly 522 so that a syringe
10 504 (not shown) may be inserted onto the syringe pump assembly 501 (see Figs. 30-34 for
   example illustrations and discussion of syringe 504 placement onto the syringe pump
   assembly 501).
   [00449]    Fig. 59A shows an embodiment of the syringe pump assembly 501. As shown,
   the syringe pump assembly 501 is fully assembled. A syringe 504 is seated on the syringe
15 seat 506 of the syringe pump assembly housing 503. The gearbox 940 is shown in place on
   the syringe pump assembly 501. The motor 1200 which drives the gearbox 940 is also
   shown coupled to the gearbox 940. A main printed circuit board (PCB) 1150 is shown
   transparently on the syringe pump assembly 501. The main PCB 1150 is coupled to the top
   of the syringe pump assembly housing 503. In the example embodiment, the flex connector
20 562 extending from the sliding block assembly 800 is connected to the main PCB 1150. The
   electrical system comprising the main PCB will be described in Figs. 59A-59J.
   [00450]     The electrical system 4000 of the syringe pump 500 (see Fig. 28) is described in a
   block schematic in Figs. 59B-59J. The electrical system 4000 controls the operation of the
   syringe pump 500 based on inputs from the user interface 3700 and sensors 3501. The
25 electrical system 4000 includes a power system comprised of a rechargeable main battery
   3420 and battery charger 3422 that plugs into the AC mains. The electrical system 4000 is
   architected to provide safe operation with redundant safety checks, and allow the syringe
   pump 500 to operate in fail operative modes for some errors and fail safe for the rest.
   [00451]     The high level architecture of multiple processors is shown in the last block
30 diagram detailing the electrical system 4000, Fig. 59J. In one example the electrical system
   4000 is comprised of two main processors, a real time processor 3500 and a User
   Interface/Safety Processor 3600. The electrical system 4000 may also comprise a watch-dog
   circuit 3460, motor control elements 3431, sensors 3501, and input/output elements. One
                                                  94

                                                                       Attorney Docket: L50WO
    main processor referred to as the Real Time Processor (hereafter RTP) 3500 may control the
    speed and position of the motor 1200 that rotates the lead screw 850 (see Fig. 48B).     The
    RTP 3500 may control the motor 1200 based on input from the sensors 3501 and commands
    from the User Interface & Safety Processor (hereafter UIP) 3600.         The UIP 3600 may
 5  manage telecommunications, manage the user interface 3701, and provide safety checks on
    the RTP 3500. The UIP 3600 may estimate the volume pumped based on the output of a
    motor encoder 1202 and may signal an alarm or alert when the estimated volume differs by
    more than a specified amount from a desired volume or the volume reported by the RTP
    3500. The watch dog circuit 3460 monitors the functioning of the RTP 3500. If the RTP
10  3500 fails to clear the watch dog circuit 3460 on schedule, the watch dog 3460 may disable
    the motor controller 3431, sound an alarm and turn on one or a number of failure lights at
    the user interface 3701.    The RTP 3500 uses the sensor inputs to control the motor 1200
   position and speed in a closed-loop           controller (further described below).      The
    telecommunications may include a WIFI driver and antenna to communicate with a central
15  computer or accessories, a Bluetooth driver and antenna to communicate with accessories,
    tablets, cell-phones etc. and a Near Field Communication (NFC) driver and antenna for
    RFID tasks and a Bluetooth. In Fig. 59J these components are collectively referred to with
    the reference number 3721. The user interface 3701 may include a display 514 (see Fig.
    28). In some embodiments, the display 514 may be a touch screen. In some embodiments
20  the user interface 3701 may comprise one or more buttons or data input means 516 (see Fig.
    28) via which a user may communicate with the syringe pump 500.
    [00452]    The detailed electrical connections and components of the electrical system 4000
    are shown in Figs. 59B-591. Figs. 59B-591 also depict a number of line traces 5000-5169
    running to and from various components. A number of sensors of the syringe pump 500 are
25  shown in Fig. 59B. As shown, plunger position sensors 3950, a barrel diameter sensor 3951,
    a plunger capture potentiometer sensor 3952, a plunger force sensor 3953, and other sensors
    3954 are shown. The plunger position sensors 3950 may be any of the plunger position
    sensors described herein. The barrel diameter sensor 3951 may be the syringe barrel holder
    linear position sensors 1540 to be described herein. The plunger capture potentiometer
30  sensor 3952 may not necessarily be a potentiometer sensor in all embodiments. In some
    embodiments, the plunger capture potentiometer sensor 3952 may be the plunger clamp
   jaws position sensor 588 described herein. The plunger force sensor 3953 may be the
   plunger pressure sensor 532 described herein. The plunger capture potentiometer 3952 may
                                                  95

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   be a switch to detect a syringe 504 loaded into the syringe seat 506. The above sensors may
   communicate signals respective of and indicative of what they are sensing to the RTP 3500
   or another component.
   [00453]    As shown in Fig. 59C, a thermistor 3540 may provide a signal to the RTP 3500
 5 indicative of the temperature of the infusate in an infusion line. Alternatively the thermistor
   3540 may measure a temperature in the syringe pump 500 or the temperature of the circuit
   4000. In different embodiments, suitable replacement components may be used in place of
   the specific parts listed in the Figs. 59B-591.   In some embodiments, the electrical system
   4000 may comprise additional components. In some embodiments the electrical system
10 4000 may comprises fewer components than the number of components shown in Figs.
   59B-59J.
   [00454]    Two sensors which may be located downstream of the syringe pump 500 are
   shown in Fig. 59C. One sensor is an air-in-line sensor 3545. The other is an occlusion
   sensor 3535. Both are connected to the RTP 3500. These sensors are optional. The air-in
15 line sensor 3545 may detect the presence of air in the section of an infusion line in near the
   air-in-line sensor 3545.     In an example embodiment, the air-in-line sensor 3545 may
   comprise an ultra-sonic sensor 3545B, a logic unit 3545A and a signal conditioning unit
   3545C. In some embodiments, the syringe pump 500 may not comprise an air-in-line sensor
   3545.
20 [00455]     The occlusion sensor 3535 may measure the internal pressure of an infusate in
   an infusion line. In some embodiments, the occlusion sensor 3535 may be the downstream
   pressure sensor 513 described herein. In an example embodiment, the occlusion sensor 3535
   may comprise a force sensor 3535B, an amplifier 3535A, a signal amplifier 3535C and a
   buffer 3535D. The buffer 3535D may protect the RTP 3500 from over-voltages due to high
25 forces generated from pressures applied to the force sensor 3535B. In alternative
   embodiments, the occlusion sensor 3535 may differ.
   [00456]    The watch dog circuit 3460 is shown in Figs. 59D.       The watch dog circuit 3460
   may enabled by an 12C command from the RTP 3500. The watch dog circuit 3460 may
   signal an error and disable the motor controller 3430 (e.g., via chip 3434) if it does not
30 receive a signal from the RTP 3500 at a specified frequency.       The watch dog circuit 3460
   may signal the user via an audible alarm. The audible alarm may be issued via an amplifier
   3464 and/or backup speaker 3468.        The watch dog circuit 3460 may signal the user with
   visual alarm LEDs 3750 (shown in Fig. 59F) if an abnormal condition is detected. In one
                                                  96

                                                                     Attorney Docket: L50WO
   embodiment, the RTP 3500 must "clear" the watchdog 3460 between 10 ms and 200 ms
   after the watch dog circuit's 3460 last clear. In some embodiments, the watch dog circuit
   3460 is comprised of a window watchdog 3460A, a logic circuit 3460B (which may include
   one or more flip-flop switches) and an IO expander 3460C that communicates with the RTP
 5 3500 over an 12C bus. A backup battery 3450 (see Fig. 59C) may provide power to the
   watch dog circuit 3460 and backup speaker system (which may comprise an audio amplifier
   3464, and a backup speaker 3468) in case the main battery 3420 ( see Fig. 59E) fails. The
   backup battery 3450 may provide power to the RTP 3500 and UIP 3600 to maintain the
   internal timekeeping, which may be especially desirable when the main battery 3420 is
10 changed. The RTP 3500 may also monitor the voltage of the backup battery 3450 with a
   switch such as the "FAIRCHILD FPF1005 LOAD SWITCH" 3452 shown in Fig. 59C.
   [00457]    The RTP 3500 directly controls the speed and position of the motor 1200. The
   motor 1200 may be any of a number of types of motors 1200 including a brushed DC
   motor, a stepper motor, or a brushless DC motor. In the embodiment illustrated in Figs.
15 59B-59J, the syringe pump 500 is driven by a brushless direct current (BLDC) servo motor
   1200. In one example embodiment, the RTP 3500 receives signals from the hall-sensors
   3436 of a brushless DC motor 1200 and does the calculations to commutate power to the
   winding of the motor 1200 to achieve a desired speed or position. The commutation signals
   may be sent to the motor controller 3430 which selectively connects the windings to the
20 motor power supply 3434. The motor 1200 may be monitored for damaging or dangerous
   operation via current sensors 3432 and a temperature sensor 1200A.
   [00458]    The signals from the hall sensors 3436 may be supplied to both the RTP 3500 and
   to an encoder 1202. In one embodiment, three hall signals are generated. Any two of the
   three hall signals may be sent to the encoder 1202. The encoder 1202 may use these signals
25 to provide a position signal to the UIP 3600. The UIP 3600 estimates the total volume of
   fluid dispensed by the syringe pump 500 from the position signal of the encoder 1202. In
   some specific embodiments, each syringe pump 500 may be calibrated during assembly to
   establish the nominal volume / stroke that may be stored in memory.          The UIP 3600
   estimated volume may then be compared at regular intervals to the volume which would be
30 expected    for a commanded therapy.        In some embodiments,      the interval between
   comparisons may be shorter for different infusates, for example short half-life infusates.
   The therapy may specify, among other parameters, a flow rate, duration, and a total volume
   to be infused (VTBI). In any case, the expected volume based on the programmed therapy
                                                 97

                                                                      Attorney Docket: L50WO
   at a given time during that therapy may be calculated and compared to the volume estimated
   by the UIP 3600. The UIP 3600 may signal an alert or alarm if the difference between UIP
   3600 estimated volume and the expected volume for therapy is outside of a predefined
   threshold.    The UIP 3600 may signal an alarm if the difference between UIP 3600
 5 estimated volume and the expected volume for the therapy is outside another predefined
   threshold.
   [00459]    The UIP 3600 may also compare the estimated volume to the volume reported by
   the RTP 3500.       The UIP 3600 may signal an alert if the difference between UIP 3600
   estimated volume and the RTP 3500 reported volume is outside a predefined threshold. The
10 UIP 3600 may signal an alarm if the difference between UIP 3600 estimated volume and the
   RTP 3500 reported volume is outside a second threshold.
   [00460]    In some embodiments, the UIP 3600 may compare the RTP 3500 reported
   volume to the expected volume for the therapy and signal an alert if the two values differ by
   more than a predefined threshold. The UIP 3600 may signal an alarm if the difference
15 between the RTP 3500 reported volume and the expected volume for the therapy differ by
   more than another predefined threshold. The values of the alert and alarm thresholds may
   be different for comparisons between different sets of volumes. The thresholds may be
   stored memory. The thresholds may vary depending on a number of different parameters,
   such as, but not limited to, medication, medication concentration, clinical usage, patient,
20 therapy type, or location.     The thresholds may be predefined in a DERS (Drug Error
   Reduction System) database and downloaded from the device gateway server.
   [00461]    Optionally, in some embodiments, a rotary encoder 5430 may be used to estimate
   the rotation of the motor threaded screw 1200. The motor sensor 5430 may be formed by a
   magnet on the motor's 1200 shaft with a Hall Effect sensor nearby to estimate the position
25 of the threaded shaft.
   [00462]    An RFID tag 3670 (see Fig. 59E) may be connected by an 12C bus to the UIP
   3600 and to a near field antenna 3955. The RFID tag 3670 may be used by med-techs or
   other users or personnel to acquire or store information when the syringe pump 500 is in an
   unpowered state. The UIP 3600 may store service logs, error codes, etc. in the RFID tag
30 3670. The service logs, error codes, etc. may be accessible by an RFID reader. A med-tech,
   for example, could inspect unpowered syringe pumps 500 in storage or evaluate non
   functioning syringe pumps 500 by using an RFID reader to interrogate the RFID tag 3670.
   In another example, a med-tech or other personnel may perform service on the syringe
                                                 98

                                                                     Attorney Docket: L50WO
   pump 500 and store any related service information in the RFID tag 3670. The UIP 3600
   may then cull the latest service information from the RFID tag 3670 and store it in memory
   3605 (see Fig. 59E).
   [00463]    The main battery 3420 may supply all the power to the syringe pump 500. The
 5 main battery 3420 may be connected via a system power gating element 3424 to the motor
   power supply 3434. All of the sensors and processors described herein may be powered by
   one of the several voltage regulators 3428 (see Fig. 59E). The main battery 3420 may be
   charged from AC power via a battery charger 3422 and an AC/DC converter 3426. The
   UIP 3600 be connected to one or more memory chips 3605.
10 [00464]    The UIP 3600 controls the main audio system which comprises a main speaker
   3615 and the audio-chips 3610 (audio codec), 3612 (audio amplifier) (see Fig. 59E). The
   main audio system may be capable of producing a range of sounds indicating, for example,
   alerts and alarms. The audio system may also provide confirmatory sounds to facilitate and
   improve user interaction with the display 514 and/or data input means 516 (see Fig. 28).
15 The main audio system may include a microphone 3617 which may be used to confirm the
   operation of the main speaker 3615 as well as the backup speaker 3468.      The main audio
   system may produce one or more tones, modulation sequences and/or patterns of sound and
   the audio codec chip 3610 may compare the signal received from the microphone 3617 to
   the signal sent to the main speaker 3615. The use of one or more tones and comparison of
20 signals may allow the system to confirm main speaker 3615 function independently of any
   ambient noise. Alternatively the UIP 3600 or the audio codec 3610 may confirm that the
   microphone 3617 produces a signal at the same time a signal is sent to the speaker amplifier
   3612.
   [00465]    The UIP 3600 may provide a range of different wireless signals for different uses.
25 The UIP 3600 may communicate with the hospital wireless network via a dual band WiFi
   using chips 3621, 3620, and 3622 and antennas 3720 and 3722. The spatially diverse dual
   antenna may be desirable because in may be capable of overcoming dead spots within a
   room due to multiple paths and cancellation. A hospital device gateway may communicate
   DERS, CQI (Continuous Quality Improvement), prescriptions, patient data, etc. to the
30 syringe pump 500 via the WiFi system.
   [00466]    The Bluetooth system using, the same chips 3621, 3620 and 3622 (see Fig. 59E)
   and antennas 3720 and 3722 (see Fig. 59F), may provide a convenient method to connect
   auxiliaries to the syringe pump 500 that may include pulse-oximeters, blood pressure
                                                 99

                                                                      Attorney Docket: L50WO
   readers, bar-code readers, tablets, phones, etc.   The Bluetooth may include version 4.0 to
   allow low power auxiliaries which may communicate with the syringe pump 500
   periodically such as, for example, a continuous glucose meter that sends an update once a
   minute.
 5 [00467]    The NFC system may be comprised of an NFC controller 3624 (see Fig.59E) and
   an antenna 3724 (see Fig. 59F). The NFC controller 3624 may also be referred to as an
   RFID reader.    The NFC system may be used to read RFID chips identifying drugs or other
   inventory information.     The RFID chips may also be used to identify patients and
   caregivers. The NFC controller 3624 may also interact with a similar RFID reader on, for
10 example, a phone or tablet computer to input information including prescriptions, bar-code
   information, patient, care-giver identities, etc. The NFC controller 3624 may also provide
   information to phone or tablet computers such as the syringe pump 500 history or service
   conditions. The RFID antennas 3720 and 3722 and/or NFC antenna 3724 may preferably
   be located around or near the display 514 screen, so all interaction with the syringe pump
15 500 occurs on or near the display 514 whether reading an RFID chip or interacting with a
   touch screen display 514 or other data input means 516 near the display.
   [00468]    The UIP 3600 may include a medical grade connector 3665 (see Fig. 591) so that
   other medical devices may plug into the syringe pump 500 and provide additional
   capabilities. The connector 3665 may implement a USB interface.
20 [00469]    The display 514 may include the RFID antennas 3720, 3722, the NFC antenna
   3724, the display 514, the touch screen 3735, an LCD backlight driver 3727, a light sensor
   3740, a 16 channel LED driver 3745, LED indicator lights 3747 and 3749, and three buttons
   3760, 3765, 3767. The buttons may collectively be referred to herein as data input means
   516. The display 514 may include a backlight 3727 and an ambient light sensor 3740 to
25 allow the display 514 brightness to automatically respond and/or adjust to ambient light.
   The first button 3760 may be the "Power" button, while another button 3765 may be an
   infusion stop button.   These buttons 3760, 3765 may not provide direct control of the
   syringe pump 500, but rather provide a signal to the UIP 3600 to either initiate or terminate
   infusion. The third button 3767 may silence an alarm or alert at the main speaker 3615 and
30 at the backup speaker 3468. Silencing the alarm or alert will not clear the fault, but may
   end the audible alarm or alert. The electrical system 4000 described above, or an alternative
   embodiment of the electrical system 4000 described above may be used with the syringe
   pump 500 described herein.
                                                  100

                                                                       Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [00470]    Fig. 60 shows an exemplary embodiment of the syringe pump assembly 501. In
   Fig. 60 the syringe pump assembly housing 503 which is shown in Fig. 59A has been
   removed. As shown, a syringe 504 is in place on the syringe pump assembly 501 and is
   being held by the syringe barrel holder 518. The sliding block assembly 800 is located
 5 approximately in the middle of the axial length of the lead screw 850. Since the plunger
   tube 524 connects the sliding block assembly 800 to the plunger head assembly 522, the
   plunger head assembly 522 is at location where it has caused the syringe plunger 544 to
   dispense about half of the content of the syringe 504.
   [00471]    As shown, a motor 1200 is operatively coupled to the gearbox 940 in Fig. 60.
10 Rotation of the motor 1200 is transmitted through the gearbox 940 to drive the rotation of
   the lead screw 850. As described above, since the upper plunger clamp jaw 526 and lower
   plunger clamp jaw 528 are closed on the plunger flange 548, the half nut 830 is engaged
   with the lead screw 850. Consequently, in the embodiment depicted in Fig. 60 as the motor
   1200 causes the lead screw 850 to rotate, the sliding block assembly 800 will travel along
15 the axial length of the lead screw 850. As motor 1200 rotates the lead screw 850 such that
   the sliding block assembly 800 moves toward the left of the page (relative to Fig. 60), the
   sliding block assembly's 800 movement will additionally cause the plunger tube 524 and
   plunger head assembly 522 to displace toward the left of the page. As the plunger head
   assembly 522 displaces toward the left of the page, the syringe plunger 544 is advanced into
20 the syringe barrel 540 of the syringe 504 and the contents of the syringe are dispensed.
   [00472]     The motor 1200 may be any suitable motor 1200. As shown in Fig. 59A a small
   profile pancake motor 1200 may be used to drive the rotation of the lead screw 850. The
   embodiment shown in Fig. 60 does not use a pancake motor 1200. The motor 1200 shown
   in Fig. 60 is an alternative motor that also has hall sensors 3436 to inform commutation of
25 the motor 1200. As shown in Fig. 60, the motor 1200 may comprise a magnet on the rotor
   that is detected by a rotary encoder 1202. The rotary encoder 1202 may be any of a variety
   of suitable rotary encoders 1202 such as the AS5055 by Austrianmicrosystems of Austria.
   In some embodiments, the rotary encoder 1202 may be a magnetic. The rotary encoder 1202
   may be used to monitor rotation of the lead screw 850. Information from the rotary encoder
30 1202 may be used to determine when a given amount of the contents of the syringe 504 has
   been dispensed. Additionally, the rotary encoder 1202 may be used to determine the
   location of the sliding block assembly 800 on the lead screw 850.
                                                 101

                                                                         Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [00473]     To ensure that the rotary encoder 1202 is functioning properly, a self test may be
   preformed. The motor 1200 may be powered to move the sliding block assembly 800 back
   and forth along a distance of the lead screw 850. Measurements from the rotary encoder
   1202 may be confirmed against the measurements of the sliding block assembly linear
 5 position sensor 1050. The same self test may also be used to confirm the hall sensors 3436
   of the brushless motor 1200 are functioning properly.
   [00474]      As previously indicated, the syringe pump 500 includes a number of sensor
   redundancies. This allows the syringe pump 500 to function in a fail operative mode if
   deemed appropriate. In the event that the rotary encoder 1202 fails, the hall sensors 3436 of
10 the brushless motor 1200 may be used in a fail operative mode to measure the dispensation
   of syringe 504 contents via the rotation of the motor 1200 and provide a feed-back signal
   for the motor controller. Alternatively the location of the sliding block assembly 800 along
   the lead screw 850 may be used in a fail operative mode to measure the dispensation of
   syringe 504 contents via position of the sliding block assembly 800 and provide a feed-back
15 signal for the controller. Alternatively the sliding block assembly linear position sensor
   1050, may be used to monitor the dispensation of syringe 504 contents via position of the
   sliding block assembly 800 on the lead screw and to provide a feed-back signal for the
   controller. In some embodiments, the motor hall sensors 3436 or the linear sliding block
   assembly linear position sensor 1050 may be used to monitor the position of the sliding
20 block assembly 800 on the lead screw 850 to avoid driving the sliding block assembly 800
   against the pump frame.
   [00475]     In the event of a failure of the rotary encoder 1202, the syringe pump 500 may
   finish a therapy if a therapy is in progress and disallow a user from commencing another
   therapy until the syringe pump 500 has been serviced. In the event of a failure of the rotary
25 encoder 1202 the syringe pump 500 may alarm. In some embodiments, if the rotary encoder
   1202 fails and the motor 1200 is being used to deliver at a low flow rate, the syringe pump
   500 may not finish the therapy. If such a failure occurs, the syringe pump 500 may alarm
   and the syringe pump 500 may finish a therapy if a therapy is in progress and disallow a
   user from commencing another therapy until the syringe pump 500 has been serviced. The
30 controller of the syringe pump 500 may base its decision to continue a therapy based on the
   risk level of the infusate being delivered to a patient. If the risk of non-delivery to a user is
   higher than the risk of delivering with reduced accuracy, the syringe pump 500 will deliver
   in a fail operative mode.
                                                  102

                                                                         Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [00476]    Fig. 61 shows a small volume syringe 504 in place on the syringe pump assembly
   501. Only a small portion of the syringe pump assembly 501 is visible in Fig. 61. As shown,
   the syringe 504 is held in place against the syringe seat 506 by the syringe barrel clamp 518.
   The syringe barrel flange 542 is clipped in place against the syringe pump assembly 501 by
 5 the barrel flange clip 520. The barrel flange clip 520 is slightly offset from the rest of the
   syringe pump assembly 501 such that there is small gap between the syringe pump
   assembly 501 and the barrel flange clip 520. When a user places the syringe 504 on the
   syringe seat 506, the user may also place the syringe barrel flange 542 into the small gap
   between the syringe pump assembly 501 and the barrel flange clip 520.
10 [00477]    As shown in Fig. 61, the outward edge of the barrel flange clip 520 bows out
   toward the left of the page. This helps to guide the syringe barrel flange 542 into the gap
   between the barrel flange clip 520 and the syringe pump assembly 501. The barrel flange
   clip 520 may also include one or a number of cutouts 521. In the example embodiment in
   Fig. 61, the cutouts 521 of the barrel flange clip comprise two valleys. The first valley is
15 recessed into the center span of the outward edge of the barrel flange clip 520. The second
   valley, which is recessed into the lowest span of the first valley, is considerably smaller and
   shallower. In other embodiments, the cutouts 521 may be different in shape, size, etc. The
   plunger 544 of the small syringe 504 in Fig. 61 is located entirely within the cutouts 521 in
   the barrel flange clip 520. Without the cutouts 521 in the barrel flange clip 520, the plunger
20 544 of the syringe 504 would contact the outward edge of the barrel flange clip 520 and
   obstruct user placement of the syringe barrel flange 542 into the gap between the barrel
   flange clip 520 and the syringe pump assembly 501.
   [00478]    Fig. 62 shows a large volume syringe 504 in place on the syringe pump assembly
   501. Only a small portion of the syringe pump assembly 501 is visible in Fig. 62. As shown,
25 the syringe 504 is held in place against the syringe seat 506 by the syringe barrel clamp 518.
   The syringe barrel flange 542 is clipped in place against the syringe pump assembly 501 by
   the barrel flange clip 520. The barrel flange clip 520 is slightly offset from the rest of the
   syringe pump assembly 501 such that there is small gap between the syringe pump
   assembly 501 and the barrel flange clip 520. When a user places the syringe 504 on the
30 syringe seat 506, the user may also place the syringe barrel flange 542 into the small gap
   between the syringe pump assembly 501 and the barrel flange clip 520.
   [00479]    As shown in Fig. 62, the barrel flange clip 520 may also include a roughly semi
   circular depression 519 which thins the barrel flange clip 520. The roughly semi-circular
                                                 103

                                                                         Attorney Docket: L50WO
   depression 519 may be included to accommodate the plunger flange 548 (not shown) of a
   syringe 504. In embodiments where the barrel flange clip 520 includes the roughly semi
   circular depression 519, the plunger 544 may be advanced a distance equal to the depth of
   the semi-circular depression 519 further into the syringe barrel 540. This is desirable
 5 because it allows more of the contents of the syringe 504 to be administered to a patient.
   [00480]      As shown in Fig. 62, the barrel flange clip 520 may include a barrel flange sensor
   700. The barrel flange sensor 700 may be comprised of any number of suitable sensors. In
   some embodiments, the barrel flange sensor 700 may function in a binary (yes/no) manner
   to indicate whether a syringe barrel flange 542 is clipped by the barrel flange clip 520. In
10 some embodiments, the barrel flange sensor 700 may comprise a micro switch which is
   actuated as the syringe barrel flange 524 is placed in the gap between the syringe pump
   assembly 501 and the barrel flange clip 520. In other embodiments, the barrel flange sensor
   700 may comprise a photosensor. Insertion of the syringe barrel flange 542 into the gap
   between the syringe pump assembly and the barrel flange clip 520 may block a light source
15 for the barrel flange sensor 700 in embodiments where the barrel flange sensor 700
   comprises a photosensor. In such embodiments, the barrel flange sensor 700 may indicate a
   syringe barrel flange 542 is clipped in place when the light source is blocked. In other
   embodiments, the barrel flange sensor 700 may be comprised of a different sensor than
   those described above. The barrel flange sensor 700 may be caused generate an alarm in the
20 event that other sensors, such as the plunger clamp jaws position sensor 588 (mentioned
   above) or the syringe barrel holder linear position sensor 1540 (see Fig. 66), detect a syringe
   504 in place of the syringe pump assembly 501 when the barrel flange sensor 700 does not
   detect a syringe 504 in place and an initiation of a therapy is attempted.
   [00481]      Fig. 63 shows an embodiment of part of the syringe barrel holder 518. As shown
25 in Fig. 63, the syringe barrel holder 518 comprises a syringe barrel holder housing 1500. In
   the example embodiment, the syringe barrel holder housing 1500 has a planate base plate
   1502. The planate base plate 1502 comprises a syringe barrel holder housing member 1504
   at its left end (relative to Fig. 63). The syringe barrel holder housing member 1504 projects
   off the bottom of the syringe barrel holder housing 1500 at an angle substantially
30 perpendicular to the plane of the planate base plate 1502. The syringe barrel holder housing
   member 1504 may extend substantially perpendicularly from the entire length of the left end
   of the planate base plate 1502. In some embodiments, the syringe barrel holder housing
   member 1504 may take the form of a rectangular prism. In the example embodiment shown
                                                   104

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   in Fig. 63, the syringe barrel holder housing member 1504 has a form close to a rectangular
   prism, but the bottom edges of the syringe barrel holder housing member 1504 have been
   rounded off.
   [00482]     As shown in Fig. 63, the planate base plate 1502 may have a base plate slot 1506
 5 cut into it. The base plate slot 1506 may be cut into the planate base plate 1502 from the left
   edge (relative to Fig. 63) of the planate base plate 1502. The base plate slot 1506 may
   extend into the planate base plate 1502 at an angle substantially perpendicular to the left
   edge of the planate base plate 1502. The base plate slot does not extend all the way across
   the planate base plate 1502 and stops short of the right edge.
10 [00483]     On the flanks of the base plate slot 1506, one or more syringe barrel holder
   housing posts 1508 may be disposed. In the example embodiment shown in Fig. 63, four
   syringe barrel holder housing posts 1508 flank the base plate slot 1506. The four syringe
   barrel holder housing posts 1508 are divided up such that there are two syringe barrel holder
   housing posts 1508 on each flank of the base plate slot 1506. The syringe barrel holder
15 housing posts 1508 extend substantially perpendicularly from the top face of the planate
   base plate 1502 toward the top of the page. The syringe barrel holder housing posts 1508 in
   the example embodiment shown in Fig. 63 have the form of rectangular prisms. In alternate
   embodiment, the syringe barrel housing posts 1508 may be cylindrical or have any other
   suitable shape.
20 [00484]     The planate base plate 1502 may also comprise one or more syringe barrel holder
   housing bodies 1510. In the example embodiment shown in Fig. 63, there are two syringe
   barrel holder housing bodies 1510. The syringe barrel holder housing bodies 1510 projects
   perpendicularly from the top of the planate base plate 1502 toward the top of the page. The
   syringe barrel holder housing bodies 1510 have the form of rectangular prisms. As shown,
25 the syringe barrel holder housing bodies 1510 may overhang the right edge of the planate
   base plate 1502. The syringe barrel holder housing bodies 1510 may comprise one side
   which is flush with the front edge or back edge (relative to Fig. 63) of the planate base plate
   1502.
   [00485]     In some embodiments, the syringe barrel holder housing 1500 may comprise a
30 "T" shaped member 1512. In the example embodiment shown in Fig. 63, the stem portion
   of the "T" shaped member extends toward the right of the page from the right edge of the
   planate base plate 1502. The "T" shaped member 1512 may extend on a plane substantially
   parallel to the plane of the planate base plate 1502. In the example embodiment, the "T"
                                                 105

                                                                         Attorney Docket: L50WO
   shaped member 1512 projects from roughly the center of the right edge of the planate base
   plate 1502. The cross portion of the "T" shaped member 1512 is roughly parallel with the
   right edge of the planate base plate 1502. The cross portion of the "T" shaped member 1512
   overhangs the stem equally on both sides of the stem.
 5 [00486]    As shown in Fig. 63, syringe barrel holder guide rails 1514 may extend
   substantially perpendicularly from the right face of the syringe barrel holder housing
   member 1504 and into the left faces of the overhanging cross portions of the "T" shaped
   member 1512. The syringe barrel holder guide rails 1514 may extend substantially parallel
   to each other. In the example embodiment shown in Fig. 63, a coil spring 1516 surrounds
10 each syringe barrel holder guide rail 1514. One end of each coil spring 1516 may abut the
   left face of the cross portion of the "T" shaped member 1512. In the example embodiment,
   the coil springs 1516 are compression springs. In alternate embodiments, other bias
   members or bias member arrangements may be utilized.
   [00487]    As shown in the embodiment in Fig. 63, a syringe barrel holder printed circuit
15 board (PCB) 1518 may be held in place on the syringe barrel holder housing posts 1508.
   The syringe barrel holder PCB may be coupled in place on the syringe barrel holder housing
   posts 1508 by any suitable means. In the example embodiment shown in Fig. 63, the
   syringe barrel holder PCB is coupled to the syringe barrel holder housing posts 1508 by
   screws.
20 [00488]    Fig. 64 shows an embodiment of part of the syringe barrel holder 518. In the
   embodiment shown in Fig. 64, the syringe barrel holder PCB 1518 shown in Fig. 63 has
   been removed. As shown in Fig. 64 the base plate slot 1506 may extend down into the
   syringe barrel holder housing member 1504. The base plate slot 1508 may comprise a base
   plate notch catch 1520. In embodiments where the base plate slot 1508 comprises a base
25 plate notch catch 1520 the base plate notch catch 1520 may be a void in the planate base
   plate 1502 of the syringe barrel holder housing 1500. In the example embodiment, the void
   of the base plate notch catch 1520 extends out from the right end section of the base plate
   slot 1508 at an angle substantially perpendicular to the side of the base plate slot 1508.
   [00489]    The syringe barrel holder 518 may also comprise a syringe barrel holder arm rod
30 1522. In the example embodiment shown in Fig. 64, the syringe barrel holder arm rod 1522
   extends through an appropriately sized bore in the approximate center of the "T" shaped
   member 1512 (only the stem of the "T" shaped member 1512 is visible in Fig. 64). The
   syringe barrel holder arm rod 1522 may be movably coupled to the syringe barrel holder
                                                 106

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   518. In embodiments where the syringe barrel holder arm rod 1522 is movably coupled to
   the syringe barrel holder 518, the syringe barrel holder arm rod 1522 may move along a
   direction parallel to the edges of the stem of the "T" shaped member 1512. In the example
   embodiment in Fig. 64, the syringe barrel holder arm rod 1522 is able to slide along the
 5 bore in the "T" shaped member 1512 and uses the bore in the "T" shaped member 1512 as a
   linear motion bearing. In the example embodiment, the syringe barrel holder arm rod 1522
   is longer than the length of the stem of the "T" shaped member 1512.
   [00490]    As shown in Fig. 64, one end of the syringe barrel holder arm rod 1522 may
   comprise a collar which may be a "U" shaped member 1524. The "U" shaped member 1524
10 may be fixedly coupled to the syringe barrel holder arm rod 1522.              In the example
   embodiment, the bottom span of the "U" shaped member 1524 is thicker than the uprights
   of the "U" shaped member 1524. The thick bottom span of the "U" shaped member 1524
   comprises a hole which allows the "U" shaped member 1524 to be coupled onto the syringe
   barrel holder arm rod 1522 when the syringe barrel holder 518 is assembled. In the example
15 embodiment, the uprights of the "U" shaped member 1524 extend up through the base plate
   slot 1506 and are substantially flush with the plane of the top face of the planate base plate
   1502. The uprights of the "U" shaped member 1524 may constrain the syringe barrel holder
   arm rod 1522 from rotation since any rotation is blocked by the uprights of the "U" shaped
   member 1524 abutting the edges of the base plate slot 1506.
20 [00491]    In the example embodiment shown in Fig. 64, the syringe barrel holder 518
   comprises a bias bar 1526. The bias bar 1526 in the example embodiment, is roughly
   rectangular in shape. The bias bar 1526 may comprise two holes which allow the bias bar
   1526 to be placed on the syringe barrel holder guide rails 1514. The bias bar 1526 may be
   capable of guided movement along the axial direction of the syringe barrel holder guide
25 rails 1514. In the example embodiment, the end of the coil springs 1516 on the syringe
   barrel holder guide rails 1514 not abutting the cross portion of the "T" shaped member 1512
   abuts the front face of the bias bar 1526. In the example embodiment shown in Fig. 64 the
   maximum distance between the face of the bias bar 1526 which one end of the coil springs
   1516 abut and the face of the "T" shaped member 1512 which the other end of the coil
30 springs 1516 abut is shorter than the uncompressed length of the coil springs 1516. This
   ensures that the bias bar 1526 will always be biased toward the position shown in Fig. 64.
   [00492]    As shown in Fig. 64, the bias bar 1526 may comprise a cutout which allows the
   bias bar 1526 to fit around at least part of the syringe barrel holder arm rod 1522. The "U"
                                                  107

                                                                       Attorney Docket: L50WO
   shaped member 1524 may abut the face of the bias bar 1526 opposite the side which the coil
   springs 1516 abut. In such embodiments, the action of the coil springs 1516 biasing the bias
   bar 1526 toward the position depicted in Fig. 64, additionally biases the syringe barrel
   holder arm rod 1522 to the position depicted in Fig. 64.
 5 [00493]    In the example embodiment in Fig. 65, the syringe barrel holder 518 is shown in
   the fully open position. To move the syringe barrel holder 518 to the open fully open
   position, a user may grasp the syringe barrel holder grip 1528. In the example embodiment
   shown in Fig. 65, the syringe barrel holder grip 1528 is a projection which extends from the
   barrel contacting structure 1530 of the syringe barrel holder 518 which is fixedly coupled to
10 the syringe barrel holder arm rod 1522. After grasping the syringe barrel holder grip 1528, a
   user may pull the syringe barrel holder arm rod 1522 away from the syringe barrel holder
   housing 1500. This action causes the "U" shaped member 1524 which is fixedly attached to
   the syringe barrel holder arm rod 1522 to move as well. Since the "U" shaped member 1524
   may not pass through the bias bar 1526, the bias bar 1526 moves with the "U" shaped
15 member 1524 and syringe barrel holder arm rod 1522. As the bias bar 1526 moves along the
   syringe barrel holder guide rails 1514, the coil springs become compressed such that if a
   user releases the syringe barrel holder grip 1528, the restoring force of the coil springs will
   automatically return the bias bar 1526, "U" shaped member 1524, and syringe barrel holder
   arm rod 1522 to the positions shown in Fig. 64.
20 [00494]    To hold the syringe barrel holder 518 in the fully open position against the bias of
   the coil springs 1516, the syringe barrel holder 518 may be locked in the open position. As
   shown, the syringe barrel holder 518 may be locked in the open position by rotating the
   syringe barrel holder arm rod 1522 and all parts fixedly coupled to the syringe barrel holder
   arm rod 1522. In Fig. 65, the syringe barrel holder arm rod 1522 has been rotated
25 substantially 900 such that the bottom span of the "U" shaped member 1524 is disposed
   within the base plate notch catch 1520. When the "U" shaped member is rotated into the
   base plate notch catch 1520, the restoring force of the coil springs 1516 is not capable of
   returning the syringe barrel holder 518 to the position shown in Fig. 64 because travel of the
   "U" shaped member 1524 is blocked by the base plate notch catch 1520.
30 [00495]    After rotating the syringe barrel holder arm rod 1522 such that the syringe barrel
   holder 518 is locked in the open position, a user may release the syringe barrel holder grip
   1528 to grasp a syringe 504 (not shown) and put it in place. As mentioned above, the
   syringe barrel holder 518 will remain in the fully open position. A user may then rotate the
                                                 108

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   syringe barrel holder arm rod 1522 900 back to its original, unlocked position and allow the
   syringe barrel holder 518 to hold the syringe 504 in place.
   [00496]    Referring back to Fig. 31 the syringe barrel holder 518 is shown fully open and
   rotated into the locked position. In the fully open position, the syringe barrel contacting
 5 structure 1530 and syringe barrel holder grip 1528 are at their furthest possible distance
   from the syringe seat 506 of the syringe pump assembly 501. In some embodiments, this
   distance may be substantially larger than the diameter of the largest syringe 504 which may
   be accepted by the syringe pump 500. In Fig. 31, a syringe 504 has been put in place against
   the syringe seat 506 while the syringe barrel holder 518 has be locked in the open position.
10 In Fig. 32, the syringe barrel holder has been rotated out of the locked position and has been
   allowed to automatically adjust to the size of the syringe barrel 540. As mentioned in the
   discussion of Fig. 65, this automatic adjustment is a result of the restoring force of the coil
   springs 1516 automatically pushing the bias bar 1526, "U" shaped member 1524, and the
   syringe barrel holder arm rod 1522 toward the position depicted in Fig. 64.
15 [00497]    In Fig. 66, an example embodiment of the syringe barrel holder 518 is shown. In
   the embodiment depicted in Fig. 66 the syringe barrel holder PCB 1518 is shown as
   transparent. The syringe barrel holder PCB 1518 may comprise one or a number of syringe
   barrel holder linear position sensors 1540. In the example embodiment, there are three
   syringe barrel holder linear position sensors 1540. The syringe barrel holder linear position
20 sensors 1518 may be used to determine the size of the syringe 504 (not shown) which the
   syringe barrel holder 518 is holding in place.
   [00498]    In some embodiments, there may only be a single syringe barrel holder linear
   position sensor 1540. In such embodiments, the syringe barrel holder linear position sensor
   1540 may be a linear potentiometer. In embodiments where the syringe barrel holder linear
25 position sensor 1540 is a linear potentiometer, the syringe barrel holder linear position
   sensor 1540 may comprise a barrel sizing wiper 1542 which may slide across the resistive
   element of the potentiometer with movement of the syringe barrel holder arm rod 1522.
   When a syringe 504 (not shown) is held by the syringe barrel holder 518, the size of the
   syringe 504 (not shown) will determine the position of the barrel sizing wiper 1542 along
30 the linear potentiometer type syringe barrel holder linear position sensor 1540. Since the
   location of the wiper 1542 will vary the resistance measured by the linear position sensor
   1540, the resistance measured may be used to establish information (size, volume, brand,
   etc.) about the syringe 504 (not shown) being used. In some embodiments, the resistance
                                                 109

                                                                          Attorney Docket: L50WO
   measurement may be referenced with a database or resistance measurements which would
   be expected from different syringes 504 to determine information about the syringe 504.
   The resistance measurement may additionally be used to determine whether a syringe 504 is
   properly held by the syringe barrel holder 518. For example, if the resistance measurement
 5 indicates that the syringe barrel holder 518 is in the fully open position (as it is in Fig. 66),
   an alarm may be generated and a therapy may not be initiated.
   [00499]    In some embodiments, including the example embodiment shown in Fig. 66, the
   syringe barrel holder linear position sensors 1540 may be magnetic linear position sensors.
   Any suitable magnetic linear position sensor may be used for the syringe barrel holder
10 linear position sensor 1540. The syringe barrel holder linear position sensors 1540 may be
   the same type of sensors as the sliding block assembly linear position sensors 1050. An
   example of a suitable magnetic linear position sensor is the "AS5410 Absolute Linear 3D
   Hall Encoder" available from Austriamicrosystems of Austria.           The syringe barrel holder
   linear position sensors 1540 gather their positional data from a syringe barrel holder magnet
15 1544 placed at a suitable distance from the syringe barrel holder linear position sensors
   1540. In the example embodiment shown in Fig. 66, the syringe barrel holder magnet 1544
   rests on the bottom span of the "U" shaped member 1524 between the two uprights of the
   "U" shaped member 1524. The absolute location of the syringe barrel holder magnet may be
   measured by the syringe barrel holder linear position sensors 1540. Since the measured
20 absolute location of the syringe barrel holder magnet 1544 may vary depending on the
   syringe 504 (not shown) being held by the syringe barrel holder 518, the absolute location
   of the syringe barrel holder magnet 1544 can be used to determine specific information (for
   example, size, volume, brand, etc.) about the syringe 504 (not shown) being held. In some
   embodiments, the absolute location of the syringe barrel holder magnet 1544 may be
25 referenced with a database to determine information about the syringe 504 being utilized. In
   such embodiments, the database may be a database of absolute locations which would be
   expected with different syringes 504. The absolute position measurement may also be used
   to determine whether a syringe 504 is correctly held in place by the syringe barrel holder
   518. For example, if the absolute position measurement indicates that the syringe barrel
30 holder 518 is in the fully open position (as it is in Fig. 66), an alarm may be generated and a
   therapy may not be initiated.
   [00500]     In some embodiments, the data gathered by the syringe barrel holder linear
   position sensor 1540 may be compared to data gathered by other sensors to make a more
                                                  110

                                                                         Attorney Docket: L50WO
   informed decision on the specific syringe 504 being used. For example, in embodiments
   where a plunger clamp jaws position sensor 588 may make a determination on the type of
   syringe 504 being used (see discussion of Fig. 37) the data from the plunger clamp jaws
   position sensor 588 and linear position sensor 1540 may be compared. If the data gathered
 5 by the syringe barrel holder linear position sensor 1540 does not correlate with data
   gathered by other sensors, an alarm may be generated.
   [00501]     In some embodiments, data from the plunger clamp jaws position sensor 588 may
   be first referenced against a syringe 504 database to narrow down acceptable syringe barrel
   540 measurements. In some embodiments, data from the syringe barrel holder linear
10 position sensor may be referenced against a syringe 504 database to set a range of
   acceptable plunger flange 548 measurements.
   [00502]     Fig. 67 shows a basic example of part of an alternative linear position sensor. The
   part of the alternative linear position sensor in Fig. 67 is a line stretcher 1600. In the
   example embodiment, the line stretcher 1600 comprises a stationary portion and a moving
15 portion. The stationary portion comprises an FR-4 PCB substrate 1602. On the substrate
   1602 there are two microstrips 1604. As shown, the microstrips 1604 extend parallel to each
   other. The microstrips 1604 act as transmission lines for a signal at a known frequency. The
   microstrips 1604 do not allow the signal to propagate into the ambient environment. The
   width of the microstrips 1604 is chosen so that it is suitable for the desired impedance. In an
20 example embodiment, the desired impedance is 50 Q.
   [00503]     The moving portion in the example embodiment comprises a moving portion FR
   4 PCB substrate 1606. As shown, the moving portion FR-4 PCB substrate comprises a
   moving portion microstrip 1608. The moving portion microstrip 1608 may be substantially
   "U" shaped. The uprights of the "U" shaped moving portion microstrip 1608 extend parallel
25 to each other and are spaced such that when the line stretcher 1600 is assembled they may
   contact the two microstips 1604 on the stationary portion. The moveable portion microstrips
   1608 have a width chosen so that it is suitable for desired amount of impedance (50 Q in the
   example embodiment). The bottom span of the "U" shaped movable portion microstrip
   1608 connects the two uprights of the "U" shaped movable portion microstrip 1608 and is
30 substantially perpendicular to the two uprights. When fully assembled, the bottom span of
   the "U" shaped movable portion microstrip 1604 forms a bridge between the two
   microstrips 1604 on the stationary portion of the line stretcher 1600.          Any signal sent
   through one of the microstrips 1604 on the stationary portion may cross via the moving
                                                 111

                                                                       Attorney Docket: L50WO
   portion microstrip 1608 to the other microstrip 1604 on the stationary portion. By sliding
   the moving portion along the direction of extension of the stationary portion microstrips
   1604 the signal must travel a greater or shorter distance before crossing from one stationary
   portion microstrip 1604 to the other. By manipulating the amount of travel of the signal, a
 5 user may predictably create a phase change of the signal. To reduce wear on the metal
   microstrips 1604 and 1608 a thin sheet of insulation 1609 may be placed between the
   microstrips 1604 and 1608, creating a capacitive coupling.
   [00504]    Fig. 68 shows an example of the line stretcher 1600 being incorporated into a
   phase change detector 1610. As shown, the phase change detector 1610 comprises a signal
10 source shown as "RF SOURCE" in the example shown in Fig. 68. The source signal in the
   example shown in Fig. 68 travels from the "RF SOURCE" to a "POWER SPLITTER". The
   "POWER SPLITTER" splits the signal, keeping the two output signals in a constant phase
   relationship with one another. One of the signals travels directly to a "FREQUENCY
   MIXER". The other signal is delayed before it is allowed to reach the "FREQUENCY
15 MIXER". In Fig. 68, the signal is delayed by the line stretcher 1600 (see Fig. 67). Delaying
   the signal causes the delayed signal to be predictably out of phase with the non-delayed
   signal which travels directly to the "FREQUENCY MIXER". The delayed signal travels
   from line stretcher 1600 to the "FREQUENCY MIXER". In the example embodiment
   shown in Fig. 68 the "FREQUENCY MIXER" is a double balanced frequency mixer. As is
20 well known in the art, two identical frequency, constant-amplitude signals sent to a mixer
   will result in a DC output which is proportional to the phase difference between the two
   signals.
   [00505]    Fig. 69 depicts a slightly different embodiment of the phase change detector
   1610. In Fig. 69 the delay means is not a line stretcher 1600 such as the one described in
25 Fig. 67. The delay means is a variable open or short. As the object whose linear position is
   to be measured linearly displaces, the short or open's location on a transmission line may be
   caused to move proportionally. As shown, the signal travels through a "DIRECTIONAL
   COUPLER" which may be any suitable directional coupler. As one of the two signals the
   signal enters the "DIRECTIONAL COUPLER" from the "POWER SPLITTER" the signal
30 is sent out of another port of the "DIRECTIONAL COUPLER to an open or short. The
   open or short causes the signal to reflect back to the port from which it traveled to reach the
   open or short. The signal reflected back into the port is then directed by the
   "DIRECTIONAL COUPLER" to travel into the "FREQUENCY MIXER". The delay of the
                                                 112

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   signal caused by the distance traveled to and from the point of reflection causes a phase
   shift in the signal. The amount of phase shift of the signal is dependent on the distance from
   the port from which the signal exits the "DIRECTIONAL COUPLER" to the open or short.
   This distance may be caused to change in consequence to movement of the object whose
 5 linear position is to be measured. The second signal output of the "POWER SPLITTER"
   travels directly to the "FREQUENCY MIXER". As is well known in the art, two identical
   frequency, constant-amplitude signals sent to a mixer will result in a DC output which is
   proportional to the phase difference between the two signals.
   [00506]     As shown in Fig. 70, the "DIRECTIONAL COUPLER" may be replaced with
10 another piece of equipment such as a circulator. The phase change detector 1610 in Fig. 70
   functions very similarly to the phase change detector 1610 in Fig. 69. One signal from the
   power splitter travels directly to the "FREQUENCY MIXER". The other signal is delayed.
   The delay is caused in the same manner as described above. Instead of using a
   "DIRECTIONAL COUPLER", however, a "CIRCULATOR" may be used to direct the
15 signal. As the signal enters the "CIRCULATOR" at port 1 the signal is circulated to port 2.
   The signal travels from port 2 to the short or open and is reflected back into port 2. The
   reflected, phase shifted signal entering port 2 of the "CIRCULATOR" is circulated to port
   3. The signal exits port 3 and travels to the "FREQUENCY MIXER" As is well known in
   the art, two identical frequency, constant-amplitude signals sent to a mixer will result in a
20 DC output which is proportional to the phase difference between the two signals. Since the
   phase difference is dependent on the distance of the short or open from port 2 of the
   "CIRCULATOR" and the distances varies in proportion to the location of the object whose
   linear location is to be found the DC output of the mixer may be used to determine the
   objects location.
25 [00507]     In some embodiments, the phase change detector 1610 may be used to substitute
   for the syringe barrel holder linear position sensors 1540 (see Fig. 66) or the sliding block
   magnetic linear position sensors 1054 (see Fig. 57A). In some embodiments, only one of the
   syringe barrel holder linear position sensors 1540 or the sliding block magnetic linear
   position sensors 1054 may be substituted for with the phase change detector 1610. In some
30 embodiments, a phase change detector 1610 may be used in conjunction with one or both
   the syringe barrel holder linear position sensors 1540 or the sliding block magnetic linear
   position sensors 1054 and function as a cross check or backup.
                                                 113

                                                                       Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [00508]    In embodiments where the sliding block assembly linear position sensor 1054
   (see Fig. 57A) is substituted for with a phase change detector 1610, the phase change
   detector 1610 may be used to detect the position of the sliding block assembly 800 along the
   lead screw 850 (see Fig. 57A). If the phase shift detector 1610 uses a line stretcher 1600
 5 (see Fig. 67) the moveable portion of the line stretcher 1600 may be caused to move along
   the stationary portion of the line stretcher 1600 with movement of the sliding block
   assembly 800 along the lead screw 850. In turn this would cause the degree of phase change
   to reflect the position of the sliding block assembly 800 on the lead screw 850.
   Consequently, the DC output voltage of the mixer (see Fig. 68) may be used to determine
10 the position of the sliding block assembly 800. The positional data generated by the phase
   change detector 1610 may be used in the same manner as described above in relation to the
   prior discussion of sliding block assembly 800 linear position sensing.
   [00509]    In embodiments where the phase change detector 1610 uses a variable short or
   open (see Fig. 69 and Fig. 70), movement of the sliding block assembly 800 along the lead
15 screw 850 may cause the short or open to change its location along the transmission line. In
   turn this would cause the degree of phase change to specify the position of the sliding block
   assembly 800 along the lead screw 850. Consequently, the DC output voltage of the mixer
   (see Fig. 69 and Fig. 70) may be used to determine the position of the sliding block
   assembly 800.
20 [00510]    In embodiments where the syringe barrel holder linear position sensors 1540 (see
   Fig. 66) is substituted for by the phase change detector 1610, the phase change detector
   1610 may be used to may be used to determine the size of the syringe 504 (see Fig. 28). If
   the phase change detector 1610 uses a line stretcher 1600 (see Fig. 67) the moveable portion
   of the line stretcher 1600 may be caused to move along the stationary portion of the line
25 stretcher 1600 with movement of the syringe barrel holder arm rod 1522. In turn this would
   cause the degree of phase change to reflect the position of the syringe barrel holder arm rod
   1522. Since the position of the syringe barrel holder arm rod 1522 is dependent upon
   various characteristics of the syringe 504, the DC output voltage of the mixer (see Fig. 68)
   may be used to determine the position of the of the syringe barrel holder arm rod 1522 and
30 therefore a number of characteristics of the syringe 504.
   [00511]    In embodiments where the phase change detector 1610 uses a variable short or
   open (see Fig. 69 and Fig. 70), movement of the syringe barrel holder arm rod 1522 may
   cause the short or open to change its location along a transmission line. In turn this would
                                                 114

                                                                         Attorney Docket: L50WO
   cause the degree of phase change to specify the position of the syringe barrel holder arm rod
   1522. Since the position of the syringe barrel holder arm rod 1522 is dependent upon
   various characteristics of the syringe 504, the DC output voltage of the mixer (see Fig. 69
   and Fig. 70) may be used to determine the position of the syringe barrel holder arm rod
 5 1522 and therefore a number of characteristics of the syringe 504. The positional data
   generated by the phase change detector 1610 may be used in the same manner as described
   above in relation to the prior discussion of syringe barrel holder linear position sensing.
   [00512]    An example embodiment of the graphic user interface (hereafter GUI) 3300 is
   shown in Fig. 71. The GUI 3300 enables a user to modify the way that an agent may be
10 infused by the syringe pump 500 by customizing various programming options. Though the
   following discussion mostly details the use of the GUI 3300 with the syringe pump 500, it
   should be appreciated that the GUI 3300 may be used with other pumps, including the other
   pumps mentioned in this specification. For example, the GUI 3300 may be used with the
   pump 201, 202, or 203 (as shown in Fig. 71) detailed in the discussion of Figs. 2-9. For
15 purposes of example, the GUI 3300 detailed as follows uses a screen 3204 which is a touch
   screen display 514 (see Fig. 28) as a means of interaction with a user. In other
   embodiments, the means of interaction with a user may be different. For instance, alternate
   embodiments may comprise user depressible buttons or rotatable dials, audible commands,
   etc. In other embodiments, the screen 3204 may be any electronic visual display such as a,
20 liquid crystal display, L.E.D. display, plasma display, etc.
   [00513]    As detailed in the preceding paragraph, the GUI 3300 is displayed on the display
   514 of the syringe pump 500. Each syringe pump 500 may have its own individual screen
   3204. In arrangements where there are multiple syringe pumps 500 or a syringe pump 500
   and one or more other pumps, the GUI 3300 may be used to control multiple pumps. Only
25 the master pump may require a screen 3204. As shown in Fig. 71, the pump 203 is seated in
   a Z-frame 3207. As shown, the GUI 3300 may display a number of interface fields 3250.
   The interface fields 3250 may display various information about the pump 203, infusion
   status, and/or the medication, etc. In some embodiments, the interface fields 3250 on the
   GUI 3300 may be touched, tapped, etc. to navigate to different menus, expand an interface
30 field 3250, input data, and the like. The interface fields 3250 displayed on the GUI 3300
   may change from menu to menu.
   [00514]    The GUI 3300 may also have a number of virtual buttons. In the non-limiting
   example embodiment in Fig. 71 the display has a virtual power button 3260, a virtual start
                                                  115

                                                                      Attorney Docket: L50WO
   button 3262, and a virtual stop button 3264. The virtual power button 3260 may turn the
   syringe pump 500 on or off. The virtual start button 3262 may start an infusion. The virtual
   stop button 3264 may pause or stop an infusion. The virtual buttons may be activated by a
   user's touch, tap, double tap, or the like. Different menus of the GUI 3300 may comprise
 5 other virtual buttons. The virtual buttons may be skeuomorphic to make their functions
   more immediately understandable or recognizable. For example, the virtual stop button
   3264 may resemble a stop sign as shown in Fig. 71. In alternate embodiments, the names,
   shapes, functions, number, etc. of the virtual buttons may differ.
   [00515]      As shown in the example embodiment in Fig. 72, the interface fields 3250 of the
10 GUI 3300 (see Fig. 71) may display a number of different programming parameter input
   fields. For the GUI 3300 to display the parameter input fields, a user may be required to
   navigate through one or a number of menus. Additionally, it may be necessary for the user
   to enter a password before the user may manipulate any of the parameter input fields.
   [00516]    In Fig. 72, a medication parameter input field 3302, in container drug amount
15 parameter input field 3304, total volume in container parameter input field 3306,
   concentration parameter input field 3308, dose parameter input field 3310, volume flow rate
   (hereafter abbreviated as rate) parameter input field 3312, volume to be infused (hereafter
   VTBI) parameter input field 3314, and time parameter input field 3316 are displayed. The
   parameters, number of parameters, names of the parameters, etc. may differ in alternate
20 embodiments. In the example embodiment, the parameter input fields are graphically
   displayed boxes which are substantially rectangular with rounded comers. In other
   embodiments, the shape and size of the parameter input fields may differ.
   [00517]    In the example embodiment, the GUI 3300 is designed to be intuitive and
   flexible. A user may choose to populate a combination of parameter input fields which are
25 simplest or most convenient for the user. In some embodiments, the parameter input fields
   left vacant by the user may be calculated automatically and displayed by the GUI 3300 as
   long as the vacant fields do not operate independently of populated parameter input fields
   and enough information can be gleaned from the populated fields to calculate the vacant
   field or fields. Throughout Figs. 72-76, fields dependent upon on another are tied together
30 by curved double-tipped arrows.
   [00518]     The medication parameter input field 3302 may be the parameter input field in
   which a user sets the type of infusate agent to be infused. In the example embodiment, the
   medication parameter input field 3302 has been populated and the infusate agent has been
                                                 116

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   defined as "0.9% NORMAL SALINE". As shown, after the specific infusate has been set,
   the GUI 3300 may populate the medication parameter input field 3302 by displaying the
   name of the specific infusate in the medication parameter input field 3302.
   [00519]     To set the specific infusate agent to be infused, a user may touch the medication
 5 parameter input field 3302 on the GUI 3300. In some embodiments, this may cull up a list
   of different possible infusates. The user may browse through the list until the desired
   infusate is located. In other embodiments, touching the in medication parameter input field
   3302 may cull up a virtual keyboard. The user may then type the correct infusate on the
   virtual keyboard. In some embodiments, the user may only need to type only a few letters of
10 the infusate on the virtual keyboard before the GUI 3300 displays a number of suggestions.
   For example, after typing "NORE" the GUI 3300 may suggest "NOREPINEPHRINE".
   After locating the correct infusate, the user may be required to perform an action such as,
   but not limited to, tapping, double tapping, or touching and dragging the infusate. After the
   required action has been completed by the user, the infusate may be displayed by the GUI
15 3300 in the medication parameter input field 3302. For another detailed description of
   another example means of infusate selection see Fig. 82.
   [00520]    In the example embodiment in Fig. 72, the parameter input fields have been
   arranged by a user to perform a volume based infusion (for instance mL, mL/hr, etc.).
   Consequentially, the in container drug amount parameter input field 3304 and total volume
20 in container parameter input field 3306 have been left unpopulated. The concentration
   parameter input field 3308 and dose parameter input field 3310 have also been left
   unpopulated. In some embodiments, the in container drug amount parameter input field
   3304, total volume in container parameter input field 3306, concentration parameter input
   field 3308, and dose parameter input field 3310 may be locked, grayed out, or not displayed
25 on the GUI 3300 when such an infusion has been selected. The in container drug amount
   parameter input field 3304, total volume in container parameter input field 3306,
   concentration parameter input field 3308, and dose parameter input field 3310 will be
   further elaborated upon in subsequent paragraphs.
   [00521]    When the GUI 3300 is being used to program a volume base infusion, the rate
30 parameter input field 3312, VTBI parameter input field 3314, and time parameter input field
   3316 do not operate independent of one another. A user may only be required to define any
   two of the rate parameter input field 3312, VTBI parameter input field 3314, and time
   parameter input field 3316. The two parameters defined by a user may be the most
                                                  117

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   convenient parameters for a user to set. The parameter left vacant by the user may be
   calculated automatically and displayed by the GUI 3300. For instance, if a user populates
   the rate parameter input field 3312 with a value of 125 mL/hr (as shown), and populates the
   VTBI parameter input field 3314 with a value of 10OOmL (as shown) the time parameter
 5 input field 3316 value may be calculated by dividing the value in the VTBI parameter input
   field 3314 by the value in the rate parameter input field 3312. In the example embodiment
   shown in Fig. 72, the quotient of the above calculation, 8hrs and 0 min, is correctly
   populated by the GUI 3300 into the time parameter input field 3316.
   [00522]    For a user to populate the rate parameter input field 3312, VTBI parameter input
10 field 3314, and time parameter input field 3316 the user may touch or tap the desired
   parameter input field on the GUI 3300. In some embodiments, this may cull up a number
   pad with a range or number, such as 0-9 displayed as individual selectable virtual buttons. A
   user may be required to input the parameter by individually tapping, double tapping,
   touching and dragging, etc. the desired numbers. Once the desired value has been input by a
15 user, a user may be required to tap, double tap, etc. a virtual "confirm", "enter", etc. button
   to populate the field. For another detailed description of another example way of defining
   numerical values see Fig. 82.
   [00523]    Fig. 73 shows a scenario in which the infusion parameters being programmed are
   not those of a volume based infusion. In Fig. 73, the infusion profile is that of a continuous
20 volume/time dose rate. In the example embodiment shown in Fig. 73, all of the parameter
   input fields have been populated. As shown, the medication parameter input field 3302 on
   the GUI 3300 has been populated with "HEPARIN" as the defined infusate. As shown, the
   in container drug amount parameter input field 3304, total volume in container input field
   3306, and concentration parameter input field 3308 are populated in Fig. 73. Additionally,
25 since a volume/time infusion is being programmed the dose parameter input field 3310
   shown in Fig. 72 has been replaced with a dose rate parameter input field 3318.
   [00524]    The in container drug amount parameter input field 3304 is a two part field in the
   example embodiment shown in Fig. 73. In the example embodiment in Fig. 73 the left field
   of the in container drug amount parameter input field 3304 is a field which may be
30 populated with a numeric value. The numeric value may defined by the user in the same
   manner as a user may define values in the rate parameter input field 3312, VTBI parameter
   input field 3314, and time parameter input field 3316. In the example embodiment shown in
                                                 118

                                                                       Attorney Docket: L50WO
   Fig. 73, the numeric value displayed by the GUI 3300 in the in left field of the in container
   drug amount parameter input field 3304 is "25,000".
   [00525]     The parameter defined by the right field of the in container drug amount
   parameter input field 3304 is the unit of measure. To define the right of the in container
 5 drug amount parameter input field 3304, a user may touch the in container drug amount
   parameter input field 3304 on the GUI 3300. In some embodiments, this may cull up a list
   of acceptable possible units of measure. In such embodiments, the desired unit of measure
   may be defined by a user in the same manner as a user may define the correct infusate. In
   other embodiments, touching the in container drug amount parameter input field 3304 may
10 cull up a virtual keyboard. The user may then type the correct unit of measure on the virtual
   keyboard. In some embodiments the user may be required to tap, double tap, etc. a virtual
   "confirm", "enter", etc. button to populate the left field of the in container drug amount
   parameter input field 3304.
   [00526]    The total volume in container parameter input field 3306 may be populated by a
15 numeric value which defines the total volume of a container. In some embodiments, the
   GUI 3300 may automatically populate the total volume in container parameter input field
   3306 based on data generated by one or more sensors. In other embodiments, the total
   volume in container parameter input field 3306 may be manually input by a user. The
   numeric value may defined by the user in the same manner as a user may define values in
20 the rate parameter input field 3312, VTBI parameter input field 3314, and time parameter
   input field 3316. In the example embodiment shown in Fig. 73 the total volume in container
   parameter input field 3306 has been populated with the value "250" mL. The total volume
   in container parameter input field 3306 may be restricted to a unit of measure such as mL as
   shown.
25 [00527]    The concentration parameter input field 3308 is a two part field similar to the in
   container drug amount parameter input field 3304. In the example embodiment in Fig. 73
   the left field of the concentration parameter input field 3308 is a field which may be
   populated with a numeric value. The numeric value may defined by the user in the same
   manner as a user may define values in the rate parameter input field 3312, VTBI parameter
30 input field 3314, and time parameter input field 3316. In the example embodiment shown in
   Fig. 73, the numeric value displayed by the GUI 3300 in the in left field of the
   concentration parameter input field 3308 is "100".
                                                119

                                                                       Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [00528]     The parameter defined by the right field of the concentration parameter input
   field 3308 is a unit of measure/volume. To define the right field of the concentration
   parameter input field 3308, a user may touch the concentration parameter input field 3308
   on the GUI 3300. In some embodiments, this may cull up a list of acceptable possible units
 5 of measure. In such embodiments, the desired unit of measure may be defined by a user in
   the same manner as a user may define the correct infusate. In other embodiments, touching
   the concentration parameter input field 3308 may cull up a virtual keyboard. The user may
   then type the correct unit of measure on the virtual keyboard. In some embodiments the user
   may be required to tap, double tap, etc. a virtual "confirm", "enter", etc. button to store the
10 selection and move on to a list of acceptable volume measurements. The desired volume
   measurement may be defined by a user in the same manner as a user may define the correct
   infusate. In the example embodiment shown in Fig. 73 the right field of the concentration
   parameter input field 3308 is populated with the unit of measure/volume "UNITS/mL".
   [00529]    The in container drug amount parameter input field 3304, total volume in
15 container input field 3306, and concentration parameter input field 3308               are not
   independent of one another. As such, a user may only be required to define any two of the
   in container drug amount parameter input field 3304, total volume in container input field
   3306, and concentration parameter input field 3308. For instance, if a user were to populate
   the concentration parameter input field 3308 and the total volume in container parameter
20 input field 3306, the in container drug amount parameter input field may be automatically
   calculated and populated on the GUI 3300.
   [00530]    Since the GUI 3300 in Fig. 73 is being programmed for a continuous
   volume/time dose, the dose rate parameter input field 3318 has been populated. The user
   may define the rate at which the infusate is infused by populating the dose rate parameter
25 input field 3318. In the example embodiment in Fig. 73, the dose rate parameter input field
   3318 is a two part field similar to the in container drug amount parameter input field 3304
   and concentration parameter input field 3308 described above. A numeric value may
   defined in the left field of the dose rate parameter input field 3318 by the user in the same
   manner as a user may define values in the rate parameter input field 3312. In the example
30 embodiment in Fig. 73, the left field of the dose rate parameter input field 3318 has been
   populated with the value "1000".
   [00531]    The right field of the dose rate parameter input field 3318 may define a unit of
   measure/time. To define the right field of the dose rate parameter input field 3318, a user
                                                  120

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   may touch the dose rate parameter input field 3318 on the GUI 3300. In some embodiments,
   this may cull up a list of acceptable possible units of measure. In such embodiments, the
   desired unit of measure may be defined by a user in the same manner as a user may define
   the correct infusate. In other embodiments, touching the dose rate parameter input field
 5 3304 may cull up a virtual keyboard. The user may then type the correct unit of measure on
   the virtual keyboard. In some embodiments the user may be required to tap, double tap, etc.
   a virtual "confirm", "enter", etc. button to store the selection and move on to a list of
   acceptable time measurements. The desired time measurement may be defined by a user in
   the same manner as a user may define the correct infusate. In the example embodiment
10 shown in Fig. 73 the right field of the dose rate parameter input field 3318 is populated with
   the unit of measure/time "UNITS/hr".
   [00532]     In the example embodiment, the dose rate parameter input field 3318 and the rate
   parameter input field 3312 are not independent of one another. After a user populates the
   dose rate parameter input field 3318 or the rate parameter input field 3312, the parameter
15 input field left vacant by the user may be calculated automatically and displayed by the GUI
   3300 as long as the concentration parameter input field 3308 has been defined. In the
   example embodiment shown in Fig. 73, the rate parameter input field 3312 has been
   populated with an infusate flow rate of "10 mL/hr". The dose rate parameter input field
   3318 has been populated with "1000" "UNITS/hr".
20 [00533]    In the example embodiment shown in Fig. 73 the VTBI parameter input field
   3314 and time parameter input field 3316 have also been populated. The VTBI parameter
   input field 3314 and time parameter input field 3316 may be populated by a user in the same
   manner described in relation to Fig. 72. When the GUI 3300 is being programmed to a
   continuous volume/time dose rate infusion, the VTBI parameter input field 3314 and the
25 time parameter input field 3316 are dependent on one another. A user may only need to
   populate one of the VTBI parameter input field 3314 or the time parameter input field 3316.
   The field left vacant by the user may be calculated automatically and displayed on the GUI
   3300.
   [00534]    Fig. 74 shows a scenario in which the infusion parameters being programmed are
30 those of a drug amount based infusion herein referred to as an intermittent infusion. In the
   example embodiment shown in Fig. 74, all of the parameter input fields have been
   populated. As shown, the medication parameter input field 3302 on the GUI 3300 has been
   populated with the antibiotic "VANCOMYCIN" as the defined infusate.
                                                 121

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [00535]     As shown, the in container drug amount parameter input field 3304, total volume
   in container input field 3306, and concentration parameter input field 3308 are laid out the
   same as in Fig. 73. In the example embodiment in Fig. 74, the left field of the in container
   drug amount parameter input field 3304 has been populated with "1". The right field of the
 5 in container drug amount parameter input field 3304 has been populated with "g". Thus the
   total amount of Vancomycin in the container has been defined as one gram. The total
   volume in container parameter input field 3306 has been populated with "250" ml. The left
   field of the concentration parameter input field 3308 has been populated with "4.0". The
   right field of the concentration parameter input field has been populated with "mg/mL".
10 [00536]     As mentioned in relation to other possible types of infusions which a user may be
   capable of programming through the GUI 3300, the in container drug amount parameter
   input field 3304, total volume in container input field 3306, and concentration parameter
   input field 3308 are dependent upon each other. As above, this is indicated by the curved
   double arrows connecting the parameter input field names. By populating any two of these
15 parameters, the third parameter may be automatically calculated and displayed on the
   correct parameter input field on the GUI 3300.
   [00537]     In the example embodiment in Fig. 74, the dose parameter input field 3310 has
   been populated. As shown, the dose parameter input field 3310 comprises a right and left
   field. A numeric value may defined in the right field of the dose parameter input field 3310
20 by the user in the same manner as a user may define values for other parameter input fields
   which define numeric values. In the example embodiment in Fig. 74, the left field of the
   dose parameter input field 3310 has been populated with the value "1000".
   [00538]     The right field of the dose parameter input field 3310 may define a unit of mass
   measurement. To define the right field of the dose parameter input field 3310, a user may
25 touch the dose parameter input field 3310 on the GUI 3300. In some embodiments, this may
   cull up a list of acceptable possible units of measure. In such embodiments, the desired unit
   of measure may be defined by a user in the same manner as a user may define the correct
   infusate. In other embodiments, touching the dose parameter input field 3310 may cull up a
   virtual keyboard. The user may then type the correct unit of measure on the virtual
30 keyboard. In some embodiments the user may be required to tap, double tap, slide, etc. a
   virtual "confirm", "enter", etc. button to store the selection and move on to a list of
   acceptable mass measurements. The desired mass measurement may be defined by a user in
   the same manner as a user may define the correct infusate. In the example embodiment
                                                  122

                                                                       Attorney Docket: L50WO
   shown in Fig. 74 the right field of the dose parameter input field 3310 is populated with the
   unit of measurement "mg".
   [00539]    As shown, the rate parameter input field 3312, VTBI parameter input field 3314,
   and the time parameter input field 3316 have been populated. As shown, the rate parameter
 5 input field 3312 has been populated with "125" mL/hr. The VTBI parameter input field
   3314 has been defined as "250" mL. The time parameter input field 3316 has been defined
   as "2" hrs "00" min.
   [00540]    The user may not need to individually define each of the dose parameter input
   field 3310, rate parameter input field 3312, VTBI parameter input field 3314, and the time
10 parameter input field 3316. As indicated by the curved double arrows, the dose parameter
   input field 3310 and the VTBI parameter input field 3314 are dependent upon each other.
   Input of one value may allow the other value to be automatically calculated and displayed
   by the GUI 3300. The rate parameter input field 3312 and the time parameter input field
   3316 are also dependent upon each other. The user may need to only define one value and
15 then allow the non-defined value to be automatically calculated and displayed on the GUI
   3300. In some embodiments, the rate parameter input field 3312, VTBI parameter input
   field 3314, and the time parameter input field 3316 may be locked on the GUI 3300 until
   the in container drug amount parameter input field 3304, total volume in container
   parameter input field 3306 and concentration parameter input field 3308 have been defined.
20 These fields may be locked because automatic calculation of the rate parameter input field
   3312, VTBI parameter input field 3314, and the time parameter input field 3316 is
   dependent upon values in the in container drug amount parameter input field 3304, total
   volume in container parameter input field 3306 and concentration parameter input field
   3308.
25 [00541]    In scenarios where an infusate may require a body weight based dosage, a weight
   parameter input field 3320 may also be displayed on the GUI 3300. The example GUI 3300
   shown on Fig. 75 has been arranged such that a user may program a body weight based
   dosage. The parameter input fields may be defined by a user as detailed in the above
   discussion. In the example embodiment, the infusate in the medication parameter input field
30 3302 has been defined as "DOPAMINE". The left field of the in container drug amount
   parameter input field 3304 has been defined as "400". The right field of the in container
   drug amount parameter input field 3304 has been defined as "mg". The total volume in
   container parameter input field 3306 has been defined as "250" ml. The left field of the
                                                 123

                                                                       Attorney Docket: L50WO
   concentration parameter input field 3308 has been defined as "1.6". The right field of the
   concentration parameter input field 3308 has been defined as "mg/mL". The weight
   parameter input field 3320 has been defined as "90" kg. The left field of the dose rater
   parameter input field 3318 has been defined as "5.0". The right field of the dose rate
 5 parameter input field 3318 has been defined as "mcg/kg/min". The rate parameter input
   field 3312 has been defined as "16.9" mL/hr. The VTBI parameter input field 3314 has been
   defined as "250"mL. The time parameter input field 3316 has been defined as "14" hrs "48"
   min.
   [00542]    To define the weight parameter input field 3320, a user may may touch or tap the
10 weight parameter input field 3320 on the GUI 3300. In some embodiments, this may cull up
   a number pad with a range of numbers, such as 0-9 displayed as individual selectable virtual
   buttons. A user may be required to input the parameter by individually tapping, double
   tapping, touching and dragging, etc. the desired numbers. Once the desired value has been
   input by a user, a user may be required to tap, double tap, etc. a virtual "confirm", "enter",
15 etc. button to populate the field.
   [00543]    As indicated by the curved double arrows, some parameter input fields displayed
   on the GUI 3300 may be dependent upon each other. As in previous examples, the in
   container drug amount parameter input field 3304, total volume in container parameter input
   field 3306, and concentration parameter input field 3308 may be dependent upon each other.
20 In Fig. 75, the weight parameter input field 3320, dose rater parameter input field 3318, rate
   parameter input field 3312, VTBI parameter input field 3314, and the time parameter input
   field 3316 are all dependent upon each other. When enough information has been defined
   by the user in these parameter input fields, the parameter input fields not populated by the
   user may be automatically calculated and displayed on the GUI 3300.
25 [00544]    In some embodiments, a user may be required to define a specific parameter input
   field even if enough information has been defined to automatically calculate the field. This
   may improve safety of use by presenting more opportunities for user input errors to be
   caught. If a value entered by a user is not compatible with already defined values, the GUI
   3300 may display an alert or alarm message soliciting the user to double check values that
30 the user has entered.
   [00545]    In some scenarios the delivery of infusate may be informed by the body surface
   area (BSA) of a patient. In Fig. 76, the GUI 3300 has been set up for a body surface area
   based infusion. As shown, a BSA parameter input field 3322 may be displayed on the GUI
                                                 124

                                                                         Attorney Docket: L50WO
   3300. The parameter input fields may be defined by a user as detailed in the above
   discussion. In the example embodiment, the infusate in the medication parameter input field
   3302 has been defined as "FLUOROURACIL". The left field of the in container drug
   amount parameter input field 3304 has been defined as "1700". The right field of the in
 5 container drug amount parameter input field 3304 has been defined as "mg". The total
   volume in container parameter input field 3306 has been defined as "500" ml. The left field
   of the concentration parameter input field 3308 has been defined as "3.4". The right field of
   the concentration parameter input field 3308 has been defined as "mg/mL". The BSA
   parameter input field 3320 has been defined as "1.7" in 2 . The left field of the dose rate
10 parameter input field 3318 has been defined as "1000". The right field of the dose rate
   parameter input field 3318 has been defined as "mg/m2/day". The rate parameter input field
   3312 has been defined as "20.8" mL/hr. The VTBI parameter input field 3314 has been
   defined as "500"mL. The time parameter input field 3316 has been defined as "24" hrs "00"
   min. The dependent parameter input fields are the same as in Fig. 75 with the exception that
15 the BSA parameter input field 3322 has taken the place of the weight parameter input field
   3320.
   [00546]    To populate the BSA parameter input field 3322, the user may touch or tap the
   BSA parameter input field 3322 on the GUI 3300. In some embodiments, this may cull up a
   number pad with a range of numbers, such as 0-9 displayed as individual selectable virtual
20 buttons. In some embodiments, the number pad and any of the number pads detailed above
   may also feature symbols such as a decimal point. A user may be required to input the
   parameter by individually tapping, double tapping, touching and dragging, etc. the desired
   numbers. Once the desired value has been input by a user, a user may be required to tap,
   double tap, etc. a virtual "confirm", "enter", etc. button to populate the field.
25 [00547]    In some embodiments, a patient's BSA may be automatically calculated and
   displayed on the GUI 3300. In such embodiments, the GUI 3300 may query the user for
   information about the patient when a user touches, taps, etc. the BSA parameter input field
   3322. For example, the user may be asked to define a patient's height and body weight.
   After the user defines these values they may be run through a suitable formula to find the
30 patient's BSA. The calculated BSA may then be used to populate the BSA parameter input
   field 3322 on the GUI 3300.
   [00548]    In operation, the values displayed in the parameter input fields may change
   throughout the course of a programmed infusion to reflect the current state of the infusion.
                                                  125

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   For example, as the infusate is infused to a patient, the values displayed by the GUI 3300 in
   the in container drug amount parameter input field 3304 and total volume in container
   parameter input field 3306 may decline to reflect the volume of the remaining contents of
   the container. Additionally, the values in the VTBI parameter input field 3314 and time
 5 parameter input field 3316 may also decline as infusate is infused to the patient.
   [00549]    Fig. 77 is an example rate over time graph detailing one behavioral configuration
   of a syringe pump 500 (see Fig. 28) over the course of an infusion. Though the following
   discussion mostly details behavioral configurations of a syringe pump 500, it should be
   appreciated that the graphs shown in Fig. 77-81 may also detail the behavioral
10 configurations of other pumps, including the other pumps mentioned in this specification.
   The graph in Fig. 77 details an example behavioral configuration of the syringe pump 500
   where the infusion is a continuous infusion (an infusion with a dose rate). As shown, the
   graph in Fig. 77 begins at the initiation of infusion. As shown, the infusion is administered
   at a constant rate for a period of time. As the infusion progresses, the amount of infusate
15 remaining is depleted.
   [00550]    When the amount of infusate remaining reaches a pre-determined threshold, an
   "INFUSION NEAR END ALERT" may be triggered. The point at which "INFUSION
   NEAR END ALERT" is issued may be configured by the user. The "INFUSION NEAR
   END ALERT" may also be configured to be triggered sooner on short-half life drugs. The
20 "INFUSION NEAR END ALERT" may be in the form of a message on the GUI 3300 and
   may be accompanied by flashing lights, and audible noises such as a series of beeps. The
   "INFUSION NEAR END ALERT" allows time for the care giver and pharmacy to prepare
   materials to continue the infusion if necessary. As shown, the infusion rate may not change
   over the "INFUSION NEAR END ALERT TIME".
25 [00551]    When the syringe pump 500 (see Fig. 28) has infused the VTBI to a patient a
   "VTBI ZERO ALERT" may be triggered. The "VTBI ZERO ALERT" may be in the form
   of a message on the GUI 3300 and may be accompanied by flashing lights and audible
   noises such as beeps. As shown, the "VTBI ZERO ALERT" causes the pump to switch to a
   keep-vein-open (hereafter KVO) rate until a new infusate container may be put in place.
30 The KVO rate is a low infusion rate (for example 5-25mL/hr). The rate is set to keep the
   infusion site patent until a new infusion may be started. The KVO rate may be configurable
   by the group (elaborated upon later) or medication and can be modified on the syringe pump
   500. The KVO rate is not allowed to exceed the continuous infusion rate. When the KVO
                                                 126

                                                                      Attorney Docket: L50WO
   rate can no longer be sustained and the syringe has reached the end of its stoke, an "END
   OF STROKE ALARM" may be triggered. When the "END OF STROKE ALARM" is
   triggered, all infusion may stop. The "END OF STROKE ALARM" may be in the form of a
   message on the GUI 3300 and may be accompanied by flashing lights and audible noises
 5 such as beeps.
   [00552]    Fig. 78 shows another example rate over time graph detailing one behavioral
   configuration of a syringe pump 500 (see Fig. 28) over the course of an infusion. The graph
   in Fig. 78 details an example behavioral configuration of a syringe pump 500 where the
   infusion is a continuous infusion (an infusion with a dose rate). The alerts in the graph
10 shown in Fig. 78 are the same as the alerts shown in the graph in Fig. 77. The conditions
   which propagate the alerts are also the same. The rate, however, remains constant
   throughout the entire graph until the "END OF STROKE ALERT" is triggered and the
   infusion is stopped. By continuing infusion at a constant rate, it is ensured that the blood
   plasma concentration of the drug remains at therapeutically effective levels. Configuring the
15 pump to continue infusion at a constant rate may be especially desirable in situations where
   the infusate is a drug with a short half-life. In some embodiments, the end of infusion
   behavior of the syringe pump 500 may be restricted depending on the defined infusate. For
   example, when the defined infusate is a short half-life drug the end of infusion behavior of
   the syringe pump 500 may be limited only to continuing to infuse at the rate of the finished
20 infusion.
   [00553]    The syringe pump 500 (see Fig. 28) may also be used to deliver a primary or
   secondary intermittent infusion. During an intermittent infusion, an amount of a drug (dose)
   is administered to a patient as opposed to a continuous infusion where the drug is given at a
   specified dose rate (amount/time). An intermittent infusion is also delivered over a defined
25 period of time, however, the time period and dose are independent of one another. The
   previously described Fig. 73 shows a setup of the GUI 3300 for a continuous infusion. The
   previously described Fig. 74 shows a setup of the GUI 3300 for an intermittent infusion.
   [00554]    Fig. 79 is an example rate over time graph detailing the one behavioral
   configuration of a syringe pump 500 (see Fig. 28) over the course of an intermittent
30 infusion. As shown, the intermittent infusion is given at a constant rate until all infusate
   programmed for the intermittent infusion has been depleted. In the example behavioral
   configuration, the syringe pump 500 has been programmed to issue a "VTBI ZERO
   ALERT" and stop the infusion when all the infusate has been dispensed. In this
                                                 127

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   configuration, the user may be required to manually clear the alert before another infusion
   may be started or resumed.
   [00555]     Depending on the group (further elaborated upon later) or the medication, it may
   be desirable to configure the syringe pump 500 to behave differently at the end of an
 5 intermittent infusion. Other configurations may cause a syringe pump 500 (see Fig. 28) to
   behave differently. For example, in scenarios where the intermittent infusion is a secondary
   infusion, the pump 201, 202, 203 (see Fig. 2) may be configured to automatically switch
   back to the primary infusion after issuing a notification that the secondary intermittent
   infusion has been completed. In alternate configurations, the a syringe pump 500 may be
10 configured issue a "VTBI ZERO ALERT" and drop the infusion rate to a KVO rate after
   completing the intermittent infusion. In such configurations, the user may be required to
   manually clear the alert before a primary infusion is resumed.
   [00556]    A bolus may also be delivered as a primary intermittent infusion when it may be
   necessary or desirable to achieve a higher blood plasma drug concentration or manifest a
15 more immediate therapeutic effect. In such cases, the bolus may be delivered by a pump
   201, 202, 203 (see Fig. 2) executing the primary infusion. The bolus may be delivered from
   the same container which the primary infusion is being delivered from. A bolus may be
   performed at any point during an infusion providing there is enough infusate to deliver the
   bolus. Any volume delivered via a bolus to a patient is included in the value displayed by
20 the VTBI parameter input field 3314 of the primary infusion.
   [00557]    Depending on the infusate, a user may be forbidden from performing a bolus. The
   dosage of a bolus may be pre-set depending on the specific infusate or infusate
   concentration being used. Additionally, the period of time over which the bolus occurs may
   be pre-defined depending on the infusate being used. After performing a bolus, the bolus
25 function may be locked for a pre-defined period of time. In some embodiments, a user may
   be capable of adjusting these pre-sets by adjusting various setting on the GUI 3300. In some
   situations, such as those where the drug being infused has a long half-life (vancomycin,
   teicoplanin, etc.), a bolus may be given as a loading dose to more quickly reach a
   therapeutically effective blood plasma drug concentration.
30 [00558]    Fig. 80 shows another rate over time graph in which the flow rate of the infusate
   has been titrated to "ramp" the patient up on the infusate. Titration is often used with drugs
   which register a fast therapeutic effect, but have a short half life (such as norepinephrine).
   When titrating, the user may adjust the delivery rate of the infusate until the desired
                                                 128

                                                                         Attorney Docket: L50WO
   therapeutic effect is manifested. Every adjustment may be checked against a series of limits
   defined for the specific infusate being administered to the patient. If an infusion is changed
   by more than a pre-defined percentage, an alert may be issued. In the exemplary graph
   shown in Fig. 80, the rate has been up-titrated once. If necessary, the rate may be up
 5 titrated more than one time. Additionally, in cases where titration is being used to "wean" a
   patient off of a drug, the rate may be down-titrated any suitable number of times.
   [00559]     Fig. 81 is another rate over time graph in which the infusion has been configured
   as a multi-step infusion. A multi-step infusion may be programmed in a number of different
   steps. Each step may be defined by a VTBI, time, and a dose rate. Multi-step infusions may
10 be useful for certain types of infusates such as those used for parenteral nutrition
   applications. In the example graph shown in Fig. 81, the infusion has been configured as a
   five step infusion. The first step infuses a "VTBI 1" for a length of time, "Time 1", at a
   constant rate, "Rate 1". When the time interval for the first step has elapsed, the pump
   moves on to the second step of the multi-step infusion. The second step infuses a "VTBI 2"
15 for a length of time, "Time 2", at a constant rate, "Rate 2". As shown, "Rate 2" is higher
   than "Rate 1". When the time interval for the second step has elapsed, the pump moves on
   to the third step of the multi-step infusion. The third step infuses a "VTBI 3" for a length of
   time, "Time 3", at a constant rate, "Rate 3". As shown "Rate 3" is the highest rate of any
   steps in the multi-step infusion. "Time 3" is also the longest duration of any step of the
20 multi-step infusion. When the time interval for the third step has elapsed, the pump move
   on to the fourth step of the multi-step infusion. The fourth step infuses a "VTBI 4" for a
   length of time, "Time 4", at a constant rate, "Rate 4". As shown, "Rate 4" has been down
   titrated from "Rate 3". "Rate 4" is approximately the same as "Rate 2". When the time
   interval for the fourth step of the multi-step infusion has elapsed, the pump move on to the
25 fifth step. The fifth step infuses a "VTBI 5" for a length of time, "Time 5", at a constant
   rate, "Rate 5".      As shown, "Rate 5" has been down-titrated from "Rate 4" and is
   approximately the same as "Rate 1".
   [00560]     The "INFUSION NEAR END ALERT" is triggered during the fourth step of the
   example infusion shown in Fig. 81. At the end of the fifth and final step of the multi-step
30 infusion, the "VTBI ZERO ALERT" is triggered. In the example configuration shown in the
   graph in Fig. 81, the rate is dropped to a KVO rate after the multi-step infusion has been
   concluded and the "VTBI ZERO ALERT" has been issued. Other configurations may
   differ.
                                                  129

                                                                      Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [00561]     Each rate change in a multi-step infusion may be handled in a variety of different
   ways. In some configurations, the syringe pump 500 (see Fig. 2) may display a notification
   and automatically adjust the rate to move on to the next step. In other configurations, the
   syringe pump 500 may issue an alert before changing the rate and wait for confirmation
 5 from the user before adjusting the rate and moving on to the next step. In such
   configurations, the pump 500 may stop the infusion or drop to a KVO rate until user
   confirmation has been received.
   [00562]     In some embodiments, the user may be capable of pre-programming infusions.
   The user may pre-program an infusion to automatically being after a fixed interval of time
10 has elapsed (e.g. 2 hours). The infusion may also be programmed to automatically being at a
   specific time of day (e.g. 12:30 pm). In some embodiments, the user may be capable of
   programming the syringe pump 500 (see Fig. 28) to alert the user with a callback function
   when it is time to being the pre-programmed infusion. The user may need to confirm the
   start of the pre-programmed infusion. The callback function may be a series of audible
15 beeps, flashing lights, or the like.
   [00563]     In arrangements where there is more than one pump 201, 202, 203 (see Fig. 2),
   the user may be able to program a relay infusion. The relay infusion may be programmed
   such that after a first pump 201, 202, 203 has completed its infusion, a second pump 201,
   202, 203 may automatically being a second infusion and so on. The user may also program
20 a relay infusion such that the user is alerted via the callback function before the relay
   occurs. In such a programmed arrangement, the relay infusion may not being until
   confirmation from a user has been received. A pump 201, 202, 203 may continue at a KVO
   rate until user confirmation has been received.
   [00564]     Fig. 82 shows an example block diagram of a "Drug Administration Library"
25 data structure. The data structure may be stored in any file format or in any database (e.g.,
   an SQL database). In the upper right hand corner there is a box which is substantially
   rectangular, though its edges are rounded. The box is associated with the name "General
   Settings". The "General Settings" may include settings which would be common to all
   devices in a facility such as, site name (e.g. XZY Hospital), language, common passwords,
30 and the like.
   [00565]     In Fig. 82, the "Drug Administration Library" has two boxes which are associated
   with the names "Group Settings (ICU)" and "Group Settings". These boxes form the
   headings for their own columns. These boxes may be used to define a group in within a
                                                  130

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   facility (e.g. pediatric intensive care unit, emergency room, sub-acute care, etc.) in which
   the device is stationed. Groups may also be areas outside a parent facility, for example, a
   patient's home or an inter-hospital transport such as an ambulance. Each group may be used
   to set specific settings for various groups within a facility (weight, titration limits, etc.).
 5 These groups may alternatively be defined in other manners. For example, the groups may
   be defined by user training level. The group may be defined by a prior designated individual
   or any of a number of prior designated individuals and changed if the associated patient or
   device is moved from one specific group within a facility to another.
   [00566]     In the example embodiment, the left column is "Group Settings (ICU)" which
10 indicates that the syringe pump 500 (see Fig. 28) is stationed in the intensive care unit of the
   facility. The right column is "Group Settings" and has not been further defined. In some
   embodiments, this column may be used to designate a sub group, for example operator
   training level. As indicated by lines extending to the box off to the left of the block diagram
   from the "Group settings (ICU)" and "Group Settings" columns, the settings for these
15 groups may include a preset number of default settings.
   [00567]     The group settings may include limits on patient weight, limits on patient BSA,
   air alarm sensitivity, occlusion sensitivity, default KVO rates, VTBI limits, etc. The group
   settings may also include parameters such as whether or not a review of a programmed
   infusion is necessary for high risk infusates, whether the user must identify themselves
20 before initiating an infusion, whether the user must enter a text comment after a limit has
   been overridden, etc. A user may also define the defaults for various attributes like screen
   brightness, or speaker volume. In some embodiments, a user may be capable of
   programming the screen to automatically adjust screen brightness in relation to one or more
   conditions such as but not limited to time of day.
25 [00568]     As also shown to the left of the block diagram in Fig. 82, each facility may have a
   "Master Medication List" defining all of the infusates which may be used in the facility.
   The "Master Medication List" may comprise a number of medications which a qualified
   individual may update or maintain. In the example embodiment, the "Master Medication
   List" only has three medications: Heparin, 0.9% Normal Saline, and Alteplase. Each group
30 within a facility may have its own list of medications used in the group. In the example
   embodiment, the "Group Medication List (ICU)" only includes a single medication,
   Heparin.
                                                  131

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [00569]    As shown, each medication may be associated with one or a number of clinical
   uses. In Fig. 82 the "Clinical Use Records" are defined for each medication in a group
   medication list and appear as an expanded sub-heading for each infusate. The clinical uses
   may be used to tailor limits and pre-defined settings for each clinical use of the infusate.
 5 For Heparin, weight based dosing and non-weight based dosing are shown in Fig. 82 as
   possible clinical uses. In some embodiments, there may be a "Clinical Use Record" setting
   requiring the user to review or re-enter a patient's weight (or BSA) before beginning an
   infusion.
   [00570]     Clinical uses may also be defined for the different medical uses of each infusate
10 (e.g. stroke, heart attack, etc.) instead of or in addition to the infusate's dose mode. The
   clinical use may also be used to define whether the infusate is given as a primary continuous
   infusion, primary intermittent infusion, secondary infusion, etc. They may also be use to
   provide appropriate limits on the dose, rate, VTBI, time duration, etc. Clinical uses may also
   provide titration change limits, the availability of boluses, the availability of loading doses,
15 and many other infusion specific parameters. In some embodiments, it may be necessary to
   provide at least one clinical use for each infusate in the group medication list.
   [00571]    Each clinical use may additionally comprise another expanded sub-heading in
   which the concentration may also be defined. In some cases, there may be more than one
   possible concentration of an infusate. In the example embodiment in Fig. 82, the weight
20 base dosing clinical use has a 400mg/250mL concentration and an 800 mg/250mL
   concentration. The non-weight based dosing clinical use only has one concentration,
   400mg/mL. The concentrations may also be used to define an acceptable range for instances
   where the user may customize the concentration of the infusate. The concentration setting
   may include information on the drug concentration (as shown), the diluents volume, or other
25 related information.
   [00572]    In some embodiments, the user may navigate to the "Drug Administration
   Library" to populate some of the parameter input fields shown in Figs. 72-76. The user may
   also navigate to the "Drug Administration Library" to choose from the clinical uses for each
   infusate what type of infusion the syringe pump 500 (see Fig. 28) will administer. For
30 example, if a user were to select weight based Heparin dosing on Fig. 82, the GUI 3300
   might display the infusion programming screen shown on Fig. 75 with "Heparin" populated
   into the medication parameter input field 3302. Selecting a clinical use of a drug may also
   prompt a user to select a drug concentration. This concentration may then be used to
                                                  132

                                                                          Attorney Docket: L50WO
   populate the concentration parameter input field 3308 (see Figs. 72-76). In some
   embodiments, the "Drug Administration Library" may be updated and maintained external
   to the syringe pump 500 and communicated to the syringe pump 500 via any suitable
   means. In such embodiments, the "Drug Administration Library" may not be changeable on
 5 the syringe pump 500 but may only place limits and/or constraints on programming options
   for a user populating the parameter input fields shown in Fig. 72-76.
   [00573]     As mentioned above, by choosing a medication and clinical use from the group
   medication list, a user may also be setting limits on other parameter input fields for infusion
   programming screens. For example, by defining a medication in the "Drug Administration
10 Library" a user may also be defining limits for the dose parameter input field 3310, dose
   rate parameter input field 3318, rate parameter input field 3312, VTBI parameter input field
   3314, time parameter input field 3316, etc. These limits may be pre-defined for each clinical
   use of an infusate prior to the programming of an infusion by a user. In some embodiments,
   limits may have both a soft limit and a hard limit with the hard limit being the ceiling for the
15 soft limit. In some embodiments, the group settings may include limits for all of the
   medications available to the group. In such cases, clinical use limits may be defined to
   further tailor the group limits for each clinical usage of a particular medication.
   [00574]     The software architecture of the syringe pump 500 is shown schematically in FIG
   83.    The software architecture divides the software into cooperating subsystems that
20 interact to carry out the required pumping action. The software is equally applicable to all
   the embodiments described herein. It is also possible to apply the software to other pumps
   not described herein. Each subsystem may be composed of one or more execution streams
   controlled by the underlying operating system. Useful terms used in the art include
   operating system, subsystem, process, thread and task.
25 [00575]     Asynchronous messages 4130 are used to 'push' information to the destination
   task or process. The sender process or task does not get confirmation of message delivery.
   Data delivered in this manner is typically repetitive in nature. If messages are expected on a
   consistent schedule, the receiver process or task can detect a failure if a message does not
   arrive on time.
30 [00576]     Synchronous messages 4120 may be used to send a command to a task or
   process, or to request ('pull') information from a process or task. After sending the
   command (or request), the originating task or process suspends execution while awaiting a
   response. The response may contain the requested information, or may acknowledge the
                                                   133

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   receipt of the sent message. If a response is not received in a timely manner, the sending
   process or task may time out. In such an event, the sending process or task may resume
   execution and/or may signal a error condition.
   [00577]     An operating system (OS) is a collection of software that manages computer
 5 hardware resources and provides common services for computer programs. The operating
   system may act as an intermediary between programs and the computer hardware. Although
   some application code may be executed directly by the hardware, the application code may
   frequently make a system call to an OS function or be interrupted by it.
   [00578]     The RTP 3500 may run on a Real Time Operating System (RTOS) that has been
10 certified to a safety level for medical devices. An RTOS is a multitasking operating system
   that aims at executing real-time applications. Real-time operating systems often use
   specialized scheduling algorithms so that they can achieve a deterministic nature of
   behavior.     The UIP 3600 may run on a Linux operating system.           The Linux operating
   system is a Unix-like computer operating system.
15 [00579]     A subsystem is a collection of software (and perhaps hardware) assigned a
   specific set of (related) system functionality or functionalities. A subsystem has clearly
   defined responsibilities and a clearly defined interface to other subsystems. A subsystem is
   an architectural division of the software that uses one or more processes, threads or tasks.
   [00580]     A process is an independent executable running on a Linux operating system
20 which runs in its own virtual address space. The memory management hardware on the
   CPU is used to enforce the integrity and isolation of this memory, by write protecting code
   space, and disallowing data access outside of the process' memory region. Processes can
   only pass data to other processes using inter-process communication facilities.
   [00581]     In Linux, a thread is a separately scheduled, concurrent path of program
25 execution. On Linux, a thread is always associated with a process (which must have at least
   one thread and can have multiple threads). Threads share the same memory space as its
   'parent' process. Data can be directly shared among all of the threads belonging to a process
   but care must be taken to properly synchronize access to shared items. Each thread has an
   assigned execution priority.
30 [00582]     A Task on an RTOS (Real Time Operating System) is a separately scheduled,
   concurrent path of program execution, analogous to a Linux 'thread'. All tasks share the
   same memory address space which consists of the entire CPU memory map. When using an
   RTOS that provides memory protection, each task's effective memory map is restricted by
                                                  134

                                                                       Attorney Docket: L50WO
   the Memory Protection Unit (MPU) hardware to the common code space and the task's
   private data and stack space.
   [00583]     The processes on the UIP 3600, communicate via IPC calls as shown by the one
   way arrows in FIG 83. Each solid-lined arrow represents a synchronous message 4120 call
 5 and response, and dotted-line arrows are asynchronous messages 4130. The tasks on the
   RTP 3500 similarly communicate with each other. The RTP 3500 and UIP 3600 may be
   bridged by an asynchronous serial line 3601, with one of an InterComm Process 4110 or
   InterComm Task 4210 on each side. The InterComm Process 4110 presents the same
   communications API (Application Programming Interface) on both sides of the bridge, so
10 all processes and tasks can use the same method calls to interact.
   [00584]     The Executive Process 4320 may invoked by the Linux system startup scripts
   after all of the operating system services have started. The Executive Process 4320 then
   starts the various executable files that comprise the software on the UIP 3600. If any of the
   software components should exit or fail unexpectedly, the Executive Process 4320 may be
15 notified, and may generate the appropriate alarm.
   [00585]    While the system is running, the Executive Process 4320 may act as a software
   'watchdog' for various system components. After registering with the Executive Process
   4320, a process is required to 'check in' or send a signal periodically to the Executive
   Process 4320.     Failure to 'check in' at the required interval may be detected by the
20 Executive Process 4320. Upon detection of a failed subsystem, the Executive Process 4320
   may take remedial action of either: do nothing, declaring an alarm, or restarting the failed
   process. The remedial action taken is predetermined by a table entry compiled into the
   Executive Process 4320. The 'check-in' interval may vary from process to process. The
   amount of variance between 'check-in' times for different processes may be based in part
25 on the importance of the process. The check-in interval may also vary during syringe pump
   500 operation to optimize the pump controller response by minimizing computer processes.
   In one example embodiment, during syringe 504 loading, the pump controller may check-in
   less frequently than during active pumping.
   [00586]    In response to the required check-in message, the Executive Process 4320 may
30 return various system status items to processes that checked-in. The system status items
   may be the status of one or more components on the syringe pump 500 and/or errors. The
   System Status items may include: battery status, WiFi connection status, device gateway
                                                 135

                                                                       Attorney Docket: L50WO
   connection status, device status (Idle, Infusion Running, Diagnostic Mode, Error, Etc.),
   technical error indications, and engineering log levels.
   [00587]     A thread running in the Executive Process 4320 may be used to read the state of
   the battery 3420 from an internal monitor chip in the battery 3420. This may be done at a
 5 relatively infrequent interval such as every 10 seconds.
   [00588]     The UI View 4330 implements the graphical user interface (GUI 3300 see Fig.
   71), rendering the display graphics on the display 514, and responding to inputs on the
   touch screen in embodiments comprising a touch screen or to inputs communicated via
   other data input means 516. The UI View 4330 design is stateless. The graphic being
10 displayed may be commanded by the UI Model Process 4340, along with any variable data
   to be displayed. The commanded graphic may be refreshed periodically regardless of data
   changes.
   [00589]     The style and appearance of user input dialogs (Virtual keyboard, drop down
   selection list, check box etc.) may be specified by the screen design, and implemented
15 entirely by the UI View 4330. User input may be collected by the UI View 4330, and sent to
   the UI Model 4340 for interpretation. The UI View 4330 may provide for multi-region,
   multi-lingual support with facilities for the following list including but not limited to:
   virtual keyboards, unicode strings, loadable fonts, right to left entry, translation facility
   (loadable translation files), and configurable numbers and date formats.
20 [00590]     The UI Model 4340 implements the screen flows, and so controls the user
   experience. The US Model 4340 interacts with the UI View 4330, specifying the screen to
   display, and supplies any transient values to be displayed on the screen. Here screen refers
   the image displayed on the physical display 514 and the defined interactive areas or user
   dialogs i.e. buttons, sliders, keypads etc, on the touch screen 3735. The UI Model 4340
25 interprets any user inputs sent from the UI View 4330, and may either update the values on
   the current screen, command a new screen, or pass the request to the appropriate system
   service (i.e. 'start pumping' is passed to the RTP 3500).
   [00591]     When selecting a medication to infuse from the Drug Administration Library, the
   UI Model 4340 interacts with the Drug Administration Library stored in the local data base
30 which is part of the Database System 4350. The user's selections setup the run time
   configurations for programming and administering the desired medication.
   [00592]     While the operator is entering an infusion program, The UI Model 4340 may
   relay the user's input values to the Infusion Manager 4360 for validation and interpretation.
                                                  136

                                                                       Attorney Docket: L50WO
   Therapeutic decisions may not be made by the UI Model 4340. The treatment values may
   be passed from the Infusion Manager 4360 to the UI Model 4340 to the UI View 4330 to be
   displayed for the user.
   [00593]    The UI Model 4340 may continuously monitor the device status gathered from
 5 the Infusion Manager 4360 (current infusion progress, alerts, etc.) for possible display by
   the UI View 4330. Alerts/Alarms and other changes in system state may provoke a screen
   change by the UI Model 4340.
   [00594]    The Infusion Manager Process (IM) 4360 may validate and controls the infusion
   delivered by the syringe pump 500. To start an infusion, the user may interact with the UI
10 View/Model 4330/4340 to select a specific medication and clinical use. This specification
   selects one specific Drug Administration Library (DAL) entry for use. The IM 4360 loads
   this DAL entry from the database 4350, for use in validating and running the infusion.
   [00595]    Once a Drug Administration Library entry is selected, the IM 4340 may pass the
   dose mode, limits for all user enterable parameters, and the default values (if set) up to the
15 UI Model 4340. Using this data, the UI Model 4340 may guide the user in entering the
   infusion program.
   [00596]    As each parameter is entered by the user, the value may sent from the UI
   View/Model 4330/4340 to the IM 4360 for verification. The IM 4360 echoes the parameters
   back to the UI View/Model 4330/4340, along with an indication of the parameter's
20 conformance to the DAL limits. This allows the UI View/Model 4330/4340 to notify the
   user of any values that are out of bounds.
   [00597]    When a complete set of valid parameters has been entered, the IM 4360 also may
   return a valid infusion indicator, allowing the UI View/Model 4330/4340 to present a 'Start'
   control to the user.
25 [00598]    The IM 4360 may simultaneously make the infusion/pump status available to the
   UI View/Model 4330/4340 upon request. If the UI View/Model 4330/4340 is displaying a
   'status' screen, it may request this data to populate it. The data may be a composite of the
   infusion state, and the pump state.
   [00599]    When requested to run the (valid) infusion, the IM 4360 may pass the 'Infusion
30 Worksheet' containing user specified data and the 'Infusion Template' containing the read
   only limits from the DAL as a CRC'd binary block to the Infusion Control Task 4220
   running on the RTP 3500. The Infusion Control Task 4220 on the RTP 3500 takes the same
   user inputs, conversions and DERS inputs and recalculates the Infusion Worksheet. The
                                                 137

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   Infusion Control Task 4220 calculated results may be stored in a second CRC'd binary
   block and compared to the first binary block from the UIP 3600. The infusion calculations
   performed on the UIP 3600 may be recalculated and double checked on the RTP 3500
   before the infusion is run.
 5 [00600]     Coefficients to convert the input values (ie. LI, grams, %, etc.) to a standard unit
   such as ml may be stored in the UIP 3600 memory or database system 4350.                     The
   coefficients may be stored in a lookup table or at specific memory locations. The lookup
   table may contain 10's of conversion values. In order to reduce the chance that flipping a
   single bit will resulting in the wrong conversion factor being used, the addresses for the
10 conversion values may be distributed among the values from zero to 4294967296 or 232.
   The addresses may be selected so that the binary form of one address is never just one bit
   different from a second address.
   [00601]    While an infusion is running, the IM 4360 may monitor its progress, sequences,
   pauses, restarts, secondary infusions, boluses, and KVO (keep vein open)            scenarios as
15 needed. Any user alerts requested during the infusion (Infusion near complete, KVO
   callback, Secondary complete callback, etc) may be tracked and triggered by the IM 4360.
   [00602]    Processes on the UIP 3600 may communicate with each other via a proprietary
   messaging scheme based on a message queue library that is available with Linux. The
   system provides for both acknowledged (synchronous message 4120) and unacknowledged
20 (asynchronous message 4130) message passing.
   [00603]    Messages destined for the Real-time Processor (RTP) 3500 may be passed to the
   InterComm Process 4310 which forwards the messages to the RTP 3500 over a serial link
   3601. A similar InterComm Task 4210 on the RTP 3500 may relay the message to its
   intended destination via the RTP 3500 messaging system.
25 [00604]     The messaging scheme used on this serial link 3601 may provide for error
   detection and retransmission of flawed messages. This may be needed to allow the system
   to be less susceptible to electrical disturbances that may occasionally 'garble'           inter
   processor communications.
   [00605]     To maintain a consistent interface across all tasks, the message payloads used
30 with the messaging system may be data classes derived from a common baseclass
   (MessageBase). This class adds both data identity (message type) and data integrity (CRC)
   to messages.
                                                  138

                                                                       Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [00606]     The Audio Server Process 4370 may be used to render sounds on the system. All
   user feedback sounds (key press beeps) and alarm or alert tones may be produced by
   playing pre-recorded sound files. The sound system may also be used to play music or
   speech if desired.
 5 [00607]     Sound requests may be symbolic (such as "Play High Priority Alarm Sound"),
   with the actual sound file selection built into the Audio Server process 4370. The ability to
   switch to an alternative soundscape may be provided. This ability may be used to customize
   the sounds for regional or linguistic differences.
   [00608]     The Device Gateway Communication Manager Process (DGCM) 4380 may
10 manage communications with the Device Gateway Server over a Wi-Fi network 3620,
   3622,3720. The DGCM 4380 may be started and monitored by the Executive Process 4320.
   If the DGCM 4380 exits unexpectedly, it may be restarted by the Executive Process 4320
   but if the failures are persistent the system may continue to function without the gateway
   running.
15         It may be the function of the DGCM 4380 to establish and maintain the Wi-Fi
   connection and to then establish a connection to the Device Gateway. All interactions
   between the DGCM 4380 and the Device Gateway use a system such as the system
   described in the cross referenced nonprovisional application for System, Method, and
   Apparatus for Electronic Patient Care (Attorney Docket No. J85).
20 [00609]    If the connection to the gateway is unavailable or becomes unavailable, the
   DGCM 4380 may discontinue any transfers in progress, and attempt to reconnect the link.
   Transfers may be resumed when the link is reestablished. Network and Gateway operational
   states are reported periodically to the Executive Process 4320. The Executive Process 4320
   distributes this information for display to the user.
25 [00610]     The DGCM 4380 may function as an autonomous subsystem, polling the Device
   Gateway Server for updates, and downloading newer items when available. In addition the
   DGCM 4380 may monitor the logging tables in the database, uploading new log events as
   soon as they are available. Events that are successfully uploaded may be flagged as such in
   the database. After a reconnection to the Device Gateway Server, the DGCM 4380 may
30 'catch up'    with the log uploads, sending all items that were entered during the
   communications disruption. Firmware and Drug Administration Library updates received
   from the Gateway may be staged in the UIP's 3600 file system for subsequent installation.
                                                  139

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   Infusion programs, clinical advisories, patient identification and other data items destined
   for the device may be staged in the database.
   [00611]    The DGCM 4380 may report connection status and date/time updates to the
   Executive Process 4320. There may not be other direct connections between the DGCM
 5 4380 and any of the other operational software. Such a design decouples the operational
   software from the potentially transient availability of the Device Gateway and Wi-Fi
   network.
   [00612]    The Motor Check 4383 software may read a hardware counter or encoder 1202
   (FIG 60) that reports motor 1200 rotation. The software in this module may independently
10 estimate the motor's 1200 movements, and compare them to the expected motion based on
   the user inputs for rate of infusion. This may be an independent check for proper motor
   control.  However, the primary motor 1200 control software may executed on the RTP
   3500.
   [00613]    Event information may be written to a log via the Logging Process 4386 during
15 normal operation. These events may consist of internal machine status and measurements,
   as well as therapy history events. Due to the volume and frequency of event log data, these
   logging operations may be buffered in a FIFO queue while waiting to be written to the
   database.
   [00614]    A SQL database (PostgreSQL) may be used to store the Drug Administration
20 Library, Local Machine Settings, Infusion History and Machine Log data. Stored
   procedures executed by the database server may be used to insulate the application from the
   internal database structures.
   [00615]    The database system 4350 may be used as a buffer for log data destined for the
   Device Gateway server, as well as a staging area for infusion settings and warnings sent to
25 the pump from the Gateway.
   [00616]    Upon requesting the start of an infusion, the DAL entry and all user selected
   parameters may be sent to the Infusion Control Task 4220. All of the DAL validations and
   a recalculation of the infusion rate and volume based upon the requested dose may be
   performed. The result may be checked against the results calculated by the IM 4360 on the
30 UIP 3600. These results may be required to match to continue.
   [00617]    When running an infusion, the Infusion Control Task 4220 may control the
   delivery of each infusion 'segment'; i.e. one part of an infusion consisting of a volume and a
   rate. Examples of segments are: a primary infusion, KVO, bolus, remainder of primary after
                                                 140

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   bolus, primary after titration, etc. The infusion segments are sequenced by the IM Process
   4360 on the UIP 3600.
   [00618]     The Pump Control Task 4250 may incorporate the controllers that drive the
   pumping mechanism. The desired pumping rate and amount (VTBI) may be specified in
 5 commands sent from the Infusion Control Task 4220.
   [00619]     The Pump Control 4250 may receive periodic sensor readings from the Sensor
   Task 4264. The new sensor readings may be used to determine the motor speed and
   position, and to calculate the desired command to send to the Brushless Motor Control IRQ
   4262. The receipt of the sensor message may trigger a recalculation of the controller output.
10 [00620]    While pumping fluid, the Pump Control Task 4250 may perform at least one of
   the following tasks: controlling pumping speed, measuring volume delivered, measuring air
   detected (over a rolling time window), measuring fluid pressure or other indications of
   occlusions, and detecting upstream occlusions.
   [00621]    Relevant measurements may be reported to the RTP Status Task 4230
15 periodically. The Pump Control 4250 may execute one infusion segment at a time, stopping
   when the commanded delivery volume has been reached. The Sensor Task 4264 may read
   and aggregate the sensor data used for the dynamic control of the pumping system.
   [00622]     The sensor task 4264 may be scheduled to run at a consistent 1 kHz rate (every
   1.0 ms) via a dedicated counter/timer. After all of the relevant sensors are read, the data may
20 be passed to the Pump Control Task 4250 via an asynchronous message 4120. The periodic
   receipt of this message may be used as the master time base to synchronize the syringe
   pump's 500 control loops.
   [00623]     The RTP Status Task 4230 may be the central repository for both the state and the
   status of the various tasks running on the RTP 3500. The RTP Status Task 4230 may
25 distribute this information to both the IM 4360 running on the UIP 3600, as well as to tasks
   on the RTP 3500 itself.
   [00624]     The RTP Status Task 4230 may also be charged with fluid accounting for the
   ongoing infusion. Pump starts and stops, as well as pumping progress may be reported to
   RTP Status 4230 by the Pump Control Task 4256. The RTP Status Task 4230 may account
30 for at least one of the following: total volume infused, primary volume delivered, primary
   VTBI (counted down), volume delivered and VTBI of a bolus while the bolus is in progress,
   and volume delivered and VTBI of a secondary infusion while the secondary infusion is in
   progress.
                                                 141

                                                                      Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [00625]    All alerts or alarms originating on the RTP 3500 may be funneled through the
   RTP Status Task 4230, and subsequently passed up to the UIP 3600.
   [00626]    While the unit is in operation, the program flash, and RAM memory may be
   continually tested by the Memory Checker Task 4240. This test may be non-destructive.
 5 This test may be scheduled so that the entire memory space on the RTP 3500 is tested every
   few hours. Additional periodic checks may be scheduled under this task if needed.
   [00627]    Tasks running on the RTP 3500 may be required to communicate with each other
   as well as to tasks that are executing on the UIP 3600.
   [00628]    The RTP 3500 messaging system may use a unified global addressing scheme to
10 allow messages to be passed to any task in the system. Local messages may be passed in
   memory utilizing the facilities of the RTOS' message passing, with off-chip messages
   routed over the asynchronous serial link 3601 by the InterComm Task 4210.
   [00629]    The InterComm Task 4210 may manage the RTP 3500 side of the serial link 3601
   between the two processors. The InterComm Task 4210 is the RTP 3500 equivalent of the
15 InterComm Process 4310 on the UIP 3600. Messages received from the UIP 3600 may be
   relayed to their destination on the RTP 3500. Outbound messages may be forwarded to
   InterComm Process 4310 on the UIP 3600.
   [00630]    All messages between the RTP 3500 and the UIP 3600 may be checked for data
   corruption using an error-detecting code (32 bit CRC). Messages sent over the serial link
20 3601 may be re-sent if corruption is detected. This provides a communications system that
   is reasonably tolerant to ESD. Corrupted messages within the processor between processes
   may be handled as a hard system failure.         All of the message payloads used with the
   messaging system may be data classes derived from a common baseclass (MessageBase) to
   assure consistency across all possible message destinations.
25 [00631]    Brushless Motor Control IRQ 4262 may not run as a task; it may be implemented
   as a strict foreground (interrupt context) process. Interrupts are generated from the
   commutator or hall sensors 3436, and the commutation algorithm may be run entirely in the
   interrupt service routine.
   [00632]    Fig. 84 shows a state diagram illustrating a method 50650 of providing a
30 watchdog functionality in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure. The
   method 50650 is shown as a state diagram and includes states, 50670, 50690, 50990, 50720,
   50750, 50770 and 50790, and transition conditions 50660, 50680, 50700, 50710, 50730,
   50740, 50760, 50780, 50800, and 50810.
                                                  142

                                                                       Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [00633]     The method 50650 may be implemented by software, hardware, software in
   execution, or some combination thereof (e.g., as a hardware watchdog system). The method
   5065 may be implemented by the watchdog 3460 of Fig. 59J such that it provides a motor
   enable signal to the motor controller 3431. Figs. 85A-85F show one specific embodiment
 5 of a system that implements the method 50650 of Fig. 84.
   [00634]     Refer now to Figs. 84, and 85A-85F.        When the power is supplied to the
   watchdog system (e.g., system 50030), the method 50650 transitions 50660 to the watchdog
   system off state 50670 where the motor enable signal is off (e.g., line 50150), the alarm is
   off (e.g., line 50160), and the timer is in an unknown state. The timer may be part of the
10 watchdog IC 50120. The watchdog IC 50120 is a window watchdog. The system 50030
   also includes an 12C control lines 50130 that interface with an 11O expander 50040 (or other
   hardware latches). The 12C control lines 50130 may be part of the connections from the
   RTP 35000 to the watchdog 3460 of Fig. 59J. Additionally, a watchdog clear signal (line
   50140 of Fig. 85D) may also be received from the RTP 35000 to the watchdog 34600. That
15 is, the watchdog clear line 50140 "pets" the watchdog IC 50120.
   [00635]     In transition 50680, the RTP 3500 (see Fig. 59J) clears the watchdog IC's 50120
   timer via the watchdog clear line 50140 and the RTP 35000 enables the watchdog IC's
   50120 output via the 12C control lines 50130 by instructing the I/O expander 50040 to
   enable a watchdog enable line 50180. This causes the method 50650 to enter into the state
20 50690. In state 50690, the timer is initialized (set to zero), the motor enable line 50150 is
   set to off and the alarm line 50160 is set to off.
   [00636]     The RTP 3500 enables the motor power via the 12C control lines 50130 by setting
   the D-flip-flop to true (using the preset pin of a D-flip-flop 50050) and pauses for Ims in
   transition 50700. The method 50650 transitions to state 50990 where the watchdog IC's
25 5012 timer is running, the motor enable line 50150 is enabled, and the timer is less than 200
   milliseconds. If the RTP 3500 sets the watchdog clear line 50140 when the watchdog is
   greater than 10 milliseconds and less than 200 milliseconds, the transition 50710 transitions
   the method 50650 to state 50720 wherein the timer is reset.          The method 50650 will
   transition back to state 50990.
30 [00637]     If the timer reaches 200 milliseconds or the timer is less than or equal to 10
   milliseconds and the RTP 3500 sets the watchdog clear line 50140, transition 50740
   transitions the method to state 50750. In state 50750, the watchdog IC 50120 sends out a
   fault signal that is buffered by a buffer 50090 which clears the D-flip-flop 50050 thereby
                                                  143

                                                                           Attorney Docket: L50WO
   turning the motor line 50150 off. In state 50750, the watchdog IC 50120 also sends out the
   fault signal which is received by a NAND gate 50080 via an inverted input, which outputs a
   signal to a logic buffer 50090 which clears a D-flip-flip 50070 and thereby turns on the a
   alarm line 50160. The output of the D-flip-flop 50070 is amplified by a load switch 50060.
 5 [00638]    When the motor enable signal line 50150 is set to turn the motor off, the off
   signal propagates through the non-inverting input of the NAND gate 50080 after about 1
   millisecond, which causes the transition 50760 to transition to state 50770 thereby allowing
   the alarm to be disabled. An 12C command may cause transition 50800 to reset the system
   50030 back to state 50670.
10 [00639]    Otherwise, the alarm line 50160 will continue to alarm until a silence button
   50170 is pressed which is coupled to the preset of the D-flip-flop 50070 to set the alarm line
   50160 to off. That is, the button will cause the transition 50780 to transition the method
   50650 to state 50790. An 12C signal via the 12C control lines 50140 to the IO expander
   50040 may cause the method 50650 to transition to state 50670.
15 [00640]    Fig. 86 shows another embodiment of syringe pump 50200 having a bumper
   50210 in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure. The pump 50200 may
   couple to a pole via the clamp 50280. The pump 50200 includes a syringe seat 51000 that
   accommodates a bumper 50210.
   [00641]    The pump 50200 also includes a touchscreen 50240 coupled to the pump 50200
20 via an outer periphery 50250. The outer periphery 50250 includes an indicator light 50260.
   The indicator light 50260 may wholly wrap around the touchscreen 50240. The indicator
   light 50260 may include a diffuser wrapped around the touchscreen 50240 with a plurality
   of LED lights embedded therein (or optically coupled thereto). The indicator light 50260
   may blink when the pump 50200 is running and/or it may be a specific color when the pump
25 is running (e.g., red, blue, green, yellow, etc.).          The indicator light 50260 may be
   continuously on when the pump 50200 is not running or is in a standby state. Additionally,
   alternatively, or optionally, the indicator light 50260 may be a specific color when the pump
   is not running or is in a standby state (e.g., red, blue, green, yellow, etc.).
   [00642]    The pump 50200 may also include a gesture-recognition apparatus 50940, which
30 may be a camera.        A processor of the pump 50200 may be coupled to the gesture
   recognition apparatus 50940 to receive user input from a gesture by a user. That is, the
   processor may be configured to present a user with at least one option via the user interface
   50240 and receive a selected one of the at least one option via the gesture-recognition
                                                    144

                                                                      Attorney Docket: L50WO
   apparatus 50940. The processor coupled to the user interface 50240 may be configured
   provide a plurality of pump parameter inputs where each of the plurality of pump parameter
   inputs is configured to receive a user inputted parameter. The processor may be configured
   to determine whether all of the user inputted parameters of all of the plurality of pump
 5 parameters meets at least one predetermined safety criterion. Each of the plurality of pump
   parameter inputs may be present without another one of the plurality of pump parameters
   inputs.
   [00643]     The processor may be configured to provide a plurality of pump parameter inputs
   where each of the plurality of pump parameter inputs is configured to receive a user
10 inputted parameter. The processor may be configured to require that all of the plurality of
   pump parameter inputs are inputted within a predetermined amount of time. The processor
   may be configured to receive a corresponding user inputted parameter for the plurality of
   pump parameter inputs in any order.
   [00644]     Fig. 87 shows an exploded view of the syringe pump 50200 of Fig. 86 in
15 accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure. The pump 50200 includes an
   upper housing portion 50290 and a lower portion housing 50300.               Additionally or
   alternatively, the upper portion 50290 and the lower portion 50300 of the housing 50290,
   50300 may be unitarily formed in some specific embodiments. A modular syringe pumping
   mechanism 51030 may be coupled to the housing 50290, 50300. A motor 51010 actuates
20 the modular syringe pumping mechanism 51030. The motor 51010 may be controlled via a
   circuit board 51020 that is coupled to the motor 51010 and to various sensors, actuators, the
   touchscreen 50240, etc. The pump 50200 also includes cabling 50310 and a battery 50270
   disposed behind the touchscreen 50240 (when assembled). Fig. 88 shows a close-up view
   of the upper housing 50290, the lower housing 50300, and the power supply 50320. Note
25 how the power supply 50320 is thermally coupled to the lower housing portion 50600 via
   the conductive path 50330.
   [00645]     The pump 50200 includes a power supply 50320. The power supply 50320 is
   coupled to a conductive path 50330 to the housing 50300, 50290 (when assembled). The
   conductive path 50330 may be a piece of metal and may be unitarily formed with the
30 housing 50300 (or 50290). The power supply 50320 may use the housing 50290, 50300 as
   a heat sink. The power supply 50320 may use any surface of the housing 50290, 50300 so
   that it is thermally coupled thereto and/or may be thermally coupled to the housing 50290,
   50300 via the thermally conductive path 50330.
                                                 145

                                                                       Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [00646]    Fig. 89A shows a front view of the display of the pump 50200 and Fig. 89B
   shows a back view of the display of the pump 50200 in accordance with an embodiment of
   the present disclosure. On the back of the touchscreen 50240 (seen easily in Fig. 89B) a
   near-field antenna 50340 is disposed.      Fig. 90 shows the sensor portion 51050 of the
 5 touchscreen with the near-filed antenna 50340 disposed adjacent to the backside of the
   sensor portion 51050 of the touchscreen 50240 (see Figs. 89A-89B).         A frame 50350 is
   shown that forms a loop of metal with a gap 51040 having a dielectric 50360 disposed
   within the gap 51040. The frame 50350 may be a frame of the sensor 51050 and/or the
   touchscreen 50240. The antenna 50340 may operate at 13.56 Megahertz and/or may be an
10 NFC antenna. The metal frame 50350 in conjunction with the gap 51040 and the dielectric
   50260 disposed within the gap may form a split-ring resonator. The metal frame 50350
   forms an inductive element of the split-ring resonator, and the gap 50140 with the dielectric
   50360 disposed therein form a capacitive element of the split-ring resonator.
   [00647]    Fig. 91 shows a chart diagram illustrating the use of the sensors of the pump of
15 Fig. 86 when one or more of the sensors are unavailable in accordance with an embodiment
   of the present disclosure. Fig. 91 shows sensors 7001, 7002, and 7003. The rotary position
   sensor 7003 may be the rotary sensor 1202 of Figs. 59J and 60 (e.g., an encoder).         The
   motor hall sensors 7001 may be the Hall Sensors 3436 on the motor 1200 of Fig. 59J and
   60. The linear plunger position sensor 7002 may, for example, be the linear sensor 3950 of
20 Fig. 59B or the linear position sensor 1100 as shown in Fig. 57B.
   [00648]    Fig. 91 may be implemented as a method of using feedback sensors of a syringe
   pump 50206. The RTP 3500 of Fig. 59J may receive signals from the sensors 7001, 7002,
   7003.
   [00649]    The RTP 3500 may cross-check the position of the sliding bock assembly 800
25 using all three sensors 7001, 7002, and 7003 relative to each other. The RTP 3500 may
   cross check the rotary position sensor 7003 with the motor hall sensors 7001, and if they are
   out of agreement by a predetermined amount, the RTP 3500 will compare them to the linear
   plunger position sensor 7002 to determine which one of the sensors 7001 and 7003 is
   operating properly.   Thereafter, the RTP 3500 will use the properly operating one of the
30 sensors 7001 and 7003. If the rotary position sensor 7003 is unavailable, the RTP 3500 will
   use the motor hall sensors 7001. The RTP 3500 may also cross check the rotary position
   sensor 5042 with the motor hall sensors 5043.
                                                146

                                                                         Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [00650]    If it is determined that both of the motor hall sensors 7001 and the rotary position
   sensor 7003 are inoperative, the RTP 3500 may use only the linear plunger position sensor
   7002.
   [00651]    Fig. 92 shows a side view of a syringe pump 7004 having a retaining finger 7005
 5 to retain a syringe and Fig. 93 shows a close-up, partial view of the syringe pump 7004 of
   Fig. 92 in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure. The end of the syringe
   7010 may be retained by pivotal jaw members 7006, and 7007. The pivotal jaw members
   7006 and 7007 may include bends as shown. The dial 7008 may be operatively coupled to
   the pivotal jaw members 7006 and 7007 to cause them to pivot.            The dial 7008 may be
10 biased to rotate the dial 7008 to cause the pivotal jaw members 7006 and 7007 to rotate
   toward each other or to rotate away from each other.
   [00652]    Fig. 94 shows a circuit 8000 for storing data within an RFID tag 8008 associated
   with an syringe pump (e.g., the syringe pump 500 of Fig. 29, the syringe pump 50200 of
   Fig. 86, or any other syringe pump) in accordance with an embodiment of the present
15 disclosure. The RFID tag 8009 of Fig. 94 may be the RFID tag 3670 of Fig. 95E. The
   antenna 8001 of Fig. 94 may be the antenna 3955 of Fig. 59E.
   [00653]    The antenna 8001 is coupled to an RFID tag 8008 such that an RFID reader (i.e.,
   RFID interrogator) can communicate with the RFID tag 8008.            The circuit 8000 may be
   placed on a 1xI PCB inch board with a solid-metal ground plane of the back side.
20 [00654]    An inner loop 8002 with a capacitor 8003 may form a split-ring resonator to
   enhance the read range capability of the circuit 8000. The RFID tag 8008 may be coupled
   to the antenna 8001 via an impedance matching network 8004, 8005, 8006, 8007.               The
   circuit 8000 may be configured for use with a 900 Megahertz RFID reader.
   [00655]    A reader chip 8009 may interface with the RFID tag 8008 to write data (e.g., log
25 data) thereto. The reader chip 8009 may communicate with the RFID tag 8008 using 12C, a
   CAN bus, or other communications link.              Alternatively, 8009 may be an electrical
   connector, in some embodiments.
   [00656]    Fig. 95 shows an equivalent circuit 8010 for impedance as seen from the RFID
   tag 8008 of Fig. 94 in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure. A loop
30 8011 shows the antenna 8001 of Fig. 94. The inductor 8012 shows the inductor 8004 of
   Fig. 94. The resistors 8013 and 8014 are schematic representations of the resistors 8006 and
   8005, respectively. The capacitor 8015 shows the capacitor 8007 of Fig. 94. The circuit
                                                   147

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   elements 8012-8015 are used for impedance matching so that the RFID tag 8008 is
   efficiently coupled to the loop antenna 8001 such as in the circuit 8000 of Fig. 94.
   [00657]    Fig. 96 shows another circuit 8016 for storing data within an RFID tag 8022
   associated with an infusion pump (e.g., the syringe pump 500 of Fig. 29, the syringe pump
 5 50200 of Fig. 86, or any other syringe pump) in accordance with an embodiment of the
   present disclosure. The antenna 8017 is shown. The RFID tag 8022 of Fig. 96 may be the
   RFID tag 3670 of Fig. 95E. The antenna 8017 of Fig. 96 may be the antenna 3955 of Fig.
   59E.
   [00658]     The antenna 8017 may have capacitors coupled to the gaps in the antenna 8017,
10 in some embodiments. An impedance matching network 8018, 8020, 8021 may be used to
   efficiently couple the RFID tag 8022 to the antenna 8017. An interface 8023 may be used to
   communicate with the RFID tag 8022 (e.g., an 12C interface, a CAN interface, etc.).
   [00659]      Fig. 97 shows a split-ring resonator 8026 used with the circuit 8016 of Fig. 96 in
   accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure.        The split-ring resonator 8026
15 may be printed on a PCB board with an inner loop 8025 and an outer loop 8024. The split
   ring resonator 8026 may be placed adjacent to the circuit 8016 of Fig. 96 to enhance its read
   range (e.g., the two planes defined by the two circuit's PCB boards may be parallel to each
   other).
   [00660]    Fig. 98 shows a flow chart diagram illustrating a method 9000 for removing the
20 effects of slack in a syringe pump (e.g., the syringe pump 500 of Fig. 29, the syringe pump
   50200 of Fig. 86, or any other syringe pump) having a syringe loaded on the syringe pump
   in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure.       The Method 9000 includes
   acts 9001-9010 including two decision acts 9006 and 9009.
   [00661]    Act 9001 receives a target flow rate of a syringe loaded in a syringe pump. The
25 syringe has a barrel and a plunger disposed within the barrel. Act 9002 determines a therapy
   actuation speed corresponding to the target flow rate when there is no slack in the syringe
   pump or the syringe. Act 9003 actuates the plunger of the syringe out of the barrel at a first
   predetermined speed until a force sensor coupled to the plunger measures a force that is less
   than a first predetermined force threshold or the plunger travels out of the barrel by a first
30 predetermined distance. Act 9004 actuates the plunger of the syringe into the barrel at a
   second predetermined speed greater than the therapy actuation speed until the force sensor
   coupled to the plunger measures a force that exceeds a second predetermined threshold or
   the plunger travels into the barrel by a second predetermined distance. Act 9005 issues an
                                                  148

                                                                       Attorney Docket: L50WO
   alarm if the plunger traveled into the barrel by the second predetermined distance without
   the force sensor measuring a force that exceeds the second predetermined threshold. If an
   alarm is issued in act 9005, act 9006 branches the method 9000 to end the therapy 9010.
   Act 9007 actuates the plunger of the syringe into the barrel at the therapy actuation speed.
 5 Act 9008 estimates volume discharged starting from the position of the plunger when the
   second predetermined threshold was exceeded.         Act 9009 will repeat act 9008 until the
   target volume is discharged, after which case, act 9009 will end the therapy 9010.
   [00662]    Figs. 99A-99B show an apparatus 9900 for side loading a syringe on an infusion
   pump in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure. Fig. 99A shows the
10 apparatus 9900 with a securing arm 9902 in a loading position while Fig. 99B shows the
   apparatus 9900 with the securing arm 9902 in a securing position. The apparatus 9900 as
   shown in Figs. 99A-99B, in addition to the securing arm 9902, includes a platform (also
   referred to as a syringe seat) 9906 and a force mechanism 9904 to securely hold a syringe.
   A plunger head assembly 9901 may be coupled to a syringe to discharge the fluid within the
15 syringe (the syringe is not shown in Figs. 99A-99B) into a patient.
   [00663]    The force mechanism 9904 imparts a rotational force on the securing arm 9902
   driving it towards the platform 9906. When a syringe is placed on the platform 9906, the
   securing arm 9902 engages the syringe with enough force to securely hold it in place during
   operation of the pump. Syringe pumps using smaller syringes may need about one pound of
20 force applied to the syringe to secure it, while larger syringes may need about three pounds
   of force applied thereto. The force mechanism 9904 may be capable of locking in an up
   position as shown in Fig 99A allowing a pump operator to easily position the syringe on the
   platform 9906 before securing the syringe with the securing arm 9902. The up position may
   be referred to as the loading position because moving the securing arm 9902 away from the
25 platform 9906 facilitates loading of the syringe onto the platform 9906.
   [00664]    The securing arm 9902 may be designed to allow sufficient viewing of the
   syringe. In some embodiments of the present disclosure, the securing arm 9902 may be
   configured to be substantially contiguous with the pump casing and only cover the syringe
   at the point of contact between the securing arm 9902 and the syringe. A wire structure
30 may also be added to the engaging portion of the securing arm 9902 holding the bulk of the
   securing arm 9902 arm away from the syringe leaving only a relatively thin wire contacting
   the syringe. Other arrangements in which the securing arm 9902 is fashioned to minimally
   obscure a syringe may also be used.
                                                 149

                                                                     Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [00665]    Figs. 100A-100B show an embodiment of a force mechanism used with the
   apparatus described in Figs. 99A-99B or similar apparatuses. The embodiment shown in
   Figs. 100A-100B includes a secondary arm (hereinafter also referred to as a second arm)
   9908, a roller 9910, an engaging plate 9914, and a bias member or spring 9912. The second
 5 arm 9908 is connected to the securing arm's 9902 axis of rotation and is laterally removed
   from the securing arm 9902 in order to position it over the engaging plate 9914. A roller
   9910 is attached to the secondary arm 9908 on the end opposite the axis of rotations and
   extends past the end of the secondary arm 9908, so only the roller 9910 engages the
   engaging plate 9914. The engaging plate 9914 is positioned to be engaged by the roller
10 9910. One end of the plate 9914 is secured by a pivot 9920 and the other end is connected to
   a spring 9912 that pulls the plate 9914 towards the roller 9910 on the secondary arm 9908.
   The engaging face of the engaging plate 9914 is angled with respect to the secondary arm
   9908 which creates a rotational force in the secondary arm 9908 when the plate 9914 is
   urged towards the secondary arm 9908. The rotational force from the second arm 9908 is
15 transferred to the securing arm 9902 which results in the force securing the syringe. The
   engaging face of the engaging plate 9914 may also define a peak having a first side 9918
   oriented to cause a rotational force in the engaged secondary arm 9908 and a second side
   9916 which locks the secondary arm 9908 in a position where the securing arm 9902 is
   removed from the platform 9906 and a syringe that may be on the platform 9906 (see Figs.
20 99A-99B) thereby keeping the securing arm 9902 in a loading position to load the syringe
   (shown in Fig. 1OB).
   [00666]    Figs. 101A-101B show another embodiment of a force mechanism used with the
   apparatus described in Figs. 99A-99B or similar apparatuses. The engaging plate 9932 is
   not hinged at one end, it is on a track 9926. The engaging plate 9932 may be spring biased
25 toward a secondary arm 9922. The track 9926 guides the engaging plate 9932 toward the
   secondary arm 9922 and allows for linear movement instead of rotational movement.
   Having the engaging plate 9932 on the track 9926 does not result in a drop in the moment
   arm. The decreasing moment arm means that a stiffer spring may be used to create the
   force output at the securing arm 9902.
30 [00667]    A spring urges the engaging plate 9932 towards a roller 9924 on the secondary
   arm 9922. The engaging face of the engaging plate 9932 is shaped to impart a rotational
   force on the secondary arm 9922 which transfers the rotational force to the connected
   securing arm 9902. A peak on the engaging surface of the plate 9932 may define a parked
                                                 150

                                                                       Attorney Docket: L50WO
   section 9930 and a section causing the rotational force 9928. The securing arm 9902 is
   shown in a securing position in Fig. 101A and in the loading position in Fig 10 1B.
   [00668]    Figs. 102A-102B show yet another embodiment of a force mechanism that may
   be used with the apparatus described in Figs. 99A-B or similar apparatuses. In the
 5 embodiment 9904c shown in Figs. 102A-102B, an engaging plate 9942 is fixed and a
   secondary arm 9934 telescopes when rotated because of the variable surface of the plate
   9942. The secondary arm 9934 is made up of two components, including: a first component
   9934a connected to the securing arm 9902 at its axis of rotation; and a second component
   9934b that telescopes on the first component 9934a. A spring positioned between the
10 components 9934a, 9934b forces the two away from each other. A roller 9944 is attached to
   the end of the second component 9934b to engage the engaging plate 9942. The engaging
   plate 9942 is positioned to be engaged by the secondary arm 9934 and compress the spring
   located between the two secondary arm components 9934a, 9934b as the secondary arm
   9934 is rotated. A section 9940 of the plate 9942 locks the mechanism in a position where
15 the securing arm 9902 is removed from the syringe (i.e., a loading position) and rotation of
   the securing arm moves the secondary arm 9934 to the section 9938 of the plate that imparts
   a rotational force on the arm (i.e., to rotate the securing arm 9902 to a securing position).
   The loading position of the securing arm 9902 is illustrated in Fig. 102A and the securing
   position of the securing arm 9902 is illustrated in Fig. 102B.
20 [00669]    In yet additional embodiments, the secondary arm can be laterally located
   anywhere as long as it is connected to the securing arm. It may also be attached to the
   securing arm at a point other than the axis of rotation. In the embodiments described herein,
   the location of the engaging plates and angles of the securing arm in the figures are just
   examples and may be oriented in any configuration to thereby provide the same or
25 substantially the same function, result, configuration or aspect.
   [00670]    Figs. 103A-103B show yet another embodiment of a force mechanism 9904d for
   use with the apparatus described in Figs. 99A-B or similar apparatuses. The mechanism
   9904d includes a shaft 9950, a first cam component 9946, a second cam component 9948, a
   spring 9954, and a backstop 9952. The shaft 9950 is pivotally connected to the securing arm
30 9902 and shares its axis of rotation. The first cam component 9946 is connected to the
   securing arm 9902 and is disposed around the shaft 9950 while having the capability to
   pivot with the securing arm 9902. The side of the first cam component 9946 facing the
   second cam component 9948 has a major planar portion, a portion set back from the planar
                                                  151

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   portion, and a portion connecting the two with a taper. The second cam component 9948 is
   positioned immediately next to the first cam component 9946, and mirrors the shape of the
   first 9946 component allowing them to uniformly interlock to create a cylinder shape as
   shown in Fig. 103B.      The second cam component 9948 is held at a constant rotational
 5 alignment, but has the ability to translate back and forth on the shaft 9950. The spring 9954
   configured to urge the second cam component 9948 towards the first 9946 is disposed
   around the shaft 9950 between the second component 9948 and the backstop 9952. The
   parked position is shown in Fig 103A and the engaged position is shown in Fig 103B.
   [00671]    Figs. 104A-104C show the different positions of the cam components 9946, 9948.
10 Fig. 104A is a depiction of the cam when the securing arm 9902 (see Fig. 103B) is in a
   down position. In this position the second cam component 9948 is at its furthest point away
   from the backstop 9952 (see Fig. 103B). Fig. 104B shows the cams 9946, 9948 when the
   securing arm 9902 is rotated. The tapered portions of both cams 9946, 9948 slide along each
   other, forcing the second cam component 9948 away from the first cam portion 9946 as the
15 cams 9946, 9948 are rotated along the shaft 9950 (see Fig. 103B). The spring 9954 urges
   the second cam component 9948 towards the first 9946 which makes them want to slide
   back to the initial down position. This feature creates the rotational force causing the
   securing arm 9902 to push down on the syringe. Fig. 104C shows the cams 9946, 9948
   when the securing arm 9902 is in the parked position. Once the securing arm 9902 is rotated
20 to the point where the tapered parts are no longer in contact, the planar surfaces will contact
   which results in no rotational force caused by the spring 9954, therefore the securing arm
   9902 will stay in place.
   [00672]    A sensor may be used to track the position or angle of the securing arm 9902. The
   sensor data can be used for multiple applications. The position of the sensor can be used to
25 determine if the syringe is properly secured. This would be used in situations where the
   sensor already knew what type or at least what size diameter syringe is being used and what
   angle the securing arm 9902 or secondary arm should be at when secured. The sensor may
   also be used to determine one or more characteristic of a syringe, for example, what size or
   even what specific model of syringe is being used. By determining what syringe is being
30 used the pump can calculate flow rate relative to plunger displacement. Data from a sensor
   on the mechanism that drives the plunger of the syringe may be used in conjunction with the
   securing arm sensor data to determine the model of syringe being used. The sensor to
   determine position of the securing arm 9902 may be a Hall-Effect sensor.
                                                  152

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [00673]    Fig. 105 shows a method 9960 for side loading a syringe on an infusion pump in
   accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure. The method 9960 includes an
   actuating act 9962, a loading act 9964, a securing act 9966, a sensing act 9968, and a
   processing act 9970. The actuating act 9962 involves actuating a securing arm into a loading
 5 position. Act 9962 may be performed by an operator of the pump. Once the securing arm
   has been lifted into the loading position, the method 9960 moves to act 9964.
   [00674]    Act 9964 loads a syringe onto a syringe holding platform (also referred to herein
   as a syringe holding ledge) located below a securing arm. For example, the flange on the
   syringe is inserted into a slot or the barrel of the syringe is inserted into a barrel groove.
10 Once the syringe has been placed on the platform below the securing arm, the method 9960
   moves to act 9966.
   [00675]    The securing act 9966 secures the securing arm away from the loading position to
   engage the syringe with the force loaded on the securing arm, causing the securing arm to
   engage the syringe with the force loaded on it. Once the syringe has been secured, the
15 method 9960 can continue to act 9968.        The sensing act 9968 senses the position of the
   securing arm. This may be accomplished using a Hall-Effect sensor or a rotational
   potentiometer. After the sensing act 9968 the method 9960 may implement the processing
   act 9970.
   [00676]    The processing act 9970 processes the data from the position of the arm. A
20 processor can use this data to determine what size syringe is being used. Knowing the size
   of the syringe allows the pump to control fluid flow with respect to plunger position. If the
   type of syringe is preset, the sensor can alert the operator if the securing arm is not in the
   right position. If the securing arm is not in the right position, the syringe is not properly
   secured.
25 [00677]    Fig. 106 shows an embodiment of a system for mitigating lead screw runout
   error, and Fig. 107 shows a flow chart diagram of a method for mitigating lead screw runout
   error in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure. Lead screw runout is a
   cyclic deviation from the assumed direct relation between a lead screw's rotations and the
   change in distance of a device being moved by the threads (e.g., a half-nut assembly or a nut
30 on the threads, etc.) This may be caused by the half nut changing orientation with respect to
   the threads through a rotation due to forces acting on the mechanism. The lead screw error
   can be minimized by milling drive shafts and half nuts with high precision.
                                                  153

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [00678]    The system 9210 of Fig. 106 can implement the method 9100 of Fig. 107. The
   lead screw runout may be mitigated by estimating the cyclic deviations caused by the runout
   and compensating for the deviations when controlling for the distance output of the lead
   screw.
 5 [00679]    Fig. 106 shows an embodiment of a system 9120 for mitigating lead screw runout
   error. This system 9120 includes a linear position sensor 9119, a rotary position sensor
   9121, a processor 9123 and a controller 9125. The rotary position sensor 9121 tracks the
   rotations of the lead screw. An equation for determining distance output in centimeters
   ("CM") based on rotational data is shown as follows:
10
                         AO = lead screw rotational change in degrees
                                  /     lead screw Threads Per CM
                                     Distance output =        '* 1.
                                                          AO&    B
15
   This equation for determining the distance actuated assumes that there is a direct
   relationship between the lead screw's rotations and distance output. Runout error is a cyclic
   deviation from the assumed linear distance output.
   [00680]    The linear position sensor 9119 is used to detect the runout deviations through
20 sensing the distance output of the lead screw. In some embodiments of the present
   disclosure, an optical sensor, such as an optical mouse sensor, is coupled to the half-nut
   described herein which is used to measure the displacement of the half-nut by examining
   movement as detected against a surface of the housing of the syringe pump. In some
   embodiments, the optical sensor outputs change in position data in counts per inch (CPI).
25 In some embodiments, the receiver is recalibrated by the processor 9123 to the current CPI,
   which is also referred to as normalizing. Normalization is accomplished using the equation
   below:
                           0 = CurrentLead Screw Angle in degrees
30                                   M = Optical Mouse Counts
                             R = Rotary Distance in millimeters (mm)
                                f   = filter discovered emperically
                                                  154

                                                                       Attorney Docket: L50WO
                                       Inst CPI,         -  M   10 .
                                                      Re -  R0_10o
                                    CPI= f * (Inst CPIj - CPi_1).
 5 This equation recalibrates the CPI every 10 degrees; however, other recalibration rates may
   be used as well.
   [00681]     The magnitude and derivation of the signal may shift the phase of the signal by
   1800 resulting in the normalization data needing to be multiplied by -1. The magnitude may
   also be affected and the correction for this can be discovered empirically through a
10 comparison of the deviations using a second more precise distance measuring device.
   [00682]     The processor 9123 uses the normalized distance data to estimate a phase and
   amplitude of the runout deviations. The oscillations of the runout deviation may occur in
   sync with each rotation of the lead screw. A low pass filter may be applied to filter the
   sensor data and then store the data for a given lead screw angle into one value. An example
15 of the algorithm used is:
                                         0 = Lead Screw Angle
                                            x = sensor data
20
                                    o(O) = Sinusoidal sensor data
                                 ()    = 0.3(x - w(6)_ 1 ) + &(6)i_1.
25 An array of data is created using this algorithm which may be used for cross correlating.
   Cross correlating with an array of data that consists of one or more rotations may be used to
   produce phase and/or amplitude results. The array size may be the previous 4 rotations, in
   some embodiments, which may consist of 1440 elements (360 degrees/rotation * 4
   rotations).
30 [00683]     Once the processor 9123 has created an array it will cross correlate the data with
   a sine and a cosine wave to determine the phase and amplitude of the data. The equation for
   cross correlating two discrete functions is defined as follows:
                                 (f * g)[n] = Z*=_ mf*[m]g[n + m].
   The equation used for this application is as follows:
                                                 155

                                                                       Attorney Docket: L50WO
                                       I= length of input array
                                                  2
                                     (f * g) =-        f [I - mn]g[m]
                                                  m=0
 5                         * sin = signal cross correlatedwith sine wave
                         *  cos = signal cross correlatedwith cosine wave
                                        a    Signal Amplitude
10
                                                Phase Offset
                                        ainst      * sin2 +* cos     2
15                                     Tinst = atan2(*cos,* sin).
   [00684]   In some embodiments, the phase offset may be constant throughout the travel,
   while the amplitude may rise and fall as the half nut assembly travels away from or near the
   end of the lead screw. The phase and amplitude estimates can be filtered by the processor
   9123 to integrate this amplitude shift using the following algorithm:
                                   ai = ai_1 - 0.0005(ai_1 - ainst)
                                                 Cinit = 1
20                                           Cnear     5E     4
                                              Cmia    5E   - 5
                                              Cfar    5E     6
25
                                          Terror =   Wi-1 -     inst
                                          Ti = Ti-1 - C9error
30                                      If ITerror| > 3, C = Cfar
                                     Else If ITerror| > 1, C = Cmia
                                             Else, C    Cnear.
35
                                                 156

                                                                       Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [00685]    Upon completing the filtering, the processor 9123 uses the amplitude and phase
   estimations to estimate the current error between the rotary position estimate and the current
   position of the lead screw mechanism. This is accomplished using the following equation:
                                        6i = CurrentLead Screw Angle
                                       Ai= Current PositionCorrection
 5                                              Ag= aicos(pt + Oi)
                                    ri = Current Rotary - Based Position
                                         xi = Adjusted Target Position
10
                                                    xi = rg + Ai.
   [00686]    Once the error between the rotary position estimate and the true output of the lead
   screw mechanism has been determined, this data is sent to the controller 9125. The
   controller 9125 incorporates this data with the assumed direct relation between lead screw
15 rotations and distance output of the lead screw to thereby increase the accuracy of the
   output. This algorithm used to detect phase and amplitude of the error may be used with
   any sufficient sensor input to detect, estimate, and/or compensate for the lead screw runout.
   [00687]    Fig. 107 shows a flow chart diagram of a method 9100 for mitigating lead screw
   runout error in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure. The method 9100
20 includes a rotation tracking act 9103, a distance tracking act 9101, a conversion act 9105, a
   normalizing act 9107, an error creation act 9109, a filtering act 9111, a storing act 9113, an
   estimating act 9115, and a controlling act 9117.
   [00688]    The rotation tracking act 9103 involves tracking the rotations of the threaded
   driveshaft of a lead screw mechanism using a rotary position sensor. A Hall-Effect sensor
25 may be used as the rotary position sensor as described herein.      The distance tracking act
   9101 tracks the distance output of the lead screw mechanism using a linear position sensor.
   An optical mouse sensor may be used for the linear position sensor; however, in some
   embodiments, any sensor capable of tracking linear position may be used. In some
   embodiments, acts 9101 and 9103 may occur simultaneously, step-wise, or in any order or
30 variation.
                                                  157

                                                                         Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [00689]     The converting act 9105 converts the rotational data into estimated distance
   output data of the lead screw mechanism. The method 9100 may proceed to act 9107 when
   or after the rotational data has been converted.
   [00690]     The normalizing act 9107 normalizes the distance sensor data to create a data set
 5 with reduced sensor drift. The sensor may be recalibrated every ten degrees of lead screw
   rotation when normalizing the data, in some specific embodiments. The method 9100 may
   move on to act 9109 when or after the data has been normalized, in some embodiments.
   [00691]     The error creation act 9109 creates error data comparing the distance sensor data
   to the output of the rotational data. The filtering act 9111 filters the normalized data. The
10 storing act 9113 stores the data as a value for each degree of rotation of the lead screw. The
   estimating act 9115 uses the data stored as the value for each degree of rotation of the lead
   screw to determine amplitude and a phase of the error. Estimating the phase and amplitude
   may be accomplished by cross-correlating a sine and cosine wave with the data. The
   estimation act 9115 may also account for the position of the half nut on the lead screw and
15 account for a decrease in amplitude when the half nut nears an end of the lead screw. Once
   the amplitude and phase of the error have been determined, the method 9100 moves to act
   9117.
   [00692]     The controlling act 9117 controls the rotations of the lead screw with the
   estimated phase and amplitude deviations incorporated into the assumed direct relation
20 between lead screw rotations and output.
   [00693]    Figs. 108-111 shows several views of an infusion pump with a modular power
   supply coupled thereto in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure. Fig.
   108 shows a side view of a pump with a modular power supply attached to the back of the
   pump. Fig. 109 shows a side view of a pump with an external power supply. Fig. 110
25 shows a side view of a pump with a power supply attached to the bottom of the pump. Fig.
   111 shows a side view of a pump with a power supply attached to the top of the pump.
   [00694]    As shown in Figs. 108-111, the various embodiments show an infusion pump
   9202 with a power entry module 9204, a power supply 9205, and an outlet adapter 9209. In
   some embodiments, the power entry module 9204 is attached to a housing 9203 of an
30 infusion pump 9202 and has a port configured to receive DC current to supply the pump
   9202 with power. The power supply 9205 has the capability to be removeably attachable to
   the power entry module 9204. The power entry module 9204 may be an electrical connector
   having conductive contacts. The power supply 9205 may be coupled to an AC plug 9209
                                                 158

                                                                     Attorney Docket: L50WO
   configured to receive an AC signal. The power supply 9205 may include an AC-to-DC
   conversion module within the power supply 9205 to convert the AC signal received via a
   power cord 9207 to a DC current. A DC out connection 9211 provides DC current to the
   power entry module 9204.
 5 [00695]    Fig. 108 shows an embodiment having the power supply 9205 secured to the back
   of the pump 9202 by the power entry module 9204. The power entry module 9204 may
   secure the power supply 9205 in place. The power supply 9205 receives AC power through
   a power cord 9207 connected to the AC plug 9209.
   [00696]    Fig. 109 depicts an embodiment of the power supply 9205 in which a power cord
10 9211 connects the DC out jack of the power supply 9205 to the power entry module 9204.
   The pump 9202 may be configured to secure the power supply 9205 to the outside of its
   housing 9203.
   [00697]    Fig. 110 shows an embodiment of the pump 9202 that shows the power supply
   9205 attached to the bottom of the pump 9202. Fig. 111 shows an embodiment in which the
15 power supply 9205 is attached to the top side of the pump 9202.
   [00698]    Fig. 112 shows an embodiment in which a power supply (hereinafter also referred
   to as a power source) 9205 having a structure 9213 for winding up the power cord 9207 of
   Figs. 108-111. In some embodiments, a mechanism which automatically wraps up the cord
   9207 may be used.
20 [00699]    Fig. 113 shows an embodiment in which a power supply 9219 supplies power to
   multiple pumps 9215 in accordance with another embodiment of the present disclosure.
   That is, a single power supply 9219 may be configured to provide power (e.g., DC power)
   to multiple pumps 9215. In Fig. 113, the power supply 9219 is attached to a pole 9221 on
   which pumps 9215 are mounted. The power supply 9219 may have multiple power cords
25 9217 in electrical communication with the power out jack of the power supply 9219 which
   is connected to the power entry modules 9218 of the pumps 9215 attached to the pole 9221.
   [00700]    The power supply 9205 may also include a battery that is charged by the power
   supply and has the capability to power the pump when the power supply isn't receiving AC
   power. In most cases this battery will supplement a battery within the pump housing 9203.
30 This could be used to extend the operating time of the pump 9202 when no AC current is
   available, for example when the patient is being moved to a different location. It may also
   allow the pump 9202 to have a smaller battery within.
                                                159

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [00701]    A pump 9202 may be attached to a rack which powers the pump 9202 and allows
   the pump 9202 to communicate with other pumps on the rack. When attached to the rack the
   pump 9202 will not need the power source 9205. The power entry module 9204 may be
   designed so the rack and power supply 9205 connect the same way, making the two
 5 interchangeable.
   [00702]    Figs. 114A-114J show several views of a syringe pump assembly 9502 in
   accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure.         Referring to Fig. 114A, the
   syringe pump assembly 9502 is shown and includes a body 9580, a syringe seat 9514, and a
   plunger head assembly 9516.       The plunger head assembly 9516 includes a plunger head
10 9581, a half-nut assembly 9562, and a plunger tube 9561 (refer to Fig. 124). A syringe
   (e.g., see Fig. 114E for the syringe 9518) may be placed into the syringe seat 9514, which is
   secured by the retaining member 9504 and a retaining clip 9506 (described below). A dial
   9505 opens the pivotal jaw members 9508, 9510 and allows the plunger head assembly
   9516 to move away from or toward the syringe seat 9514.
15 [00703]    Referring now to Fig. 114B, a top view of the syringe pump assembly 9502 is
   shown which provides a clear view of a sensor 9512.         The sensor 9512 may detect the
   presence or absence of a syringe seated within the syringe seat 9514. The sensor 9512 is
   coupled to one of the processor of the syringe pump that the syringe pump assembly 9502 is
   coupled to such that the processor can detect the presence or absence of a syringe loaded
20 into the syringe seat 9514.
   [00704]    Fig. 114C shows the syringe pump assembly 9502 in a configuration ready to
   receive a syringe within the syringe seat 9514. That is, the retaining member 9504 is in an
   up position and the dial 9505 is turned in an open position that is clockwise 90 degrees from
   the closed position. The rotation of the dial 9505 also rotates the pivotal jaw members
25 9508, 9510 away from each other. The dial 9505 may be held in the open position as shown
   in Fig. 114C by an internal mechanism (described below) allowing the user to stop applying
   a torque on the dial 9505 and take their hand off of the dial 9505, all while the dial 9505
   remains in the open position. This allows a user to easily load a syringe, optionally using
   both hands, and to slide the plunger head assembly 9516 such that the pivotal jaw members
30 9508, 9510 can operatively couple to the flange of the syringe. The retaining member 9504
   is spring-biased toward the syringe seat 9514; however, when the retaining member 9504 is
   in a fully open position, an internal mechanism may hold the retaining member 9514 in an
   open position without any required torque applied by a user.
                                                 160

                                                                       Attorney Docket: L50WO
   [00705]    Fig. 114D shows the syringe pump assembly 9502 in a configuration where the
   retaining member 9504 is in a down position and the dial 9505 is turned in a closed
   position. The rotation of the dial 9505 also biases the pivotal jaw members 9508, 9510
   toward each other. The dial 9505 may be held in the closed position as shown in Fig. 114D
 5 by an internal bias mechanism (described below) allowing the user to stop applying a torque
   on the dial 9505 and take their hand off of the dial 9505 all while the dial 9505 remains in
   the closed position. When the dial 9505 is rotated away from the open position (see Fig.
   114C) by a predetermined amount toward the closed position, the plunger head assembly
   9516 is locked into position and cannot freely move into or out of the rest of the syringe
10 pump assembly 9502 (described more below).
   [00706]    With reference to Figs. 114E-115B, an overview of the operation of loading a
   syringe 9518 into the syringe pump assembly 9502 is illustrated.          After the retaining
   member 9504 is in the open position (as shown in Fig. 114C), the syringe 9518 may be
   placed into the syringe seat 9514 and the retaining member 9504 rotated onto the syringe
15 9518 as is shown in Fig. 114E. The syringe 9518 may be retained by a retaining clip 9506
   that secures a flange 9525 of a barrel 9523 of the syringe 9518 between the syringe seat
   9514 and the retaining clip 9506.
   [00707]    When the syringe 9518 is sufficiently placed into the syringe seat 9514, the
   syringe 9519 may trigger the sensor 9512 when the syringe 9518 is loaded into the syringe
20 seat 9514. The sensor 9512 is more easily seen in Fig. 114F. A processor may be coupled
   to the sensor 9512 and is configured to receive this notification. Additionally, a radial angle
   sensor (described below) may be coupled to the processor to measure the radial angle of the
   retaining member 9504 (refer again to Fig. 114E) to estimate the size of the syringe 9518.
   [00708]      As shown in Fig. 114G, after the syringe 9518 is placed within the syringe seat
25 9514, the retaining member 9504 may be rotated toward the syringe and the plunger head
   assembly 9516 may be moved toward the syringe 9518 until a force sensor 9520 contacts an
   end 9517 (which may be a flange) of a plunger 9519 of the syringe 9518. The dial 9505
   may be rotated causing the pivotable jaw members 9508, 9510 to rotate toward the flange
   9517 of the plunger 9519 of the syringe 9518 and grasp onto the flange 9517 of the plunger
30 9519 of the syringe 9518, as shown in Fig. 114H. Fig. 1141 shows this configuration from
   an overhead view.
   [00709]    Fig. 114J shows a close up view of the operation of the retaining clip 9506 and
   the sensor 9512 of the syringe pump assembly of Figs. 114A-114J. As is easily seen in Fig.
                                                161

                                                                        Attorney Docket: L50WO
   1 14J, the flange 9525 of the barrel 9523 of the syringe 9518 is disposed between the syringe
   seat 9514 and the retaining clip 9506.       The resiliency of the retaining clip 9506 may
   frictionally lock the barrel 9523 of the syringe 9518 into place. Also shown is the sensor
   9512, which may be a button type sensor that is actuatable into the syringe seat 9514 when
 5 the syringe 9518 is placed within the syringe seat 9514.
   [00710]     Figs. 115A and 115B show two sides of the retaining clip 9506. The retaining
   clip 9506 includes three holes 9521 so that the retaining clip 9506 can be fastened to the
   syringe seat 9514. The retaining clip 9506 includes an inner recess 9522, to receive smaller
   syringes, and an outer recess 9524, to receive larger syringes. Note in Fig. 115B that the
10 retaining clip 9506 includes a support structure 9526 to provide further resiliency to apply
   greater forces on the flange 9525 of the barrel 9523 of the syringe 9518 (see Fig. 114J).
   [00711]     As shown in Fig. 116A, the sensor 9512 is easily viewable because the syringe
   seat 9514 has been removed.       Also shown in Fig. 116A, is a bottom cover 9503 that is
   attached to the bottom of the syringe seat 9514 to cover the sensor 9512 and optionally
15 allow the retaining clip 9506 a place to be secured to. That is, the retaining clip 9506 may
   be optionally secured to the bottom cover 9503 via fasteners 9527 (e.g., screws), in some
   embodiments.
   [00712]     Fig. 116B shows a side view of the syringe pump assembly 9502 with the syringe
   seat 9514 and bottom cover 9503 removed. As is easily seen in Fig. 116B, the sensor 9512
20 includes a plunger head 9507, a plunger shaft 9509, a spring 9511, and a sensor board 9513.
   The sensor board 9513 includes a switch 9515 having a paddle 9526. The spring 9511 is
   coupled to the plunger shaft 9509 to bias the plunger shaft 9509 and the plunger head 9507
   toward the location in the syringe seat 9514 in which a syringe 9518 may be placed (refer
   again to Fig. 1 14E).
25 [00713]     When a syringe (e.g., syringe 9518 of Fig. 114J) presses against the plunger head
   9507 of the sensor 9512, the plunger head 9507 retracts into the syringe seat 9514 (see Fig.
   114E for a view of the syringe seat 9514). Referring again to Fig. 116B, when a syringe
   presses against the plunger head 9507 of the sensor, the plunger head 9507 moves the
   plunger shaft 9509.     The plunger shaft 9509 is coupled to a spring 9511 such that the
30 plunger shaft 9509 may overcome the bias of the spring 9511 to engage the switch 9515 of
   the sensor board 9513. That is, when the plunger shaft 9509 is sufficiently actuated against
   the bias of the spring 9511, the plunger shaft 9509 presses against a paddle 9526 of a switch
   9515 on the sensor board 9513(refer to Fig. 116C). Fig. 116C shows a close-up view of the
                                                  162

                                                                         Attorney Docket: L50WO
   interaction of the plunger shaft 9509 and the paddle 9526 of the switch 9515. When the
   switch 9515 detects movement by a predetermined amount, the sensor board 9513 provides
   a signal of the sensor 9512 to the processor to notify it that a syringe 9518 has been loaded
   into the syringe seat 9514 (as shown in Fig. 114E).
 5 [00714]     Referring again to Fig. 116C, although the switch 9515 may be a discrete switch
   (e.g., only two discrete states), in some embodiments, the switch 9515 provides an analog
   position of the paddle 9526 to the sensor board 9513, which is provided to the processor as
   the sensor's 9512 signal.
   [00715]     Figs. 117A-117C show several views of the syringe seat 9514 of the syringe
10 pump assembly 9502 shown in Figs. 1 14A-1 14J in accordance with an embodiment of the
   present disclosure. As is easily seen in Fig. 117A, the syringe seat 9514 includes a hole
   9528 for the sensor 9512 (e.g.s., see Fig. 114A). The syringe seat 9514 also includes a
   surface 9532 having series of wedge-shaped surfaces approaching an end 9533 of the
   surface 9532. The surface 9532 slopes downward as it approaches the end 9533. Fig. 117B
15 shows the end positioned head on with the sloped surface 9532.
   [00716]     Referring to Fig. 117C, the syringe seat 9514 also includes a surface 9530 having
   holes 9531 in which the screws 9527 of the retaining clip 9506 may use to secure the
   retaining clip 9506 thereto.     Also viewable in Fig. 117C, is a hole 9529 in which the
   retaining member 9504 (see Fig. 114A) may be partially positioned therein.
20 [00717]     Fig. 1 18A-1 18B show several views of the syringe pump assembly 9502 shown
   in Figs. 1 14A-1 14J with the syringe seat 9514 removed in accordance with an embodiment
   of the present disclosure. Figs. 118A-118B will now be described in relationship to the
   syringe's 9518 diameter estimation.
   [00718]     As shown in Fig. 118A, the retaining member 9504 is in a fully open position.
25 The retaining member 9504 is coupled to a shaft 9535. An O-ring helps seal the intervals of
   the syringe pump assembly 9502 preventing contamination through the hole 9529 (see Fig.
   1 17a). As shown in Fig. 1 18A, a fixed cam 9536 is positioned at the distal end of the shaft
   9534 while a moveable cam 9537 is positioned at proximal end of the shaft 9534. A spring
   9535 biases the moveable cam 9537 away from the fixed cam 9536.
30 [00719]     The retaining member 9504 is coupled to the shaft 9534 such that rotating the
   retaining member 9504 also rotates the shaft 9534. Also coupled to the shaft 9534 is a
   rotating cam 9545. The rotating cam 9545 rotates as the retaining member 9504 is actuated
   (e.g., rotated between open and closed positions).     When the retaining member 9504 is in
                                                 163

                                                                      Attorney Docket: L50WO
   the fully open position, the rotating cam 9545 and the moveable cam 9537 may engage each
   other such that the retaining member 9504 remains in the fully open position even when a
   user's hand is removed from the retaining member 9504 (i.e., the retaining member 9504 is
   in a dwelling position). That is, the rotating cam 9545 and the moveable cam 9537 may
 5 engage each other with opposing surfaces that are perpendicular to an axis defined by the
   shaft 9534.
   [00720]    As the retaining member 9504 is rotated, the rotating cam rotates 9545 such that
   the movable cam 9537 and the rotating cam 9545 engage each other via opposing surfaces
   that are not perpendicular to an axis defined by the shaft 9534. This causes the force of the
10 spring 9535 to translate from the moveable cam 9537 to the rotating cam 9545 such that the
   rotating cam 9545 rotates thereby rotating the retaining member 9504 toward its closed
   position.   That is, the spring 9535 ultimately can cause a rotational bias force on the
   retaining member as long at the retaining member 9504 is not in a dwelling position. Fig.
   118B shows the retaining member 9504 in the retaining position, e.g., when the retaining
15 member is rotated toward any loaded syringe. Guiding rods 9538 prevent the moveable cam
   9537 from rotating with the shaft 9534 or because of the spring 9535 and guide the
   moveable cam 9537 away from and toward the fixed cam 9536. A syringe loaded 9518 into
   the syringe seat 9514 may stop the retaining member 9504 from fully rotating to the closed
   position (see Fig. 114E). Fig. 118B shows the retaining member 9504 fully rotated to the
20 closed position.
   [00721]    A gear 9539 is also coupled to the shaft 9534 and rotates therewith. The gear
   9539 engages a gear assembly 9543. The gear assembly 9543 may increase or decrease the
   gearing to rotate a magnet 9540. A sensor board 9542 includes a hall-effect sensor 9541
   (e.g., a rotating encoder) that can determine the rotational angle of the magnet 9540 and
25 therefore determine the position of the retaining member 9504. The sensor board 9542 may
   transmit a signal encoding the retaining member's 9504 position to the processor where the
   processor correlates the position of the retaining member's 9504 position with a diameter of
   the barrel 9523 of the syringe (refer to Fig. 114E).
   [00722]    Figs. 119A-119B shows several views of the syringe pump assembly shown in
30 Figs. 114A-114J to illustrate the jaw member's 9508, 9510 action of grasping onto a flange
   9517 of a plunger 9519 of a syringe (e.g., syringe 9518 as shown in Fig. 114E) in
   accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure. Fig. 119A shows the pivotal jaw
   members 9508, 9510 in an open position and Fig. 119B shows the pivotal jaw members
                                                  164

                                                                          Attorney Docket: L50WO
    9508, 9510 grasping on the flange 9517 of the plunger 9519. As is easily seen in Fig. 1 19A,
    ramps 9546 are used so that as the pivotal jaw members 9508, 9510 grasp onto the flange
    9517 of the plunger 9519 (as in Fig. 119B), the flange 9517 is held against the plunger head
    assembly 9516 (see Fig. 114A) more securely.
 5  [00723]     Fig. 120 shows the plunger head of the plunger head assembly 9516 (of the
    syringe pump assembly shown in Figs. 1 14A-1 14J ) with the cover removed to illustrate the
    mechanical effects of rotation of the dial 9505 in accordance with an embodiment of the
   present disclosure. As shown in Fig. 120, the dial 9505 is coupled to a shaft 9547, a cam
    9548, and a rod actuator 9554. A spring 9557 is operatively coupled to the shaft 9547 to
10 bias the dial 9505 and the shaft to rotate toward a closed position (as shown in Fig. 120).
    [00724]     A gear 9553 is operatively coupled to a potentiometer 9559. The potentiometer
    9559 is coupled to a circuit board 9558 which is configured to provide the processor with
    the rotational position of the gear 9553 (described below). Refer now to Figs. 121A-121C
    where the circuit board 9558 and the potentiometer 9559 have been removed to aid in
15  viewing the internal parts of the plunger head assembly 9516. That is, Figs. 121A-121C
    show several views of the plunger head with the cover and a circuit board removed to
    illustrate the mechanical effects of rotation of the dial in accordance with an embodiment of
    the present disclosure;
    [00725]      As shown in Fig. 121A, the dial 9505 is coupled to the cam 9548 such that
20  rotation of the dial 9505 into an open position causes the cam 9548 to rotate such that the
    rocker arm 9549 rotates as a cam follower 9550 of the rocker arm 9549 engages with the
    cam 9548. The rocker arm 9549 is coupled to a gear 9552. A gear 9553 is coupled to the
    gear 9552 that is coupled to the rocker arm 9549. The gear 9552 and rocker arm 9549 are
    coupled to a spring 9551 such that the rocker arm 9549 is biased such that the cam follower
25  9550 is biased toward the cam 9548. Fig. 121B shows the configuration in which the dial
    9505 is in the fully open position. Note that the rocker arm 9549 has rotated from its
   position in Fig. 121A, and note also that the gear 9553 has rotated by a corresponding
    amount . Referring now to Figs. 114C and 121B, the gear 9552 is coupled to the pivotable
   jaw member 9510 and the gear 9553 is coupled to the pivotable jaw member 9508. Fig.
30  121B and Fig. 114C shows the configuration in which the dial 9505 has been turned to the
    open position.
    [00726]     When the dial 9505 has been turned to a fully open position, the cam 9548
    engages into a detent 9560 of the cam 9548. Fig. 121C shows a close-up view to illustrate
                                                   165

                                                                     Attorney Docket: L50WO
   the detent 9560.    As is easily seen in Fig. 121C, the cam follower 9550 may fit into the
   detent 9560, which holds the dial 9505 in a "dwell" position. That is, although a user may
   remove their hand from the dial 9505, the dial 9505 remains in the fully open position as
   shown in Fig. 121C.      In some embodiments, the spring 9557 does not provide enough
 5 torque on the shaft 9547 to overcome the detent 9560 without user assistance.
   [00727]    When the dial 9505 is turned from the open position as in Fig. 121B back to the
   closed position, the pivotable jaw members 9508, 9510 will rotate toward a flange 9517 of a
   plunger 9519 of a syringe 9518 (see Figs. 114G and 114H).       However, the pivotable jaw
   members 9508, 9510 will stop rotating toward each other when they contact the flange 9517
10 of the plunger 9519 as shown in Fig. 114H). Referring again to Figs. 121A-121B, this will
   cause the cam follow 9550 to leave the cam 9548 because the surface of the cam 9548 will
   continue to move away from the cam follower 9550. The rocker arm 9549 is unable to
   rotate further because it is coupled to the jaw member 9510 (see Fig. 114H) whose
   movement is constrained by the flange 9517 of the plunger 9519 of the syringe 9518.The
15 position of the the pivotable jaw members 9508, 9510 may be determined by one or more
   potentiometer 9559 and communicated to a processor. The processor may use this position
   to estimate a size characteristic of the the syringe 9518.
   [00728]    Figs. 122A-122B show two views of a cam 9548 (e.g., a dial shaft cam) which
   may, for example, be used within the plunger head assembly 9516 of the syringe pump
20 assembly 9502 shown in Figs. 114A-1 14J in accordance with an embodiment of the present
   disclosure. The detent 9560 is easily seen in Figs. 121A-121B.
   [00729]    Figs. 123A-123B show two close-up views of the inner cavity of the plunger head
   assembly of the syringe pump assembly shown in Figs. 1 14A-1 14J in accordance with an
   embodiment of the present disclosure. As the shaft 9547 is rotated, the rod actuator 9554
25 rotates. When the dial 9505 (see Fig. 120) is near the fully open position, the rod actuator
   9554 engages the link 9555 to pull the rod 9556 out as shown in Fig. 123B. The rod 9556 is
   spring biased into the plunger head assembly 9516.
   [00730]    Fig. 124 shows the plunger head assembly 9516 of the syringe pump assembly
   shown in Figs. 1 14A-1 14J in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure. As
30 is seen in Fig. 124, the plunger head assembly 9516 includes a half-nut assembly 9562
   having a linear cam 9566 coupled to the rod 9556. A plunger tube 9561 connects the half
   nut assembly 9562 with the rest of the plunger head assembly 9516. The plunger tube 9561
   shown in Fig. 124 is removed in Figs. 125A-125B showing a rod guide 9563. As is easily
                                                   166

                                                                       Attorney Docket: L50WO
   seen in Figs. 125A-125B, the rod guide 9563 guides the rod 9556. Note that a spring 9564
   is coupled to a collar 9565 to bias the rod 9556 toward the half-nut assembly 9562.
   [00731]     Figs. 126A-1261 show several additional views of the syringe pump assembly
   9502 of Figs. 114A-114J in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure.
 5 Referring to Fig. 126A, the half-nut assembly 9562 is easily viewable because the syringe
   seat 9514 (see Fig. 114A) is removed and a cover of the syringe pump assembly 9502 is
   also removed.
   [00732]     The half-nut assembly 9562 can be coupled to a lead screw 9572 such that
   rotation of the lead screw 9572, linearly actuates the half-nut assembly 9562. The half nut
10 assembly 9562 includes a linear bearing 9575 that can travel on a track 9574. As the half
   nut assembly 9562 travels, a sensor 9578 engages with a linear resistance 9579 to form a
   linear potentiometer, which is used to estimate the linear position of the half nut assembly
   9562 which is communicated to the processor to estimate the discharge of fluid from a
   syringe (e.g., syringe 9518 of Fig. 114E).
15 [00733]     The half nut assembly 9562 also includes a linear cam 9566 coupled to the rod
   9556 (also see Fig. 124), first and second half-nut arms 9567, 9568, and a pivot pin 9569.
   When the linear cam 9566 moves toward the first ends 9576 of the first and second half-nut
   arms 9567, 9568, the first and second half-nut arms 9567, 9568 pivot along the pivot pin
   9569 such that the second ends 9577 of the first and second half-nut arms 9567, 9568
20 engage with the leadscrew. Each of the second ends 9577 of the first and second half-nut
   arms 9567, 9568 includes threads to engage with the lead screw 9572.          A spacer 9571
   ensures the distance between the first and second ends 9577 of the first and second half-nut
   arms 9567, 9568 are sufficiently distanced so that the half-nut assembly 9562 fully engages
   the lead screw 9572.
25 [00734]     Fig. 126B shows a perspective, side-view of the syringe pump assembly 9502.
   Note the first and second half-nut arms 9567, 9568, include internal threads to engage with
   the lead screw 9572. A bearing 9573 is coupled to the lead screw 9572 to allow it to rotate.
   Fig. 126C shows the plunger head assembly 9516 with the cover of the half-nut assembly
   9562 off. Note that a spring 9570 opens the first ends 9577 of the first and half-nut arms
30 9567, 9568, away from the lead screw 9572. Fig. 126D shows a perspective angled-view to
   illustrate how the first ends 9576 of the first and second half-nut arms 9567, 9568, engage
   with the linear cam 9566. Fig. 126E shows a side view of the half-nut assembly 9562. The
   linear cam 9566 is in a retracted position which occurs when the dial 9505 is in a fully-open
                                                 167

                                                                       Attorney Docket: L50WO
   position. Note that the rod 9556 is retracted by a spring 9564 (see Fig. 125B). Fig. 126F
   shows the linear cam 9566 is an engagement position. As is viewable in Fig. 126G, the
   linear cam's 9566 surface has actuated the first ends 9576 of half-nut arms 9567, 9568.
   When in this position, the linear cam's 9566 surface engages with the first ends 9576 of
 5 half-nut arms 9567, 9568 such if a force was applied to open the first ends 9576 of half-nut
   arms 9567, 9568 away from each other, no translation of force will be experienced by the
   rod 9556. That is, the linear cam's 9566 surface engages with the first ends 9576 of half-nut
   arms 9567, 9568 such that the contacting surfaces are pallalel with each other and parallel
   with an axis of the rod 9556. Figs. 126H and 1261 shows two views where the half-nut
10 assembly 9562 is fully engaged with the lead screw 9572 wherein rotation of the lead screw
   9572 linearly actuates the half-nut assembly 9562 (and hence the entire plunger head
   assembly 9516 relative to the syringe pump assembly 9502.
   [00735]    Fig. 127 shows a perspective, side-view of the syringe pump assembly 9601
   coupled to a display 9690. Note the syringe pump assembly 9601 is shown and includes a
   body 9680, a syringe seat 9614, and a plunger head assembly 9616. The plunger head
   assembly 9616 includes a plunger head 9681, a half-nut assembly 9562 (refer to Fig. 1 14A),
   and a plunger tube 9661. A syringe (e.g., see Fig. 114E for the syringe 9518) may be placed
   into the syringe seat 9614, which is secured by the retaining member 9604 and a retaining
   clip 9606. A dial 9605 opens the pivotal jaw members 9508, 9510 (refer to Fig. 114A) and
   allows the plunger head assembly 9616 to move away from or toward the syringe seat 9614.
   The display 9690 includes a screen 9691, a power button 9692, an alarm silence button
   9693, and a menu button 9694. The pump assembly 9601 is configured to show a plurality
   of displays on the screen 9691 relating to pump operation and patient data.
   [00736]    Fig. 128 shows a flow chart diagram of a method 9302 for discharging fluid from
   a syringe and for providing mitigation for an occlusion condition in accordance with an
15 embodiment of the present disclosure. The method 9302 may be implemented by a syringe
   pump, such as the syringe pump shown in Fig. 127. The acts may be implemented by or
   using one or more processors on a syringe pump.
   [00737]    The method 9302 will be described as being implemented by the syringe pump
   shown in Fig. 127; however, such description should not be construed as limiting.         The
20 method 9302 may be implemented on any pump that discharges fluid, e.g., any syringe
   pump described herein.      The method 9302 includes acts 9304-9316. Act 9304 loads a
   syringe into a syringe pump. For example, a syringe may be loaded into the syringe seat
                                                168

                                                                         Attorney Docket: L50WO
   9614. Act 9306 determines the diameter of a barrel of the syringe. The syringe's barrel
   diameter may be determined by the position of the retaining finger 9604. Act 9308 actuates
   the syringe using the syringe pump.        The plunger head assembly 9616 may actuate a
   plunger of the syringe. Act 9310 estimates fluid pressure within the barrel of the syringe.
 5 Act 9312 makes a decision based upon whether the pressure within the barrel of the syringe
   is below a predetermined threshold?        If the decision is yes, then acts 9308-9312 may
   continue to achieve a target flow rate until a target fluid discharged dose is achieved.
   [00738]    If the decision is no in Act 9312, in Act 9314: the syringe pump withdrawals the
   plunger of the syringe from the barrel of the syringe by a predetermined amount (which may
10 be a distance of actuation or a volume of actuation of the syringe. In Act 9316, the syringe
   pump actuates the plunger into the barrel until the fluid pressure within the barrel of the
   syringe exceeds another predetermined threshold. The one or more processors may sound
   an alarm or alert notifying a caregiver of the occlusion.
   [00739]    Various alternatives and modifications can be devised by those skilled in the art
15 without departing from the disclosure. Accordingly, the present disclosure is intended to
   embrace all such alternatives, modifications and variances.         Additionally, while several
   embodiments of the present disclosure have been shown in the drawings and/or discussed
   herein, it is not intended that the disclosure be limited thereto, as it is intended that the
   disclosure be as broad in scope as the art will allow and that the specification be read
20 likewise. Therefore, the above description should not be construed as limiting, but merely
   as exemplifications of particular embodiments. And, those skilled in the art will envision
   other modifications within the scope and spirit of the claims appended hereto.            Other
   elements, steps, methods and techniques that are insubstantially different from those
   described above and/or in the appended claims are also intended to be within the scope of
25 the disclosure.
   [00740]    The embodiments shown in the drawings are presented only to demonstrate
   certain examples of the disclosure. And, the drawings described are only illustrative and are
   non-limiting. In the drawings, for illustrative purposes, the size of some of the elements may
   be exaggerated and not drawn to a particular scale. Additionally, elements shown within
30 the drawings that have the same numbers may be identical elements or may be similar
   elements, depending on the context.
   [00741]    Where the term "comprising" is used in the present description and claims, it does
   not exclude other elements or steps. Where an indefinite or definite article is used when
                                                  169

                                                                         Attorney Docket: L50WO
   referring to a singular noun, e.g., "a," "an," or "the," this includes a plural of that noun
   unless something otherwise is specifically stated. Hence, the term "comprising" should not
   be interpreted as being restricted to the items listed thereafter; it does not exclude other
   elements or steps, and so the scope of the expression "a device comprising items A and B"
 5 should not be limited to devices consisting only of components A and B. This expression
   signifies that, with respect to the present disclosure, the only relevant components of the
   device are A and B.
   [00742]     Furthermore, the terms "first," "second," "third," and the like, whether used in the
   description or in the claims, are provided for distinguishing between similar elements and
10 not necessarily for describing a sequential or chronological order. It is to be understood that
   the terms so used are interchangeable under appropriate circumstances (unless clearly
   disclosed otherwise) and that the embodiments of the disclosure described herein are
   capable of operation in other sequences and/or arrangements than are described or
   illustrated herein.
                                                  170

                                                                    Attorney Docket: L50WO
What is claimed is:
  1.       A syringe pump comprising:
             a body;
             a motor;
             a lead screw operatively coupled to the motor, wherein the motor is configured
   to actuate the lead screw;
             a linear cam moveable between an extended position and a retracted position;
   and
             first and second half-nut arms pivotally coupled together, each having first and
   second ends, wherein the second ends of the first and second half-nut arms are
   configured to engage with the linear cam such that actuation of the linear cam toward
   the extended position causes the second ends of the first and second half-nut arms to
   pivotally approach each other to engage the lead screw.
  2.       The syringe pump according to claim 1, wherein:
               the linear cam includes a concave surface,
               the first and second half-nut arms are pivotally coupled together via a pivot,
               the second ends of the first and second half-nut arms are positioned to engage
   with the concave surface of the linear cam, and
               actuation of the linear cam to the extended position causes the second ends of
   the first and second half-nut arms to move toward each other by pivoting along the
   pivot thereby causing the first ends of the first and second half-nut arms to engage with
   the lead screw.
   3.       The syringe pump according to claim 1, further comprising a spacer coupled to
   one of the first and second half-nut arms.
   4.       The syringe pump according to claim 1, further comprising a pivot pin
   configured to provide the pivotal coupling between the first and second half-nut arms.
                                              171

                                                                Attorney Docket: L50WO
5.      The syringe pump according to claim 1, wherein the linear cam includes two
ramping surfaces configured to engaged with the second ends of the first and second
half-nut arms.
6.      The syringe pump according to claim 1, further comprising a bias member
configured to bias the second ends of the first and second half-nut arms away from each
other.
7.     The syringe pump according to claim 6, wherein the bias member is a spring.
8.      The syringe pump according to claim 1, further comprising a plunger head
assembly.
9.      The syringe pump according to claim 8, wherein the plunger head assembly
includes a user actuator operatively coupled to the linear cam to actuate the linear cam
toward and away from a half-nut assembly.
10.     The syringe pump according to claim 1, further comprising a plunger head
assembly, the plunger head assembly comprising:
        a dial having a first position and a second position, wherein the dial is
configured to actuate between the first position and the second position;
        a plunger tube configured to slideably engage with the body; and
        a plunger head operatively coupled to the plunger tube.
11.       The syringe pump according to claim 10, further comprising a shaft
operatively coupled to the dial, wherein the shaft and the dial are configured such that
actuation of the dial actuates the shaft.
12.     The syringe pump according to claim 11, further comprising a cam coupled to
the shaft.
                                          172

                                                             Attorney Docket: L50WO
13. The syringe pump according to claim 12, further comprising a rocker arm
    pivotally coupled to the plunger head assembly, the rocker arm having a cam
    follower configured to engage the cam.
14. The syringe pump according to claim 13, further comprising a pivotable jaw
    member operatively coupled to the rocker arm.
15. The syringe pump according to claim 13, further comprising:
    a first gear coupled to the rocker arm and a pivotable jaw member; and
    a second gear coupled to another pivotable jaw member, wherein the first and
    second gears are configured to engage each other, wherein the pivotable jaw
    members are configured to grasp onto a syringe plunger flange .
16. The syringe pump according to claim 15, wherein the cam and the rocker arm
    are configured such that additional actuation of the dial toward the second
    position when the pivotable jaw members grasp onto the syringe plunger flange
    causes the cam follower to disengage from the cam.
17. The syringe pump according to claim 15, further comprising a bias member
    configured to urge the cam follower of the rocker arm toward the cam.
18. The syringe pump according to claim 15, wherein the cam includes a detent
    configured to interface with the rocker arm such that the cam is held in the first
    position until a predetermined amount of torque is applied to the dial to urge the
    dial toward the second position.
19. The syringe pump according to claim 1, wherein a plunger head includes a shaft
    having a rod actuator coupled thereto.
20. The syringe pump according to claim 1, wherein a plunger tube includes a rod,
    wherein the rod is coupled via a link within a plunger head.
                                       173

                                                          Attorney Docket: L50WO
21. The syringe pump according to claim 1, wherein a rod is operatively coupled to
    the linear cam.
22. The syringe pump according to claim 1, wherein the first ends of the first and
    second half-nut arms each includes threads configured to engage the lead screw
    when the second ends of the first and second half-nut arms are proximal to one
    another.
                                    174

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
