                                                 ABSTRACT
         The present invention relates to compositions comprising one or more active agents that
selectively modulate the expression of two or more genes, for example at the post-transcription level, that
are involved in fibrosis and/or inflammatory conditions.        Also provided are methods of using such
compositions for treating fibrotic diseases, as well as other diseases including inflammatory diseases and
cancer.

                                                      1
   MULTI-TARGET MODULATION FOR TREATING FIBROSIS AND INFLAMMATORY
                                             CONDITIONS
                          CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
[0001]     This is a divisional application of Australian patent application 2013262972, which is the
national phase entry in Australia of PCT international application PCT/US2013/040910 (published as
W02), and claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61/648,076, filed
May 16, 2012, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
                                           TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002]     This application relates generally to the fields of compositions and methods for treating
fibrosis and inflammatory compositions by modulating the expression of two or more target genes.
                                            BACKGROUND
[0003]     Fibrosis is the formation of excess fibrous connective tissue in an organ or tissue in a
reparative or reactive process, in a pathological situation, as opposed to formation of fibrous tissue as a
normal constituent of an organ or tissue. Fibrosis may be the result of chronic inflammatory reactions
induced by a variety of stimuli including persistent infections, autoimmune reactions, allergic
responses, chemical insults, radiation, and tissue injury. Scarring is confluent fibrosis that obliterates
the architecture of the underlying organ or tissue. Different organs can be affected by fibrotic diseases,
including: Pulmonary fibrosis (lungs); Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (where the cause is unknown),
Cystic fibrosis (caused by genetic mutation of CFTR gene [cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance
regulator]); Cirrhosis (liver); Endomyocardial fibrosis (heart); Progressive kidney disease, Mediastinal
fibrosis (soft tissue of the mediastinum); Myelofibrosis (bone marrow), Retroperitoneal fibrosis (soft
tissue of the retroperitoneum); Progressive massive fibrosis (lungs); a complication of coal workers'
pneumoconiosis; Nephrogenic systemic fibrosis (skin), Crohn's Disease (intestine); Keloid (skin); Old
myocardial infarction (heart); Scleroderma/systemic        sclerosis (skin, lungs); Arthrofibrosis (knee,
shoulder, other joints); and some forms of adhesive capsulitis (shoulder).
[0004]     Despite having distinct clinical manifestations, most chronic fibrotic disorders have in
common a persistent irritant that sustains the production of growth factors. proteolytic enzymes,
angiogenic factors and fibrogenic cytokines, which stimulate the deposition of connective tissue
elements that progressively remodel and destroy normal tissue architecture [1-3].       In some diseases,
such as idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, liver cirrhosis. cardiovascular fibrosis, systemic sclerosis,
scleroderma and nephritis., extensive tissue remodelling and fibrosis can ultimately lead to organ failure
and death.

                                                     2
[0005]     Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, scleroderma and liver fibrosis/cirrhosis are serious fibrosis
related diseases that present significant clinical problems and unmet medical needs for which to date
there are no approved or effective drugs.
[0006]     Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF):       IPF is a progressive and generally fatal disease
characterized by scarring of the lungs that thickens the lung lining, causing an irreversible loss of lung
structure and function. IPF affects 5 million people worldwide and 130,000-200,000 people in the US,
with about 48,000 new cases diagnosed and 40.000 deaths each year, with medical costs estimated at
$2.8 billion per 100,000 patients [2, 3]. Median survival is 2-4 years following diagnosis, and the 5
year survival is 20-40% [4, 5]. Currently, there is no known cause, no FDA approved treatments and no
cure for IPF [6].       IPF patients typically are treated with anti-inflammatory drugs, including
corticosteroids and cytotoxic agents, despite the fact that there is no evidence that they have any effect
on long-term patient survival.
[0007]     While drugs currently under investigation for IPF including IFNgamma, Etanercept,
Bosentan, and Pirfenidone, QAX576 (IL-13 blocker), FG-3019 (CTGF antibody), CNTO-888 (CCL2
antibody), GC-1008 (TGF beta-antibody), Losartan and Thalidomide are directed against targets in the
pathology of IPF, concerns remain about their clinical efficacy as a single agent therapy due to the
redundancy of signaling pathways involved in IPF [6].
[0008]     Systemic Scleroderma (SS): SS is an autoimmune disorder and a connective tissue disease
that involves changes in the skin, blood vessels, muscles, and internal organs. There are an estimated
300,000 people in the US who have scleroderma, a third of whom have SS [7].          Local disease affects
only skin tissues while SS affects skin and underlying tissues, blood vessels, and major organs
including the heart, lungs, or kidneys. In diffuse cutaneous disease, five-year survival is 70%, and 10
year survival is 55% [8]. Currently there is no cure and no specific treatment for scleroderma.         SS
treatment includes     immunosuppressive      and anti-inflammatory     drugs including corticosteroids,
methotrexate, cyclophosphamide, azathioprine, and mycophenolate [9, 10].
[0009]     Liver cirrhosis (LC): Liver fibrogenesis is characterized by excessive accumulation of extra
cellular matrix (ECM), leading to cirrhosis and complications including portal hypertension, liver
failure, and hepatocellular carcinoma [11]. LC causes 800,000 deaths worldwide annually [12]. In the
US, LC causes 27,000 deaths annually [13]. Established cirrhosis has a 10-year mortality of 34-66%
[14]. Common causes of cirrhosis include alcohol consumption, chronic hepatitis B, C and D, obesity,
toxins, bile duct diseases, and autoimmune hepatitis [15]. Currently there is no treatment available for
LC, and health care costs for managing this disease are high.
[0010]     Tissue fibrosis is defined by the overgrowth, hardening, and/or scarring of various tissues as a
result of excessive deposition of extracellular matrix (ECM). The key cellular mediator of fibrosis is
the myofibroblast, which produces excessive amounts of ECM components such as collagen when

                                                     3
activated (Claman, 1991). Myofibroblasts are generated from a variety of sources including resident
mesenchymal cells, epithelial and endothelial cells in processes termed epithelial/endothelial
mesenchymal (EMT/EndMT) transition, as well as from circulating fibroblast-like cells called
fibrocytes that are derived from bone-marrow stem cells. Myofibroblasts are activated by a variety of
mechanisms, including paracrine signals derived from lymphocytes and macrophages, autocrine factors
secreted by myofibroblasts, and pathogen-associated molecular patterns produced by pathogenic
organisms recognized by pattern recognition receptors (i.e. TLRs) on fibroblasts.
[00111     The ECM contains 3 major components: structural proteins and proteoglycans, non-structural
matricellular proteins, and growth factors/inflammatory cytokines (Brekken, 2001). Although structural
proteins such as collagens are most prominently increased in fibrotic tissues, matricellular proteins and
growth factors are believed to be the major players in the maintenance of homeostasis in the ECM.
Numerous studies have shown that ECM biosynthesis and deposition are regulated by matricellular
proteins and growth factors and by alterations in cell-ECM interactions that are accompanied by
reorganization of the cytoskeletal network (Varedi, 1997).
[0012]     The progression of fibrotic diseases involves the intricate interplay of all 3 ECM components.
Growth factors, cytokines and chemokines stimulate the proliferation and activation of lymphocytes,
macrophages and myofibroblasts.        Activated myofibroblasts and other cells express high levels of
different ECM proteins, including matricellular proteins and other non-structural proteins, and structural
proteins such as collagen, fibronectin, and vitronectin.          Cytokines (IL-13, IL-21, TGF-betal),
chemokines (MCP-1, MIP-lbeta), angiogenic factors (VEGF), growth factors (PDGF, CTGF),
peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs), acute phase proteins (SAP), caspases, and
components of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (ANG 11) have been identified as important
regulators of fibrosis (Wynn, 2008).
[0013]     The matricellular and other non-structural proteins play key roles in the organization and
remodeling of ECM.       Several such proteins have been closely associated with the pathogenesis of
fibrosis including SPARC, thrombospondin. CCNI, LOXL2, TGF-betal, CTGF, and TIMP.
[0014]     The expression and deposition of ECM proteins in fibrotic diseases are regulated by
complicated cascades of cell surface receptors, signaling molecules, and transcription factors such as.
Smad 3, Smad 7. SOX9, arrestin.
[0015]     RNAi is an evolutionarily conserved process of sequence-specific, post-transcriptional gene
silencing. RNAi is initiated by dsRNA that is homologous in sequence to the silenced gene.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of endogenous, small, non-coding RNA molecules of ~22
nucleotides that are located in independent noncoding transcripts or in introns of protein-coding genes
and post-transcriptionally control the translation and stability of mRNAs.        Small interfering RNAs
(siRNA) are double-stranded RNA molecules approximately 21-25 base pairs (bp) long that act to

                                                     4
inhibit gene expression through initiating enzymatic degradation of a sequence-matched mRNA.
miRNAs and siRNAs bind to the RNA-induced silencing complex (RISC), which selectively retains the
antisense strand (guide strand) and silences gene expression by degrading the complementary and
corresponding mRNA strand.
[0016]      While the targeted gene down regulation by RNAi is proposed as a potential therapeutic
strategy for a multitude of disease conditions, the safe and effective delivery of RNAi therapeutics
remains a challenge. The physicochemical characteristics of siRNA and miRNA (i.e. large molecular
weight and anionic charge) prevent passive diffusion across the plasma membrane of most cell types,
and siRNA is prone to degradation in physiological conditions. Therefore a biocompatible, nontoxic
and nonimmunogenic carrier is required to deliver siRNA and miRNA to the target site, which will
dramatically improve its clinical potential. The current siRNA and miRNA delivery methods include
viral transfection     or non-viral techniques including liposomes, dendrimers, linear polymers,
polymerosomes, micelles, peptides, nanoparticles, and local delivery by electrotransfer.
[0017]     All references cited herein, including patent applications and publications, are incorporated
by reference in their entirety.
                                    SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0018]      The present invention provides compositions comprising one or more (such as two or more)
active agents that selectively modulate the expression of two or more genes, for example at the post
transcription level, that are involved in fibrosis and/or inflammatory conditions. Also provided are
methods of using such compositions for treating fibrotic diseases, as well as other diseases including
inflammatory diseases and cancer.
[0019]      The present invention in some embodiments provides a pharmaceutical composition for
preventing or treating fibrosis and other diseases involving chronic inflammation in mammals by
targeting 2 or more genes involved in the development and progression of fibrosis using one or more
nucleic acids (such as oligonucleotides) including, but not limited to, antisense oligonucleotides, RNAi
(such as shRNAs, siRNAs, miRNAs, antagomirs) and plasmid DNA.
[0020]      The present invention also provides       a pharmaceutical composition to treat fibrosis or
inflammatory conditions or diseases, including but not limited to: pulmonary fibrosis, idiopathic
pulmonary fibrosis, progressive massive fibrosis of the lung, cystic fibrosis, mediastinal fibrosis, liver
fibrosis, cirrhosis, endomyocardial fibrosis, cardiac fibrosis, old myocardial infarction, progressive
kidney disease, renal fibrosis, myelofibrosis, retroperitoneal fibrosis, nephrogenic systemic fibrosis,
Crohn's    disease,   keloids,   scleroderma/systemic     sclerosis, arthrofibrosis, adhesive   capsulitis,
fibromyalgia, peritoneal fibrosis, radiation induced fibrosis, bum induced fibrosis, trauma induced
fibrosis, scarring fibrosis, and wound healing fibrosis..

                                                      5
[0021]      The invention compositions are also useful for wound healing resulting from traumatic injury
such as burns or for healing of chronic wounds and reducing scarring and fibrosis
[00221      The present invention also provides a pharmaceutical composition to treat desmoplastic
cancers or cancers having a fibrotic component, including but not limited to: squamous cell carcinomas
independent of their location, bilio-pancreatic carcinomas, mesothelioma, desmoplastic fibroma,
desmoplastic round cell tumor, breast cancer, ovarian cancer, colorectal carcinoma and tumors of
gastrointestinal tract, lung cancers, lymphomas, myelofibrosis. leukemias melanoma, brain tumors
(including glioblastoma, cerebral astrocytoma, neuroblastoma, and medulloblastoma), bladder cancers,
hepatocellular and urothelial tumors, and tumors of the pituitary gland.,
[0023]      The present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition that comprises multiple (two or
more) single stranded or double stranded nucleic acids, including antisense oligonucleotides, RNAi,
shRNAs, siRNAs, miRNAs, antagomirs or plasmid DNA which inhibits or modulate the activity or
expression of two or more of genes involved in the development and progression of fibrosis, including
but not limited to: CTGF, TGFbetai, TGFbeta receptor 1, TGFbeta receptor 2, TGFbeta receptor 3,
beta-catenin, SPARC, VEGF, Angiotensin II, TIMP, HSP47, thrombospondin, CCN1, LOXL2, MMP2,
MMP9, CCL2, Adenosine receptor A2A, Adenosine receptor A2B, Adenylyl cyclase, Smad 3, Smad 4,
Smad 7, , SOX9, arrestin, PDCD4, PAI-I, NF-kB, and PARP- 1 GAD65, sGAD65, BAX, p53 PTEN,
STAT5, smoothened, GLIl, GLI2, and Patched-1. Yet another gene of interest for the present invention
is HIF-lalpha.
[00241      The present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition in which multiple (two or
more) single stranded or double stranded nucleic acids including antisense oligonucleotides, shRNAs,
siRNAs, miRNAs, antagomirs. plasmid DNA ,etc. are covalently conjugated to, or non-covalently
associated with, or formulated with peptides, proteins, antibodies, lipids, phospholipids, polymers,
aptamers, nanoparticles, liposomes, dendrimers, polymerosomes, viral vectors, and micelles. Such a
composition is suitable for mammalian and human use.
[0025]      The present invention provides a method of treatment and a method to administer to human
and other mammals an effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition once or multiple times to treat
fibrosis and other inflammatory conditions or diseases by systemic or local administration. The
administration routes include but are not limited to: oral, intravenous, intraarterial, intracardiac,
intracatheter,   intraperitoneal,   intravesical, transdermal,   nasal inhalation, pulmonary     delivery,
intracavity, intracranial, intrathecal, subcutaneous, intradermal, intramuscular, intraocular, topical,
rectal., vaginal, direct injection/administration, and local delivery with electrotransfer or microneedle
injection.

                                                      6
[0026]      In one preferred embodiment, the single stranded or double stranded nucleic acids including
antisense oligonucleotides, shRNAs, siRNAs, miRNAs, antagomirs, plasmid DNA etc. are encapsulated
in a peptide-based nanoparticle and administered via intravenous systemic administration.
[0027]      Invention compositions maybe prepared in powder form, liquid form, tablet or capsule form,
in the form of gels, creams, ointments, sprays, embedded in wound dressings or dissolving strips and
are suitable for administration by the methods described above
[0028]      Devices used for delivery can include delivery through a needle, microneedle. convection
enhanced delivery device, catheters, intravesical urinary catheters, aerosol, inhaler, nasal spray, pessary,
suppository, single use or repeat use devices, creams, ointments, patches, etc.
[0029]      The present invention comprises a method to select effective combinations of 2 or more gene
targets or corresponding expressed proteins for down regulation or modulation. These gene targets can
be selected from different aspects implicated in the development of fibrosis, including but not limited to
ECM components (structural proteins and proteoglycans, non-structural matricellular proteins, and
growth factors/inflammatory cytokines), and cellular components of fibroblasts (receptors for growth
factors/inflammatory cytokines, signal transduction molecules such as kinases, enzymes, and adaptor
proteins, transcription factors, and other cellular components regulating the proliferation, metabolism,
survival, migration, and differentiation of fibroblasts).
                                           DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0030]      In recent years, multiple proteins have been implicated as potential key regulators promoting
pathogenesis of fibrotic diseases, and some studies have suggested that targeted down regulation of an
individual gene through the RNAi approach could have therapeutic effect against fibrosis. However,
little effort has been made to develop a multi-target RNAi (shRNA, siRNA and/or miRNA,) or plasmid
DNA therapeutics to prevent and treat fibrotic diseases by inhibiting the expression of two or more
genes involved in fibrosis. The present invention provides a therapeutic (for example a composition
comprising multiple nucleic acids such as oligonucleotides, particularly siRNA or miRNA molecules)
aiming for the combined inhibition of two or more target genes involved in fibrosis.
[0031]      The present invention thus in some embodiments relates to the use of a combination of
multiple single or double stranded nucleic acids (such as antisense oligonucleotides, RNAi, shRNAs,
siRNAs, miRNAs, antagomirs and plasmid DNA) for selectively modulating (such as inhibiting) the
expression of two or more genes. for example at the post-transcription level, whereas these genes
controls the same or distinct signaling pathways and cellular procedures, and play essential roles in the
pathology and progression of fibrosis diseases affecting different organs. The invention also provides
the methods of composition and delivering the combination of nucleic acids (such as oligonucleotides)
to the fibrotic disease sites in target organs, including the use of a novel peptide-based nanoparticle

                                                     7
oligonucleotide delivery vehicle as a carrier of the combination of oligonucleotide compounds for the
treatment of fibrotic diseases. The invention also describes the therapeutic use of such compositions
containing oligonucleotide compounds to treat patients with fibrotic diseases, as well as other diseases
including inflammatory diseases and cancer.
[0032]     In some embodiments, the composition comprises two or more active agents in a
predetermined ratio. This allows simultaneous delivery of multiple active agents, which may modulate
the expression of different targets. The predetermined ratio can be selected so as to allow the most
effective delivery and/or target modulation.
[0033]     The present application therefore in one aspect provides a pharmaceutical composition
comprising one or more nucleic acids (such as oligonucleotides) that specifically target the expression
of two or more genes involved in the development or progression of fibrosis or inflammation.            In
another aspect, there is provided a pharmaceutical composition comprising one or more active agents
that modulate the activity or expression of two or more genes involved in the development and
progression of fibrosis or inflammation, selected from, CTGF(CCN2), TGFbetai, TGFbeta receptor 1,
TGFbeta receptor 2, TGFbeta receptor 3, beta -catenin, SPARC, VEGF, Angiotensin II, TIMP, HSP47,
thrombospondin, CCN1, LOXL2, MMP2, MMP9, CCL2, Adenosine receptor A2A, Adenosine receptor
A2B, Adenylyl cyclase, Smad 3, Smad 4. Smad 7, , SOX9, arrestin, PDCD4, PAI-1, NF-kB, and
PARP-1 GAD65, sGAD65, BAX, p53 PTEN, STAT5 and relevant genes in the hedgehog pathway
smoothened., GLIl, GILI2, and Patched-1. Yet another gene of interest for the present invention is HIF
lalpha.
[0034]     In another aspect, there is provided a method of treating a fibrotic or inflammatory condition
in an individual comprising administering to said individual an effective amount of any of the
pharmaceutical composition described herein. Also provided are kits, unit dosages, and articles of
manufacture useful for the methods described herein.
[0035]     It is understood that aspect and embodiments of the invention described herein include
"consisting" and/or "consisting essentially of' aspects and embodiments.
[0036]     As used herein, the singular form "a", "an", and "the" includes plural references unless
indicated otherwise.
[0037]     As is understood by one skilled in the art, reference to "about" a value or parameter herein
includes (and describes) embodiments that are directed to that value or parameter per se. For example,
description referring to "about X" includes description of "X".
I. Methods and compositions of the present invention
[0038]     In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating a fibrotic or inflammatory
condition in an individual, comprising administering to the individual an effective amount of a

                                                     8
pharmaceutical composition comprising one or more (such as any of 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, or 8) nucleic acids
(for example single-stranded or double-stranded oligonucleotides) that modulate the expression of two
or more genes involved in the development or progression of fibrosis or inflammation.          In some
embodiments, the two or more genes are selected from the group consisting of CTG'F(CCN2),
TGFbetai, TGFbeta receptor 1, TGFbeta receptor 2., TGFbeta receptor 3., beta-catenin, SPARC, VEGF,
Angiotensin 11, TIMP, HSP47, thrombospondin, CCN 1, LOXL2, MMP2, MMP9, CCL2, Adenosine
receptor A2A, Adenosine receptor A2B, Adenylyl cyclase, Smad 3, Smad 4, Smad 7, , SOX9, arrestin,
PDCD4, PAI-1, NF-kB, and PARP-1 GAD65, sGAD65, BAX, p53 PTEN, STAT5, and relevant genes
in the hedgehog pathway - smoothened, GLIl, GLI2,. and Patched-1. Yet another gene of interest for
the present invention is HIF-lalpha. In some embodiments, at least one of the nucleic acids is selected
from the group consisting of antisense oligonucleotide, RNAi, shRNA, siRNA, miRNA, or plasmid
DNA.
[0039]      In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating a fibrotic or inflammatory
condition in an individual, comprising administering to the individual an effective amount of a
pharmaceutical composition comprising one or more (such as any of 2, 3, 4, 5. 6, 7, or 8) active agents
(such as nucleic acids, for example, single-stranded or double-stranded oligonucleotides) that modulate
the activity or expression of two or more genes involved in the development and progression of fibrosis
or inflammation, selected from, CTGF(CCN2), TGFbetat, TGFbeta receptor 1, TGFbeta receptor 2,
TGFbeta receptor 3, beta-catenin, SPARC, VEGF, Angiotensin II, TIMP, HSP47, thrombospondin,
CCN I, LOXL2, MMP2, MMP9, CCL2,. Adenosine receptor A2A, Adenosine receptor A2B, Adenylyl
cyclase, Smad 3, Smad 4, Smad 7, , SOX9, arrestin, PDCD4, PAI-1, NF-kB, and PARP-1 GAD65,
sGAD65, BAX, p53 PTEN, STAT5,. and relevant genes in the hedgehog pathway - smoothened, GLIl,
GLI2, and Patched-1. Yet another gene of interest for the present invention is HIF-lalpha. In some
embodiments, at least one of the active agents is a protein (such as an antibody). In some embodiments,
at least one of the active agents is a small molecule. In some embodiments, at least one of the active
agents is an oligonucleotide. In some embodiments, the two active agents are of the same kind. In some
embodiments, the two active agents are of different kinds.
[0040]      In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating a fibrotic or inflammatory
condition in an individual, comprising administering to the individual an effective amount of a
pharmaceutical composition comprising one or more (such as any of 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, or 8) RNAi (for
example siRNA or shRNA) that modulate the expression of two or more genes involved in the
development or progression of fibrosis or inflammation. In some embodiments, the two or more genes
are selected from the group consisting of CTGF(CCN2), TGFbetat, TGFbeta receptor 1, TGFbeta
receptor 2, TGFbeta receptor 3,        beta-catenin, SPARC, VEGF, Angiotensin 11, TIMP, HSP47,
thrombospondin, CCN 1, LOXL2, MMP2, MMP9, CCL2, Adenosine receptor A2A,. Adenosine receptor

                                                        9
A2B, Adenylyl cyclase, Smad 3. Smad 4, Smad 7, , SOX9, arrestin. PDCD4, PAI-1, NF-kB, and
PARP-1 GAD65, sGAD65,. BAX, p53 PTEN, STAT5, and relevant genes in the hedgehog pathway
smoothened, GLIl, GLI2, and Patched-i. Yet another gene of interest for the present invention is HIF
lalpha. In some embodiments, the nucleic acids are about 10 to about 50 nucleotides long. In some
embodiments, the two or more nucleic acids are of the same kind. In some embodiments, the two or
more nucleic acids are of different kinds.
[0041]      The fibrotic or inflammatory condition described herein in some embodiments is selected
from the group consisting of pulmonary fibrosis, idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. progressive massive
fibrosis of the lung, cystic fibrosis, mediastinal fibrosis, liver fibrosis, cirrhosis, endomyocardial
fibrosis, cardiac fibrosis,     old myocardial infarction, progressive kidney disease, renal fibrosis,
myelofibrosis, retroperitoneal fibrosis, nephrogenic systemic fibrosis,            Crohn's disease, keloids,
scleroderma/systemic sclerosis, arthrofibrosis, adhesive capsulitis, fibromyalgia, peritoneal fibrosis,
radiation induced fibrosis, burn induced fibrosis, trauma induced fibrosis, scarring fibrosis, and wound
healing fibrosis. In some embodiments, the fibrotic or inflammatory conditions is a desmoplastic
cancer, wherein the desmoplastic cancer is selected from the group consisting of: squamous cell
carcinoma independent of their location, bilio-pancreatic carcinoma, mesothelioma, desmoplastic
fibroma, desmoplastic round cell tumor, breast cancer, ovarian cancer, colorectal carcinoma and tumor
of gastrointestinal tract, lung cancer, lymphoma, myelofibrosis, leukemia, melanoma, brain tumor
(including glioblastoma, cerebral astrocytoma, neuroblastoma, and medulloblastoma), bladder cancer,
hepatocellular and urothelial tumor, and tumor of the pituitary gland. The pharmaceutical composition
can be administered by any of suitable route. including, but not limited to, oral, intravenous,
intraarterial, intracardiac, intracatheter, intraperitoneal, intravesical, transdermal, nasal inhalation,
pulmonary delivery. intracavity, intracranial, intrathecal, subcutaneous, intradermal, intramuscular,
intraocular, topical, rectal, vaginal, direct injection/administration, or local delivery with electrotransfer
or microneedle injection.
[0042]      In some embodiments according to any one of the methods described above, the individual
for treatment is selected based on the expression level of at least one genes involved in the development
and progression of fibrosis or inflammation. In some embodiments, the method further comprises
determining the expression level of at least one gene prior to the administration of the pharmaceutical
composition.
[0043]      "Modulation" of activity or expression means regulating or altering the status or copy
numbers of a gene or mRNA or changing the amount of gene product such as a protein that is produced.
In some embodiments,. the active agent inhibits the expression of the target gene.                   In some
embodiments, the modulation (such as inhibition) occurs at a post-transcriptional level.             In some
embodiments,. the active agent inhibits the expression of the gene or gene product by at least about any

                                                       10
of 10%, 20%, 30%. 40%, 60%. 70%, 80%, 90%, or 100%. In some embodiments such as in the case of
Plasmid delivery, the active agent may increase the expression of the gene or gene product by at least
about any of 10%, 20%. 30%. 40%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, or 100%.
[0044]     In another aspect, there are provided pharmaceutical compositions comprising two or more
(such as any of 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, or 8) active agents (such as nucleic acids, for example single-stranded or
double-stranded oligonucleotides) that modulate the expression of two or more genes involved in the
development or progression of fibrosis or inflammation, including, but not limited to, CTGF(CCN2).
TGFbetai, TGFbeta receptor 1, TGFbeta receptor 2, TGFbeta receptor 3, beta-catenin, SPARC, VEGF,
Angiotensin II, TIMP. HSP47,. thrombospondin, CCN1, LOXL2, MMP2, MMP9, CCL2, Adenosine
receptor A2A, Adenosine receptor A2B, Adenylyl cyclase, Smad 3, Smad 4, Smad 7,            . SOX9, arrestin,
PDCD4, PAI-i. NF-kB, and PARP-1 GAD65, sGAD65,. BAX, p53 PTEN, STAT5, and relevant genes
in the hedgehog pathway - smoothened, GLI1, GLI2, and Patched-1. Yet another gene of interest for
the present invention is HIF-1alpha. These pharmaceutical compositions described herein are useful for
any one of the methods described herein. In some embodiments, the two or more active agents are of
the same kind. In some embodiments, the two or more active agents are of different kinds.            In some
embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition comprises two active agents, and wherein the molar ratio
of the two active agents is about 0.1:1 to about 10:1.       In some embodiments, the two or more active
agents in the pharmaceutical composition are in equal molar proportions.
[0045]     In some embodiments, there are provided pharmaceutical compositions comprising two or
more (such as any of 2, 3, 4, 5. 6, 7., or 8) RNAi (such as siRNA or shRNA) that modulate the
expression of two or more genes involved in the development or progression of fibrosis or
inflammation, including, but not limited to, CTGF(CCN2), TGFbetai, TGFbeta receptor 1, TGFbeta
receptor 2, TGFbeta receptor 3,          beta-catenin, SPARC, VEGF, Angiotensin II, TIMP, HSP47,
thrombospondin, CCN1, LOXL2, MMP2, MMP9, CCL2, Adenosine receptor A2A, Adenosine receptor
A2B, Adenylyl cyclase, Smad 3, Smad 4, Smad 7,             ,  SOX9, arrestin, PDCD4, PAI,       NF-kB, and
PARP-1 GAD65, sGAD65, BAX, p53 PTEN, STAT5, and relevant genes in the hedgehog pathway
smoothened, GLII, GL12, and Patched-1.         In some embodiments, the two interfering RNAs are of the
same kind. In some embodiments, the two or more interfering RNAs are of different kinds.             In some
embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition comprises two interfering RNAs, and wherein the molar
ratio of the two active agents is about 0.1:1 to about 10:1.       In some embodiments, the two or more
interfering RNAs in the pharmaceutical composition are in equal molar proportions.
[0046]     The nucleic acids described in any of the embodiments above can be of any length between
about 12 to about 100 nucleotides long, including for example about any of 15-80, 18-60, 20-50, or 25
30 nucleotides long. In some embodiments, the nucleic acids are at least about 60% (including for
example at least about any of 70%, 80%, 90%, 95%, 98%, or 99%) identical to the corresponding target

                                                      11
gene.   In some embodiments, the nucleic acids are modified, for example by incorporating non
naturally occurring nucleotides.
[00471     The active agents (such as nucleic acids) described in any of the embodiments above can be
associated (such as covalently or non-covalently associated) with a carrier molecule, which can include,
but are not limited to, a peptide, a protein, an antibody, a lipid, a phospholipid, a polymer, an aptamer, a
nanoparticle, a liposome, a dendrimer, a polymerosome, a viral vector, a micelle or synthetic
compositions including of any of the above that can interact with the with the active agents through
charge interactions and/or hydrophobic interactions, e.g. a molecule containing charged species and a
lipid, or a molecule containing a charged peptide and a lipid.           In some embodiments, the carrier
molecule is a peptide (such as a cell-penetrating peptide, for example a polycationic peptide or an
amphipathic peptide).     Suitable cell-penetrating peptides include, but are not limited to, a PTD-based
peptide, an amphipathic peptide, a poly-arginine-based peptide, a MPG peptide, a CADY peptide, or a
Pep-I or Pep-2, peptide. In some embodiments, the composition comprises two or more different types
of peptides (such as different types of cell-penetrating peptides). For example, in some embodiments.
the composition comprises both polycationic peptide and amphipathic peptide. In some embodiments,
the composition comprises a MPG peptide and a CADY peptide. Other combinations of the carrier
peptides are also contemplated.
[0048]     The nucleic acids and the cell-penetrating peptide in some embodiments can be present in a
complex.    In some embodiments, the nucleic acids and the cell-penetrating peptides are present in
nanoparticles comprising the complexes of the nucleic acids and the cell-penetrating peptide.            The
average size of the nanoparticles can be between any of about 30 nm and about 10 microns, including
for example between about 50 nm and about 1 micron, between about 50 nm and about 400 nm. The
molar ratio of the cell-penetrating peptide and the nucleic acids in the composition can be about 100:1
to about 1:50, including about any of 50:1 to 1:20, 20:1 to 1:10, and the like.
[0049]     The compositions and methods described in this section are further described below in more
detail.
II. Pharmaceutical compositions comprising two or more active agents
[0050]     Active agents described herein include nucleic acid based molecules such as oligonucleotides,
nucleic acids, polynucleotides, single or double stranded oligo and polynucleotides,               antisense
oligonucleotides. different forms of RNAi such as siRNA, shRNA, etc., microRNA (miRNA),
antagomirs, ribozyme, aptamer, plasmid DNA, etc. and suitable combinations of one or more of these
agents. In addition, active agents may also include proteins such as enzymes or antibodies having a
specific desired effect or small molecules with desired specific activity. Also contemplated are

                                                   12
combinations of nucleic acid based agents with proteins or small molecules that are either covalently
attached to each other or provided without any covalent attachment as suitable combinations.
[00511     Target genes: Specific and preferred active agents and their targets include those that are
directed towards fibrosis and inflammation. These include agents directed to CTGF(CCN2), TGFbetai,
TGFbeta receptor 1, TGFbeta receptor 2, TGFbeta receptor 3,             beta-catenin, SPARC, VEGF,
Angiotensin 11, TIMP, HSP47, thrombospondin, CCN 1, LOXL2, MMP2, MMP9, CCL2, Adenosine
receptor A2A, Adenosine receptor A2B, Adenylyl cyclase, Smad 3, Smad 4, Smad 7, , SOX9, arrestin,
PDCD4, PAI-i, NF-kB, and PARP-1 GAD65, sGAD65, BAX. p53 PTEN, and STAT5, and relevant
genes in the hedgehog pathway - smoothened, GLI1, GLI2. and Patched-1. Yet another gene of interest
for the present invention is HIF-lalpha. The specific agents of interest acting on these targets include
nucleic acid based molecules, proteins, enzymes or antibodies, and small molecules and their
combinations as described above. Most preferred are compositions which contain more than one active
agent thereby having the ability to simultaneously affect or modulate more than one target related to
fibrosis or inflammation.
[0052]     Preferred molecular targets and key signaling pathways implicated in the pathology of
fibrotic diseases, such as Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis, Systemic Scleroderma, and Liver Cirrhosis
include transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta and its receptors, connective tissue growth factor
(CTGF), adenosine receptors, SPARC (secreted protein acidic and rich in cysteine) and tissue inhibitors
of metalloproteinases (TIMPs), which are involved in the activation of fibroblasts, inflammatory
responses, ECM deposition, and tissue repair.
[0053]     The active agent(s) described herein may modulate the expression of two or more genes in
the same signaling pathway, or they modulate the expression of two or more genes in different
pathways. For example, in some embodiments, the active agent (such as nucleic acids, for example
RNAi) modulates the expression of the TGF-beta signaling pathway. In some embodiments, the active
agent (such as nucleic acids, for example RNAi) modulate the expression of the CTGF signaling
pathway. In some embodiments, the active agent (such as nucleic acid, for example RNAi) modulates
the expression of a protein involved in the hedgehog pathway (which includes, but is not limited to,
Patched-I, smoothened, GLIl, GLI-2). In some embodiments, the active agent (such as nucleic acid,
for example RNAi) modulates the expression of an ECM protein (which includes, but is not limited to,
collagen, fibronectin, and vitronectin). In some embodiments, the active agent (such as nucleic acid, for
example RNAi) modulates the expression of a non-structural protein involved in the organization and
remodeling of the ECM (which includes, but is not limited to, SPARC, thrombospondin, CCN1,
LOXL2, TGF-beta-1, CTGF, and TIMP). In some embodiments, the active agent (such as nucleic acid,
for example RNAi) modulates the expression of a regulator of fibrosis (which includes, but is not

                                                    13
limited to, cytokines, chemokines, angiogenic factors, growth factors, PPAPs, SAP, caspases, and
components of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (ANG II).
[00541     In some embodiments, the active agent(s) modulate the expressions of two or more targets
proteins in the same signaling transduction pathway.        In some embodiments, the active agent(s)
modulate the expression of target proteins in two or more different signal transduction pathways. The
active agents) can modulate any combinations of the targets described above. For example, In some
embodiments, the active agent (such as nucleic acid, for example RNAi) modulates the expression of
both the TGF-beta signaling pathway and the CTGF pathway or both the SPARC and the CTGF
pathway.    Other target combinations include, but are not limited to, the transforming growth factor
(TGF)-beta receptors 1 or 2 with CTGF, transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta receptors I or 2 with
SPARC, transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta receptors             1 or 2 with Adenosine receptors,
transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta receptors 1 or 2 with TIMPs, SPARC with CTGF, SPARC with
Adenosine receptors, SPARC with TIMPs, CTGF with Adenosine receptors, CTGF with TIMPs,
Adenosine receptors with TIMPs, Triple combinations of targets include any of the double
combinations indicated above with additional single targets mentioned above.
[0055]     In some embodiments, at least one of target genes is a gene involved in the TGF-beta
signaling pathway, including TGF-beta.         The action of TGF-beta is characterized by increased
production of ECM components, as well as mesenchymal cell proliferation, differentiation, migration,
and accumulation [16, 17]. TGF-beta also induces production of CTGF, which promotes fibrogenesis
and causes nodular fibrosis in the liver [18, 19].      In lung fibroblasts, TGF-beta up regulates the
expression of SPARC, which is a key modulator of ECM organization and overexpressed in IPF [20].
[0056]     In some embodiments, at least one of target genes is a gene involved in the CTGF signaling
pathway, including CTGF . CTGF is involved in radiation-induced fibrosis, lung fibrosis, and
scleroderma [18].     Transgenic mice overexpressing CTGF in fibroblasts display multiorgan fibrosis
similar to fibrosis observed with scleroderma [21,. 22]. CTGF siRNA reduce mRNA and protein levels
of SPARC, CTGF, Collagen 1 and TGF-betal in fibroblasts in vitro, and attenuates bleomycin induced
fibrosis in skin and lungs [23].
[0057]     In some embodiments, at least one of target genes is a gene involved in the adenosine
signaling pathway, including adenosine receptors A2A and A2B . Adenosine and its receptors A2A and
A2B in pathological conditions promote fibrosis in the skin, lungs, and liver [24].       A2B receptor
overexpression is observed in surgical lung biopsies from severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
(COPD) and IPF patients [25]. Adenosine. by acting at A2A receptors, stimulates hepatic stellate cell
mediated fibrosis of the liver by increasing production of collagen I and III [26, 27].
[0058]     In some embodiments, at least one of target genes is a gene involved in the SPARC signaling
pathway, including SPARC.          SPARC, a matricellular protein., promotes fibrogenesis in IPF,

                                                    14
scleroderma, and liver fibrosis [28-30]. SPARC is a key downstream mediator of TGF-betal activity
[31], and its expression is up regulated by TGF-beta via the P13k signaling pathway in IPF fibroblasts
[20]. SPARC in turn also regulates the expression of TGF-betal [32]. Skin and lung fibrosis induced
by bleomycin in mice was markedly reduced by SPARC siRNA delivered by subcutaneous injection
and intratracheal instillation, respectively [29]. Liver fibrosis in rats treated with thiocetamide was
significantly attenuated by treatment with SPARC antisense [33].
[0059]      In some embodiments, at least one of target genes is a gene involved in the TIMP (tissue
inhibitors of metalloproteinase)      signaling pathway,   including    TIMP     . Tissue inhibitors  of
metalloproteinases (TIMPs) are the endogenous inhibitors of the matrix metalloproteinase families.
TIMP-1 inhibits the majority of the MMPs while TIMP-3 inhibits all known interstitial and membrane
bound MMPs [34]. TIMPs play a pivotal role in liver fibrogenesis [35], and lung tissue samples from
IPF patients display high expression of TIMPs, supporting the hypothesis that TIMPs contribute to a
nondegrading fibrillar collagen microenvironment [36].
[0060]      The methods and compositions described herein allow for modulation of the expression of
two or more target genes.        Exemplary target combinations include, but are not limited to, the
transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta receptors I or 2 with CTGF, transforming growth factor (TGF)
beta receptors 1 or 2 with SPARC, transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta receptors 1 or 2 with
Adenosine receptors, transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta receptors 1 or 2 with TIMPs, SPARC with
CTGF, SPARC with Adenosine receptors. SPARC with TIMPs, CTGF with Adenosine receptors,
CTGF with TIMPs, Adenosine receptors with TIMPs, Triple combinations of targets include any of the
double combinations indicated above with additional single targets mentioned above.
[0061]      Nucleic acids:   In some embodiments, the active agents present in the pharmaceutical
compositions are nucleic acids (such as oligonucleotides).
[0062]      "Polynucleotide," or "nucleic acid," as used interchangeably herein, refer to polymers of
nucleotides of any length, and include DNA and RNA. The nucleotides can be deoxyribonucleotides,
ribonucleotides, modified nucleotides or bases, and/or their analogs, or any substrate that can be
incorporated into a polymer by DNA or RNA polymerase. A polynucleotide may comprise modified
nucleotides., such as methylated nucleotides and their analogs. The term "nucleic acid" as used herein
refers to a polymer containing at least two deoxyribonucleotides or ribonucleotides in either single- or
double-stranded form and includes DNA and RNA. DNA may be in the form of, e.g., antisense
molecules, plasmid DNA, pre-condensed DNA, a PCR product, vectors (P1, PAC, BAC, YAC,
artificial chromosomes), expression cassettes, chimeric sequences, chromosomal DNA, or derivatives
and combinations of these groups. RNA may be in the form of siRNA, asymmetrical interfering RNA
(aiRNA), microRNA (miRNA)., mRNA. tRNA, rRNA, tRNA, viral RNA (vRNA), and combinations
thereof. Nucleic acids include nucleic acids containing known nucleotide analogs or modified backbone

                                                    15
residues or linkages, which are synthetic, naturally occurring, and non-naturally occurring, and which
have similar binding properties as the reference nucleic acid. Examples of such analogs include, without
limitation, phosphorothioates. phosphoramidates. methyl phosphonates, chiral-methyl phosphonates, 2'
O-methyl ribonucleotides. and peptide-nucleic acids (PNAs). Unless specifically limited, the term
encompasses nucleic acids containing known analogues of natural nucleotides that have similar binding
properties as the reference nucleic acid. Unless otherwise indicated, a particular nucleic acid sequence
also implicitly encompasses conservatively        modified variants thereof (e.g., degenerate codon
substitutions), alleles, orthologs, SNPs, and complementary sequences as well as the sequence explicitly
indicated. Specifically, degenerate codon substitutions may be achieved by generating sequences in
which the third position of one or more selected (or all) codons is substituted with mixed-base and/or
deoxyinosine residues (Batzer et al., Nucleic Acid Res., 19:5081 (1991); Ohtsuka et al., J. Biol. Chem.,
260:2605-2608 (1985); Rossolini et al., Mol. Cell. Probes, 8:91-98 (1994)). "Nucleotides" contain a
sugar deoxyribose (DNA) or ribose (RNA), a base, and a phosphate group. Nucleotides are linked
together through the phosphate groups. "Bases" include purines and pyrimidines, which further include
natural compounds adenine, thymine, guanine, cytosine, uracil, inosine, and natural analogs, and
synthetic derivatives of purines and pyrimidines, which include, but are not limited to, modifications
which place new reactive groups such as, but not limited to, amines, alcohols, thiols, carboxylates, and
alkylhalides.     "Oligonucleotide," as used herein, generally refers to short, generally synthetic
polynucleotides that are generally, but not necessarily, less than about 200 nucleotides in length. The
terms "oligonucleotide" and "polynucleotide" are not mutually exclusive. The description above for
polynucleotides is equally and fully applicable to oligonucleotides.
[0063]     In some embodiments, the nucleic acids are single stranded oligonucleotides.         In some
embodiments, the nucleic acids are double stranded oligonucleotides.       The nucleic acids described
herein may be any of a range of length of up to, but not necessarily 200 nucleotides in the case of
antisense oligonucleotides, RNAi, siRNA, shRNA, miRNA, antagomirs or up to 1000 kilo bases in the
case of Plasmid DNA.
[0064]     In some embodiments, the nucleic acids are interference RNA, such as siRNA or shRNA.
"The term "interfering RNA" or "RNAi" or "interfering RNA sequence" refers to single-stranded RNA
(e.g., mature miRNA) or double-stranded RNA (i.e., duplex RNA such as siRNA, aiRNA, or pre
miRNA) that is capable of reducing or inhibiting the expression of a target gene or sequence (e.g., by
mediating the degradation or inhibiting the translation of mRNAs which are complementary to the
interfering RNA sequence) when the interfering RNA is in the same cell as the target gene or sequence.
Interfering RNA thus refers to the single-stranded RNA that is complementary to a target mRNA
sequence or to the double-stranded RNA formed by two complementary strands or by a single, self
complementary strand. Interfering RNA may have substantial or complete identity to the target gene or

                                                    16
sequence, or may comprise a region of mismatch (i.e., a mismatch motif). The sequence of the
interfering RNA can correspond to the full-length target gene, or a subsequence thereof      Interfering
RNA includes "small-interfering RNA" or "siRNA," e.g., interfering RNA of about 15-60, 15-50, or 15
40 (duplex) nucleotides in length, more typically about 15-30, 15-25, or 19-25 (duplex) nucleotides in
length., and is preferably about 20-24, 21-22, or 21-23 (duplex) nucleotides in length (e.g., each
complementary sequence of the double-stranded siRNA is 15-60, 15-50, 15-40, 15-30, 15-25, or 19-25
nucleotides in length, preferably about 20-24, 21-22, or 21-23 nucleotides in length, and the double
stranded siRNA is about 15-60, 15-50, 15-40, 15-30, 15-25, or 19-25 base pairs in length, preferably
about 18-22, 19-20, or 19-21 base pairs in length). siRNA duplexes may comprise 3' overhangs of about
1 to about 4 nucleotides or about 2 to about 3 nucleotides and 5' phosphate termini. Examples of siRNA
include, without limitation, a double-stranded polynucleotide molecule assembled from two separate
stranded molecules, wherein one strand is the sense strand and the other is the complementary antisense
strand; a double-stranded polynucleotide molecule assembled from a single stranded molecule, where
the sense and antisense regions are linked by a nucleic acid-based or non-nucleic acid-based linker; a
double-stranded polynucleotide molecule with a hairpin secondary structure having self-complementary
sense and antisense regions; and a circular single-stranded polynucleotide molecule with two or more
loop structures and a stem having self-complementary sense and antisense regions, where the circular
polynucleotide can be processed in vivo or in vitro to generate an active double-stranded siRNA
molecule. Preferably, siRNA are chemically synthesized. siRNA can also be generated by cleavage of
longer dsRNA (e.g., dsRNA greater than about 25 nucleotides in length) with the E. coli RNase III or
Dicer. These enzymes process the dsRNA into biologically active siRNA (see, e.g., Yang et al., Proc.
Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 99:9942-9947 (2002); Calegari et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 99:14236
(2002); Byrom et al., Ambion TechNotes, 10(1):4-6 (2003); Kawasaki et al., Nucleic Acids Res..
3 1:981-987 (2003); Knight et al., Science, 293:2269-2271 (2001); and Robertson et al., J. Biol. Chem.,
243:82 (1968)). Preferably, dsRNA are at least 50 nucleotides to about 100, 200, 300, 400, or 500
nucleotides in length. A dsRNA may be as long as 1000, 1500, 2000, 5000 nucleotides in length, or
longer. The dsRNA can encode for an entire gene transcript or a partial gene transcript. In certain
instances, siRNA may be encoded by a plasmid (e.g., transcribed as sequences that automatically fold
into duplexes with hairpin loops). A small hairpin RNA or short hairpin RNA (shRNA) is a sequence
of RNA that makes a tight hairpin turn that can be used to silence gene expression via RNA
interference. The shRNA hairpin structure is cleaved by the cellular machinery into siRNA, which is
then bound to the RNA-induced silencing complex (RISC). This complex binds to and cleaves mRNAs
which match the siRNA that is bound to it. Suitable length of the interference RNA are about 5 to
about 200 nucleotides, or 10-50 nucleotides or base pairs or 15-30 nucleotides or base pairs. In some
embodiments,. the interference RNA is substantially complementary (such as at least about 60%, 70%,

                                                  17
80%, 90%, 95%, 98%, 99%,. or more identical to) the corresponding target gene.                In some
embodiments, the interference RNA is modified, for example by incorporating non-naturally occurring
nucleotides. In some embodiments the targets and corresponding sequences are indicated below:
 Target                         siRNA sense sequence
 Adenosine receptor A2A         5'-GCUGAAGCAGAUGGAGAGCCA-3'
 Adenosine receptor A2B         5'-GCUACACUUUUCACAAAAUUA-3'
 Angiotensin receptor 1         5'-AT TGTCCCAAAGCTGGAAGGC-3'
 Angiotensin receptor 2         5'-UUGAUAGGUACCAAUCUGUCA-3'
 Arrestin beta I                5'-AUUACCAUGGAGAACCCAUCA-3'
 Beta-catenin                   5'-CGGGAUGUUCACAACCGAAUU-3'
 CCL2                           5'-AUUAAUACAAAGAAUUUUUUU-3'
 CCN1                           5'-GUUACCAAUGACAACCCUGAG-3'
                                5'-CCGGAGACAAUGACAUCUUUG-3'
 CTGF                           OR
                                5'-GCACCAGUGUGAAGACAUA-3'
 HSP47                          5'-ACGAGAAGGAAAAGCUGCAAA-3'
 LOXL2                          5'-ACCAAAGUGUACAAAAUGUUU-3'
 MMP2                           5'-UUGAUGCGGUAUACGAGGCCC-3'
 MMP9                           5'-GGCGACCUCAAGUGGCACCAC-3'
 PAl-I                          5'-AGUUCAACUAUACUGAGUUCA-3'
 PARP-1                         5'-AUAACCGAAGAUUGCUGUGGC-3'
 PDCD4                          5'-AUAGAGAGAUGACAUCUAAGC-3'
 PTEN                           5'-UGUAAUGAUAUGUGCAUAUUU-3'
 Smad 3                         5'-UGUUCCAGUGUGUCUUAGAGA-3'
 Smad 4                         5'-GUUACUGUUGAUGGAUACGUG-3'
 Smad 7                         5'-CACUUCAAACUACUUUGCUGC-3'
 SOX9                           5'-AGAGAGGACCAACCAGAAUUC-3'
                                5'-AACAAGACCUUCGACUCUUCCC-3'
 SPARC                          OR
                                5'-GCACCACACGUUUCU UUG-3'
 STAT5A                         5'-GUUGUGAGUUUAGUAAGGCUG-3'
 TGF beta receptor 1            5'-CUAUGCAAUGGGCUUAGUAUU-3'
 TGF beta receptor 2            5'-AAUGACGAGAACAUAACACUA-3'
 TGF beta receptor 3            5'-UAACAAUUGAUAUAAGACCUU-3'
 TGF beta 1                     5'-UUAAAAGUGGAGCAGCACGUG-3'
 Thrombospondin 1               5'-GCACGUGG UGUCUGUGGAAGA-3'
 TIMP-1                         5'-AAGGGUUCCAAGCCUUAGGGG-3'
 TIMP-3                         5'-CUGCAAGAUCAAGUCCUGC UA-3'
 VEGF                           5'-AUGUGAAUGCAGAUGUGACAA-3'
[0065]     In some embodiments, the nucleic acids are double-stranded antisense RNA. Suitable length
of the interference RNA are about 5 to about 200 nucleotides, or 10-50 nucleotides or base pairs or 15-

                                                   18
30 nucleotides or base pairs.        In some embodiments, the interference RNA is substantially
complementary (such as at least about 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%. 95%, 98%, 99%, or more identical to) the
corresponding target gene. In some embodiments, the antisense RNA is modified, for example by
incorporating non-naturally occurring nucleotides.
[0066]      In some embodiments, the nucleic acids are miRNA. A microRNA (abbreviated miRNA) is a
short ribonucleic acid (RNA) molecule found in eukaryotic cells. A microRNA molecule has very few
nucleotides (an average of 22) compared with other RNAs. miRNAs are post-transcriptional regulators
that bind to complementary sequences on target messenger RNA transcripts (mRNAs), usually resulting
in translational repression or target degradation and gene silencing. The human genome may encode
over 1000 miRNAs, which may target about 60% of mammalian genes and are abundant in many
human cell types.     Suitable length of the miRNAs are about 5 to about 200 nucleotides, or 10-50
nucleotides or base pairs or 15-30 nucleotides or base pairs. In some embodiments, the miRNA is
substantially complementary (such as at least about 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 95%, 98%, 99%, or more
identical to) the corresponding target gene. In some embodiments, the antisense RNA is modified, for
example by incorporating non-naturally occurring nucleotides.
[0067]      In some embodiments, the nucleic acids are plasmid DNA or DNA fragments (for example
DNA fragments of lengths of up to about 1000 bp). In addition, the plasmid DNA or DNA fragments
may be hypermethylated or hypomethylated.
[0068]      Carrier molecules: The active agents described herein in some embodiments are associated
with carrier molecules.     Carrier molecules in some embodiments can be selected from the group
consisting of a peptide, a protein, an antibody, a lipid, a phospholipid, a polymer, polycationic
polymers, an aptamer, a nanoparticle, a liposome, a dendrimer, a polymerosome, a viral vector, or a
micelle.    The carrier molecules can be combined with the desired active agents of interest to be
delivered. The combinations may include covalent or non-covalent interactions between the carriers and
the active agents.
[0069]      In some embodiments, the carrier molecule is a peptide, such as a cell penetrating peplide.
"Cell-penetrating peptide" as used herein refers to short peptides that facilitate cellular uptake of
various molecular cargo (from nanosize particles to small chemical molecules and large fragments of
DNA). The "cargo" is associated with the peptides either through chemical linkage via covalent bonds
or through non-covalent interactions. The function of the CPPs are to deliver the cargo into cells, a
process that commonly occurs through endocytosis with the cargo delivered to the endosomes of living
mammalian cells. CPPs typically have an amino acid composition that either contains a high relative
abundance of positively charged amino acids such as lysine or arginine or has sequences that contain an
alternating pattern of polar/charged amino acids and non-polar, hydrophobic amino acids. These two

                                                      19
types of structures are referred to as polycationic or amphipathic, respectively. In some embodiments,
the cell-penetrating peptide and the active agents are combined to form complexes or nanoparticles.
[00701      Suitable cell-penetrating peptides include those disclosed in US 7906484 and its counterparts.
the contents of which are included herein by reference in their entirety. Peptides of interest are those
identified by the formula GLFXALLXLLXSLWXLLLXAZZ                   2Z 3Z 4 wherein each X is independently E,
R, A, 1, L, F, P, W, V, N, C, Q, G, S, T or Y, and wherein each of Z1 , Z2 , Z3, and Z4 , is independently H,
K,    R,     or    Q.    Specific   sequences     include      GLFRALLRLLRSLWRLLLRAHHHH                    and
GLFRALLRLLRSLWRLLLRARRRR.                   Other peptides of interest are those identified in US 6841535,
US    7514530,. US       7579318,    US    7943581,    ,      in Deshayes     et al (2012),      Small,  DOI:
10.1002/smll.201102413,        and   in   Rydstrom      et   al.  (2011),    PLoS    ONE      6(10):   e25924.
doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0025924, the contents of which are included herein by reference in their
entirety. Peptides of interest include for example the peptides Ac-GLWRALWRLLRSLWRLLWKA
cysteamide      and   corresponding    modifications     including Ac-XLWRALWRLXRSLWRLLWKA
cysteamide      [where X= G, L, beta-A, S, L. W, C or I], or Ac-XWRSXGWRWRXLWRWXXWXR
cysteamide [where X= L , S, G, beta-A, W, C or I ].. In addition any of the peptides above can be
stapled to improve their activity as is described by Zhang et al (2011) [[ Zhang H, Curreli F, Zhang X,
Bhattacharya S, Waheed AA, Cooper A, Cowburn D, Freed EO, Debnath AK. (2011) Antiviral activity
of alpha-helical stapled peptides designed from the HIV-1 capsid dimerization domain. Retrovirology.
2011 May 3; 8:28. ]], the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
[00711      Additional cell-penetrating peptides suitable for invention use are disclosed in WO
2012/137150 A2 and WO 2012/137036 Al both of which arc incorporated by reference herein in their
entirety. These include peptides designated as the VEPEP-6 series and stapled peptides designated as
the ST-VEPEP-6 series and modifications thereof.
[0072]      In the case of lipid based carriers, these are described in US 8058069 or US8034376, the
contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. The term "lipid" refers to a
group of organic compounds that include, but are not limited to, esters of fatty acids and are
characterized by being insoluble in water, but soluble in many organic solvents. They are usually
divided into at least three classes: (1) "simple lipids," which include fats and oils as well as waxes; (2)
"compound lipids," which include phospholipids and glycolipids; and (3) "derived lipids" such as
steroids. A "lipid particle" is used herein to refer to a lipid formulation that can be used to deliver an
active agent or therapeutic agent, such as a nucleic acid (e.g., an interfering RNA), to a target site of
interest. In the lipid particle of the invention, which is typically formed from a cationic lipid, a non
cationic lipid, and a conjugated lipid that prevents aggregation of the particle, the active agent or
therapeutic agent may be encapsulated in the lipid, thereby protecting the agent from enzymatic
degradation. As used herein, the term "SNALP" refers to a stable nucleic acid-lipid particle. A SNALP

                                                     20
represents a particle made from lipids (e.g., a cationic lipid, a non-cationic lipid, and a conjugated lipid
that prevents aggregation of the particle), wherein the nucleic acid (e.g., siRNA, aiRNA, miRNA,
ssDNA, dsDNA, ssRNA, short hairpin RNA (shRNA), dsRNA, or a plasmid, including plasmids from
which an interfering RNA is transcribed) is fully encapsulated within the lipid. As used herein, the term
"SNALP" includes an SPLP, which is the term used to refer to a nucleic acid-lipid particle comprising a
nucleic acid (e.g., a plasmid) encapsulated within the lipid. SNALP and SPLP typically contain a
cationic lipid, a non-cationic lipid, and a lipid conjugate (e.g., a PEG-lipid conjugate). SNALP and
SPLP are extremely useful for systemic applications, as they can exhibit extended circulation lifetimes
following intravenous (i.v.) injection, they can accumulate at distal sites (e.g., sites physically separated
from the administration site), and they can mediate expression of the transfected gene or silencing of
target gene expression at these distal sites. SPLP include "pSPLP," which comprise an encapsulated
condensing agent-nucleic acid complex as set forth in PCT Publication No. WO 00/03683, the
disclosure of which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.
[0073]     Other suitable carriers include ones such as ECHO (Wang et al, 2009, MOLECULAR
PHARMACEUTICS VOL. 6, NO. 3, 738-746) and their modifications. EHCO (1-aminoethyl)
iminobis[N-(oleicylcysteinylhistinyl-1-aminoethyl)propionamide],      shows pH sensitive amphiphilic cell
membrane disruption. EHCO forms stable nanoparticles with siRNA. Targeted siRNA delivery systems
are readily formed by surface modification of the nanoparticles. PEGylation of the siRNA/EHCO
nanoparticles significantly reduces nonspecific cell uptake. The incorporation of a bombesin peptide or
RGD peptide via a PEG spacer results in receptor mediated cellular uptake and high gene silencing
efficiency in U87 cells. Fluorescence confocal microscopic studies demonstrate that EHCO/siRNA
nanoparticles and PEG modified EHCO/ siRNA nanoparticles are able to facilitate endosomal escape of
the siRNA delivery systems. Systemic administration of a therapeutic anti-HIF-IR siRNA with the
peptide-targeted delivery systems results in significant tumor growth inhibition than a nontargeted
delivery system or free siRNA via intravenous injection in nude mice bearing human glioma U87
xenografts. Modifications of ECHO are also useful for this purpose.
[0074]     Pharmaceutical compositions:      Preferred compositions of the present invention have more
than one nucleic acid based active agent. In case where 2 active agents are used, they are present in
molar ratios of about 1:9 to 9:1, more preferably in the range of about 3:7 to about 7:3, and 4:6 to about
6:4 and most preferably at a ratio of 1:1.     In the case where 3 active agents are used, the preferred
ranges of each active agent are in the molar proportion of 1:1:8 to 8:1:1, or in the range of 2:2:6 to
6:2:2, or in the range of 3:3:4 to 4:3:3 or present in equal proportions. In the case where more 4 active
agents are used, it is preferred to use them in the range of molar proportion of 1:1:1:7 to 7:1:1:1, or in
the range of 2:2:2:4 to 4:2:2:2 or have them present in equal proportions. When more than 4 active
agents are used, it is preferred to have them present in equal molar proportions.

                                                      21
[0075]      The peptide-based particles of the invention typically have a mean diameter of from about 10
nm to about 300 nm, from about 50 nm to about 200 nm, from about 60 nm to about 150 nm, from
about 70 nm to about 110 nm, or from about 70 to about 90 nm, and are substantially non-toxic.
[0076]      Preferably, the molar ratio (peptide):(nucleic acid) in the complex is between 1:100 and
100:1, more preferably between 1:1 and 80:1, yet more preferably between 5:1 and 30:1, most
preferably between 8:1 and 20:1, and specifically 10:1, 15:1 or 20:1. The optimal molar ratio is easily
determined by the skilled person, for example as described herein below. Specifically, the skilled
person can test the transfection efficiency of complexes having a variety of molar ratios
(peptide):(nucleic acid) for any given peptide/nucleic acid combination, and will chose the ratio giving
the best transfection efficiency.
[0077]      The lipid particles of the invention (e.g., SNALP) typically have a mean diameter of from
about 40 nm to about 150 nm, from about 50 nm to about 150 nm, from about 60 nm to about 130 nm,
from about 70 nm to about 110 nm, or from about 70 to about 90 nm, and are substantially non-toxic. In
addition, nucleic acids, when present in the lipid particles of the invention, are resistant in aqueous
solution to degradation with a nuclease. Nucleic acid-lipid particles and their method of preparation are
disclosed in, e.g., U.S. Patent Publication Nos. 20040142025 and 20070042031, US8034376,                  the
disclosures of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes.
[0078]      Targeting: According to a particular embodiment, the complex of the invention further
comprise at least one ligand capable of cell-specific and/or nuclear targeting. A cell membrane surface
receptor is a molecule or structure which can bind said ligand with high affinity and preferably with
high specificity. Said cell membrane surface receptor is preferably specific for a particular cell, i.e. it is
found predominantly in one type of cell rather than in another type of cell (e.g. galactosyl residues to
target the asialoglycoprotein receptor on the surface of hepatocytes). The cell membrane surface
receptor facilitates cell targeting and internalization into the target cell of the ligand (i.e. the peptide
involved in cell-specific targeting) and attached molecules (i.e. the complex of the invention). A large
number of ligand moieties/ ligand binding partners that may be used in the context of the present
invention are widely described in the literature. Such a ligand moiety is capable of conferring to the
complex of the invention, the ability to bind to a given binding-partner molecule or a class of binding
partner molecules localized at the surface of at least one target cell. Suitable binding-partner molecules
include without limitation polypeptides selected from the group consisting of cell-specific markers,
tissue-specific markers, cellular receptors, viral antigens, antigenic epitopes and tumor-associated
markers. Binding-partner molecules may moreover consist of or comprise one or more sugar, lipid,
glycolipid or antibody molecules. According to the invention, a ligand moiety may be for example a
lipid, a glycolipid, a hormone, a sugar, a polymer (e.g. PEG, polylysine, PEI), an oligonucleotide, a
vitamin, an antigen, all or part of a lectin, all or part of a polypeptide such as for example JTS I (WO

                                                    22
94/40958), an antibody or a fragment thereof, or a combination thereof. Preferably, the ligand moiety
used in the present invention is a peptide or polypeptide having a minimal length of 7 amino acids. It is
either a native polypeptide or a polypeptide derived from a native polypeptide. "Derived" means
containing (a) one or more modifications with respect to the native sequence (e.g. addition, deletion
and/or substitution of one or more residues), (b) amino acid analogs, including not naturally occurring
amino acids or (c) substituted linkages or (d) other modifications known in the art. The polypeptides
serving as ligand moiety encompass variant and chimeric polypeptides obtained by fusing sequences of
various origins, such as for example a humanized antibody which combines the variable region of a
mouse antibody and the constant region of a human immunoglobulin. In addition, such polypeptides
may have a linear or cyclized structure (e.g. by flanking at both extremities a polypeptide ligand by
cysteine residues). Additionally, the polypeptide in use as ligand moiety may include modifications of
its original structure by way of substitution or addition of chemical moieties (e.g. glycosylation,
alkylation, acetylation, amidation, phosphorylation, addition of sulfhydryl groups and the like). The
invention further contemplates modifications that render the ligand moiety detectable. For this purpose,
modifications with a detectable moiety can be envisaged (i.e. a scintigraphic, radioactive, or fluorescent
moiety, or a dye label and the like). Suitable radioactive labels include but are not limited to .sup.99Tc,
.sup.123I, and .sup.I1lIn. Such detectable labels may be attached to the ligand moiety by any
conventional techniques and may be used for diagnostic purposes (e.g. imaging of tumoral cells). In
one special embodiment., the binding-partner molecule is an antigen (e.g. a target cell-specific antigen, a
disease-specific antigen, an antigen specifically expressed on the surface of engineered target cells) and
the ligand moiety is an antibody, a fragment or a minimal recognition unit thereof (i.e. a fragment still
presenting an antigenic specificity) such as those described in detail in immunology manuals (see for
example Immunology, third edition 1993, Roitt, Brostoff and Male, ed Gambli, Mosby). The ligand
moiety may be a monoclonal antibody. Monoclonal antibodies which will bind to many of these
antigens are already known but in any case, with today's techniques in relation to monoclonal antibody
technology, antibodies may be prepared to most antigens. The ligand moiety may be a part of an
antibody (for example a Fab fragment) or a synthetic antibody fragment (for example, ScFv). According
to an advantageous embodiment, the ligand moiety is selected among antibody fragments, rather than
whole antibodies. Effective functions of whole antibodies, such as complement binding, are removed.
ScFv and dAb antibody fragments may be expressed as a fusion with one or more other polypeptides.
Minimal recognition units may be derived from the sequence of one or more of the complementary
determining regions (CDR) of the Fv fragment. Whole antibodies, and F(ab')2 fragments are "bivalent".
By "bivalent" we mean that said antibodies and F(ab') 2 fragments have two antigen binding sites. In
contrast, Fab, Fv, ScFv, dAb fragments and minimal recognition units are monovalent, having only one
antigen binding sites. In a preferred embodiment. the ligand moiety allows to target a tumor cell and is

                                                     23
capable of recognizing and binding to a molecule related to the tumor status, such as a tumor-specific
antigen, a cellular protein differentially or over-expressed in tumor cells or a gene product of a cancer
associated virus. Examples of tumor-specific antigens include but are not limited to MUC-1 related to
breast cancer (Hareuveni et al., 1990, Eur. J. Biochem 189, 475-486), the products encoded by the
mutated BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes related to breast and ovarian cancers (Miki et al., 1994, Science
226, 66-71; Futreal et al., 1994, Science 226, 120-122; Wooster et al., 1995, Nature 378, 789-792), APC
related to colon cancer (Polakis, 1995, Curr. Opin. Genet. Dcv. 5, 66-71), prostate specific antigen
(PSA) related to prostate cancer, (Stamey et al., 1987, New England J. Med. 317, 909), carcinoma
embryonic antigen (CEA) related to colon cancers (Schrewe et al., 1990, Mol. Cell. Biol. 10, 2738
2748), tyrosinase related to melanomas (Vile et al.., 1993, Cancer Res. 53, 3860-3864), receptor for
melanocyte-stimulating honnone (MSH) which is expressed in high number in melanoma cells, ErbB-2
related to breast and pancreas cancers (Harris et al., 1994, Gene Therapy 1, 170-175), and alpha
foetoprotein related to liver cancers (Kanai et al., 1997, Cancer Res. 57, 461-465). A special ligand
moiety in use in the present invention is a fragment of an antibody capable of recognizing and binding
to the MUC-1 antigen and thus targeting the MUC-1 positive tumor cells. A more preferred ligand
moiety is the scFv fragment of the SM3 monoclonal antibody which recognizes the tandem repeat
region of the MUC-1 antigen (Burshell et al., 1987, Cancer Res. 47, 5476-5482; Girling et al., 1989, Int
J. Cancer 43, 1072-1076; Dokurno et al., 1998, J. Mol. Biol. 284, 713-728). Examples of cellular
proteins differentially or overexpressed in tumor cells include but are not limited to the receptor for
interleukin 2 (IL-2) overexpressed in some lymphoid tumors, GRP (Gastrin Release Peptide)
overexpressed in lung carcinoma cells, pancreas, prostate and stomach tumors (Michael et al., 1995,
Gene Therapy 2, 660-668), TNF (Tumor Necrosis Factor) receptor, epidermal growth factor receptors,
Fas receptor, CD40 receptor, CD30 receptor, CD27 receptor, OX-40, .alpha.-v integrins (Brooks et al.,
1994, Science 264, 569) and receptors for certain angiogenic growth factors (Hanahan, 1997, Science
277, 48). Based on these indications, it is within the scope of those skilled in the art to define an
appropriate ligand moiety capable of recognizing and binding to such proteins. To illustrate, IL-2 is a
suitable ligand moiety to bind to IL-2 receptor. In the case of receptors that are specific to fibrosis and
inflammation, these include the TGFbeta receptors or the Adenosine receptors that are identified above
and are suitable targets for invention compositions. The present application also provided methods of
making any one of the compositions described herein.             For example, the method of making a
pharmaceutical composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a cell penetrating peptide and two or
more active agents generally involve the following steps. Peptide-siRNA nanoparticles with multiple
siRNA combinations are prepared by mixing amphipathic peptide and the desired individual siRNAs.
Stock solutions of amphipathic peptide are prepared at 1 mg/mL (0.1-10 mg/ml range) in distilled water
and sonicated for 10 min. Stock solutions of the multiple siRNA together are prepared at 100 p.M (10-

                                                     24
200uM range). total concentrations in 50 mM Tris, 0.5 mM EDTA buffer. Peptide/siRNA complexes
containing multiple siRNA, are taken in equal proportions (or any desired proportion) and are formed in
pure water by incubating peptide (373 pM stock solution (range 50-5O0uM)) with the siRNA mixture
for 30 min (range 1 minute - 60 minutes) at 37C (range refrigerated to 50C) with final molar ratio of
peptide and siRNA at 20:1 (range 1:1 to 100:1). Alternately, the core complex may be fonned first at a
peptide to siRNA ratio of about 5:1 (range 0.1:1 to 10:1) followed by a second step of incubation of the
peptide with the core complex at a ratio of 20:1 (range 1:1 to 100:1). Peptide-siRNA nanoparticles can
be further characterized for physicochemical properties in vitro for key parameters including particle
size, surface charge, particle stability in suspension and in plasma, and siRNA integrity in plasma. In
addition, these particles may be lyophilized with addition of suitable excipients such as sugars or
proteins such as albumin.
111. Methods of the present invention
[0079]     The pharmaceutical compositions described herein are useful for treating fibrosis and/or
inflammatory conditions.      In some embodiments, the compositions are useful for reducing fibrous
connective tissues in an individual having fibrosis. In some embodiments, the compositions are useful
for inhibiting inflammation in an individual. These compositions can reduce fibrosis as indicated by a
reduction in collagen in the relevant tissues, such as in lungs, skin, liver etc. In addition, markers of
fibrosis and relevant fibrosis and inflammation related genes or gene products such as SPARC, CTGF,
TGF beta receptors, TIMPs, etc. may be directly measure in relevant tissues as an indication of
effectiveness. Functional endpoints in patients, in particular in patients with Idiopathic pulmonary
fibrosis which are indicators of lung function such a mean 6 minute walking distance, blood
oxygenation levels, etc. are also relevant indicators of the effectiveness of therapy. The compositions
described herein can therefore be useful for any one or more of the following: 1) inhibiting fibrosis; 2)
inhibiting inflammation: 3) reducing the amount of collagen; 4) inhibiting (such as simultaneously
inhibiting) expression of two or more target genes (such as target genes described herein); 5) increasing
functional walking distance; and 6) improving quality of life.
[0080]     Different diseases to be treated:         The present invention comprises pharmaceutical
compositions to treat fibrosis or inflammatory conditions or diseases, including but not limited to:
pulmonary fibrosis, idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, progressive massive fibrosis of the lung, cystic
fibrosis, mediastinal fibrosis, liver fibrosis, cirrhosis, endomyocardial fibrosis, cardiac fibrosis, old
myocardial infarction, progressive kidney disease, renal fibrosis, myelofibrosis, retroperitoneal fibrosis,
nephrogenic systemic fibrosis, Crohn's disease, keloids, scleroderma/systemic sclerosis, arthrofibrosis,
adhesive capsulitis, fibromyalgia, peritoneal fibrosis, radiation induced fibrosis, burn induced fibrosis,
trauma induced fibrosis, scarring fibrosis, and wound healing fibrosis. The invention compositions are

                                                    25
also useful for wound healing resulting from traumatic injury such as burns or for healing of chronic
wounds and reducing scarring and fibrosis.
[00811     The present invention comprises pharmaceutical compositions to treat desmoplastic cancers
or cancers having a fibrotic component, including but not limited to: squamous cell carcinomas
independent of their location, bilio-pancreatic carcinomas, mesothelioma, desmoplastic fibroma,
desmoplastic round cell tumor, breast cancer, ovarian cancer, colorectal carcinoma and tumors of
gastrointestinal tract, lung cancers, lymphomas, myelofibrosis. leukemias melanoma, brain tumors
(including glioblastoma, cerebral astrocytoma, neuroblastoma, and medulloblastoma), bladder cancers,
hepatocellular and urothelial tumors, and tumors of the pituitary gland.
[0082]     Diseases: Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF):      IPF is a progressive and generally fatal
disease characterized by scarring of the lungs that thickens the lung lining, causing an irreversible loss
of lung structure and function. IPF affects 5 million people worldwide and 13 0,000-200,000 people in
the US, with about 48,000 new cases diagnosed and 40,000 deaths each year, with medical costs
estimated at $2.8 billion per 100,000 patients [2, 3]. Median survival is 2-4 years following diagnosis,
and the 5-year survival is 20-40% [4, 5]. Currently, there is no known cause, no FDA approved
treatments and no cure for IPF [6].     IPF patients typically are treated with anti-inflammatory drugs,
including corticosteroids and cytotoxic agents, despite the fact that there is no evidence that they have
any effect on long-term patient survival.
[0083]     Systemic Scleroderma (SS): SS is an autoimmune disorder and a connective tissue disease
that involves changes in the skin, blood vessels, muscles, and internal organs. There are an estimated
300,000 people in the US who have scleroderma, a third of whom have SS [7].          Local disease affects
only skin tissues while SS affects skin and underlying tissues, blood vessels, and major organs
including the heart, lungs, or kidneys. In diffuse cutaneous disease, five-year survival is 70%, and 10
year survival is 55% [8]. Currently there is no cure and no specific treatment for scleroderma.        SS
treatment includes     immunosuppressive     and anti-inflammatory      drugs including corticosteroids,
methotrexate, cyclophosphamide, azathioprine, and mycophenolate [9, 10].
[0084]     Liver cirrhosis (LC): Liver fibrogenesis is characterized by excessive accumulation of extra
cellular matrix (ECM), leading to cirrhosis and complications including portal hypertension, liver
failure, and hepatocellular carcinoma [11]. LC causes 800,000 deaths worldwide annually [12]. In the
US, LC causes 27.000 deaths annually [13]. Established cirrhosis has a 10-year mortality of 34-66%
[14]. Common causes of cirrhosis include alcohol consumption, chronic hepatitis B, C and D, obesity,
toxins, bile duct diseases, and autoimmune hepatitis [15]. Currently there is no treatment available for
LC, and health care costs for managing this disease are high.
[0085]     Pancreatic cancer and some other cancers are known to have a fibrotic or desmoplastic
stroma. However there have been no studies to specifically target the stromal components of pancreatic

                                                      26
cancer. Peptide based nanoparticles containing siRNA targeted to CTGF, SPARC, TIMPs, TGFbetal or
2, MMPs and beta-catenin are of particular interest for pancreatic cancer.
[00861     Patient selection based on gene and protein expression profiling: Standard techniques of gene
expression profiling, histology, immunohistochemistry, proteomic analysis, and other well accepted
techniques for determining the level of DNA, mRNA, proteins and other biomarkers in patient samples
can be utilized to identity the genes or proteins that are of particular interest in treating the patient. For
example, if a patient is detected to have a high level expression of a particular gene or protein, then the
pharmaceutical composition may be appropriately adjusted to match the particular condition of the
patient. Thus, if the patient has a high level of CTGF or SPARC, the pharmaceutical composition to be
administered to said patient may contain appropriate amounts of active agents to suppress CTGF or
SPARC.      Based on this analysis a suitable pharmaceutical composition may be selected to selectively
treat or inhibit particular genes or proteins to ameliorate the pathological condition. Thus, for example,
the present application in some embodiments provides a method of treating a fibrotic or inflammatory
condition in an individual, comprising administering to the individual an effective amount of a
pharmaceutical composition comprising one or more active agents (such as nucleic acids, including
oligonucleotides for example interfering RNAs) that modulate the expression of two or more genes
involved in the development or progression of fibrosis or inflammation, wherein the individual is
selected based on the expression level of at least one genes involved in the development and
progression of fibrosis or inflammation. In some embodiments, the active agents are selected based on
the expression profile to inhibit the expression of selected target genes.
[0087]     In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating a fibrotic or inflammatory
condition in an individual, comprising: 1) determining the expression level of at least one (including for
example at least about any of 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 100, 200, 300, 400, 500, or more) genes
involved in the development and progression of fibrosis or inflammation, and 2) administering to the
individual an effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition comprising one or more active agents
(including nucleic acids, such as oligonucleotides for example interfering RNAs) that modulate the
expression of two or more genes involved in the development or progression of fibrosis or
inflammation. In some embodiments, the active agents are selected based on the expression profile to
inhibit the expression of selected target genes.
[0088]     Dosage, administration route : The pharmaceutical compositions may be administered by
oral, intravenous., intraarterial, intracardiac, intracatheter, intraperitoneal, intravesical, transdermal,
nasal inhalation, pulmonary delivery, intracavity, intracranial, intrathecal, subcutaneous, intradermal,
intramuscular, intraocular, topical, rectal, vaginal, direct injection/administration, or local delivery with
electrotransfer or microneedle injection.

                                                     27
[0089]     Dosages of the pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention found to be suitable for
treatment of human or mammalian sub ects are in the range of 0.001 mg/kg - 100 mg/kg of the active
agent. More preferred dosage ranges are 0.1-20 mg/kg and more preferably in the range of 0.5-10
mg/kg, e.g. 0.1-0.5, 0.5-1.     The schedule of administration to the subject may range from a single
administration that constitutes the entire treatment to daily administration. More preferably, the
administration is once every 3-30 days and most preferably once every 4-7 days.
IV. Kits, compositions, reagents, and article of manufacture
[0090]     Also provided herein are kits. reagents, and articles of manufacture useful for the methods
described herein. Such kits may contain vials containing the carrier molecules separately from vials
containing the active agents. At the time of patient treatment, it is first determined what particular
pathology is to be treated based on for example, gene expression analysis or proteomic or histological
analysis of patient samples. Having obtained those results, the carrier molecules are mixed with the
appropriate active agent molecules to result in complexes or nanoparticles that can be administered to
the patient for an effective treatment. Thus, in some embodiments, there is provided a kit comprising: 1)
two or more active agents (such as nucleic acids, for example oligonucleotides); 2) a cell-penetrating
peptide.   In some embodiments, the kit further comprises agents for determining gene expression
profiles. In some embodiment, the kit further comprises a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
[0091]     The kits described herein may further comprise instructions for using the components of the
kit to practice the subject methods (for example instructions for making the pharmaceutical
compositions described herein and/or for use of the pharmaceutical compositions). The instructions for
practicing the subject methods are generally recorded on a suitable recording medium. For example,
the instructions may be printed on a substrate, such as paper or plastic, etc. As such., the instructions
may be present in the kits as a package insert, in the labeling of the container of the kits or components
thereof (ie., associated with the packaging or sub packaging) etc.             In some embodiments, the
instructions are present as an electronic storage data file present on a suitable computer readable storage
medium, e.g., CD-ROM, diskette, etc. In yet other embodiments, the actual instructions are not present
in the kit, but means for obtaining the instructions from a remote source, e.g., via the internet, are
provided. An example of this embodiment is a kit that includes a web address where the instructions
can be viewed and/or from which the instructions can be downloaded. As with the instructions, this
means for obtaining the instructions is recorded on a suitable substrate.
[0092]     The various components of the kit may be in separate containers, where the containers may
be contained within a single housing, e.g., a box.
[0093]     Further provided herein are methods of making any of the articles of manufacture described
herein.

                                                     28
[0094]      The invention is described in detail below and comprises
[0095]     A method of treating a fibrotic or inflammatory condition in an individual, comprising
administering to the individual an effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition comprising one or
more nucleic acids that modulate the expression of two or more genes involved in the development or
progression of fibrosis or inflammation.
[0096]       In some embodiments, the two or more genes are selected from the group consisting of
CTGF(CCN2), TGFbeta, TGFbeta receptor 1, TGFbeta receptor 2, TGFbeta receptor 3, beta-catenin.
SPARC, VEGF, Angiotensin II, TIMP, HSP47, thrombospondin, CCN1, LOXL2, MMP2, MMP9,
CCL2, Adenosine receptor A2A, Adenosine receptor A2B, Adenylyl cyclase, Smad 3. Smad 4, Smad
7,, SOX9, arrestin, PDCD4, PAI-i, NF-kB, and PARP-1 GAD65., sGAD65, BAX, p53 PTEN, STAT5,
smoothened, GLI1, GLI2, and Patched-1. Yet another gene of interest for the present invention is HIF
Ialpha.
[0097]      In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating a fibrotic or inflammatory
condition in an individual, comprising administering to the individual an effective amount of a
pharmaceutical composition comprising one or more active agents that modulate the activity or
expression of two or more genes involved in the development and progression of fibrosis or
inflammation, selected from, CTGF(CCN2), TGFbetai, TGFbeta receptor 1, TGFbeta receptor 2,
TGFbeta receptor 3, beta-catenin, SPARC, VEGF, Angiotensin II, TIMP, HSP47, thrombospondin,
CCN 1, LOXL2, MMP2, MMP9, CCL2, Adenosine receptor A2A, Adenosine receptor A2B, Adenylyl
cyclase, Smad 3, Smad 4, Smad 7, , SOX9, arrestin, PDCD4, PAI-I, NF-kB, and PARP-1 GAD65,
sGAD65, BAX, p53 PTEN, STAT5, smoothened, GLIl, GLI2, and Patched-1. Yet another gene of
interest for the present invention is HIF-lalpha.
[0098]       In some embodiments, according to methods described above, the one or more active agents
are nucleic acids.
[0099]      In some embodiments, according to methods described above, at least one of the nucleic
acids is a single stranded oligonucleotide.
[0100]      In some embodiments, according to methods described above, at least one of the nucleic
acids is a double stranded oligonucleotide.
[0101]      7 In some embodiments, according to methods described above, at least one of the nucleic
acids is selected from the group consisting of antisense oligonucleotide, RNAi, shRNA, siRNA,
miRNA, or plasmid DNA.
[0102]      In some embodiments, according to methods described above, at least one of the nucleic
acids is RNAi.
[0103]      In some embodiments, according to methods described above, at least one of the nucleic
acids is siRNA.

                                                    29
[0104]     In some embodiments, according to methods described above, the at least one of the nucleic
acids is shRNA.
[01051     In some embodiments, according to methods described above, at least one of the nucleic
acids is about 10 to about 50 nucleotides long.
[0106]     In some embodiments, according to methods described above, the composition comprises two
or more nucleic acids.
[0107]     In some embodiments, according to methods described above, the two or more nucleic acids
are of the same kind.
[0108]     In some embodiments, according to methods described above, the two or more nucleic acids
are of different kinds.
[0109]     In some embodiments, according to methods described above, the composition comprises two
nucleic acids, and wherein the molar ratio of the two nucleic acids is about 0.1:1 to about 10:1.
[0110]     In some embodiments, according to methods described above, the two or more nucleic acids
in the pharmaceutical composition are in equal molar proportions.
[0111]     In some embodiments, according to methods described above, the nucleic acids are
associated with a carrier molecule.
[0112]     In some embodiments, according to methods described above, the nucleic acids are
covalently associated with the carrier molecule.
[0113]     In some embodiments, according to methods described above, the nucleic acids are non
covalently associated with the carrier molecule.
[0114]     In some embodiments, according to methods described above, the carrier molecule is selected
from the group consisting of a peptide, a protein, an antibody, a lipid, a phospholipid, a polymer, an
aptamer, a nanoparticle, a liposome, a dendrimer, a polymerosome, a viral vector, and a micelle.
[0115]     In some embodiments, according to methods described above, the carrier molecule is a
peptide.
[0116]     In some embodiments, according to methods described above, the peptide is a cell
penetrating peptide.
[0117]     In some embodiments, according to methods described above, the cell-penetrating peptide is
selected from the group consisting of a PTD-based peptide, an amphipathic peptide, a poly-arginine
based peptide, a MPG peptide, a CADY peptide, Pep-I peptide or a Pep-2 peptide,.
[0118]     In some embodiments, according to methods described above, the nucleic acids and the cell
penetrating peptide are present in a complex.
[0119]     In some embodiments, according to methods described above, the composition comprises
nanoparticles comprising the complexes of the nucleic acids and the cell-penetrating peptide.

                                                       30
[0120]     In some embodiments, according to methods described above, the average size of the
nanoparticles is between 50 and 400 nm.
[01211     In some embodiments, according to methods described above, the molar ratio of the cell
penetrating peptide and the nucleic acids in the composition is about 100:1 to about 1:50.
[0122]     In some embodiments, according to methods described above, the active agents modulate the
activity or expression of two or more genes selected from: SPARC, CTGF, TGFbeta, TGFbeta receptor
1, TGFbeta receptor 2, TGFbeta receptor 3, beta-catenin, Adenosine receptor A2A, Adenosine receptor
A2B, TIMPs.
[0123]     In some embodiments, according to methods described above, the active agents modulate the
activity of SPARC and TGFbetal.
[0124]     In some embodiments, according to methods described above, the fibrotic or inflammatory
condition is selected from the group consisting of pulmonary fibrosis, idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis,
progressive massive fibrosis of the lung, cystic fibrosis, mediastinal fibrosis, liver fibrosis, cirrhosis,
endomyocardial fibrosis, cardiac fibrosis, old myocardial infarction, progressive kidney disease, renal
fibrosis, myelofibrosis, retroperitoneal fibrosis, nephrogenic systemic fibrosis, Crohn's disease, keloids,
scleroderma/systemic sclerosis, arthrofibrosis, adhesive capsulitis, fibromyalgia, peritoneal fibrosis,
radiation induced fibrosis, burn induced fibrosis, trauma induced fibrosis, scarring fibrosis, and wound
healing fibrosis.
[0125]     In some embodiments, according to methods described above, the fibrotic or inflammatory
conditions is a desmoplastic cancer, wherein the desmoplastic cancer is selected from the group
consisting of: squamous cell carcinoma independent of their location, bilio-pancreatic carcinoma,
mesothelioma, desmoplastic fibroma., desmoplastic round cell tumor, breast cancer, ovarian cancer,
colorectal carcinoma and tumor of gastrointestinal tract, lung cancer, lymphoma, myelofibrosis,
leukemia, melanoma, brain tumor (including glioblastoma, cerebral astrocytoma, neuroblastoma, and
medulloblastoma), bladder cancer, hepatocellular and urothelial tumor, and tumor of the pituitary gland.
[0126]     In some embodiments, according to methods described above, said pharmaceutical
composition     is   administered    by   oral,   intravenous,  intraarterial, intracardiac,  intracatheter,
intraperitoneal, intravesical, transdermal, nasal inhalation. pulmonary delivery, intracavity, intracranial,
intrathecal, subcutaneous, intradermal, intramuscular, intraocular, topical, rectal, vaginal,         direct
injection/administration, or local delivery with electrotransfer or microneedle injection.
[0127]     In some embodiments, according to methods described above, the individual is selected based
on the expression level of at least one genes involved in the development and progression of fibrosis or
inflammation.

                                                    31
[0128]     In some embodiments, according to methods described above, the invention requires further
determining the expression level of at least one gene prior to the administration of the pharmaceutical
composition.
[0129]     In some embodiments, the invention comprises a phannaceutical composition comprising two
or more active agents that modulate the expression of two or more genes involved in the development
or progression of fibrosis or inflammation.
[0130]     In some embodiments, the invention requires that the two or more genes are selected from the
group consisting of CTGF(CCN2), TGFbeta, TGFbeta receptor 1, TGFbeta receptor 2, TGFbeta
receptor 3, beta-catenin, SPARC, VEGF, Angiotensin II, TIMP. HSP47, thrombospondin, CCN1,
LOXL2, MMP2, MMP9, CCL2, Adenosine receptor A2A, Adenosine receptor A2B,. Adenylyl cyclase,
Smad 3, Smad 4, Smad 7, , SOX9, arrestin, PDCD4, PAI-i, NF-kB, and PARP-1 GAD65, sGAD65,
BAX, p53 PTEN, STAT5, smoothened, GLI1, GLI2, and Patched-1. Yet another gene of interest for the
present invention is HIF-1alpha.
[0131]     In some embodiments, the invention requires that the two or more active agents are of the
same kind.
[0132]     In some embodiments, the invention requires that the two or more active agents are of
different kinds.
[0133]     In some embodiments, the invention requires that the composition comprises two active
agents, and wherein the molar ratio of the two active agents is about 0.1:1 to about 10:1.
[01341     In some embodiments, the invention requires that the two or more active agents in the
pharmaceutical composition are in equal molar proportions.
[0135]     In some embodiments, the invention requires that the two or more active agents are nucleic
acids.
[0136]     In some embodiments, the invention requires that at least one of the nucleic acids is a single
stranded oligonucleotide.
[0137]     In some embodiments, the invention requires that at least one of the nucleic acids is a double
stranded oligonucleotide.
[0138]     In some embodiments, the invention requires that at least one of the nucleic acids is selected
from the group consisting of antisense oligonucleotide, RNAi, shRNA, siRNA, miRNA, or plasmid
DNA.
[0139]     In some embodiments, the invention requires that at least one of the nucleic acids is RNAi.
[0140]     In some embodiments, the invention requires that at least one of the nucleic acids is siRNA.
[0141]     In some embodiments, the invention requires that at least one of the nucleic acids is shRNA.
[0142]     In some embodiments, the invention requires that at least one of the nucleic acids is about 10
to about 50 nucleotides long.

                                                    32
[0143]     In some embodiments, the invention requires that the nucleic acids are associated with a
carrier molecule.
[01441     In some embodiments, the invention requires that the nucleic acids are covalently associated
with the carrier molecule.
[0145]     In some embodiments, the invention requires that the nucleic acids are non-covalently
associated with the carrier molecule.
[0146]     In some embodiments,. the invention requires that the carrier molecule is selected from the
group consisting of a peptide, a protein, an antibody, a lipid, a phospholipid, a polymer, an aptamer, a
nanoparticle, a liposome, a dendrimer, a polymerosome, a viral vector, and a micelle.
[0147]     In some embodiments, the invention requires that the carrier molecule is a peptide.
[0148]     In some embodiments, the invention requires that the peptide is a cell-penetrating peptide.
[0149]     In some embodiments, the invention requires that the cell-penetrating peptide is selected from
the group consisting of a PTD-based peptide, an amphipathic peptide, a poly-arginine-based peptide. a
MPG peptide, a CADY peptide, Pep-1 peptide, or a Pep-2 peptide.
[0150]     In some embodiments, the invention requires that the nucleic acids and the cell-penetrating
peptide are present in a complex.
[0151]     In some embodiments, the invention requires that the composition comprises nanoparticles
comprising the complexes of the nucleic acids and the cell-penetrating peptide.
[0152]     In some embodiments, the invention requires that the average size of the nanoparticles is
between 50 and 400 nm.
[0153]     In some embodiments, the invention requires that the molar ratio of the cell-penetrating
peptide and the nucleic acids in the composition is about 100:1 to about 1:50.
EXAMPLES
[0154]     The following are examples of methods and compositions of the invention. It is understood
that various other embodiments may be practiced, given the general description provided above.
Example la:
[01551     This example provides information on preparation of peptide-siRNA complexes. Preparation
and characterization of peptide-siRNA nanoparticles: The siRNA sequences will be designed to target 8
selected mouse genes: TGFbeta receptors 1 and 2, CTGF, adenosine receptors A2A and A2B. SPARC,
and TIMP-1 and -3. Peptide-siRNA nanoparticles are prepared by mixing amphipathic peptide and
individual siRNAs targeting fibrosis-related genes. Stock solutions of amphipathic peptide are prepared
at 1 mg/mL in distilled water and sonicated for 10 min. Stock solutions of siRNA are prepared at 100
ptM concentrations in 50 mM Tris, 0.5 mM EDTA buffer. Peptide/siRNA complexes are formed in

                                                     33
pure water by incubating peptide (373 pM stock solution) with siRNA (100 pM stock solution) for 30
min at 3 7C with final molar ratio of peptide and siRNA at 20:1. Peptide-siRNA nanoparticles will be
characterized for physicochemical properties in vitro for key parameters including particle size, surface
charge. particle stability in suspension and in plasma, and siRNA integrity in plasma.
Example 1b:
[01561      This example provides information on preparation of peptide-multiple siRNA complexes.
Preparation and characterization of peptide-siRNA nanoparticles: The siRNA sequences will be
designed to target 8 selected mouse genes: TGFbeta receptors 1 and 2. CTGF, adenosine receptors A2A
and A2B, SPARC, and TIMP-1 and -3.                  Peptide-siRNA nanoparticles with multiple siRNA
combinations are prepared by mixing amphipathic peptide and the desired individual siRNAs targeting
fibrosis-related genes.    Stock solutions of amphipathic peptide are prepared at I mg/mL in distilled
water and sonicated for 10 min. Stock solutions of the multiple siRNA together are prepared at 100 pM
total concentrations in 50 mM Tris, 0.5 mM EDTA buffer. Peptide/siRNA complexes containing
multiple siRNA, e.g., siRNA for SPARC, TGFbeta receptor 1 and adenosine receptors A2A are taken
in equal proportions and are formed in pure water by incubating peptide (373 piM stock solution) with
the siRNA mixture (100 pM stock solution) for 30 min at 37C with final molar ratio of peptide and
siRNA at 20:1. Alternately, the core complex may be formed first at a peptide to siRNA ratio of about
5:1 followed by a second step of incubation of the peptide with the core complex at a ratio of 20:1.
Peptide-siRNA nanoparticles will be characterized for physicochemical properties in vitro for key
parameters including particle size, surface charge, particle stability in suspension and in plasma, and
siRNA integrity in plasma.
Example 2:
[0157]      This example provides information to show that SPARC and CTGF siRNA reduce expression
of collagen type 1 in skin fibroblasts of CTGF transgenic mice. Transgenic mice that over-express
connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) in fibroblasts under the control of an enhancer/promoter
element of the Colla2 gene (Colla2-CTGF) recapitulate multiorgan fibrosis similar to fibrosis observed
in Scleroderma (SSc). In this study the regulation of Sparc and Ctgf siRNAs on the expression of
several extracellular matrix components in the fibroblasts derived from Colla2-CTGF transgenic mice
was investigated. Three fibroblast lines were obtained from each of wide type C57BL/6 and CTGF
transgenic C57BL/6, and were transfected with either Sparc siRNA or Ctgf siRNA. Real-time
quantitative RT-PCR and Western blotting were used to examine the transcription and protein levels of
type I collagen, CTGF and SPARC. Student's t-tests were used to determine the significance of the

                                                     34
results. The results showed that Colla2 and Ctgf increased expression at both transcriptional and
translational levels in the fibroblasts from the Colla2-CTGF transgenic mice compared with those in
the fibroblasts from their normal wild-type littermate. The treatment with Sparc siRNA or Ctgf siRNA
attenuated the mRNA and/or protein expression of the Colla2, Ctgf and Sparc in these fibroblasts.
Sparc and Ctgf siRNAs also showed a reciprocal inhibition at transcript levels. Therefore, the results
indicated that both SPARC and CTGF independently appeared to be involved in the same biological
pathway, and they have the potential to serve as a therapeutic target for fibrotic diseases such as SSc.
Example 3:
[0158]      This example provides information to show that SPARC and CTGF siRNA reduce bleomycin
induced skin and lung fibrosis in mice. SPARC is a matricellular protein, which, along with other
extracellular matrix components including collagens, is commonly over-expressed in fibrotic diseases.
The purpose of this study was to examine whether inhibition of SPARC can regulate collagen
expression in vitro and in vivo, and subsequently attenuate fibrotic stimulation by bleomycin in mouse
skin and lungs. In in vitro studies, skin fibroblasts obtained from a TgfbrI knock-in mouse (TBRICA;
Cre-ER) were transfected with SPARC siRNA. Gene and protein expressions of the Colla2 and the
Ctgf were examined by real-time RT-PCR and Western blotting, respectively. In in vivo studies,
C57BL/6 mice were induced for skin and lung fibrosis by bleomycin and followed by SPARC siRNA
treatment through subcutaneous injection and intratracheal instillation, respectively. The pathological
changes of skin and lungs were assessed by hematoxylin and eosin and Masson's trichrome stains. The
expression changes of collagen in the tissues were assessed by real-time RT-PCR and non-crosslinked
fibrillar collagen content assays. SPARC siRNA significantly reduced gene and protein expression of
collagen type 1 in fibroblasts obtained from the TBR1CA; Cre-ER mouse that was induced for
constitutively active TGF-beta receptor 1. Skin and lung fibrosis induced by bleomycin was markedly
reduced by treatment with SPARC siRNA. The anti-fibrotic effect of SPARC siRNA in vivo was
accompanied by an inhibition of Ctgf expression in these same tissues. Specific inhibition of SPARC
effectively reduced fibrotic changes in vitro and in vivo. SPARC inhibition may represent a potential
therapeutic approach to fibrotic diseases
Example 4:
[0159]      This example provides information to show the Vitro Evaluation of Peptide-siRNA
Nanoparticles.
[0160]       The peptide-siRNA nanoparticles carrying individual siRNAs against fibrogenic genes and
their combinations will be evaluated in vitro in cell culture of 3 different fibrosis models for the efficacy
of siRNA delivery into the cells, target down regulation. and the inhibition of collagen deposition. The

                                                    35
effect of different siRNAs will be compared to identify the interaction between multiple fibrogenic
genes and pathways and rationally select optimal combinations for in vivo testing against fibrosis
mouse models. In vitro siRNA delivery by peptide-siRNA nanoparticles in cell cultures of 3 fibroblast
models:
[0161]     - Cell culture: Three established in vitro cell lines of fibrosis are selected: CTGF
overexpressing mouse fibroblasts isolated from CTGF transgenic mice [21], TGFbeta receptor 1
overexpressing mouse skin fibroblasts isolated with TGFbetaRl knock-in mice [29], and mouse skin
fibroblasts isolated from ADA-null mice [39].
[0162]     - In vitro siRNA delivery: Nanoparticles containing different siRNAs and their combinations
and scrambled siRNA are incubated with mouse fibroblasts for 30 minutes followed by fresh
DMEM/10%FCS.
[0163]     Collection and Processing of Samples: Seventy-two hours following siRNA delivery, cells
are harvested, followed by mRNA and protein purification.
[0164]     Analysis: The mRNA and protein levels of target genes and collagen I are analyzed by real
time RT-PCR and western blot, respectively.
[0165]     Outcomes: Levels of target and collagen I mRNA and proteins will be compared between
control and the treated groups to determine the extent of gene knockdown and the effect on collagen
deposition.    Effective down regulation of key fibrogenic genes can abolish the collagen deposition
shown in the in vitro fibrosis models. The effect of individual siRNA and combinations on different
fibrogenic genes will be analyzed to determine interactions between multiple fibrotic genes and
signaling pathways and to identify potential synergistic interactions.
Example 5:
[0166]     This example provides information to show the In Vivo Screening and Dose Ranging Study
of Peptide-siRNA Nanoparticles
[0167]     In vivo screening and dose ranging study will be conducted in bleomycin pulmonary and
adenosine deaminase deficient (ADA-null) mouse models to identify optimal siRNA combinations and
dose.    Different mouse fibrosis models have distinct molecular pathology for disease progression.
Therefore, 2 independent models of fibrosis are employed for in vivo testing of peptide-siRNA
nanoparticles selected through in vitro screening in Example 4.      Pulmonary fibrosis model caused by
intratracheal (IT) instillation of bleomycin was reported before [29]. ADA-null mice lacking adenosine
deaminase accumulate high levels of adenosine, which results in severe diffuse dermal fibrosis and
premature deaths 3 weeks after birth from pulmonary inflammation and fibrosis [40].           Testing of
selected peptide-siRNA nanoparticles at different dose levels will determine a safe and effective dose
for target gene down regulation, as well as provide preliminary indication on the anti-fibrogenic

                                                    36
efficacy in vivo. The siRNA nanoparticles will be administered both intravenously (IV) and IT in the
bleomycin pulmonary fibrosis model to compare the safety and efficacy of systemic and local delivery.
The ADA-null mice will be administered IV to test the ability for systemic therapy to control a diffused
systemic fibrotic disease. The key promoters of fibrosis in different models can be identified and used
to rationally design the most optimal siRNA combinations for in vivo efficacy testing in Example 5.
[0168]      Mouse fibrosis models: Bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis model will be generated
following established method by one-time IT instillation of C57BL/6 mice with 3.5 units/kg bleomycin
dissolved in saline [29]. ADA-deficient mice were generated as described previously [39].
[0169]     Administration of siRNA nanoparticles in vivo:
[0170]      - Bleomycin pulmonary fibrosis model: On Days 2, 5. 12 after bleomycin treatment, each
siRNA nanoparticle group is administered either IV or IT at 3 different dose levels of siRNA: 0.15
mg/kg (3 ug/mouse), 0.5 mg/kg (10 ug/mouse), and 1.5 mg/kg (30 ug/mouse). Animal groups (n =
3/group) are: 1) control (C57BL/6 mice with one IT instillation of saline); 2) Bleomycin (C57BL/6
mice with one IT instillation of bleomycin); 3) Scrambled IV (bleomycin mice treated IV with 3 doses
of nanoparticles carrying scrambled siRNA); 4) Scrambled IT; 5-14) siRNA IV (estimated 4 individual
siRNAs and 6 different siRNA combinations, total of 10 siRNA treatment groups treated IV at 3 dose
levels - 1 animal/level); 15-24) siRNA IT. Total animal number: 3 x 24 group = 72 C57BL/6 mice.
[0171]      - ADA-null mice: On Days 2, 5, 12 after birth, the mice are treated IV with different siRNA
nanoparticles at 3 dose levels: 0.15 mg/kg, 0.5 mg/kg, and 1.5 mg/kg. Animal groups with ADA-null
mice (n = 3/group) are treated with: 1) Saline: 2) Scrambled siRNA; 3-12) siRNA (10 siRNA
nanoparticle groups at 3 dose levels - 1 animal/level). Total animal number: 3 x 12 groups = 36 ADA
null mice.
[0172]      Collection and Processing of Samples: For bleomycin-treated mice, all mice will be sacrificed
on Day 23, and the lung samples are collected. The left lungs are fixed by 4% formalin and used for
further histological analysis. The right lungs are minced to small pieces and divided for RNA extraction
and collagen content analysis. For ADA-null mice, all mice will be sacrificed on Day 23 after birth,
and the lung, skin and liver are collected and analyzed for histology, RNA and collagen protein levels.
[0173]     Analysis: Samples harvested from mice treated with scrambled or test siRNA are analyzed
for target gene down regulation by real time RT-PCR for RNA levels and by western blot for protein
expression. Collagen is visualized using H&E and Masson's trichrome staining, and measured with
Sircol colorimetric assay (Biocolor, Belfast, UK) following method previously described [29].
[0174]      Outcomes: The comparison of mRNA and protein expression profiles between control,
bleomycin-treated, and siRNA treated C57BL/6 mice will reveal key fibrotic genes and their
interactions. Treatment with siRNA nanoparticles by IV or IT will significantly down regulate the
mRNA and protein levels of target genes and potentially other fibrotic genes in a dose-dependent

                                                  37
manner.    Robust knockdown of key fibrotic genes will be correlated with significant reduction of
collagen deposition, as demonstrated both by histology and collagen content measurement. Survival of
ADA-null mice may potentially be prolonged by siRNA nanoparticle treatment. The 3 most effective
siRNA nanoparticle combinations will be selected for expanded efficacy testing in Example 5.
Example 6:
[0175]     This example provides information to show the In Vivo Evaluation of Safety and Anti
fibrosis Efficacy of Selected siRNA Combinations
[0176]     The in vivo safety and anti-fibrosis efficacy of 3 selected siRNA combinations will be
evaluated in bleomycin pulmonary fibrosis and ADA-null mouse models.             Preliminary study in
Example 5 will suggest the 3 most effective siRNA nanoparticle combinations and a safe dose for in
vivo delivery via IV and IT routes. The study in this aim seeks to demonstrate the safety and efficacy
of the selected siRNA combinations with a longer repeated treatment and narrow to 1 optimal siRNA
combination for further development into a potential therapeutic agent.
[0177]     Mouse fibrosis models: Bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis model and ADA-deficient
mice are described in Example 5.
[0178]     Administration of siRNA nanoparticles in vivo:
[0179]     - Bleomycin pulmonary fibrosis model: On Days 2, 5, 12, 19, 26 after bleomycin treatment,
mice will be treated with the selected siRNA combinations at dose determined in Example 5. Mice are
monitored for weight loss and signs of toxicity following siRNA treatment.        Animal groups (n   =
8/group) are: 1) control; 2) Bleomycin; 3) Scrambled IV; 4) Scrambled IT; 5-7) siRNA IV; 8-10)
siRNA IT. Total animal number: 8 x 10 group = 80 C57BL/6 mice.
[0180]     - ADA-null mice: On Days 2, 5, 12 after birth, the mice are treated IV with the selected
siRNA combinations at dose determined in Example 4. Mice are monitored for weight loss and signs of
toxicity following siRNA treatment. Animal groups with ADA-null mice (n = 8/group) are treated
with: 1) Saline; 2) Scrambled siRNA; 3-5) siRNA. Total animal number: 8 x 5 groups = 40 ADA-null
mice.
[0181]     Collection and Processing of Samples: Sample collection and processing will be at Day 36
follow method outlined in the Example 4.
[0182]     Analysis: Samples analysis will follow method outlined in Example 5.
[0183]     Outcomes: The results from this study will in general agree with preliminary data from
Example 4. The knockdown of target and other fibrotic genes will correlate with anti-fibrotic efficacy
as shown by decrease in collagen deposition in fibrosis lesions as shown by histological analysis and
collagen content measurement.      The siRNA combination most effective in decreasing levels of key

                                                   38
fibrotic genes and reducing fibrosis in the 2 mouse fibrosis models will be selected for further
development into a therapeutic agent for human fibrotic diseases.
Example 7:
[0184]     This example provides information to show the Increased stability of Peptide-plasmid DNA
Nanoparticles
[0185]     The peptide-plasmid nanoparticles were prepared by mixing amphipathic peptide and
plasmid.    Stock solutions of amphipathic peptide are prepared at 1 mg/mL in distilled water and
sonicated for 10 min. Stock solutions of plasmid are prepared at 100 pM concentrations in 50 mM Tris,
0.5 mM EDTA buffer.         Peptide/plasmid complexes or nanoparticles are forced in pure water by
incubating peptide (373 pM stock solution) with plasmid (100 pM stock solution) for 30 min at 37C
with final molar ratio of peptide and plasmid at 10:1 or 20:1.             The plasmid alone and the
peptide/plasmid complex are stored in PBS for 1 week at 40C to test the stability of the plasmid. The
percentage of supercoiled DNA is measured after 1 week using agarose gel electrophoresis using
standard techniques (see for example - Pillai VB, Hellerstein M, Yu T, Amara RR, Robinson HL.
Comparative studies on in vitro expression and in vivo immunogenicity of supercoiled and open
circular forms of plasmid DNA vaccines. Vaccine. 2008 Feb 20;26(8):1136-41). It takes approximately
7 days for 95% supercoiled DNA in PBS to reach 80% supercoil at 40C. In the case of the peptide
plasmid complex, the level of supercoil is maintained > 90% at 1 week.
Example 8:
[0186]     This example provides information to show the treatment of a cancer with fibrosis and
inflammation (pancreatic cancer) with selected siRNA combinations
[0187]     Pancreatic cancer and some other cancers are known to have a fibrotic or desmoplastic
stroma. However there have been no studies to specifically target the stromal components of pancreatic
cancer. Peptide based nanoparticles containing siRNA targeted to CTGF, SPARC, TIMPs, TGFbetal or
2, MMPs and beta-catenin were prepared as described above and administered to athymic mice with
direct from patient pancreatic xenografts or used in genetically engineered mice that spontaneously
develop pancreatic cancer. Intravenous administration was initiated once tumors were detectable.
Animals were treated every 4 days for 5 treatments along with a control group. Tumor size was
monitored throughout the course of the study and tumor histology was determined after 5 treatments. A
significant reduction in the stromal components, in particular collagen was observed after treatment.

                                                       39
LIST OF REFERENCES which are incorporated herein in their entirety for all uses:
[0188]      A       publication       by       Cronstein       [2011,      http://f1000.com/reports/b/3/21;
http://fi000.com/reports/b/3/21/pdf ] highlights the importance of Adenosine receptors and fibrosis is
incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
[0189]      Attenuation of fibrosis in vitro and in vivo with SPARC siRNA:. A publication by Wang et al
(Arthritis Res Ther. 2010;12(2):R60. Epub 2010 Apr 1.) highlights the importance of SPARC and
fibrosis and is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
[0190]      Attenuation of expression of extracellular matrix genes with siRNAs to Sparc and Ctgf in
skin fibroblasts of CTGF transgenic mice. A publication by Wang et al. (Int J Immunopathol
Pharmacol. 2011 Jul-Sep;24(3):595-601) highlights the importance of SPARC and fibrosis and is
incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
[0191]      SPARC Suppresses Apoptosis of Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis Fibroblasts through
Constitutive Activation of beta-Catenin : A publication by Chang et al [The Journal of Biological
Chemistry, Vol. 285, NO. 11, pp. 8196-8206, March 12, 2010] highlights the relevance of SPARC in
pulmonary fibrosis and is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
[0192]      Secreted Protein Acidic And Rich In Cysteine (sparc) Expression Is Regulated By Selectively
Tgf-Beta Via Pi3k Signaling: A publication by S. Shibatal, J. Ishiyamal, K. Hagiharal, K. Murakami
(Am J Respir Crit Care Med 183;2011 :A3478) is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
[0193]      Adenovirus-mediated inhibition of SPARC attenuates liver fibrosis in rats: Camino AM,
Atorrasagasti C, Maccio D, Prada F, Salvatierra E, Rizzo M, Alaniz L, Aquino JB, Podhajcer OL, Silva
M, Mazzolini G. [J Gene Med. 2008 Sep;10(9):993-1004.] the contents of this publication are
incorporated herein in its entirety.
[0194]      TGF-beta and fibrosis in different organs - molecular pathway imprints:             Pohlers D,
Brenmoehl J, Luffler I, Muller CK, Leipner C, Schultze-Mosgau S, Stallmach A. Kinne RW, Wolf G.
[Biochim Biophys Acta. 2009 Aug;1792(8):746-56. Epub 2009 Jun 17] the contents of this publication
are incorporated herein in its entirety.
[01951      TGF-betal Gene Silencing for Treating Liver Fibrosis: (Kun Cheng, Ningning Yang and
Ram I. Mahato: Mol. Pharmaceutics, 2009, 6 (3), pp 772-779) - the contents of this publication are
incorporated herein in its entirety.
[0196]      Fibrotic disease: A pair of novel targets: Charlotte Harrison [Nature Reviews Drug Discovery
8, 773 (October 2009)1 doi:10.1038/nrd3005] the contents of this publication are incorporated herein in
its entirety.
[0197]      Potential Therapeutic Targets for Cardiac Fibrosis: TGFbeta, Angiotensin, Endothelin, CCN2
(CTGF), and PDGF., Partners in Fibroblast Activation. Andrew Leask [Circulation Research. 2010; 106:
1675-1680] the contents of this publication are incorporated herein in its entirety.

                                                      40
[0198]      Small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) targeting TGF-betal mRNA suppress asbestos-induced
expression of TGF-betal and CTGF in fibroblasts: (Lai TC, Pociask DA, Ferris M, Nguyen HT, Miller
CA, Brody A, Sullivan D; J Environ Pathol Toxicol Oncol. 2009 . 28(2):109-19) the contents of this
publication are incorporated herein in its entirety.
[0199]      Inhibition of TGF-beta receptor I by siRNA suppresses the motility and invasiveness of T24
bladder cancer cells via modulation of integrins and matrix metalloproteinase: Li Y, Yang K, Mao Q,
Zheng X, Kong D, Xie L Int Urol Nephrol. 2010 Jun;42(2):315-23. Epub 2009 Aug 8. the contents of
this publication are incorporated herein in its entirety
[0200]      Modulation of collagen synthesis in keloid fibroblasts by silencing Smad2 with siRNA: Plast
Reconstr Surg. 2006 Nov;118(6):1328-37. Gao Z, Wang Z., Shi Y , Lin Z, Jiang H, Hou T , Wang Q
  Yuan X , Zhao Y , Wu H , Jin Y . the contents of this publication are incorporated herein in its
entirety.
[0201]      US patent 8,067,389 describes Silencing of TGFbeta. type II receptor expression by specific
siRNA sequences. the contents of which are incorporated herein in their entirety.
[0202]      US patent 8,003,621 discloses compositions that can include a cationic polymeric carriers,
targeting agent, and therapeutic agent having a therapeutic activity such as inhibiting fibrosis within a
target organ or tissue or inhibiting the growth of a cancer cell, the contents of which are incorporated
herein in their entirety.
[numbered references below correspond to numbers in text]
1. Wynn TA. Cellular and molecular mechanisms of fibrosis. J Pathol. 2008 Jan;214(2):199-210.
2. Raghu G, Weycker D, Edelsberg J, Bradford WZ, Oster G. Incidence and prevalence of idiopathic
     pulmonary fibrosis. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2006 Oct 1;174(7):810-6.
3. Buck M, Chojkicr M. C/EBPbeta-Thr217 phosphorylation signaling contributes to the development
     of lung injury and fibrosis in mice. PLoS One. 2011;6(10):e25497.
4. American Thoracic Society. Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis: diagnosis and treatment. International
     consensus statement. American Thoracic Society (ATS), and the European Respiratory Society
     (ERS). Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2000 Feb;161(2 Pt 1):646-64.
5. Olson AL, Swigris JJ, Lezotte DC, Norris JM, Wilson CG, Brown KK. Mortality from pulmonary
     fibrosis increased in the United States from 1992 to 2003. Am J Respir Crit Care Mcd. 2007 Aug
     1:176(3):277-84.
6. du Bois RM. Strategies for treating idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2010
     Feb;9(2):129-40.
7. Scleroderma Foundation. What is scleroderma? ; 2012 [updated 2012; cited]; Available from:
     http://www.scleroderma.org/medical/overview.shtm.
8. Gilliand B. Systemic sclerosis (scleroderma) and related disorders. Harrison's Principles of Internal
     Medicine, 16th Edition: McGraw-Hill Medical Publishing; 2004.
9. Sapadin AN, Fleischmajer R. Treatment of scleroderma. Arch Dermatol. 2002 Jan;138(1):99-105.
10. Leighton C. Drug treatment of scleroderma. Drugs. 2001;61(3):419-27.
11. Liu X, Hu H, Yin JQ. Therapeutic strategies against TGF-beta signaling pathway in hepatic
     fibrosis. Liver Int. 2006 Feb;26(1):8-22.
12. World Health Organization, editor. The World Health Report 2002: Reducing Risks, Promoting
     Healthy Life; 2002; Geneva.

                                                     41
13. Minino AM, Heron MP, Murphy SL, Kochanek KD. Deaths: final data for 2004. Natl Vital Stat
    Rep. 2007 Aug 21;55(19):1-119.
14. Sorensen HT., Thulstrup AM, Mellemkjar L, Jepsen P, Christensen E, Olsen JH, Vilstrup H. Long
    term survival and cause-specific mortality in patients with cirrhosis of the liver: a nationwide cohort
    study in Denmark. J Clin Epidemiol. 2003 Jan;56(1):88-93.
15. National Digestive Diseases Information Clearinghouse (NDDIC). Cirrhosis. 2008 [updated 2008;
    cited]; Available from: http://digestive.niddk.nih.gov/ddiseases/pubs/cirrhosis/.
16. Pohlers D, Brenmoehl J, Loffler I, Muller CK, Leipner C, Schultze-Mosgau S, Stallmach A, Kinne
    RW, Wolf G. TGF-beta and fibrosis in different organs - molecular pathway imprints. Biochim
    Biophys Acta. 2009 Aug;1792(8):746-56.
17. Hecker L, Vittal R, Jones T, Jagirdar R, Luckhardt TR, Horowitz JC, Pennathur S, Martinez FJ,
    Thannickal VJ. NADPH oxidase-4 mediates myofibroblast activation and fibrogenic responses to
    lung injury. Nat Med. 2009 Sep;15(9):1077-81.
18. Ihn H. Pathogenesis of fibrosis: role of TGF-beta and CTGF. Current opinion in rheumatology.
    2002 Nov;14(6):681-5.
19. George J, Tsutsumi M. siRNA-mediated knockdown of connective tissue growth factor prevents N
    nitrosodimethylamine-induced hepatic fibrosis in rats. Gene Ther. 2007 May; 14(10):790-803.
20. Shibata S, Ishiyama J, Hagihara K, Murakami K. Secreted Protein Acidic And Rich In Cysteine
    (sparc) Expression Is Regulated By Selectively Tgf-Beta Via Pi3k Signaling. Am J Respir Crit Care
    Med. 2011;183:A3478.
21. Wang JC, Sonnylal S, Arnett FC, De Crombrugghe B, Zhou X. Attenuation of expression of
    extracellular matrix genes with siRNAs to Sparc and Ctgf in skin fibroblasts of CTGF transgenic
    mice. Int J Immunopathol Pharmacol. 2011 Jul-Sep;24(3):595-601.
22. Rachfal AW, Brigstock DR. Connective tissue growth factor (CTGF/CCN2) in hepatic fibrosis.
    Hepatol Res. 2003 May;26(1):1-9.
23. Wang J. Lai S, Sonnylal S, Arnett F, de Crombrugghe B, Zhou X. Application Of Sparc And Ctgf
    siRNA In Fibrotic Murine Models Of Scleroderma (SSc) In Vitro And In Vivo. American College
    of Rheumatology 2008 Annual Scientific Meeting; 2008; San Francisco, California. 2008.
24. Cronstein BN. Adenosine receptors and fibrosis: a translational review. F1000 Biol Rep. 2011;3:21.
25. Zhou Y, Murthy IN, Zeng D, Belardinelli L, Blackburn MR. Alterations in adenosine metabolism
    and signaling in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and idiopathic pulmonary
    fibrosis. PLoS One. 2010;5(2):e9224.
26. Chan ES, Montesinos MC, Fernandez P., Desai A, Delano DL, Yee H, Reiss AB, Pillinger MH,
    Chen JF, Schwarzschild MA, Friedman SL, Cronstein BN. Adenosine A(2A) receptors play a role
    in the pathogenesis of hepatic cirrhosis. Br J Pharmacol. 2006 Aug;148(8):1144-55.
27. Che J, Chan ES, Cronstein BN. Adenosine A2A receptor occupancy stimulates collagen expression
    by hepatic stellate cells via pathways involving protein kinase A, Src, and extracellular signal
    regulated kinases 1/2 signaling cascade or p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling pathway.
    Mol Pharmacol. 2007 Dec;72(6):1626-36.
28. Chang W, Wei K, Jacobs SS, Upadhyay D, Weill D, Rosen GD. SPARC suppresses apoptosis of
    idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis fibroblasts through constitutive activation of beta-catenin. J Biol
    Chem. 2010 Mar 12;285(11):8196-206.
29. Wang JC,. Lai S, Guo X, Zhang X, de Crombrugghe B. Sonnylal S, Arnett FC, Zhou X. Attenuation
    of fibrosis in vitro and in vivo with SPARC siRNA. Arthritis Res Ther. 2010;12(2):R60.
30. Atorrasagasti C, Aquino JB, Hofman L, Alaniz L, Malvicini M, Garcia M, Benedetti L, Friedman
    SL, Podhajeer 0, Mazzolini G. SPARC down regulation attenuates the profibrogenic response of
    hepatic stellate cells induced by TGF-betal and PDGF. American journal of physiology. 2011
    May;300(5):G739-48.
31. Brekken RA, Sage EH. SPARC. a matricellular protein: at the crossroads of cell-matrix. Matrix
    Biol. 2000 Dec;19(7):569-80.
32. Francki A, Bradshaw AD, Bassuk JA, Howe CC, Couser WG, Sage EH. SPARC regulates the
    expression of collagen type I and transforming growth factor-betal in mesangial cells. J Biol Chem.
    1999 Nov 5;274(45):32145-52.

                                                   42
33. Camino AM, Atorrasagasti C. Maccio D, Prada F, Salvatierra E. Rizzo M, Alaniz L, Aquino JB,
    Podhajcer OL, Silva M, Mazzolini G. Adenovirus-mediated inhibition of SPARC attenuates liver
    fibrosis in rats. J Gene Med. 2008 Sep;10(9):993-1004.
34. Lee MH, Atkinson S. Murphy G. Identification of the extracellular matrix (ECM) binding motifs of
    tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases (TIMP)-3 and effective transfer to TIMP-1. J Biol Chem.
    2007 Mar 2;282(9):6887-98.
35. Hemmann S, Graf J, Roderfeld M, Roeb E. Expression of MMPs and TIMPs in liver fibrosis - a
    systematic review with special emphasis on anti-fibrotic strategies. J Hepatol. 2007 May;46(5):955
    75.
36. Selman M, Ruiz V. Cabrera S, Segura L, Ramirez R. Barrios R, Pardo A. TIMP-1, -2, -3, and -4 in
    idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. A prevailing nondegradative lung microenvironment? Am J Physiol
    Lung Cell Mol Physiol. 2000 Sep;279(3):L562-74.
37. Divita G, Heitz F, Morris CM, Aldrian-Herrada G,Cell Penetrating Peptides for Intracellular
    Delivery of Molecules. US Patent 7,579,318. 2009.
38. Rydstrom A, Deshayes S, Konate K, Crombez L, Padari K, Boukhaddaoui H. Aldrian G, Pooga M,
    Divita G. Direct translocation as major cellular uptake for CADY self-assembling peptide-based
    nanoparticles. PLoS One. 2011;6(10):e25924.
39. Blackburn MR, Datta SK. Kellems RE. Adenosine deaminase-deficient mice generated using a two
    stage genetic engineering strategy exhibit a combined immunodeficiency. J Biol Chem. 1998 Feb
    27;273(9):5093-100.
40. Chan ES, Fernandez P, Merchant AA, Montesinos MC, Trzaska S, Desai A, Tung CF, Khoa DN,
    Pillinger MH, Reiss AB, Tomic-Canic M, Chen JF, Schwarzschild MA, Cronstein BN. Adenosine
    A2A receptors in diffuse dermal fibrosis: pathogenic role in human dermal fibroblasts and in a
    murine model of scleroderna. Arthritis Rheum. 2006 Aug;54(8):2632-42.

                                                     43
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
I.     A method of treating a fibrotic or inflammatory condition in an individual, comprising
administering to the individual an effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition comprising one or
more nucleic acids that modulate the expression of two or more genes involved in the development or
progression of fibrosis or inflammation.
2.     The method of claim 1, wherein the two or more genes are selected from the group consisting of
CTGF(CCN2), TGFbetai, TGFbeta receptor 1, TGFbeta receptor 2, TGFbeta receptor 3, beta-catenin,
SPARC, VEGF, Angiotensin II, TIMP, HSP47, thrombospondin, CCN1, LOXL2, MMP2, MMP9,
CCL2, Adenosine receptor A2A, Adenosine receptor A2B, Adenylyl cyclase, Smad 3, Smad 4, Smad
7, , SOX9, arrestin, PDCD4,. PAI-1, NF-kB, PARP-1. GAD65, sGAD65, BAX, p53 PTEN, STAT5,
smoothened, G-11, GLI2, and Patched-1.
3.     The method of claim I or 2. wherein at least one of the nucleic acids is DNA.
4.     The method of claim 3, wherein at least one of the nucleic acids is plasmid DNA.
5.     The method of claim I or 2, wherein at least one of the nucleic acids is RNAi.
6.     The method of claim 5, wherein at least one of the nucleic acids is siRNA or shRNA.
7.     The method of any one of claims 1-6, wherein at least one of the nucleic acids is about 10 to
about 50 nucleotides long.
8.     The method of any one of claims 1-7, wherein the composition comprises two or more nucleic
acids.
9.     The method of claim 8, wherein the composition comprises two nucleic acids, and wherein the
molar ratio of the two nucleic acids is about 0.1:1 to about 10:1.
10.    The method of claim 9, wherein the two nucleic acids in the pharmaceutical composition are in
equal molar proportions.
11.    The method of any one of claims 1-10, wherein the nucleic acids are associated with a carrier
molecule.
12.    The method of claim 11, wherein the carrier molecule is a peptide.

                                                    44
13.    The method of claim 12 wherein the composition comprises nanoparticles comprising the
complexes of the nucleic acids and the peptide.
14.    The method according to any one of claims 1-13, further comprising determining the expression
level of at least one gene in the individual prior to the administration of the pharmaceutical
composition.
15.    A pharmaceutical composition comprising two or more nucleic acids that modulate the
expression of two or more genes involved in the development or progression of fibrosis or
inflammation.
16.    The pharmaceutical composition of claim 15, wherein the two or more nucleic acids are selected
from the group consisting of CTGF(CCN2), TGFbetai, TGFbeta receptor 1, TGFbeta receptor 2,
TGFbeta receptor 3, beta-catenin, SPARC., VEGF, Angiotensin 11, TIMP, HSP47, thrombospondin,
CCN1, LOXL2, MMP2, MMP9, CCL2, Adenosine receptor A2A, Adenosine receptor A2B, Adenylyl
cyclase, Smad 3, Smad 4, Smad 7,        , SOX9, arrestin, PDCD4, PAI          NF-kB, PARP-1, GAD65,
sGAD65, BAX. p53 PTEN. STAT5, smoothened, GLIl, GLI2, and Patched-1.
17.    The pharmaceutical composition of claim 15 or 16, wherein the composition comprises two
nucleic acids, and wherein the molar ratio of the two nucleic acids is about 0.1:1 to about 10:1.
18.    The pharmaceutical composition of claim 17. wherein the two nucleic acids in the pharmaceutical
composition are in equal molar proportions.
19.    The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 15-18, wherein at least one of the nucleic
acids is DNA.
20.    The pharmaceutical composition of claim 19, wherein at least one of the nucleic acids is plasmid
DNA.
21.    The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 15-18, wherein at least one of the nucleic
acids is RNAi.
22.    The pharmaceutical composition of claim 21, wherein at least one of the nucleic acids is siRNA
or shRNA.
23.    The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 15-22, wherein at least one of the nucleic
acids is about 10 to about 50 nucleotides long.

                                                    45
24.    The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 15-23, wherein the nucleic acids are
associated with a carrier molecule.
25.    The pharmaceutical composition of claim 24, wherein the carrier molecule is a peptide.
26.    The pharmaceutical composition of claim 25, wherein the composition comprises nanoparticles
comprising the complexes of the nucleic acids and the peptide.
27.    The pharmaceutical composition of claim 26, wherein the average size of the nanoparticles is
between 50 and 400 nm.
28.    The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 25-27, wherein the molar ratio of the
peptide and the nucleic acids in the composition is about 100:1 to about 1:50.

                                               6873527_1.txt
<removed-date>
                                              SEQUENCE LISTING
              <110> DESAI, Neil
              <120> MULTI-TARGET MODULATION FOR TREATING
                FIBROSIS AND INFLAMMATORY CONDITIONS
<removed-apn>
              <130> 737372000140
              <140> PCT/US2013/040910
              <141> 2013-05-14
              <150> US 61/648,076
              <151> 2012-05-16
              <160> 39
              <170> FastSEQ for Windows Version 4.0
              <210>   1
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Synthetic construct
              <400> 1
              gcugaagcag auggagagcc a                            21
              <210>   2
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Synthetic construct
              <400> 2
              gcuacacuuu ucacaaaauu a                            21
              <210>   3
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Synthetic construct
              <400> 3
                                                      Page 1

                                            6873527_1.txt
<removed-date>
              attgtcccaa agctggaagg c                       21
              <210>   4
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Synthetic construct
<removed-apn>
              <400> 4
              uugauaggua ccaaucuguc a                       21
              <210>   5
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Synthetic construct
              <400> 5
              auuaccaugg agaacccauc a                       21
              <210>   6
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Synthetic construct
              <400> 6
              cgggauguuc acaaccgaau u                       21
              <210>   7
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Synthetic construct
              <400> 7
              auuaauacaa agaauuuuuu u                       21
              <210>   8
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
                                               Page 2

                                            6873527_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <223> Synthetic construct
              <400> 8
              guuaccaaug acaacccuga g                       21
              <210>   9
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223> Synthetic construct
              <400> 9
              ccggagacaa ugacaucuuu g                       21
              <210>   10
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Synthetic construct
              <400> 10
              gcaccagugu gaagacaua                          19
              <210>   11
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Synthetic construct
              <400> 11
              acgagaagga aaagcugcaa a                       21
              <210>   12
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Synthetic construct
              <400> 12
              accaaagugu acaaaauguu u                       21
              <210> 13
              <211> 21
              <212> DNA
                                               Page 3

                                            6873527_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Synthetic construct
              <400> 13
              uugaugcggu auacgaggcc c                       21
              <210>   14
<removed-apn>
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Synthetic construct
              <400> 14
              ggcgaccuca aguggcacca c                       21
              <210>   15
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Synthetic construct
              <400> 15
              aguucaacua uacugaguuc a                       21
              <210>   16
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Synthetic construct
              <400> 16
              auaaccgaag auugcugugg c                       21
              <210>   17
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Synthetic construct
              <400> 17
              auagagagau gacaucuaag c                       21
                                               Page 4

                                            6873527_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <210>   18
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Synthetic construct
              <400> 18
<removed-apn>
              uguaaugaua ugugcauauu u                       21
              <210>   19
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Synthetic construct
              <400> 19
              uguuccagug ugucuuagag a                       21
              <210>   20
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Synthetic construct
              <400> 20
              guuacuguug auggauacgu g                       21
              <210>   21
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Synthetic construct
              <400> 21
              cacuucaaac uacuuugcug c                       21
              <210>   22
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Synthetic construct
                                               Page 5

                                            6873527_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <400> 22
              agagaggacc aaccagaauu c                       21
              <210>   23
              <211>   22
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223> Synthetic construct
              <400> 23
              aacaagaccu ucgacucuuc cc                      22
              <210>   24
              <211>   18
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Synthetic construct
              <400> 24
              gcaccacacg uuucuuug                           18
              <210>   25
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Synthetic construct
              <400> 25
              guugugaguu uaguaaggcu g                       21
              <210>   26
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Synthetic construct
              <400> 26
              cuaugcaaug ggcuuaguau u                       21
              <210>   27
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
                                               Page 6

                                            6873527_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223> Synthetic construct
              <400> 27
              aaugacgaga acauaacacu a                       21
              <210>   28
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Synthetic construct
              <400> 28
              uaacaauuga uauaagaccu u                       21
              <210>   29
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Synthetic construct
              <400> 29
              uuaaaagugg agcagcacgu g                       21
              <210>   30
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Synthetic construct
              <400> 30
              gcacguggug ucuguggaag a                       21
              <210>   31
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Synthetic construct
              <400> 31
              aaggguucca agccuuaggg g                       21
              <210> 32
              <211> 21
                                               Page 7

                                               6873527_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Synthetic construct
              <400> 32
              cugcaagauc aaguccugcu a                                           21
<removed-apn>
              <210>   33
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Synthetic construct
              <400> 33
              augugaaugc agaugugaca a                                           21
              <210>   34
              <211>   23
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Synthetic construct
              <220>
              <221> VARIANT
              <222> 3, 7, 10, 14, 18
              <223> Xaa = E, R, A, I, L, F, P, W, V, N, C, Q, G, S, T
                    or Y
              <220>
              <221> VARIANT
              <222> 20, 21, 22, 23
              <223> Glx = H, K, R, or Q
              <400> 34
              Leu Phe Xaa Ala Leu Leu Xaa Leu Leu Xaa Ser Leu Trp Xaa Leu Leu
               1               5                  10                  15
              Leu Xaa Ala Glx Glx Glx Glx
                          20
              <210>   35
              <211>   24
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
                                                   Page 8

                                               6873527_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <223> Synthetic construct
              <400> 35
              Gly Leu Phe Arg Ala Leu Leu Arg Leu Leu Arg Ser Leu Trp Arg Leu
               1               5                  10                  15
              Leu Leu Arg Ala His His His His
                          20
<removed-apn>
              <210>   36
              <211>   24
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Synthetic construct
              <400> 36
              Gly Leu Phe Arg Ala Leu Leu Arg Leu Leu Arg Ser Leu Trp Arg Leu
               1               5                  10                  15
              Leu Leu Arg Ala Arg Arg Arg Arg
                          20
              <210>   37
              <211>   20
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Synthetic construct
              <400> 37
              Gly Leu Trp Arg Ala Leu Trp Arg Leu Leu Arg Ser Leu Trp Arg Leu
               1               5                  10                  15
              Leu Trp Lys Ala
                          20
              <210>   38
              <211>   20
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Synthetic construct
              <220>
              <221> VARIANT
              <222> 1, 10
              <223> Xaa = X= G, L, beta-A, S, L, W, C or I
                                                   Page 9

                                                6873527_1.txt
<removed-date>
              <400> 38
              Xaa Leu Trp Arg Ala Leu Trp Arg Leu Xaa Arg Ser Leu Trp Arg Leu
               1               5                  10                  15
              Leu Trp Lys Ala
                          20
              <210>   39
              <211>   20
<removed-apn>
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Synthetic construct
              <220>
              <221> VARIANT
              <222> 1, 5, 11, 16, 17, 19
              <223> Xaa = X= L , S, G, beta-A, W, C or I
              <400> 39
              Xaa Trp Arg Ser Xaa Gly Trp Arg Trp Arg Xaa Leu Trp Arg Trp Xaa
               1               5                  10                  15
              Xaa Trp Xaa Arg
                          20
                                                  Page 10

