                               ABSTRACT
             A method of forming a coating of an Al-Zn-Si-Mg
   alloy on a steel strip to form an Al-Zn-Mg-Si coated steel
 5 strip is disclosed.  The method includes the steps of dipping
   steel strip into a bath of molten Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy and
   forming a coating of the alloy on exposed surfaces of the
   steel strip and cooling the coated strip with cooling water.
   The cooling step includes controlling the pH of cooling water
10 to be in a range of pH 5-9. Particular embodiments focus on
   Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloys that contain the following elements in % by
   weight: Zn: 30 to 60, Si: 0.3 to 3, Mg: 0.3 to 10, and Balance
             Al and unavoidable impurities.

         1/3
         FIGURE 1
6-------            0
                  3

                                - 1
            METHOD OF PRODUCING METAL-COATED STEEL STRIP
                           TECHNICAL FIELD
 5      The present invention relates to the production of metal
   strip, typically steel strip, which has a coating of a
   corrosion-resistant metal alloy that contains aluminium-zinc
   silicon-magnesium as the main elements in the alloy, and is
   hereinafter referred to as an "Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy" on this
10 basis.
        In particular, the present invention relates to a hot-dip
   metal coating method of forming a coating of an Al-Zn-Si-Mg
   alloy on a strip that includes dipping uncoated strip into a
15 bath of molten Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy and forming a coating of the
   alloy on the strip.
        Typically, the Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy of the present invention
   comprises the following ranges in % by weight of the elements
20 Al, Zn, Si, and Mg:
             Zn:       30 to 60 %
             Si:       0.3 to 3%
             Mg:       0.3 to 10 %
25           Balance   Al and unavoidable impurities.
        More typically, the Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy of the present
   invention comprises the following ranges in % by weight of the
   elements Al, Zn, Si, and Mg:
30
             Zn:       35 to 50 %
             Si:       1.2 to 2.5%
             Mg        1.0 to 3.0%
             Balance   Al and unavoidable impurities.
35
        The Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy may contain other elements that are
   present in the alloy as deliberate alloying additions or as

                                - 2
   unavoidable impurities.  Hence, the phrase "Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy"
   is understood herein to cover alloys that contain such other
   elements as deliberate alloying additions or as unavoidable
   impurities.  The other elements may include by way of example
 5 any one or more of Fe, Sr, Cr, and V.
        It is noted that the composition of the as-solidified
   coating of the Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy may be different to an extent
   to the composition of the Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy used to form the
10 coating due to factors such as partixdla dissolution of the
   metal strip into the coating during the coating process.
        Depending on the end-use application, the metal-coated
   strip may be painted, for example with a polymeric paint, on
15 one or both surfaces of the strip.   In this regard, the metal
   coated strip may be sold as an end product itself or may have
   a paint coating applied to one or both surfaces and be sold as
   a painted end product.
20                         BACKGROUND ART
        One corrosion resistant metal alloy coating that is used
   widely in Australia and elsewhere for building products,
   particularly profiled wall and roofing sheets, is an Al-Zn
25 alloy coating, more particularly a coating formed from a
   55%Al-Zn alloy that also comprises Si in the alloy.   The
   profiled sheets are usually manufactured by cold forming
   painted, metal alloy coated strip.  Typically, the profiled
   sheets are manufactured by roll-forming the painted strip.
30
        The addition of Mg to this known 55%Al-Zn alloy has been
   proposed in the patent literature for a number of years, see
   for example US patent 6,635,359 in the name of Nippon Steel
   Corporation.
35
        It has been established that when Mg is included in a
   55%Al-Zn alloy coating, Mg brings about certain beneficial

                                 - 3
   effects on product performance, such as improved cut-edge
   protection.
        The applicant has carried out extensive research and
 5 development work in relation to Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy coatings on
   strip such as steel strip.   The present invention is the
   result of part of this research and development work.
        The above discussion is not to be taken as an admission
10 of the common general knowledge in Australia and elsewhere.
                       SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
        The research and development work that is relevant to the
15 present invention included a series of plant trials on metal
   coating lines of the applicant to investigate the viability of
   forming Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy coatings on steel strip on these
   metal coating lines.   The plant trials found that Al-Zn-Si-Mg
   alloy coatings are far more reactive with quench water used to
20 cool metal alloy coatings on strip after coated strip leaves
   molten alloy baths in the metal coating lines than
   conventional Al-Zn coatings.   More particularly, the applicant
   found that there was greater dissolution of Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy
   coatings into quench water than was the case with conventional
25 Al-Zn coatings and the dissolution resulted in precipitates in
   quench water that caused a rapid deterioration of cooling
   water circuit heat exchangers and caused undesirable coatings
   to form on cooling water storage tank surfaces in the quench
   water circuits in the metal coating lines.   The precipitation
30 problem is a potentially serious maintenance issue.
        After identifying the precipitate problem and carrying
   out further research and development work, the applicant found
   that pH control of cooling water and to a lesser extent
35 cooling water temperature control made it possible to reduce
   the extent of precipitate formation and allowed the cooling
   water heat exchangers to perform in a practical manner.   More

                                - 4
   particularly, the applicant found that the precipitate problem
   could be addressed by suppressing the alkalinity of cooling
   water via pH control of cooling water and to a lesser extent
   cooling water temperature control (operating at low
 5 temperatures) to thereby reduce the corrosiveness of the
   cooling water towards Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy coatings.
        According to the present invention there is provided a
   method of forming a coating of an Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy on a steel
10 strip to form an Al-Zn-Mg-Si coated steel strip, the method
   including the steps of dipping steel strip into a bath of
   molten Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy and forming a coating of the alloy on
   exposed surfaces of the steel strip and cooling the coated
   strip with cooling water, with the cooling step including
15 controlling the pH of cooling water to be in a range of pH 5
   9.
        The cooling step may include controlling the pH of
   cooling water to be less than 8.
20
        The cooling step may include controlling the pH of
   cooling water to be less than 7.
        The cooling step may include controlling the pH of
25 cooling water to be less than 7.5.
        The cooling step may include controlling the pH of
   cooling water to be greater than 5.5.
30      The cooling step may include controlling the pH of
   cooling water to be greater than 6.
        The cooling step may include controlling the temperature
   of cooling water to be in a range of 25-80 0 C.
35
        The cooling step may include controlling the temperature
   of cooling water to be less than 70 0 C.

                                - 5
        The cooling step may include controlling cooling water
   temperature to be less than 60 0 C.
 5      The cooling step may include controlling cooling water
   temperature to be less than 55 0 C.
        The cooling step may include controlling cooling water
   temperature to be less than 50 0 C.
10
        The cooling step may include controlling cooling water
   temperature to be less than 45 0 C.
        The cooling step may include controlling cooling water
15 temperature to be greater than 30 0 C.
        The cooling step may include controlling cooling water
   temperature to be greater than 35 0 C.
20      The cooling step may include controlling cooling water
   temperature to be greater than 40 0 C.
        The cooling step may include controlling the pH by adding
   acid to the cooling water.
25
        The cooling step may include controlling the pH by adding
   acid and other salts, buffers, wetting agents, surfactants,
   coupling agents, etc.
30      The acid may be any suitable acid such as phosphoric acid
   and nitric acid by way of example.
        The cooling step may be a water quench step.
35      The cooling step may be a closed loop in which water is
   circulated through a circuit that supplies water to the coated

                                 - 6
   strip and collects and cools water and returns the cooled
   water for cooling the coated strip.
         The closed loop may include a water storage tank, a spray
 5 system for supplying water to the coated strip from the tank,
   and a heat exchanger for cooling water after it has been
   sprayed onto the strip.
         The cooling step may be an open loop in which cooling
10 water is not recycled in the cooling step.
         The cooling step may include controlling the operating
   conditions to cool the coated strip to a temperature range of
   28-55 0 C.
15
         The cooling step may include controlling the operating
   conditions to cool the coated strip to a temperature range of
   30-50 0 C.
20       The method may include other steps including any one or
   more of the steps of pre-treating strip to clean the strip
   before the hot dip coating step, controlling the thickness of
   the coated strip immediately after the coating step, rolling
   the coated strip, treating the coated strip with a passivation
25 solution, and coiling the coated strip.
         The Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy may include more than 0.3 % by
   weight Mg.
30       The Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy may include more than 1.0 % by
   weight Mg.
         The Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy may include more than 1.3 % by
   weight Mg.
35
         The Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy may comprise more than 1.5 % by
   weight Mg.

        The Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy may include less than 3 % by weight
   Mg.
 5      The Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy may include more than 2.5 % by
   weight Mg.
        The Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy may include more than 1.2 % by
   weight Si.
10
        The Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy may include less than 2.5 % by
   weight Si.
        The Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy may include the following ranges in
15 % by weight of the elements Al, Zn, Si, and Mg:
              Zn:       30 to 60 %
              Si:       0.3 to 3%
             Mg:        0.3 to 10 %
20           Balance    Al and unavoidable impurities.
              The Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy may include the following
   ranges in % by weight of the elements Al, Zn, Si, and Mg:
25            Zn:       35 to 50 %
              Si:       1.2 to 2.5%
             Mg         1.0 to 3.0%
             Balance    Al and unavoidable impurities.
30      The Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy coating may contain other elements
   that are present as deliberate alloying additions or as
   unavoidable impurities.   The other elements may include by way
   of example any one or more of Fe, Sr, Cr, and V.
35      By way of particular example, the other elements may
   include Ca for dross control in molten coating baths.

                                 - 8
        The steel may be a low carbon steel.
        The present invention also provides an Al-Zn-Mg-Si alloy
   coated steel strip produced by the above-described method.
 5
        The Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy used to form the coating of the Al
   Zn-Mg-Si alloy coated steel strip may include the following
   ranges in % by weight of the elements Al, Zn, Si, and Mg:
10           Zn:        30 to 60 %
             Si:        0.3 to 3%
             Mg:        0.3 to 10 %
             Balance    Al and unavoidable impurities.
15                BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        The present invention is described further by way of
   example with reference to the accompanying drawings of which:
20      Figure 1 is a schematic drawing of one embodiment of a
   continuous metal coating line for forming an Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy
   coating on steel strip in accordance with the method of the
   present invention;
25      Figure 2 is a graph of the Al and Ca concentrations in
   cooling water used during the course of a plant trial carried
   out by the applicant; and
        Figure 3 is a graph of the Mg and Zn concentrations in
30 cooling water used during the course of the plant trial
   carried out by the applicant.
                      DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
35      With reference to Figure 1, in use, coils of cold rolled
   low carbon steel strip are uncoiled at an uncoiling station 1

                                 - 9
   and successive uncoiled lengths of strip are welded end to end
   by a welder 2 and form a continuous length of strip.
         The strip is then passed successively through an
 5 accumulator 3, a strip cleaning section 4 and a furnace
   assembly 5.   The furnace assembly 5 includes a preheater, a
   preheat reducing furnace, and a reducing furnace.
         The strip is heat treated in the furnace assembly 5 by
10 careful control of process variables including:(i) the
   temperature profile in the furnaces,    (ii) the reducing gas
   concentration in the furnaces,   (iii) the gas flow rate through
   the furnaces, and (iv) strip residence time in the furnaces
    (i.e. line speed).
15
         The process variables in the furnace assembly 5 are
   controlled so that there is removal of iron oxide residues
   from the surface of the strip and removal of residual oils and
   iron fines from the surface of the strip.
20
         The heat treated strip is then passed via an outlet snout
   downwardly into and through a molten bath containing an Al-Zn
   Si-Mg alloy held in a coating pot 6 and is coated with Al-Zn
   Si-Mg alloy.   Typically, the Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy in the coating
25 pot 6 comprises in % by weight:   Zn: 30 to 60 %, Si:     0.3 to
   3 %, Mg: 0.3 to 10 %, and balance Al and unavoidable
   impurities.   The coating pot 6 may also contain Ca for dross
   control in the molten bath.   The Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy is
   maintained molten in the coating pot at a selected temperature
30 by use of heating inductors (not shown).     Within the bath the
   strip passes around a sink roll and is taken upwardly out of
   the bath.   The line speed is selected to provide a selected
   immersion time of strip in the coating bath.     Both surfaces of
   the strip are coated with the Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy as it passes
35 through the bath.

                                  - 10
        After leaving the coating bath 6 the strip passes
   vertically through a gas wiping station (not shown) at which
   its coated surfaces are subjected to jets of wiping gas to
   control the thickness of the coating.
 5
        The exposed surfaces of the Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy coating
   oxidise as the coated strip moves through the gas wiping
   station and a native oxide layer forms on the exposed surfaces
   of the coating.   The native oxide is the first oxide to form
10 on the surface of the metal alloy coating, with its chemical
   make-up being intrinsically dependent on the composition of
   the metal alloy coating, including Mg oxide, Al oxide, and a
   small amount of oxides of other elements of the Al-Zn-Si-Mg
   alloy coating.
15
        The coated strip is then passed through a cooling section
   7 and is subjected to forced cooling by means of a water
   quench step.   The forced cooling may include a forced air
   cooling step (not shown) before the water quench step. The
20 water quench step is, by way of example, a closed loop in
   which water sprayed onto coated strip is collected and then
   cooled for re-use to cool coated strip.     The cooling section 7
   includes a coated strip cooling chamber 7a, a spray system 7b
   that sprays water onto the surface of the coated strip as it
25 moves through the cooling chamber 7a, a water quench tank 7c
   for storing water that is collected from the cooling chamber
   7b, and a heat exchanger 7d for cooling water from the water
   quench tank 7c before transferring the water to the spray
   system 7b.
30
        In accordance with one embodiment of the present
   invention  (a) the pH of the cooling water supplied to the
   spray system 7b is controlled to be in a range of pH 5-9,
   typically in a range of 5-8, more typically in a range of 5.5
35 7.5 and (b) the temperature of the cooling water supplied to
   the spray system is controlled to be in a relatively low
   temperature range of 30-50 0 C.   Both control steps  (a) and (b)

                                - 11
   minimise dissolution of the Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy coating on the
   coated strip.
        The pH and temperature control may be achieved, by way of
 5 example, by using a pH probe and a temperature sensor in an
   overflow tank of the water quench tank 7c and supplying data
   from the probe/sensor to a PLC and calculating required acid
   additions to maintain the pH at predetermined set points for
   pH and the water temperature, with any acid additions and
10 temperature adjustments being made so that the water in the
   water quench tank 7c is controlled to the set points for pH
   and temperature.  This is not the only possible option for
   achieving pH and temperature control.
15      The pH, temperature, and chemical control may also be
   achieved by way of example, by using a once through water
   cooling system where the quench water is not recirculated and
   the input water has pH and temperature properties as described
   above.
20
        The cooled, coated strip is then passed through a rolling
   section 8 that conditions the surface of the coated strip.
   This section may include one or more of skin pass and tension
   leveling operations.
25
        The conditioned strip is then passed through a
   passivation section 10 and coated with a passivation solution
   to provide the strip with a degree of resistance to wet
   storage and early dulling.
30
        The coated strip is thereafter coiled at a coiling
   station 11.
        As discussed above, the applicant has conducted extensive
35 research and development work in relation to Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy
   coatings on steel strip.

                                     - 12
            The research and development work included plant trials
   on metal coating line MCL1 at the Springhill operations of the
   applicant.       The plant trials found that white precipitates
   formed in the quench system of the line when the line was
 5 operating with Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy as a coating alloy for steel
   strip.       Significantly, it was found that these white
   precipitates eventually blocked the quench system heat
   exchanger.       The Springhill metal coating lines are similar in
   general terms to the line shown in Figure 1 and include a
10 closed loop quench step on each of the three lines                   (MCL1,
   MCL2, and MCL3).       Each closed loop processes a relatively
   small volume (approx 5000L) of water.             The cooling water is
   cooled by dedicated heat exchangers on each line.                    The white
   precipitates formed on cooling system equipment surfaces and
15 covered an initial layer of grey material.                The grey layer was
   found to contain Al (OH)    3 and A1 20 3 .3H 2 0 from previous line
   operations using conventional Al-Zn alloys.                The white
   precipitates      were found to contain Mg 4Al     2 (OH) 14 .3H 2 0 and
   A1 20 3 .3H 20.  These magnesium/aluminium oxy/hydroxides also
20 contained magnesium carbonate compounds.
             The plant trials carried out by the applicant comprised
   initial plant trials on Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloys in two groups of
   alloy compositions that identified the precipitate problem in
25 the first instance and later more extensive plant trials that
   confirmed the precipitate problem and evaluated several
   options to minimise the problem.           Group (a) alloys include the
   following ranges in % by weight of the elements Al, Zn, Si,
   and Mg: Al: 2 to 19 %, Si: 0.01 to 2 %, Mg: 1 to 10 %, and
30 balance Zn and unavoidable impurities. Group (b) alloys
   include the following ranges in % by weight of the elements
   Al, Zn, Si, and Mg: Al: 30 to 60 %, Si: 0.3 to 3 %, Mg: 0.3 to
   10 %, and balance Zn and unavoidable impurities.
35          The following description focuses on the later plant
   trials.

                                 -  13
         The later plant trials on the MCL1 line were carried out
   by hot dip coating steel strip with the following alloys in
   coating baths:   (a) a known Al-Zn alloy (hereinafter referred
   to as "AZ") and (b) an Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy (hereinafter referred
 5 to as "AM") having the following compositions, in wt. %:
      *  AZ: 55Al-43Zn-1.5Si-0.45Fe-incidental impurities.
      *  AM: 53Al-43Zn-2Mg-1.5Si-0.45Fe-incidental impurities (a
10      group (b) alloy).
         The later plant trials on the MCL1 line are summarised
   below.
15 QUENCH SYSTEM - NO CONTROL
         The first week of the plant trials on the MLC1 line was
   run with the AZ   (Al-Zn) alloy and produced standard Zincalume
    (Registered Trade Mark) coated strip.   The line was run in
20 accordance with established operating conditions.    In terms of
   the water cooling step on the line, the quench water was at a
   temperature of 50-60*C upstream of the water sprays.    There was
   no pH control of the quench water.    Under these conditions the
   quench water became saturated with aluminium and the pH
25 increased to around 8.5   (at 60*C).
         As soon as Mg (and a small amount of Ca for dross
   control) was added to the metal coating pot to adjust the AZ
   alloy composition to the AM (Al-Zn-Si-Mg) alloy coating
30 composition the pH started to rise and eventually reached
   10.0.   The quench water became milky white and the inlet
   screens to the quench pumps became blocked with milky white
   precipitates and had to be removed.    The quench water was
   analysed and the results of the analysis are presented in
35 Table 1.

                                        -   14
               Table 1 - Quench Tank White Precipitate - AM alloy
                   Element          wt%    (XRF)          wt%    (ICP)
                     Al                21.0                   24.2
                     Mg                 8.5                   10.2
                      Ca                2.2                    2.0
                      Zn               0.29                   0.26
                       C                3.1
            A typical Al-Zn scale is almost all aluminium.
 5 Consequently, the Table 1 data indicates that a surface layer
   rich in Mg and Ca was dissolving in the quench water.                   The
   proportion of Mg and Ca relative to Al in the quench deposits
   was much higher than in the metal pot.             The presence and
   quantity of carbon in Table 1 also indicated that both Ca and
10 Mg were forming carbonates in the quench water.                  The white
   precipitates        were found to contain Mg 4Al  2 (OH) 14 .3H 2 0 and
   A1 20 3 .3H 20.    These magnesium/aluminium oxy/hydroxides also
   contained magnesium carbonate compounds.
15          The presence of the white precipitate in the quench water
   caused the quench heat exchanger to become blocked quickly.
   When operating with conventional Al-Zn alloy compositions, the
   quench heat exchanger on the line would typically last 9
   months.        The presence of magnesium and calcium made a
20 significant change to the surface characteristics of the
   coated strip and increased the dissolution of the oxide layer
   during the water cooling step.
            The applicant considered a range of options to prevent or
25 minimise the dissolution for the AM Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy coating.
   The applicant settled on a strategy of suppressing the
   alkalinity of cooling water via pH control of cooling water
   and to a lesser extent cooling water temperature control to
   thereby reduce the corrosiveness of the cooling water towards
30 Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy coatings.            The plant trials tested two

                                  -  15
   options, namely pH control and cooling water temperature
   control, as discussed below.
   QUENCH SYSTEM - pH CONTROL
 5
        A trial to control quench tank pH using phosphoric acid
   ran for 4 days.   The control system was set to allow a pre
   determined  [OH-] ion value of 1.0    x 10-6 mol/L.
10      Table 2 provides the values of the pH set point for
   different water quench tank temperatures to maintain a set pH.
        Table 2 Quench Tank pH requirements for constant [OH-]
                              concentration
15
                            Temp    pH Set
                            ( C)     point
                             35       7.68
                             40       7.53
                             45       7.39
                             50       7.26
                             55       7.14
                             60       7.02
                             65       6.90
                             70       6.80
        The pH and the concentration of the dosing acid were 1.6
   and 53.6 g/L H3 PO4 respectively.    During the trial the dosing
   acid consumption was quite low, approximately 17L/day, or less
20 than about 1L/day of concentrated phosphoric acid (85 wt%).
   Quench tank dosing proved effective at controlling white
   precipitate formation and preventing quench heat exchanger
   blockage. Another outcome of pH dosing was that the pH probe
   did not foul.
25
   QUENCH SYSTEM - LOW TEMPERATURE CONTROL
        At the end of the above-described pH control trial
   period, the set point temperature for the quench tank sprays
30 was lowered 50'C to 35'C, and pH dosing was discontinued.       The

                                 -  16
   quench tank was flushed with water to remove residual salts
   from the pH control trial.    This change caused wet strip
   conditions further downstream but it also showed that
   temperature is an important variable for quench tank control.
 5 During the period of the low temperature operation (24 hours)
   there was no increase in differential pressure across the
   quench tank heat exchanger.     The quench tank temperature was
   typically 15'C higher than the spray temperature.      During the
   low temperature trial the quench tank temperature was 48-50*C
10 rather than the 65-70'C typical of normal MCL1 quenching
   conditions.
         After 24 hours the set point was increased to 50'C to
   determine whether temperature is a critical variable.      The
15 quench heat exchanger differential pressure started to
   increase immediately -  indicating the formation of
   precipitates in the heat exchanger.
         After 10 hours the set point was lowered to 40*C but this
20 seemed to have little impact. When the quench heat exchanger
   differential pressure reached 110 kPa the set point was
   returned to 50'C and the quench tank was dosed with acid to
   bring the pH down and pH control was reactivated.      Dosing was
   left on during the run down of the pot in the final days of
25 the trial. The quench water became clear and the quench heat
   exchanger differential pressure stabilised during this time.
   QUENCH WATER ANALYSIS
30       Samples of quench water were collected and analysed
   during the trials. The results are shown in Figures 2 and 3.
         In Figures 2 and 3 the periods 1-4 represent pH control
    (1), low temperature control   (35 C) (2), quench tank set point
35 at 50oC (3),  and quench tank set point at 40'C, respectively.
         With reference to the Figures, both aluminium and calcium
   seem to follow the same trend (Figure 2).     Lower quench tank

                                - 17
   temperature and pH dosing lowered the level of these ions in
   the quench water, with the calcium levels dropping
   substantially. Without control the level of Al in the quench
   water is considerably higher for Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy coatings
 5 than Al-Zn alloy coatings  (typical Al-Zn concentrations in
   quench water are 4-20 mg/L).   The impact of pH control on
   magnesium concentration is shown in Figure 3. It increased
   considerably during the 4 day test period.   Increased
   magnesium levels are also evident for cooler quench tank
10 conditions.  Zinc levels also increased during pH control and
   for the coldest quench tank trial  (35'C) but was still at low
   levels overall.
   CONCLUSIONS
15
        The above trials and other research and development work
   of the applicant established that Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy coated
   strip is far more reactive in cooling water than Al-Zn alloy
   coated strip and lead to rapid deterioration of the quench
20 heat exchangers and coatings of the quench tank surfaces, with
   the higher reactivity being due in large part to magnesium and
   calcium.  Lower quench tank temperatures and pH control
   reduced the impact of magnesium and calcium dissolution in the
   quench water and allowed the quench heat exchangers to perform
25 in a practical manner.
        Many modifications may be made to the present invention
   described above without departing from the spirit and scope of
   the invention.
30
        By way of example, whilst the embodiment of the metal
   coating line shown in Figure 1 includes a coated strip cooling
   section 7 that includes water sprays, the present invention is
   not so limited and extends to any suitable water cooling
35 system, such as dunk or immersion tanks.

                                -  18
   CLAIMS:
   1.   A method of forming an Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy coating on a
   steel strip to form a coating of an Al-Zn-Mg-Si on a steel
 5 strip, the method including the steps of dipping steel strip
   into a bath of molten Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy and forming a coating
   of the alloy on exposed surfaces of the steel strip and
   cooling the coated strip with cooling water, with the cooling
   step including controlling the pH of cooling water to be in a
10 range of pH 5-9.
   2.   The method defined in claim 1 wherein the cooling step
   includes controlling the pH of cooling water to be less than
   8.
15
   3.   The method defined in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the
   cooling step includes controlling the pH of cooling water to
   be less than 7.
20 4.   The method defined in any one of the preceding claims
   wherein the cooling step includes controlling the pH of
   cooling water to be greater than 6.
   5.   The method defined in any one of the preceding claims
25 wherein the cooling step includes controlling the temperature
   of cooling water to be in a range of 25-80 0 C.
   6.   The method defined in any one of the preceding claims
   wherein the cooling step includes controlling the temperature
30 of cooling water to be less than 70 0 C.
   7.   The method defined in any one of the preceding claims
   wherein the cooling step includes controlling cooling water
   temperature to be less than 60 0 C.
35

                                -  19
   8.   The method defined in any one of the preceding claims
   wherein the cooling step includes controlling cooling water
   temperature to be less than 55 0 C.
 5 9.   The method defined in any one of the preceding claims
   wherein the cooling step includes controlling cooling water
   temperature to be less than 50 0 C.
   10.  The method defined in any one of the preceding claims
10 wherein the cooling step includes controlling cooling water
   temperature to be less than 45 0 C.
   11.  The method defined in any one of the preceding claims
   wherein the cooling step includes controlling cooling water
15 temperature to be greater than 30 0 C.
   12.  The method defined in any one of the preceding claims
   wherein the cooling step includes controlling cooling water
   temperature to be greater than 40 0 C.
20
   13.  The method defined in any one of the preceding claims
   wherein the cooling step includes controlling the pH by adding
   acid to the cooling water.
25 14.  The method defined in any one of the preceding claims
   wherein the strip cooling step includes controlling the
   chemistry of the cooling water.
   15.  The method defined in any one of the preceding claims
30 wherein the strip cooling step includes controlling the
   chemistry and the pH by adding acid to the cooling water.
   16.  The method defined in any one of the preceding claims
   wherein the cooling step includes a water quench step.
35
   17.  The method defined in any one of the preceding claims
   wherein the cooling step includes a closed loop in which water

                                - 20
   is circulated through a circuit that supplies water to the
   coated strip and collects and cools water and returns the
   cooled water for cooling the coated strip.
 5 18.   The method defined in any one of claims 1-16 wherein the
   cooling step includes an open loop in which cooling water is
   supplied from a cooling tower to the coated strip and
   collected and recirculated through the cooling tower.
10 19.   The method defined in any one of the preceding claims
   wherein the cooling step includes controlling the operating
   conditions to cool the coated strip to a temperature range of
   30-55 0 C.
15 20.   The method defined in any one of the preceding claims
   includes other steps including any one or more of the steps of
   pre-treating strip to clean the strip before the hot dip
   coating step, rolling the coated strip, treating the coated
   strip with a passivation solution, and coiling the coated
20 strip.
   21.   The method defined in any one of the preceding claims
   wherein the Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy includes more than 0.3 % by
   weight Mg.
25
   22.   The method defined in any one of the preceding claims
   wherein the Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy includes more than 1.0 % by
   weight Mg.
30 23.   The method defined in any one of the preceding claims
   wherein the Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy includes more than 1.3 % by
   weight Mg.
   24.   The method defined in any one of the preceding claims
35 wherein the Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy includes more than 1.5 % by
   weight Mg.

                                - 21
   25.  The method defined in any one of the preceding claims
   wherein the Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy includes less than 3 % by weight
   Mg.
 5 26.  The method defined in any one of the preceding claims
   wherein the Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy includes more than 2.5 % by
   weight Mg.
   27.  The method defined in any one of the preceding claims
10 wherein the Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy includes more than 1.2 % by
   weight Si.
   28.  The method defined in any one of the preceding claims
   wherein the Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy includes less than 2.5 % by
15 weight Si.
   29.  The method defined in any one of the preceding claims
   wherein the Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy includes the following ranges in
   % by weight of the elements Al, Zn, Si, and Mg:
20
              Zn:      30 to 60 %
              Si:      0.3 to 3%
             Mg:       0.3 to 10 %
             Balance   Al and unavoidable impurities.
25
   30.  The method defined in any one of the preceding claims
   wherein the Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy includes the following ranges in
   % by weight of the elements Al, Zn, Si, and Mg:
30            Zn:      35 to 50 %
              Si:      1.2 to 2.5%
             Mg        1.0 to 3.0%
             Balance   Al and unavoidable impurities.
35 31.       An Al-Zn-Mg-Si alloy coated steel strip produced by
   the method defined in any one of the preceding claims.

                                - 22
   32.  The Al-Zn-Mg-Si alloy coated steel strip defined in cliam
   31 wherein the the Al-Zn-Si-Mg alloy used to form the coating
   includes the following ranges in % by weight of the elements
   Al, Zn, Si, and Mg:
 5
             Zn:       30 to 60 %
             Si:       0.3 to 3%
             Mg:       0.3 to 10 %
             Balance   Al and unavoidable impurities.
10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                     1/3

<removed-date>
                                 2/3
<removed-apn>
              Figure 2 Quench Tank Calcium and Aluminium

<removed-date>
                               3/3
<removed-apn>
              Figure 3 Quench Tank Magnesium and Zinc

