         PRESERVED COMPOSITIONS CONTAINING HYALURONIC ACID OR A
   PHARMACEUTICALLY-ACCEPTABLE SALT THEREOF AND RELATED METHODS
                                       ABSTRACT
5
               The invention provides a composition containing hyaluronic acid (HA) or a
  pharmaceutically-acceptable salt thereof preserved with a cationic preservative and
  related methods. In one embodiment, the pharmaceutically-acceptable salt is sodium
  hyaluronate. In another embodiment, the cationic preservative includes benzalkonium
0 chloride (BAK).

                                                 1
         PRESERVED COMPOSITIONS CONTAINING HYALURONIC ACID OR A
         PHARMACEUTICALLY-ACCEPTABLE SALT THEREOF AND RELATED
                                           METHODS
 5                                     TECHNICAL FIELD
                   The invention relates generally to preserved compositions containing
   hyaluronic acid (HA) or a physiologically-acceptable salt thereof, and more
   particularly, to HA compositions preserved with cationic preservatives such as
   benzalkonium chloride (BAK).
10
                             BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
                   Hyaluronic acid (HA) is a mucopolysaccharide found in various
   physiological fluids, including vitreous humor. The ability of HA to retain water has
   made it popular as a lubricant or wetting agent in various health care and
15 pharmaceutical compositions, such as ophthalmic, otic, and nasal compositions.
                   To reduce the likelihood of infection due to microbial growth within
   compositions administered to an individual, such compositions typically include an
   antimicrobial preservative. One particularly effective antimicrobial preservative is
   benzalkonium chloride (BAK). However, it has been observed that HA and cationic
20 preservatives, such as BAK, are incompatible, resulting in their conjugation and
   precipitation, thereby reducing both the lubricating and preservative properties of the
   composition. While the loss of such properties may sometimes be overcome by
   increasing the concentration of one or both compounds, BAK is believed to cause
   corneal disorders at high concentrations.

                                                 2
                 Similar precipitation has been noted between BAK and latanoprost.
   U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 20060069162 to Asada et al. discloses
   several methods for avoiding such precipitation. These include the addition of a
   surfactant, the use of a particular species of BAK (i.e., [C6H5CH 2N(CH 3)R]CI,
 5 wherein R is alkyl having 12 carbon atoms (BAK-C 12)), and/or the addition of a
   nonionic tonicity agent. Such methods are unacceptable, however, as they require
   the inclusion of additional components to the composition, which increases
   complexity, expense, and the likelihood of adverse interactions, and/or the restriction
   of one component to a purified, and more expensive, species.
10               To this extent, a need exists for preserved compositions containing HA
   that do not suffer from the defects known in the art.
                               SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
15               The invention provides a composition containing hyaluronic acid (HA)
   or a pharmaceutically-acceptable salt thereof, preserved with a cationic preservative.
   In one embodiment, the pharmaceutically-acceptable salt is sodium hyaluronate. In
   another embodiment, the cationic preservative includes benzalkonium chloride
   (BAK).
20               A first aspect of the invention provides a method for preparing a
   preserved hyaluronic acid composition, the method comprising: dissolving a cationic
   preservative in a first quantity of a solvent; dissolving a quantity of hyaluronic acid
   (HA) or physiologically-acceptable salt thereof in a second quantity of the solvent;
   and adding the dissolved HA or physiologically-acceptable salt thereof to the

                                                 3
   dissolved cationic preservative, wherein precipitation of the cationic preservative and
   the HA or physiologically-acceptable salt thereof is substantially prevented by
   dissolving each in the first and second quantities of solvent before they are
   combined.
 5                A second aspect of the invention provides a method for preparing a
   preserved hyaluronic acid composition, the method comprising: dissolving a cationic
   preservative in a first quantity of a solvent; dissolving a quantity of hyaluronic acid
   (HA) or physiologically-acceptable salt thereof in a second quantity of the solvent;
   dissolving a quantity of an anionic cellulose derivative in a third quantity of the
10 solvent; adding the dissolved HA or physiologically-acceptable salt thereof to the
   dissolved cationic preservative; and adding the dissolved anionic cellulose derivative
   to at least one of the following: the dissolved HA or physiologically-acceptable salt
   thereof, the dissolved cationic preservative, and the combined dissolved HA or
   physiologically-acceptable salt thereof and cationic preservative, wherein
15 precipitation of the cationic preservative and the HA or physiologically-acceptable
   salt thereof is substantially prevented by dissolving each in the first and second
   quantities of solvent before they are combined.
                  A third aspect of the invention provides a preserved aqueous
   composition comprising: a solvent; hyaluronic acid (HA) or a physiologically
20 acceptable salt thereof; and an effective amount of a cationic preservative including
   benzalkonium chloride (BAK) having the formula [C6H5CH 2N(CH 3)R]CI, wherein R is
   an alkyl group having at least one of: between eight and 10 and between 14 and 18
   carbon atoms, wherein the composition is substantially free of precipitants of the
   cationic preservative and the HA or physiologically-acceptable salt thereof.

                                                 4
                  The illustrative aspects of the present invention are designed to solve
   the problems herein described and other problems not discussed, which are
   discoverable by a skilled artisan.
 5                                 DETAILED DESCRIPTION
                  As indicated above, the invention provides a hyaluronic acid (HA)
   composition preserved with a cationic preservative such as benzalkonium chloride
   (BAK) and methods for its preparation.
10                The term "comprising" (and its grammatical variations) as used herein
   is used in the inclusive sense of "having" or "including" and not in the exclusive
   sense of "consisting only of." The terms "a" and "the" as used herein are understood
   to encompass the plural as well as the singular.
                  Where patents or patent applications are incorporated by reference
15 herein and inconsistencies exist between the incorporated documents and the
   present disclosure, the present disclosure will prevail.
                  Surprisingly, it has been found that the conjugation and/or precipitation
   of HA and cationic preservatives such as BAK may be avoided or minimized by
   preparing separate HA and BAK solutions which are then combined.
20                 More specifically, while the separate predilution of HA and BAK itself
   yields a combined composition exhibiting reduced HA-BAK conjugation and
   precipitation, the predilution of HA and BAK in particular ratios of solvent yields a
   combined composition exhibiting little or no HA-BAK conjugation and precipitation.
   In one embodiment, the HA or a pharmaceutically-acceptable salt thereof is

                                               5
   dissolved in a quantity of solvent equal to about 1/3 the total desired volume of the
   final composition while the cationic preservative, such as BAK, is dissolved in a
   quantity of solvent equal to about 2/3 the total desired volume of the final
   composition. That is, the quantity of solvent used to dissolve the BAK is
 5 approximately twice that used to dissolve the HA.
                  For example, if one wished to prepare 300 mL of a preserved HA
   composition according to the invention, one could dissolve HA or a
   pharmaceutically-acceptable salt thereof (such as sodium hyaluronate) in about 100
   mL of solvent and dissolve BAK and/or another cationic preservative in about 200
10 mL of solvent. Once the HA and BAK are dissolved in their respective quantities of
   solvent, the solutions are combined to yield a BAK-preserved composition exhibiting
   little or no HA-BAK conjugation or precipitation.
                  While the ratio of solvent quantities used to dissolve the BAK and HA is
   described above as about 2:1, this ratio is merely a preferred ratio. Effective
15 compositions may be prepared with ratios between about 1.8:1 and 2.2:1.
                  Compositions according to the invention may be prepared using any
   number of solvents, subject to their suitability for administration. For ophthalmic,
   nasal, and otic compositions, the solvent is typically aqueous, comprising water
   alone or in combination with one or more other solvents. Suitable solvents for
20 ophthalmic, nasal, and otic compositions include, for example, glycerin, polyethylene
   glycol (PEG), and propylene glycol.
                  Any species or combination of species of BAK may be used in
   practicing the invention. Generally defined, BAK has the formula:
   [C6H5CH 2N(CH 3)R]CI, wherein R is an alkyl group having between eight and 18

                                               6
   carbon atoms.
                  Where BAK is the cationic preservative used, compositions according
   to the invention optionally contain between about 0.001 % and about 0.02% BAK or,
   optionally, between about 0.002% and about 0.01 % BAK, or, optionally, between
 5 about 0.003% and about 0.005% BAK, or, optionally about 0.005% BAK. Such
   concentrations of BAK may be obtained by diluting commercially-available BAK
   solutions, which are available in any number of concentrations. Most commercially
   available BAK solutions contain between about 5% and about 50% BAK. In certain
   embodiments, the BAK solutions contain between about 10% and about 30% BAK,
10 or, optionally, between about 15% and about 19% BAK, or, optionally, about 17%
   BAK. A more detailed discussion of BAK can be found in U.S. Patent Publication
   20060069162, herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.
                  Similarly, any species or combination of species of HA may be used in
   practicing the invention. In certain embodiments, the HA has a molecular weight
15 between about 500,000 daltons and about 4,000,000 daltons, or, optionally, between
   about 1,000,000 daltons and about 2,000,000 daltons, or, optionally, between about
   1,200,000 daltons and about 1,800,000 daltons. Certain embodiments of the
   present invention contain between about 0.1% and about 0.5% HA, or, optionally,
   between about 0.2% and about 0.4% HA, or, optionally, about 0.2% HA. More
20 detailed discussions of HA can be found in U.S. Patent Publication 20060094643;
   and US Patents 3,396,081; 3,862,003; 4,141,973; 4,517,296; 4,851,521; 4,965,353;
   5,202,431; 5,316,926; 6,090,596; and 6,339,074, each of which patents are herein
   incorporated by reference in its entirety.
                  Once the HA and BAK solutions are combined, the composition may

                                                 7
   optionally be filtered to remove any minor HA-BAK precipitants or other agents
   affecting the composition's clarity. In certain embodiments, the compositions of the
   invention has a transmittance between about 93% and about 98% at 440 nm before
   filtration and a transmittance between about 95% and about 100% at 440 nm after
 5 filtration. Any method of filtration suitable for use with pharmaceutical compositions
   may be employed in practicing the invention.
                   Alternative cationic preservatives useful either alone or in combination
   with BAK include, but are not limited to, poly[dimethylimino-w-butene-1,4-diyl]
   chloride, alpha-[4-tris(2-hydroxyethyl)ammonium]-dichloride (Polyquaternium 1@),
10 poly (oxyethyl (dimethyliminio)ethylene dmethyliminio) ethylene dichloride (WSCP@),
   benzalkonium halides other than BAK, salts of alexidine, alexidine-free base, salts of
   chlorhexidine, hexetidine, alkylamines, alkyl di- and tri-amine, Octenidine
   (N,N[prime]-(1,10-Decanediyldi-1-(4H)-pyridinyl-4-ylidenebis-[1-octanamine]
   dihydrochloride, cetylpyridinium chloride, cetylpyridinium salts, antimicrobial
15 polypeptides, or mixtures thereof.
                   Compositions according to the invention may contain additional
   components, such as those commonly found in ophthalmic, nasal, and otic
   compositions. Such additional components include, for example, cellulose
   derivatives, medicaments (e.g., antibacterials, antifungals, etc.), and buffers (e.g.,
20 phosphate buffers, borate buffers, citrate buffers, etc.). Other components may be
   included in compositions according to the invention, depending upon how and where
   the composition is to be administered. A more detailed discussion of such
   components can be found in US Patent Publication 2007036829, herein
   incorporated by reference in its entirety.

                                                  8
                  A common class of additional components useful in ophthalmic, nasal,
   and otic compositions, is anionic cellulose derivatives. These may be defined as
   carboxyalkyl celluloses and hydroxyalkyl celluloses where the alkyl group includes
   between 1 and 3 carbon atoms. In certain embodiments, the anionic cellulose
 5 derivative is selected from the group consisting of, carboxymethylethylcellulose,
   ethyl carboxyethyl cellulose, carboxymethylhydroxyethylcel lu loses,
   hydroxypropylmethylcelluloses, metal salts of carboxymethyl cellulose (such as
   sodium carboxymethyl cellulose) and mixtures thereof. In certain embodiments, the
   anionic cellulose derivative is a metal salt of carboxymethyl cellulose. Where used,
10 one or more anionic cellulose derivatives may be dissolved in the fraction containing
   the cationic preservative, which is then combined with the fraction containing the HA
   or pharmaceutically-acceptable salt thereof. In certain embodiments, the anionic
   cellulose derivatives employed have molecular weight range of from about 70,000
   daltons to about 700,000 daltons.
15                Alternatively, a third fraction of solvent may be separately employed to
   dissolve the CMC, which is then combined with the dissolved HA, the dissolved
   cationic preservative, or the combined HA (or pharmaceutically-acceptable salt) and
   cationic preservative fractions. In such an embodiment, the solvent fractions are
   optionally in a ratio of about 1:1:1. For example, if one were to prepare 300 mL of a
20 composition according to the invention, about 100 mL of solvent would be used to
   separately dissolve the HA (or pharmaceutically-acceptable salt), the cationic
   preservative, and the CMC.
                  The preparation of compositions according to the invention will be
   described with reference to the following examples.

                                              9
   Example I - Sodium Hyaluronate, BAK, CMC Composition Prepared in Two Parts
   1.            Dissolve a quantity of sodium hyaluronate in 100 mL of water to a
   concentration of 0.4%.
 5 2.            Dissolve a quantity of BAK in 200 mL of water to a concentration of
   0.005%.
   3.            To the dissolved BAK, add and dissolve a quantity of CMC to a
   concentration of 0.5%.
   4.            Add the dissolved sodium hyaluronate solution to the dissolved BAK
10 CMC solution.
                 The method of Example 1 yielded 300 mL of an aqueous composition
   comprising: 0.133% sodium hyaluronate, 0.0033% BAK, and 0.33% CMC.
   Example 2 - Sodium Hyaluronate, BAK, CMC Composition Prepared in Three Parts
15 1.            Dissolve a quantity of sodium hyaluronate in 100 mL of water to a
   concentration of 0.6%.
   2.            Dissolve a quantity of CMC in 100 mL of water to a concentration of
   1.5%.
   3.            Dissolve a quantity of BAK in 100 mL of water to a concentration of
20 0.015%.
   4.            Add the dissolved sodium hyaluronate solution to the dissolved BAK
   solution.
   5.            Add the dissolved CMC solution to the combined sodium hyaluronate
   BAK solution.

                                               10
   6.            Filter the combined sodium hyaluronate-BAK-CMC solution.
                 The method of Example 2 yielded 300 mL of an aqueous composition
   comprising: 0.2% sodium hyaluronate, 0.005% BAK, and 0.5% CMC. The filtered
   solution had a transmittance of about 100%.
 5
          The foregoing description of various aspects of the invention has been
   presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be
   exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed, and obviously,
   many modifications and variations are possible. Such modifications and variations
10 that may be apparent to a person skilled in the art are intended to be included within
   the scope of the invention as defined by the accompanying claims.

                                                11
   Claims:
   1.      A method for preparing a preserved hyaluronic acid composition, the method
   comprising:
                   dissolving a cationic preservative, preferably benzalkonium chloride
 5 (BAK), in a first quantity of a solvent;
                   dissolving a quantity of hyaluronic acid (HA) or physiologically
   acceptable salt thereof in a second quantity of the solvent; and
                   adding the dissolved HA or physiologically-acceptable salt thereof to
   the dissolved cationic preservative,
10                 wherein precipitation of the cationic preservative and the HA or
   physiologically-acceptable salt thereof is substantially prevented by dissolving each
   in the first and second quantities of solvent before they are combined.
   2.              The method according to Claim 1, wherein the BAK has the formula:
15 [C6H5CH2N(CH 3)R]CI, wherein R is an alkyl group having between eight and 18
   carbon atoms.
   3.              The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
   BAK is in solution form.
20
   4.              The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
   solution includes BAK at a concentration between 5% and 50%, preferably between
   10% and 30%.

                                                  12
   5.              The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
   HA has a molecular weight between 500,000 daltons and 4,000,000 daltons,
   preferably between 1,000,000 daltons and 2,000,000 daltons.
 5 6               The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
   solvent further includes at least one of the following: glycerin, polyethylene glycol
   (PEG), and propylene glycol.
   7.              The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein a
10 ratio of the first quantity of the solvent to the second quantity of the solvent is
   between 1.8:1 and 2.2:1, preferably 2:1.
   8.              The method of according to any one of the preceding claims, further
   comprising:
15                 filtering the combined HA or physiologically-acceptable salt thereof and
   cationic preservative solution.
   9.              The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
   HA or physiologically-acceptable salt thereof and cationic preservative solution has a
20 transmittance between 93% and 98% at 440 nm, before filtration.
   10.             The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
   combined HA or physiologically-acceptable salt thereof and cationic preservative
   solution has a transmittance between 95% and 100% at 440 nm after filtration.

                                             13
   11.           The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
   composition has a concentration of unprecipitated HA between 0.1% and 0.5%.
 5 12.           A composition prepared according to the method according to any one
   of the preceding claims.
   13.           A preserved aqueous composition comprising:
                 a solvent;
10               hyaluronic acid (HA) or a physiologically-acceptable salt thereof; and
                 an effective amount of a cationic preservative including benzalkonium
   chloride (BAK) having the formula [C6H5CH 2N(CH 3)R]CI, wherein R is an alkyl group
   having at least one of: between eight and 10 and between 14 and 18 carbon atoms,
                 wherein the composition is substantially free of precipitants of the
15 cationic preservative and the HA or physiologically-acceptable salt thereof.

