                                           ABSTRACT
        This disclosure describes, in one aspect, a method for identifying p-glucan binding to
immune cells of a subject. Generally, the method includes obtaining a blood sample from the
subject, the blood sample comprising immune cells, adding soluble f3-glucan to at least a
portion of the blood sample and incubating the mixture under conditions allowing the soluble
p-glucan to bind to the immune cells, and detecting soluble 3-glucan bound to the immune
cells. In another aspect, this disclosure describes a method that generally includes identifying
the subject as a low binder of P-glucan, and co-administering to the subject a soluble p
glucan and an antibody preparation capable of converting the subject from a low binder to a
high binder.

   WO 2013/165591                                                          PCT/US2013/031606
                                                1
                         p-GLUCAN IMMUNOTHERAPEUTIC METHODS
 5
                       CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
            This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No.
    61/640,834, filed May 1, 2012, and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No.
    61/640,397, filed April 30, 2012, each of which is incorporated herein by reference.
10
                                              SUMMARY
            This disclosure describes, in one aspect, a method for identifying p-glucan binding to
   immune cells of a subject. Generally, the method includes obtaining a blood sample from
   the subject, the blood sample comprising immune cells, adding P-glucan to at least a portion
15 of the blood sample and incubating the mixture under conditions allowing the P-glucan to
   bind to the immune cells, and detecting p-glucan bound to the immune cells.
            In some embodiments, the P-glucan may be derived from yeast. In some
   embodiments, the    p-glucan  can include a P-1,3/1,6 glucan such as p(1,6)-[poly-(1,3)-D
   glucopyranosyl]-poly-p(1,3)-D-glucopyranose.
20          In some embodiments, detecting 0-glucan bound to the immune cells can include
   contacting the sample with a monoclonal antibody that specifically binds to the P-glucan. In
   some of these embodiments, the monoclonal antibody comprises BfD I, BfD II, BfD III, or
   BfD IV.
            In some embodiments, the method can further include obtaining a second blood
25 sample from the subject, the blood sample comprising immune cells, adding P-glucan to at
   least a portion of the second blood sample and incubating the mixture under conditions
   allowing the  p-glucan to  bind to the immune cells, and detecting P-glucan bound to the
   immune cells.
           In another aspect, this disclosure describes a method of improving P-glucan
30 immunotherapy for a subject. Generally, the method includes identifying the subject as a
   low binder, and co-administering to the subject a p-glucan and an antibody preparation
   capable of converting the subject from a low binder to a high binder. In some embodiments,
   identifying the subject as a low binder can include obtaining a blood sample from the
   subject, the sample comprising an anti-p-glucan antibody titer, measuring the anti-p-glucan

    WO 2013/165591                                                           PCT/US2013/031606
                                                  2
     antibody titer of at least a portion of the blood sample, and identifying the subject as a low
     binder if the anti-p-glucan antibody titer is less than a predetermined level. In other
     embodiments, identifying the subject as a low binder can include obtaining a blood sample
     from the subject, the blood sample comprising immune cells, adding P-glucan to at least a
  5  portion of the blood sample and incubating the mixture under conditions allowing the p
     glucan to bind to the immune cells, detecting P-glucan bound to the immune cells, and
     identifying the subject as a low binder if P-glucan is bound to no more than 10% of the
     immune cells.
             In some embodiments, the antibody preparation can include serum from a high
 10  binder. In some embodiments, the antibody preparation can include a monoclonal antibody
     that specifically binds the P-glucan such as BfD I, BfD II, BfD III, or BfD IV. In some
     embodiments, the antibody preparation can include intravenous immunoglobulin. In some
     embodiments, the antibody preparation can include a p-glucan moiety conjugated to an
     antibody or antibody fragment such as the Fe portion.
 15          In some embodiments, the P-glucan and the antibody preparation are co-administered
     simultaneously. In other embodiments, the P-glucan and the antibody preparation are co
     administered at different times. In some embodiments, the P-glucan and the antibody
    preparation are co-administered at different sites.
             In some embodiments, the P-glucan may be derived from yeast. In some
20   embodiments, the P-glucan can include a P-1,3/1,6 glucan such as P(1,6)-[poly-(1,3)-D
    glucopyranosyl]-poly-p(1,3)-D-glucopyranose.
             The above summary of the present invention is not intended to describe each
    disclosed embodiment or every implementation of the present invention. The description
    that follows more particularly exemplifies illustrative embodiments. In several places
25  throughout the application, guidance is provided through lists of examples, which examples
    can be used in various combinations. In each instance, the recited list serves only as a
    representative group and should not be interpreted as an exclusive list.
                               BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
30           FIG. 1. Flow cytometry data showing differential p-glucan (PGG) binding to
    polymorphonuclear leukocytes in healthy human whole blood.

    WO 2013/165591                                                          PCT/US2013/031606
                                                3
              FIG. 2. Data showing differential p-glucan binding to neutrophils in healthy human
     whole blood.
             FIG. 3. Data showing differential p-glucan binding to monocytes in healthy human
     whole blood.
  5          FIG. 4. Data comparing anti-p-glucan antibody titers of low binders and high
     binders.
             FIG. 5. Comparison of the average number of days on therapy for patients in control
     and investigational arms of two-armed, open-label, randomized, multi-center study.
             FIG. 6. Data showing that high binder serum can increase   p-glucan binding to PMNs
 10  obtained from a low binder.
             FIG. 7. Data showing the anti-p-glucan antibodies can increase P-glucan binding to
     PMNs from a low binder.
            FIG. 8. Data showing intravenous immunoglobulin can increase P-glucan binding to
     PMNs from a low binder.
15          FIG. 9. Data showing binding of PGG-antibody conjugates to PMNs.
            FIG. 10. Data showing binding of PGG-IVIG conjugates to PMNs.
                 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF ILLUSTRATIVE EMBODIMENTS
            This disclosure describes methods related to the use of soluble P-glucan as a
20  component of immunotherapy. The methods described herein exploit the observation of
    differential binding of 0-glucan by immune cells in different populations of healthy humans.
    Surprisingly, "high binders" of p-glucan exhibit higher titers of anti-p-glucan antibodies
    than "low binders." Thus, this disclosure describes methods of screening individuals to
    identify "high binders" and "low binders." This disclosure also describes methods that
25  generally include converting a "low binder" to a "high binder" and, thus, increase the
    population for whom P-glucan-based immunotherapy can be effective. This disclosure also
    describes treatment regimens that include periodically monitoring a subject for their current
    "high binder" or "low binder" status, and adjusting the therapy provided to the subject, if
    necessary, to promote achieving or maintaining "high binder" status.
30          P-glucans are polymers of glucose derived from a variety of microbiological and
    plant sources including, for example, yeast, bacteria, algae, seaweed, mushroom, oats, and
    barley. Of these, yeast p-glucans have been extensively evaluated for their

    WO 2013/165591                                                           PCT/US2013/031606
                                                4
     immunomodulatory properties. Yeast P-glucans can be present as various forms such as, for
     example, intact yeast, zymosan, purified whole glucan particles, solubilized zymosan
     polysaccharide, or highly-purified soluble P-glucans of different molecular weights.
     Structurally, yeast P-glucans are composed of glucose monomers organized as a P-(1,3)
  5  linked glucopyranose backbone with periodic P-(1,3) glucopyranose branches linked to the
     backbone via P-(1,6) glycosidic linkages. The different forms of yeast P-glucans can
     function differently from one another. The mechanism through which yeast P-glucans exert
     their immunomodulatory effects can be influenced by the structural differences between
     different forms of the p-glucans such as, for example, its particulate or soluble nature,
 10  tertiary conformation, length of the main chain, length of the side chain, and frequency of
     the side chains. The immune stimulating functions of yeast P-glucans are also dependent
     upon the receptors engaged in different cell types in different species, which again, can be
     dependent on the structural properties of the P-glucans.
             In general, p-glucan immunotherapies can include administering to a subject any
 15  suitable form of p-glucan or any combination of two or more forms of p-glucan. Suitable p
     glucans and the preparation of suitable p-glucans from their natural sources are described in,
    for example, U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US2008/0103112 Al. In some cases,
    the P-glucan may be derived from a yeast such as, for example, Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
    In certain cases, the P-glucan may be or be derived from P(1,6)-[poly-(1,3)-D
20  glucopyranosyl]-poly-P(1,3)-D-glucopyranose, also referred to herein as PGG (IMPRIME
    PGG, Biothera, Eagan, MN), a highly purified and well characterized form of soluble yeast
    derived f-glucan. Moreover,     p-glucan-based immunotherapies    can involve the use of, for
    example, a modified and/or derivatized p-glucan such as those described in International
    Patent Application No. PCT/US12/36795. In other cases, P-glucan immunotherapy can
25  involve administering, for example, a particulate-soluble P-glucan or a particulate-soluble   p
    glucan preparation, each of which is described in, for example, U.S. Patent No. 7,981,447.
             As noted above, yeast -glucans have been extensively evaluated for their
    immunomodulatory properties. In particular PGG P-glucan has demonstrated preclinical
    activity against a variety of cancer types when administered in combination with tumor
30  related monoclonal antibodies (mAbs). Exemplary types of cancer and their associated
    tumor-related mAbs include, for example, T-cell lymphoma (anti-MUC1, anti-GD2), lung
    carcinoma (anti-MUC1), breast adenocarcinoma (anti-MMTV), ovarian carcinoma

   WO 2013/165591                                                          PCT/US2013/031606
                                                5
    (bevacizumab), non-small-cell lung carcinoma (bevacizumab, cetuximab), colorectal cancer
    (cetuximab), chronic lymphocytic leukemia and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (rituximab), and
   pancreatic carcinoma (cetuximab, anti-MUC 1). P-glucans can prime neutrophils, which are
   then recruited to tumors marked with tumor-related antibody. The recruited neutrophils are
 5 activated by dual ligation of the complement receptor 3 (CR3) by iC3b/C3b-at the surface
   of mAb-marked tumor cells-and infused p-glucan, to kill tumor cells.
            We discovered, however, that distinct populations of individuals exist: one
   population exhibits relatively high capacity of P-glucan binding to innate immune cells in
   whole blood; another population exhibits relatively low capacity of P-glucan binding to
10 innate immune cells in whole blood. This observation was wholly unexpected based on data
   from mouse models of immunity and studies involving isolated human immune cells. Many
   individuals exhibit some level of p-glucan binding to immune cells from native, low level
   exposure to   p-glucans. (e.g., FIG. 1, "De novo"). When exogenous P-glucan is administered,
   "low binders" exhibit a modest increase in the percentage of immune cells that bind P
15 glucan, while "high binders" exhibit a marked increase in the percentage of innate immune
   cells that bind P-glucan. (FIG. 1., "+ Exogenous PGG"). FIG. 1 and FIG. 2 show data
   reflecting p-glucan binding to polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNs), and FIG. 3
   (monocytes) shows that the differential binding applies to other innate immune cell
   populations as well. In addition, "high binders" also tend to produce more chemoattractant
20 cytokines and chemokines such as, for example, IL-8, MCP, MIP-1, etc.
           As used herein, status as a "high binder" refers to an individual who exhibits a
   predetermined percentage of a particular immune cell population that binds exogenously
   provided P-glucan. The immune cell population used to determine whether an individual is a
   "high binder" or a "low binder" can be, for example, polymorphonuclear lymphocytes
25 (PMNs) or monocytes. An individual can be considered a "high binder" if at least 10% of
   the PMNs or monocytes in a blood sample from the individual bind exogenously provided
   p-glucan. Thus, an individual may be a "high binder" if at least 10%, at least 12%, at least
   15%, at least 20%, at least 15%, or at least 40% of PMNs or monocytes in a blood sample
   from the individual bind exogenously provided p-glucan. (See, e.g., FIG. 2 and FIG. 3). In
30 some cases, the exogenously provided P-glucan can include PGG provided to a final
   concentration of 10 pg/mL to 100 [ig/mL. Status as a "low binder" refers to an individual
   who fails to exhibit "high binder" status.

    WO 2013/165591                                                             PCT/US2013/031606
                                                   6
               Moreover, "high binders" can exhibit higher titers of anti-p-glucan antibodies than
     "low binders." (FIG. 4). A typical anti-p-glucan antibody titer for a "high binder" can be a
     titer of at least 25,000 such as, for example, at least 30,000, at least 35,000, at least 40,000,
     at least 45,000, at least 50,000, at least 55,000, or at least 60,000. (See, e.g., FIG. 4). Anti-p
  5  glucan antibody titer typically refers to IgG. In some cases, however, the presence of IgM
     can compensate for a lower IgG titer to help establish "high binder" status. As is described
     in more detail below, "high binder" status can influence an individual's response to P-glucan
    therapy. One can artificially induce a natural "low binder" to exhibit a "high binder"-like
    response to p-glucan therapy by providing the individual anti-P-glucan antibody as part of
10  the P-glucan therapy.
               Thus, in one aspect, this disclosure describes screening an individual to identify
    whether the individual, at that point in time, exhibits "high binder" or "low binder" status.
    The method generally includes obtaining a blood sample from the individual, adding           p
    glucan to at least a portion of the sample, incubating the mixture under conditions allowing
15  the P-glucan to bind to the immune cells, and detecting p-glucan bound to the immune cells.
              The blood sample includes a sufficient portion of the blood to include immune cells.
    Thus, in some embodiments, the blood sample can be whole blood. In other embodiments,
    the blood sample may be at least partially processed to remove one or more components of
    whole blood that are not necessary for the screening assay such as, for example,
20  erythrocytes. Thus, in some embodiments, the blood sample can include a blood product
    such as, for example, any blood fraction that includes at least a portion of the buffy coat.
              In some embodiments, the P-glucan may be derived from yeast such as, for example,
    Saccharomyces cerevisiae. In some embodiments, the P-glucan can include a P-1,3/1,6
    glucan such as, for example, P(1,6)-[poly-(1,3)-D-glucopyranosyl]-poly- P(1,3)-D
25  glucopyranose.
              In some embodiments, the P-glucan bound to the immune cells may be detected by
    contacting the sample with a monoclonal antibody that specifically binds to the P-glucan.
    The monoclonal antibody may be any monoclonal antibody that specifically binds to the p
    glucan. As used herein, "specific" and variations thereof refer to having a differential or a
30  non-general (i.e., non-specific) affinity, to any degree, for a particular target. Exemplary
    monoclonal antibodies that specifically bind p-glucan include, for example, monoclonal

    WO 2013/165591                                                            PCT/US2013/031606
                                                  7
     antibodies identified as BfD I, BfD II, BfD III, and/or BfD IV (Biothera, Eagan, MN), each
     of which is described in U.S. Patent No. 6,294,321.
              To assist in detecting the anti-p-glucan antibody that binds to the immune cell-bound
     p-glucan, the anti-p-glucan antibody can include a detectable label. Alternatively, bound
  5  anti-p-glucan antibody may be detected using a labeled secondary antibody. In either case,
     suitable labels include, for example, a fluorescent label, an enzymatic label, a colorimetric
     label, or a radiolabel.
              The method can further include immobilizing the -glucan-bound immune cells on a
     substrate. In some cases, the immune cells may be immobilized prior to being contacted
 10 with the p-glucan-e.g., by contacting at least a portion of the blood sample with the
     substrate prior to contacting the blood sample with the P-glucan. In other embodiments, the
    immune cells may be immobilized after being contacted with the P-glucan. In either case,
    the immune cells may be immobilized using any suitable material such as, for example, an
    immobilized antibody that specifically binds to the desired population of immune cells.
15            In some embodiments, the method can include a wash step to remove unbound assay
    components. For example, some embodiments can include a step of washing unbound p
    glucan and/or unbound blood sample components from the         p-glucan-bound   immune cells.
    As another example, some embodiments can include a step washing unbound immune cells
    from the substrate, if present. As yet another example, some embodiments can include
20  washing unbound p-glucan-specific antibodies from the P-glucan bound to the immune cells.
             In some embodiments, the method can include repeated screening of a subject
    longitudinally to monitor the subject's status as a "high binder" or "low binder" over time.
    Some cancer patients receiving P-glucan immunotherapy exhibit a decrease in anti-p-glucan
    antibody titer over time with repeated -glucan dosing. These patients also can exhibit a
25  longitudinal decrease in P-glucan-bound immune cells (e.g., peripheral PMNs). This
    observation may be due, at least in part, to recruitment of p-glucan-bound immune cells out
    of circulation and into the tumor microenvironment. Alternatively, it may be due, at least in
    part, to changes in plasma factors that influence p-glucan binding to circulating immune
    cells (e.g., decreased anti-p-glucan antibodies over time).
30           In another aspect, this disclosure describes a method of converting a "low binder" to
    a "high binder." In a two-armed, open-label, randomized, multi-center study, 795 subjects
    with recurrent/progressive colorectal cancer after at least two previous chemotherapeutic

   WO 2013/165591                                                          PCT/US2013/031606
                                               8
    treatments were divided into a control arm and an investigational arm. Subjects in the
    control arm received treatment with cetuximab. Subjects in the investigational arm received
    treatment with cetuximab + 4 mg/kg PGG P-glucan. FIG. 5 shows that while subjects
    receiving p-glucan as part of their immunotherapy remained on therapy for a longer average
 5  period than subjects receiving only cetuximab, the effect was greatest in those subjects that
    were "high binders." In this context, length of therapy is an indication of therapy success so
    that a longer therapy time indicates a positive therapeutic outcome while a shorter length of
    therapy indicates poor outcomes. Thus, there is a clinical consequence to "high binder"
    status versus "low binder" status.
10           This clinical consequence of exhibiting "high binder" status versus exhibiting "low
    binder" status means that being able to convert an individual from a "low binder" to a "high
   binder" can have clinical consequences for that individual. FIG. 6 shows that "high binder"
    serum can increase P-glucan binding to immune cells (e.g., PMNs) of a "low binder."
   Increasing amounts of anti-p-glucan monoclonal antibody also can increase       P-glucan
15 binding to immune cells (e.g., PMNs) in serum from a "low binder." (FIG. 7). Also,
   intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG), a blood product that contains pooled polyvalent IgG
   from many donors (typically many hundreds, even thousands, of donors and, thus, naturally
   containing anti-p-glucan antibodies), also can increase p-glucan binding to immune cells
   (e.g., PMNs) in serum from a "low binder." (FIG. 8). Consequently, one can convert an
20 individual from exhibiting "low binder" status to exhibiting "high binder" status by
   providing the individual, as a component of immunotherapy, with a combination of P-glucan
   and a preparation that includes anti-p-glucan antibodies. Significantly, the conversion of an
   individual from "low binder" status to "high binder" status can improve clinical outcome of
   immunotherapy.
25          Thus, the method includes co-administering a p-glucan with an antibody preparation
   capable of converting the subject from a low binder to a high binder. As used herein, "co
   administered" refers to two or more components of a combination administered so that the
   therapeutic or prophylactic effects of the combination can be greater than the therapeutic or
   prophylactic effects of either component administered alone. Two components may be co
30 administered simultaneously or sequentially. Simultaneously co-administered components
   may be provided in one or more pharmaceutical compositions. Sequential co-administration
   of two or more components includes cases in which the components are administered so that

    WO 2013/165591                                                           PCT/US2013/031606
                                                9
     both components are simultaneously bioavailable after both are administered. Regardless of
     whether the components are co-administered simultaneously or sequentially, the
     components may be co-administered at a single site or at different sites.
             A similar conversion of status from "low binder" to "high binder" can occur by
  5  administering to the subject a composition that includes a P-glucan moiety conjugated to any
     antibody or a portion of an antibody. FIG. 9 shows data illustrating relatively low PGG
     binding by PMNs in whole blood (Imp Ref, second panel) changing to high binding status
     by conjugating the PGG to either BTH1704 (anti-MUC1, U.S. Patent No. 6,204,366,
     Biothera, Inc, Eagan, MN, third panel) or ERBITUX (Eli Lilly and Co., Indianapolis, IN,
 10  fourth panel) anti-tumor antibodies. FIG. 10 also illustrates relatively low PGG binding by
     PMNs in whole blood (Imp Ref, second panel) changing to high binding status by
     conjugating the PGG to intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG, Biolegend, San Diego, CA).
             Thus, in another aspect, the method includes administering to a subject a
     composition that includes a p-glucan moiety conjugated to an antibody, a therapeutic
 15  antibody, an anti-tumor antibody, or an antibody fragment such as the Fe portion of an
     antibody. Modified and/or derivatized PGG, including PGG conjugates of a PGG moiety
     and an antibody are described in International Patent Application No. PCT/US12/36795,
    which may also be applied to conjugates of antibody fragments. The PGG moiety may be, or
    be derived from a p-1,3/1,6 glucan. In this context, "derived from" acknowledges that a
20  conjugate may necessarily be prepared by creating a covalent linkage that replaces one or
    more atoms of the PGG -glucan. As used herein, "derived from a P-1,3/1,6 glucan" refers
    to a portion of the PGG P-glucan that remains as part of a conjugate after replacing one or
    more atoms of the PGG to form the covalent linkage of the conjugate.
            As used herein, "capable of converting a low binder to a high binder" refers to the
25  property of modifying the binder status of an individual from "low binder" (e.g., below a
    predetermined threshold) to "high binder" (e.g., above a predetermined threshold). The
    status of a subject as a "low binder" or a "high binder" may be determined with reference to
    the extent to which p-glucan binds to immune cells in at least a portion of a blood sample
    obtained from the subject. Alternatively, the binder status of a subject may be determined
30  with respect to the anti-p-glucan antibody titer measured in at least a portion of a blood
    sample obtained from the subject.

    WO 2013/165591                                                              PCT/US2013/031606
                                                 10
               In some embodiments, the antibody preparation can include serum from a high
      binder.
      In other embodiments, the antibody preparation can include intravenous immunoglobulin. In
      still other embodiments, the antibody preparation can include a monoclonal antibody that
  5   specifically binds the p-glucan. Exemplary monoclonal antibodies that specifically bind to
       -glucan include, for example, BfD I, BfD II, BfD III, or BfD IV.
               The P-glucan, the antibody preparation, and/or the combination of both components
     may be formulated in a composition along with a "carrier." As used herein, "carrier"
     includes any solvent, dispersion medium, vehicle, coating, diluent, antibacterial agent and/or
 10  antifungal agent, isotonic agent, absorption delaying agent, buffer, carrier solution,
     suspension, colloid, and the like. The use of such media and/or agents for pharmaceutical
     active substances is well known in the art. Except insofar as any conventional media or
     agent is incompatible with the P-glucan or the antibody, its use in the therapeutic
     compositions is contemplated. Supplementary active ingredients also can be incorporated
 15  into the compositions.
               By "pharmaceutically acceptable" is meant a material that is not biologically or
     otherwise undesirable, i.e., the material may be administered to an individual along with the
     p-glucan and/or the antibody without causing any undesirable biological effects or
     interacting in a deleterious manner with any of the other components of the pharmaceutical
20   composition in which it is contained.
               The p-glucan, the antibody preparation, and/or the combination of both components
    may be formulated into a pharmaceutical composition. In some embodiments, the P-glucan
    and the antibody preparation may be provided in a single formulation. In other
    embodiments, the P-glucan and the antibody preparation may be provided in separate
25  formulations. A pharmaceutical composition may be formulated in a variety of and/or a
    plurality forms adapted to one or more preferred routes of administration. Thus, a
    pharmaceutical composition can be administered via one or more known routes including,
    for example, oral, parenteral (e.g., intradermal, transcutaneous, subcutaneous, intramuscular,
    intravenous, intraperitoneal, etc.), or topical (e.g., intranasal, intrapulmonary,
30  intramammary, intravaginal, intrauterine, intradermal, transcutaneous, rectally, etc.). A
    pharmaceutical composition, or a portion thereof, can be administered to a mucosal surface,
    such as by administration to, for example, the nasal or respiratory mucosa (e.g., by spray or

    WO 2013/165591                                                           PCT/US2013/031606
                                                  11
     aerosol). A pharmaceutical composition, or a portion thereof, also can be administered via a
     sustained or delayed release.
             A formulation may be conveniently presented in unit dosage form and may be
    prepared by methods well known in the art of pharmacy. Methods of preparing a
  5  composition with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier include the step of bringing the     p
     glucan and/or the antibody preparation into association with a carrier that constitutes one or
    more accessory ingredients. In general, a formulation may be prepared by uniformly and/or
     intimately bringing the active compound into association with a liquid carrier, a finely
     divided solid carrier, or both, and then, if necessary, shaping the product into the desired
10  formulations.
             The p-glucan, the antibody preparation, and/or the combination of both components
    may be provided in any suitable form including but not limited to a solution, a suspension,
    an emulsion, a spray, an aerosol, or any form of mixture. The composition may be delivered
    in formulation with any pharmaceutically acceptable excipient, carrier, or vehicle. For
15  example, the formulation may be delivered in a conventional topical dosage form such as,
    for example, a cream, an ointment, an aerosol formulation, a non-aerosol spray, a gel, a
    lotion, and the like. The formulation may further include one or more additives including
    such as, for example, an adjuvant, a skin penetration enhancer, a colorant, a fragrance, a
    flavoring, a moisturizer, a thickener, and the like.
20          In some embodiments, the P-glucan may be derived from yeast such as, for example,
    Saccharomyces cerevisiae. In some embodiments, the P-glucan can include a P-1,3/1,6
    glucan such as, for example, p(1,6)-[poly-(1,3)-D-glucopyranosyl]-poly-p(1,3)-D
    glucopyranose.
            In some embodiments, the method can include administering sufficient p-glucan to
25  provide a dose of, for example, from about 100 ng/kg to about 50 mg/kg to the subject,
    although in some embodiments the methods may be performed by administering the p
    glucan in a dose outside this range. In some embodiments, the method includes
    administering sufficient p-glucan to provide a dose of from about 10 pg/kg to about 10
    mg/kg to the subject such as, for example, a dose of about 1 mg/kg, about 2 mg/kg, about 3
30  mg/kg, about 4 mg/kg, about 5 mg/kg, about 6 mg/kg, about 7 mg/kg, about 8 mg/kg, about
    9 mg/kg, or about 10 mg/kg. In one particular embodiment, the method includes
    administering sufficient p-glucan to provide a dose of about 4 mg/kg.

   WO 2013/165591                                                              PCT/US2013/031606
                                                   12
            Alternatively, the dose may be calculated using actual body weight obtained just
    prior to the beginning of a treatment course. For the dosages calculated in this way, body
    surface area (m2 ) is calculated prior to the beginning of the treatment course using the
    Dubois method: m2 = (wt kgo. 425 x height cmo72 5) x 0.007184. In some embodiments,
 5  therefore, the method can include administering sufficient P-glucan to provide a dose of, for
    example, from about 0.01 mg/m 2 to about 10 mg/m2.
            In some embodiments, the method can include administering sufficient antibody that
    specifically binds the P-glucan to provide a dose of, for example, from about 100 ng/kg to
    about 50 mg/kg to the subject, although in some embodiments the methods may be
10  performed by administering the antibody in a dose outside this range. In some embodiments,
    the method includes administering sufficient antibody to provide a dose of from about 10
     tg/kg to about 5 mg/kg to the subject, for example, a dose of from about 100 pg/kg to about
    1 mg/kg. In some embodiments, antibody that specifically binds the p-glucan can be
    administered in the form of intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG), a blood product that
15  contains pooled polyvalent IgG from many donors (typically many hundreds, even
    thousands, of donors and, thus, naturally containing anti-p-glucan antibodies). In such
    embodiments, IVIG may be administered in a dose of from about 0.1 g/kg to about 2.0 g/kg
    such as, for example, 0.1 g/kg, 0.2 g/kg, 0.3 g/kg, 0.4 g/kg, 0.5 g/kg, 0.6 g/kg, 0.7 g/kg, 0.8
    g/kg, 0.9 g/kg, 1.0 g/kg, 1.1 g/kg, 1.2 g/kg, 1.3 g/kg, 1.4 g/kg, 1.5 g/kg, 1.6 g/kg, 1.7 g/kg,
20  1.8 g/kg, 1.9 g/kg, or 2.0 g/kg. In certain embodiments, IVIG may be administered to
   provide a dose of about 0.4 g/kg to about 1.0 g/kg.
            Alternatively, the dose may be calculated using actual body weight obtained just
   prior to the beginning of a treatment course. For the dosages calculated in this way, body
    surface area (in 2 ) is calculated prior to the beginning of the treatment course using the
25 Dubois method: m 2 = (wt kgo.42 s x height cmo. 72 ) x 0.007184. In some embodiments,
   therefore, the method can include administering sufficient antibody to provide a dose of, for
    example, from about 0.01 mg/m 2 to about 10 mg/m2.
            In some embodiments, the P-glucan and antibody preparation may be co
    administered, for example, from a single dose to multiple doses per week, although in some
30 embodiments the method may be performed by co-administering the p-glucan and antibody
   at a frequency outside this range. In certain embodiments, the p-glucan and antibody may be
   administered from about once per year to once per week.

   WO 2013/165591                                                           PCT/US2013/031606
                                                 13
             In some embodiments, the method further includes providing immunotherapy to the
    subject. The immunotherapy can include administering one or more tumor-related antibodies
    (e.g., cetuximab, bevacizumab, anti-MUC 1). In this context, the co-administration of p
    glucan and the antibody preparation can increase the efficacy of the immunotherapy.
 5           As used herein, the term "and/or" means one or all of the listed elements or a
    combination of any two or more of the listed elements; the terms "comprises" and variations
    thereof do not have a limiting meaning where these terms appear in the description and
    claims; unless otherwise specified, "a," "an," "the," and "at least one" are used
    interchangeably and mean one or more than one; and the recitations of numerical ranges by
10  endpoints include all numbers subsumed within that range (e.g., 1 to 5 includes 1, 1.5, 2,
    2.75, 3, 3.80, 4, 5, etc.).
             In the preceding description, particular embodiments may be described in isolation
    for clarity. Unless otherwise expressly specified that the features of a particular embodiment
    are incompatible with the features of another embodiment, certain embodiments can include
15  a combination of compatible features described herein in connection with one or more
    embodiments.
             For any method disclosed herein that includes discrete steps, the steps may be
    conducted in any feasible order. And, as appropriate, any combination of two or more steps
    may be conducted simultaneously.
20           The present invention is illustrated by the following examples. It is to be understood
    that the particular examples, materials, amounts, and procedures are to be interpreted
    broadly in accordance with the scope and spirit of the invention as set forth herein.
                                               EXAMPLES
25
    Example 1
   Materials
            Imprime PGG (Biothera, Eagan, MN) was provided in a preservative-free, soluble p
    glucan formulation prepared at a concentration of 1 mg/mL in 0.8% sodium chloride and
30  0.2% sodium citrate monobasic, at a pH of 6.4. The compound was stored at 4-8'C until use.

   WO 2013/165591                                                         PCT/US2013/031606
                                               14
    Preparationof Samples
            Whole Blood. Fresh whole blood was obtained from healthy volunteers that had
    provided informed consent prior to donation (New England In stitutional Review Board,
    May 2007). The blood was collected in a Vacutainer@ containing 158 USP Units Freeze
 5  Dried Sodium Heparin (BD Biosciences; San Jose, CA).
            Serum andPlasma. Whole blood was processed into serum or plasma by
    Vacutainer@ tubes (BD Biosciences; San Jose, CA) collection with either serum separator
    (red top) or sodium heparin (green top) tubes. Tubes were mixed well, incubated at room
    temperature for 30 minutes, and then centrifuged at 2000 rpm (-1150 x g) for 10 minutes.
10  The supernatant (either serum or plasma) was then transferred to a fresh polycarbonate
    storage conical tube.
   Anti-BG ELISA Method
            A preliminary ELISA method modified from the monkey anti-p-glucan method
15  (Noss et al., 2012 Int. Arch. Allergy Immunol., 157:98-108) was used to test the human sera
    samples. Costar universal binding plates were coated with 50 tL of p-glucan at 1 pg/mL
    purified p-glucan diluted in purified water and incubated at 37'C for 30 minutes. The coated
   plate was then exposed to high intensity ultraviolet light at >1500 tW/cm 2 for 5 minutes at
    room temperature and placed in a 50'C forced air oven until dry before a second exposure to
20  ultraviolet light at >1500 gW/cm 2 for five minutes at room temperature. The plate was then
   blocked with a 0.5% solution of Bovine Serum Albumin for > 30 minutes before washing
   with wash buffer (phosphate buffered saline [PBS] with 0.05% Tween-20). Human serum
    samples were diluted into wash buffer added to the plate and subsequently serially diluted in
   wash buffer on the plate. Test samples diluted 1:400 were pipetted onto the test plate with
25  seven additional serial 1:2 dilutions (serum dilutions between 1:400 and 1:12,800). Samples
   were incubated at room temperature for 30 minutes to permit human IgG to bind to the
   plate-bound p-glucan antigen. Following incubation the wells were washed with wash buffer
   and an enzyme labeled secondary antibody (horseradish peroxidase conjugated affinity
   purified goat anti human IgG, Fe gamma specific) was incubated in the wells to bind with
30 the human IgG bound to the p-glucan antigen. The secondary antibody was allowed to
   incubate for 30 minutes before washing with wash buffer. After the entire wash buffer was
   removed from the wells a peroxidase substrate was incubated in the wells and color

    WO 2013/165591                                                             PCT/US2013/031606
                                                  15
     development was quenched with ~1 M phosphoric acid at five minutes color development.
     The optical density (OD) at 450 nm was measured using a microtiter plate reader.
     Determininganti-/i-glucanAb titer
  5           Resulting OD from replicate wells were averaged and the mean assay background
     subtracted. The greatest dilution giving a background adjusted OD greater than or equal to
     0.100 was considered the samples titer and was expressed as the inverse of that dilution. For
     definition of assay performance a value was assigned the standard reference serum and a
     reference curve was constructed on each assay plate. For example a test sample giving a
 10  background adjusted OD of 0.100 at a dilution of 1:12,800 was considered to have a titer of
      12,800. Where samples were tested multiple times and the average of their titers fell
     between the serial 1:2 titer levels from 1:400 the next lowest titer level was reported as its
     titer. For example, one donor's serum from four donations was tested in five separate assays
     resulting in a mean titer of 28,160; its titer was reported to be 25,600.
15            Assay StandardCurve. A value of 160 Arbitrary Units per mL (AU/mL) was
     assigned to the standard human anti p-glucan. Thus a 1:400 dilution in the assay method
     results in a value of 400 mAU/mL as the highest point of a standard dilution curve
     additional serial 1:2 dilutions were prepared on the assay plate. Assay controls were diluted
     1:100 in ELISA wash buffer for testing. Furthermore two dilutions of each control level
20   were independently prepared for testing on each plate in parallel.
              StatisticalAnalysis. Plotting standard concentration in mAU/mL versus mean
     background corrected optical density resulted in a standard reference curve. Using the
     ELISA software a 4-parameter fit was computed from the standard dose response curve to
     determine unknown values for samples, controls and test serum. Assay response values
25   falling between the upper and lower inflection points of the standard curve (linear portion)
    were used to determine a samples test value. To compute the coefficient of variation (%CV);
    the standard deviation of a set of values was divided by the mean of the same set of values
    and the result multiplied by 100.
30  Binding ofPGG to Cells of Whole Blood (WB)
              One hundred microliters of WB from healthy donors was aliquoted into 5 mL
    polystyrene fluorescence activated cell sorter (FACS) tubes. These WB samples were

    WO 2013/165591                                                                     PCT/US2013/031606
                                                      16
      stimulated with either Imprime PGG (10 ptg/mL or 100 gg/mL) or citrate buffer, the vehicle
      control. The FACS tubes containing the samples were loosely covered with the
      corresponding caps and incubated for 30 minutes or two hours, at 37'C in a humidified
      incubator (5% C0 2 ).
  5
     Table 1. Antibody Cocktail Used To Stain Whole Blood Samples
                                                               Dilution or Final
     Antibody                           Company; Clone #       Concentration           For identification of:
     Anti-CD15                          Biolegend;  W6D3       0.2 pg/mL               neutrophils
     Anti-CD19                          Biolegend;  HIB19      0.63 gg/mL              B cells
     Anti-CD14                          Biolegend;  HCD14      5 pg/mL                 monocytes
     Anti-CD14                          Invitrogen; TIK4       1:50                    monocytes
     Anti-CD3                           Biolegend;  HIT3a      0.25 [Lg/mL             T cells
     Anti-CD45                          Biolegend;  HI30       0.25 pg/mL              hematopoietic cells
                                                                                       excluding erythrocytes
                                                                                       and platelets
     Goat F(ab')2 anti- mouse           Jackson Immunolab      5 gg/mL                 mouse anti-p glucan
     IgM                                                                               antibody
     Proceeding incubation with the anti-p-glucan antibody BfD IV, the cells were incubated with the antibody
     cocktail which contains a secondary antibody for the recognition of BfD IV as well as antibodies for the
     recognition of various cell surface markers
              After incubation, all samples were washed by adding 2 mL of 1x Dulbecco's
    phosphate buffered saline (DPBS) and centrifuged at 1500-1700 rpm at 4'C for five
 10 minutes. After two rounds of washes and aspirations, 5 pL of the anti-p-glucan antibody
    BfD IV (~100 [g/mL), was mixed into each tube and incubated at room temperature for 30
    minutes. This primary antibody was washed off twice with lx DPBS as described above and
    a cocktail of antibodies containing the secondary antibody as well as the specific cell surface
    markers (Table 1) was added and incubated for 30 minutes at room temperature in the dark.
15  To lyse the red blood cells, 2 mL of 1x BD lysing solution (BD Biosciences; San Jose, CA)
    was added to each sample and gently vortexed. After an incubation period of one hour at
    room temperature, the samples were centrifuged at 1500-1700 rpm at 4'C for five minutes.
    The BD lysing solution was aspirated and the cells were washed once with lx DPBS and
    aspirated as described above. For fixation, 300-400 pL of 1%paraformaldehyde was added
20  to each sample. The samples were acquired on the LSR II (BD Biosciences; San Jose, CA)
    within 20 hours of fixation. Data was analyzed using FlowJo software (Tree Star, Ashland,
    OR).

   WO 2013/165591                                                         PCT/US2013/031606
                                               17
    Example 2
    Materials
            Imprime PGG (Biothera, Eagan, MN) was provided in a preservative-free, soluble    p
    glucan formulation prepared at a concentration of 1 mg/mL in 0.8% sodium chloride and
 5  0.2% sodium citrate monobasic, at a pH of 6.4. The compound was stored at 4-8'C until use.
     Whole Blood (WB) binding assay
            Fresh WB was obtained from healthy volunteers that had provided informed consent
    prior to donation (New England Institutional Review Board. Blood Donation Protocol No.
10  07-124). The blood was collected in a Vacutainer@ containing 158 USP Units Freeze-Dried
    Sodium Heparin (BD Biosciences; San Jose, CA). Serum was collected in a Vacutainer@
    containing a thrombin-based clot activator (BD Biosciences; San Jose, CA). Approximately
    20 minutes after collection, the vial was centrifuged at 2000rpm for 10 minutes at room
    temperature. Serum was harvested from this vial and stored at 4'C for use within 8 hours or
15  at -80'C for use after 8 hours.
            The whole blood binding assay was performed by incubating whole blood samples
    with Imprime PGG for 30 minutes or two hours at 37'C in a humidified incubator. After
    washing with lx Dulbecco's phosphate buffered saline (DPBS), BfDIV, a mouse anti-3
    glucan antibody, was added and incubated with the WB for 30 minutes at room temperature.
20  After more rounds of washing, an antibody cocktail including a goat anti-mouse detection
    antibody and antibodies to surface molecules were added and incubated at room temperature
    in the dark for 30 minutes. Erythrocytes were lysed with BD Lyse and samples were
    resuspended in 1% paraformaldehyde. Samples were acquired on a flow cytometer and
    analyzed using FlowJo software (Ashland, OR).
25
    WB andserum crossover studies
            For serum crossover studies, whole blood was spun down at 1200 rpm for 10
   minutes and plasma removed. Blood cells were washed 1-2 times with 1x DPBS to remove
   remaining plasma. 50 tL of serum was added and mixed before addition of Imprime.
30          For incubation with anti-p-glucan IgG (BioSupplies, Australia), the lyophilized
    antibody was resuspended to 1 mg/mL with lx DPBS and stored at -80'C or 4'C as a stock
    solution. Before being added to blood samples, the stock was diluted 1:10 to 100 [tg/mL and

   WO 2013/165591                                                            PCT/US2013/031606
                                                18
    10 gL of this solution was added to 100 pL of blood. For incubation with IVIG, 10% IVIG
    (100 mg/mL) (PRIVIGEN, CSL Behrling, King of Prussia, PA) was added to the whole
    blood sample at the indicated final concentrations.
 5                                EXEMPLARY EMBODIMENTS
            Embodiment 1. A method for identifying soluble p-glucan binding to immune cells
    of a subject, the method comprising:
             obtaining a blood sample from the subject, the blood sample comprising immune
    cells;
10          adding soluble P-glucan to at least a portion of the blood sample and incubating the
    mixture under conditions allowing the soluble p-glucan to bind to the immune cells; and
            detecting P-glucan bound to the immune cells.
            Embodiment 2. The method of Embodiment 1 wherein the soluble P-glucan is
    derived from yeast.
15          Embodiment 3. The method of Embodiment 1 or Embodiment 2 wherein the soluble
    p-glucan comprises a P-1,3/1,6   glucan.
            Embodiment 4. The method of any preceding Embodiment wherein the soluble           p
    glucan comprises p(1,6)-[poly-(1,3)-D-glucopyranosyl]-poly-p(1,3)-D-glucopyranose.
            Embodiment 5. The method of any preceding Embodiment wherein detecting soluble
20  p-glucan bound to the immune cells comprises      contacting the sample with a monoclonal
    antibody that specifically binds to the p-glucan.
            Embodiment 6. The method of Embodiment 5 wherein the monoclonal antibody
    comprises BfD I, BfD II, BfD III, or BID IV.
            Embodiment 7. The method of any preceding Embodiment further comprising:
25          obtaining a second blood sample from the subject, the blood sample comprising
   immune cells;
            adding soluble  P-glucan to at least a portion of the second blood sample and
   incubating the mixture under conditions allowing the soluble p-glucan to bind to the immune
   cells; and
30          detecting soluble -glucan bound to the immune cells.
           Embodiment 8. A method of improving P-glucan immunotherapy for a subject, the
   method comprising:

   WO 2013/165591                                                          PCT/US2013/031606
                                              19
           identifying the subject as a low binder; and
           co-administering to the subject a soluble p-glucan and an antibody preparation
    capable of converting the subject from a low binder to a high binder.
           Embodiment 9. The method of Embodiment 8 wherein identifying the subject as a
 5  low binder comprises:
           obtaining a blood sample from the subject, the sample comprising an anti-p-glucan
    antibody titer;
           measuring the anti-p-glucan antibody titer of at least a portion of the blood sample;
    and
10         identifying the subject as a low binder if the anti-p-glucan IgG antibody titer is less
   than 20,000.
           Embodiment 10. The method of Embodiment 8 wherein identifying the subject as a
   low binder comprises:
           obtaining a blood sample from the subject, the blood sample comprising immune
15 cells;
           adding soluble P-glucan to at least a portion of the blood sample and incubating the
   mixture under conditions allowing the soluble P-glucan to bind to the immune cells;
           detecting soluble P-glucan bound to the immune cells; and
           identifying the subject as a low binder if P-glucan is bound to no more than 10% of
20 the immune cells.
           Embodiment 11. The method of any one of Embodiments 8-10 wherein the antibody
   preparation comprises serum from a high binder.
           Embodiment 12. The method of any one of Embodiments 8-10 wherein the antibody
   preparation comprises a monoclonal antibody that specifically binds the soluble P-glucan.
25         Embodiment 13. The method of Embodiment 12 wherein the monoclonal antibody
   comprises BfD I, BfD II , BfD III, or BfD IV.
           Embodiment 14. The method of any one of Embodiments 8-13 wherein the antibody
   preparation comprises intravenous immunoglobulin.
           Embodiment 15. The method of any one of Embodiments 8-14 wherein the soluble
30 p-glucan and the antibody preparation are co-administered simultaneously.
           Embodiment 16. The method of any one of Embodiments 8-14 wherein the soluble
   p-glucan and the antibody preparation are co-administered at different times.

    WO 2013/165591                                                            PCT/US2013/031606
                                                 20
               Embodiment 17. The method of any one of Embodiments 8-14 wherein the soluble
      P-glucan and the antibody preparation are co-administered at different sites.
               Embodiment 18. The method of any one of Embodiments 8-16 wherein the soluble
      P-glucan is derived from yeast.
  5            Embodiment 19. The method of any one of Embodiments 8-18 wherein the soluble
      p-glucan comprises a P-1,3/1,6 glucan.
               Embodiment 20. The method of any one of Embodiments 9-19 wherein the soluble
      P-glucan comprises p(1,6)-[poly-(1,3)-D-glucopyranosyl]-poly-P(1,3)-D-glucopyranose.
 10            The complete disclosure of all patents, patent applications, and publications, and
     electronically available material (including, for instance, nucleotide sequence submissions
     in, e.g., GenBank and RefSeq, and amino acid sequence submissions in, e.g., SwissProt,
     PIR, PRF, PDB, and translations from annotated coding regions in GenBank and RefSeq)
     cited herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety. In the event that any
15   inconsistency exists between the disclosure of the present application and the disclosure(s)
     of any document incorporated herein by reference, the disclosure of the present application
     shall govern. The foregoing detailed description and examples have been given for clarity of
     understanding only. No unnecessary limitations are to be understood therefrom. The
     invention is not limited to the exact details shown and described, for variations obvious to
20   one skilled in the art will be included within the invention defined by the claims.
              Unless otherwise indicated, all numbers expressing quantities of components,
     molecular weights, and so forth used in the specification and claims are to be understood
     as being modified in all instances by the term "about." Accordingly, unless otherwise
     indicated to the contrary, the numerical parameters set forth in the specification and
25   claims are approximations that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought
    to be obtained by the present invention. At the very least, and not as an attempt to limit
    the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims, each numerical parameter should
    at least be construed in light of the number of reported significant digits and by applying
    ordinary rounding techniques.
30            Notwithstanding that the numerical ranges and parameters setting forth the broad
    scope of the invention are approximations, the numerical values set forth in the specific
    examples are reported as precisely as possible. All numerical values, however,

                                                 21
inherently contain a range necessarily resulting from the standard deviation found in their
respective testing measurements.
        All headings are for the convenience of the reader and should not be used to limit the
meaning of the text that follows the heading, unless so specified.
        In the specification and the claims the term "comprising" shall be understood to have
a broad meaning similar to the term "including" and will be understood to imply the inclusion
of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other
integer or step or group of integers or steps. This definition also applies to variations on the
term "comprising" such as "comprise" and "comprises".
        The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as an
acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the referenced prior art forms part of the
common general knowledge in Australia.

                                               22
What is claimed is:
1.      A method for identifying yeast soluble p-glucan binding to immune cells of a subject,
the method comprising:
        obtaining a blood sample from the subject, the blood sample comprising immune
cells;
        adding soluble yeast p-glucan to at least a portion of the blood sample and incubating
the mixture under conditions allowing the soluble yeast p-glucan to bind to the immune cells;
and
        detecting soluble yeast p-glucan bound to polymorphonuclear lymphocytes or
monocytes.
2.      The method of claim I wherein the soluble    p-glucan  comprises a p-1,3/1,6 glucan.
3.      The method of any preceding claim wherein the soluble      p-glucan comprises p(1,6)
[poly-(1,3)-D-glucopyranosyl]-poly- (1,3)-D-glucopyranose.
4.      The method of any preceding claim wherein detecting soluble p-glucan bound to the
immune cells comprises contacting the sample with a monoclonal antibody that specifically
binds to the p-glucan.
5.      The method of claim 4 wherein the monoclonal antibody comprises BfD I, BfD II,
BfD III, or BfD IV.
6.      The method of any preceding claim further comprising:
        obtaining a second blood sample from the subject, the blood sample comprising
immune cells;
        adding yeast soluble p-glucan to at least a portion of the second blood sample and
incubating the mixture under conditions allowing the yeast soluble p-glucan to bind to the
immune cells; and
        detecting soluble yeast p-glucan bound to the immune cells.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
