                                      ABSTRACT
   A gaming system is provided having a display and a game controller. The
   system implements a game wherein random events are caused to be displayed
 5 on the display and, if a predefined winning event results, the system awards a
   prize. A feature game of the gaming system includes a series of prize outcomes
   and a series of intervening games, which provide a player with a chance of
   advancing to a subsequent prize outcome in the event of a winning outcome in
   an intervening game. A monitoring means may be provided for monitoring and
io indicating the number of non-winning game outcomes and triggering a penalty
   event in the event of the non-winning outcomes exceeding a threshold number.
   In another aspect, a prize outcome of a feature is a progressive prize and a
   progressive prize modifier for modifying the progressive prize before awarding
   the prize.
   104679911 (GHMaers) P88323.AU.4

                                                     1
                                  Gaming machine with modified prize feature
    Field of the invention
  5 The invention relates to a gaming system and to a method of gaming
    implemented by a gaming system. More particularly, but not exclusively, the
    present invention relates to a gaming machine that implements a game with a
    prize feature.
10  Background of the invention
    Players who regularly play gaming machines quickly tire of particular games
    and therefore it is necessary for manufacturers of these machines to develop
    innovative game features which add interest and variety to the games. In so
is  doing, it is hoped to keep players amused and therefore willing to continue
    playing different varieties of games as well as to attract new players. Gaming
    machines of the type described are particularly well known nationally and
    internationally.
20  Substantial amounts of money are wagered on these machines. In the state of
    NSW and other states of Australia, there is a growing tendency to legalise the
    use of gaming machines by licensing operators with resulting revenue gains
    being achieved through licence fees and taxation of moneys invested. The
    licensed operation of gaming machines is the subject of state legislation and
25  regulation. Amongst the items regulated is the minimum percentage payout for
    a gaming machine. For example, a minimum of 85% of monies invested must
    be returned as winnings and manufacturers of gaming machines must therefore
    design their machines around these regulatory controls.
30  Therefore, the options available to a gaming machine manufacturer are limited
    by the gaming regulations of the applicable jurisdiction and by requiring the
    gaming machine provide a particular return to player.
    Various gaming machines incorporating prize ladders having a progression of
35  increasing cash prizes terminating in a maximum prize, such as a progressive
    cash pot, are known. A player starts with the lowest prize and progression up
    the ladder continues for as long as the player wins the intervening games
    10467991_1 (GHMaers) P88323.AU.4

                                                  2
    between the prizes on the ladder. As soon as there is a loss, the player exits
    the prize ladder feature and is awarded the prize on or below the level currently
    occupied. In some cases, the player may be given the choice as to whether he
    or she wants to claim the current prize or to attempt to advance to the next
  5 level, with a failed attempt resulting in the player either not winning a prize at all
    or winning a prize lower down on the ladder.
    When designing a game having a ladder format, the mean return to player is
    determined and the prizes and probabilities of occurrence are then calculated
10  so as to achieve the required return to player. This requirement results in there
    being relatively little flexibility in the way that standard ladder formats can be
    implemented and a limited opportunity for extended play in a game having a
    ladder format. In particular, standard ladder formats involving games with a
    50:50 outcome are relatively inflexible, in that if the prizes on the ladder
15  increase too quickly, by doubling or nearly doubling in value, the ladder will be
    too short, whilst if the prizes increase too slowly the player will not be getting an
    attractive return commensurate with the odds of the intervening games. The
    restriction on the number of prizes and incremental values in a ladder format
    therefore restricts the ability of gaming machine designers and manufacturers
20  ability to implement new games.
    It is therefore an object of the present invention to overcome or alleviate at least
    one of the aforementioned problems in gaming machines at present, or at least
    to provide the public with a useful alternative.
25
    Summary of the invention
    According to a first aspect of the invention there is provided a gaming
    system for playing a base game having a base game outcome, and a
30  bonus game having a plurality of bonus game rounds, wherein each
    said bonus game round has a losing outcome or a winning outcome,
    and wherein said base game is suspended when the bonus game
    commences, the system comprising:
                 a credit input mechanism configured to receive a physical item
35  associated with a monetary value for establishing a credit balance, the
    credit balance being increasable and decreasable based at least on
    wagering activity;
    10467991_1 (GHMaers) P88323.AU.4

                                                  3
                  a plurality of selectable prize ladders, each selectable prize ladder
   configured to represent a respective one of a plurality of prizes, and wherein
   the prizes of each selectable prize ladder has a prize value, and a ladder
   bottom, and are arranged in an increasing order of values and difficulties
 5 starting with the ladder bottom, and wherein information related to the
   difficulty is displayed to the player, and wherein at least some of said prizes
   have one of a plurality of progressive prize values and one of a plurality of
   modifier values;
                  a display configured to display, in accord with having established
io the credit balance via the credit input mechanism receiving the physical
   item, the base game, and, in accord with the bonus game, the plurality
   of selectable prize ladders;
                  a selection prompt configured to prompt a player selection of
   one of said plurality of selectable prize ladders, including a first
is selectable prize ladder showing the largest series prize values and a
   second selectable prize ladder showing the smallest series prize
   values;
                  a strike count configured to maintain a count of losing bonus
   game round outcomes and a positive threshold; and
20                a credit module configured i) to award a current prize from said
   selected prize series when said bonus game outcome is a winning
   outcome, ii) to indicate a subsequent prize in said selected selectable
   prize ladder to be subsequently competed for when said bonus game
   round outcome is a winning outcome, iii) to increase said strike count
25 when said bonus game round outcome is a losing outcome, iv) to
   terminate the bonus game in response to said strike count equalling said
   positive threshold, and v) to recommence said base game on said display
   when said bonus game has been terminated; and
                  a controller configured to randomly select the one of a plurality of
30 modifier values for at least some of the prizes.
   A gaming system is also described that comprises:
                  a display showing a base game, said base game receiving a wager and
   generating a base game outcome;
35                a memory holding a plurality of selectable prize series, each prize
   series having a plurality of prizes, each prize having a value, wherein the
   selectable prize series are arranged such that a first series carries prizes
   10467991_1 (GHMaers) P88323.AU.4

                                                    4
   having the highest respective values and the last series carries prizes having
   the lowest respective values, wherein the plurality of selectable prize series
   further include at least one intermediate series arranged to carry prizes having
   values between said highest respective values in said first series and said
 5 lowest respective values in said last series;
                  a controller prompting a player selection of one of said plurality of
   selectable prize series held in said memory, wherein each of the selectable
   prize series is associated with a group of bonus game rounds, and wherein
   each said group is associated with a difficulty, and wherein the difficulty is
10 proportionately increased from said last series to said first series;
                  the controller further, having a strike count maintaining a count of losing
   bonus game round outcomes and a positive threshold, said controller
   suspending said base game based on said base game outcome, commencing
   on said display a bonus game comprising the bonus game round associated
15 with the selected prize series, generating a bonus game round outcome, said
   bonus game round outcome being either a winning outcome or a losing
   outcome, awarding a current prize value from said selected prize series when
   said bonus game outcome is a winning outcome, indicating a subsequent prize
   value in said selected prize series to be subsequently competed for when said
20 bonus game round outcome is a winning outcome, increasing said strike count
   when said bonus game round outcome is a losing outcome, terminating the
   bonus game in response to said strike count equaling said positive threshold,
   and recommencing said base game on said display when said bonus game has
   been terminated,
25                wherein each of said prize values comprises a discrete prize value,
   wherein said prize series is arranged in an ascending order of said discrete
   prize values, and wherein said controller sequentially increases a respective
   discrete prize value in said ascending order in response to a winning outcome
   in the bonus game,
30                wherein said plurality of discrete prizes comprise:
                  at least one fixed prize value having a static value that remains
   unchanged over a period of time; and
                  at least one variable prize value having a dynamic value, the dynamic
   value being determined by combining at least one prize modifier to at least one
35 pre-determined prize value, wherein the combination of the at least one prize
   modifier and the at least one pre-determined prize progressively increases the
   dynamic value of the at least one variable prize value over the period of time.
   10467991_1 (GHMaers) P88323.AU.4

                                                  5
   In an embodiment, the plurality of discrete prize values defining one of a
   plurality of prize value series are different from another plurality of discrete prize
   values defining another one of the prize series.
 5
   In an embodiment, the controller randomly selects a one of said plurality of
   prize series.
   The random selection maybe biased such that said plurality of prize series have
io different probabilities of being selected, or the random selection maybe
   unbiased such that said plurality of prize series have equal probabilities of
   being selected.
   In an embodiment, the controller receives an external selection from among
is said plurality of prize series.
   According to a second aspect of the invention there is provided a method of
   operating a bonus game play for use in a gaming machine having a credit
   input mechanism configured to receive a physical item associated with a
20 monetary value for establishing a credit balance, the credit balance being
   increasable and decreasable based at least on wagering activity, a display,
   and a game controller, the method comprising:
                  establishing a credit balance via said credit input mechanism
   receiving the physical item;
25                in accord with having established the credit balance via the credit
   input mechanism receiving the physical item, displaying a base game on
   the display;
                  generating via the game controller a base game outcome;
                  based on said base game outcome, suspending said base game via
30 the game controller;
                  showing on the display a plurality of selectable prize ladders, each
   selectable prize ladder having a plurality of prizes, wherein the prizes of each
   selectable prize ladder has a prize value and a ladder bottom, said showing
   including arranging each prize ladder in an increasing order of values and
35 difficulties starting with the ladder bottom, and displaying information related
   to the difficulty, and wherein at least some of said prizes have one of a
   plurality of progressive prize values and one of a plurality of modifier values;
   10467991_1 (GHMaers) P88323.AU.4

                                                  6
                  prompting via the game controller a player selection of one of a
   plurality of selectable prize ladders, including showing a first selectable prize
   ladder having the largest series prize values and a second selectable prize
   ladder having the smallest series prize values;
 5                maintaining via the game controller a count of losing bonus game
   round outcomes and a positive threshold;
                  awarding a current prize from said selected prize ladder when said
   bonus game outcome is a winning outcome, indicating a subsequent prize in
   said selected prize ladder to be subsequently competed for when said
10 bonus game round outcome is a winning outcome, increasing said strike
   count when said bonus game round outcome is a losing outcome,
   terminating the bonus game in response to said strike count equalling said
   positive threshold, and recommencing said base game on said display when
   said bonus game has been terminated; and
is                randomly selecting via the game controller the one of a plurality of
   modifier values.
   A method of operating a bonus game play for use in a gaming machine is also
   described, the method comprising:
20                displaying a base game;
                  receiving a wager for said base game; generating a base game
   outcome;
                  based on said base game outcome, suspending said base game;
                  prompting a selection of one of a plurality of selectable prize series,
25 wherein the selectable prize series are arranged such that a first series carries
   prizes having the highest respective values and the last series carries prizes
   having the lowest respective values, wherein the plurality of selectable prize
   series further include at least one intermediate series arranged to carry prizes
   having values between prize values in said first series and said last series,
30 wherein each of the selectable prize series is associated with a group of bonus
   game rounds, and wherein each said group is associated with a difficulty, and
   wherein the difficulty is proportionately increased from said last series to said
   first series;
                  commencing a bonus game comprising the bonus game round
35 associated with said selected one prize series of the plurality of prize series;
                  generating a bonus game round outcome having either a winning
   outcome or a losing outcome;
   10467991_1 (GHMaers) P88323.AU.4

                                                    7
                  awarding a prize value in said selected prize series when said bonus
   game round outcome is a winning outcome;
                  indicating a subsequent prize value in said selected prize series to be
   subsequently competed for when said bonus game round outcome is a winning
 5 outcome; increasing a strike count when said bonus game round outcome is a
   losing outcome;
                  terminating said bonus game when strike count reaches a positive
   threshold; and recommencing said base game when said bonus game has
   been terminated,
10                wherein each of said prize values comprises a discrete prize value,
   wherein said prize series is arranged in an ascending order, the method further
   comprising sequentially increasing a respective value of a discrete prize value
   in said ascending order in response to a winning outcome in the bonus game,
                  wherein said plurality of discrete prize values comprise:
15                at least one fixed prize value having a static value that remains
   unchanged over a period of time; and
                  at least one variable prize value having a dynamic value, the dynamic
   value being determined by combining at least one prize modifier to at least one
   pre-determined prize value, wherein the combination of the at least one prize
20 modifier and the at least one pre-determined prize progressively increases the
   dynamic value of the at least one variable prize value over the period of time.
   Brief description of the drawing
25 The invention will now be described by way of example only with reference to
   the accompanying drawings in which:
   Figure 1 shows a perspective view of a gaming machine in accordance with a
   first embodiment of the invention;
30
   Figure 2 shows a schematic block diagram of a gaming system suitable for
   implementing the present invention. The gaming system may be in the form of a
   gaming machine similar to the gaming machine shown in Figure 1;
35 Figure 2A shows a schematic block diagram of components of the memory of
   the gaming system of Figure 2;
   10467991_1 (GHMaers) P88323.AU.4

                                            8
   Figure 3 shows a selection screen display of a game feature of a first
   embodiment of a feature game of the invention following a base game;
   Figure 4 shows a new winner selection screen display for a selected prize
 5 ladder of the feature game;
   Figure 5 shows a subsequent screen display of the game series in which the
   player has won and progressed up the prize ladder;
10 Figure 6 shows a subsequent screen display of the game series in which a
   player has lost;
   Figure 7 shows a subsequent screen display of the game series at the end of
   three successful attempts;
15
   Figure 8 shows a subsequent screen display of the game series at the end of a
   second unsuccessful selection;
   Figure 9 shows a screen display of the game series at the end of a third loss or
20 unsuccessful selection which results in the feature ending;
   Figure 10 shows a screen display of the game series in which the player has
   advanced to the top of the prize ladder;
25 Figure 11 shows a subsequent screen display in which the player is announced
   as a major winner;
   Figure 12 shows a flowchart of the first embodiment of the game played on the
   gaming machine of Figure 1 as implemented in game logic on the game
30 controller, and
   Figure 13 shows a functional block diagram of part of the processor/controller of
   the gaming machine of Figure 1 and the gaming system shown in Figure 2.
35 Figures 14 and 15 show two screen displays diagrammatically showing an
   alternative embodiment of a game implemented by a gaming system, or in
   accordance with a method, of the present invention.
   10467991_1 (GHMaers) P88323.AU.4

                                              9
    Figure 16 shows a screen display diagrammatically showing a further
    alternative embodiment of a game implemented by a gaming system, or in
    accordance with a method, of the present invention.
  5
    Detailed description of the embodiments
    In Figure 1, reference numeral 10 generally designates a gaming machine,
    including a game, in accordance with the invention. The machine 10 includes a
10  console 12 having a display means in the form of a video display unit 14 on
    which a game 16 is played in use. The video display unit 14 may be
    implemented as a cathode ray screen device, a liquid crystal display, a plasma
    screen, or the like. The game 16 is a spinning reel game which simulates the
    rotation of a number of spinning reels 18, preferably from three to five, each
is  spinning reel carrying a series of images or symbols.
    A midtrim 20 of the machine 10 houses a keypad 22 containing buttons for
    enabling a player to play the game 16. The midtrim 20 also houses a credit
    input mechanism 24 including a coin input chute 24.1 and a bill collector 24.2.
20
    The machine 10 includes a top box 26 on which artwork 28 is carried. The
    artwork 28 includes paytables, details of bonus awards, etc. A coin tray 30 is
    mounted beneath the console 12 for cash payouts from the machine 10.
25  Referring to Figure 13, a partial functional block diagram of a gaming system
    such as the gaming machine 10 is shown. The functions shown in the block
    diagram are performed by a controller 101, which is in communication with
    memory 103 and a random number generator (RNG) 113. The stopping
    position of each reel 18 is determined for a base game program 500 and
30  matched with a predetermined associated reel position dependent on an output
    from the RNG 113. A reel position selector 511, which may be part of the base
    game program 500 performs the matching process. A display controller 501
    controls the display of representations of the base game 500 and a feature
    game 510.
35
    Figure 2 shows a block diagram of a gaming system, generally referenced by
    arrow 100, suitable for implementing the present invention. The gaming system
    10467991_1 (GHMaers) P88323.AU.4

                                           10
   100 may be, for example, a standalone gaming machine of the type shown in
   Figure 1. However, the gaming system 100 may be a networked gaming
   machine or have distributed modules. Accordingly, different reference
   numerals have been used in Figure 2 from Figure 1 for components that may
 5 be equivalent.
   The gaming system 100 includes the game controller 101 which includes a
   computational device 102 such as a microprocessor, microcontroller or
   programmable logic device. Where the gaming system 100 is a gaming
10 machine, the game controller 101 will typically be provided entirely within the
   gaming machine. In other gaming systems, the controller may have some or all
   of its component parts separated from the display and user interface.
   Instructions and data to control operation of the computational device 102 are
is stored in the memory 103, which is in data communication with the
   computational device 102. The instructions for the computational device 102
   result in the computational device 102 having various functions in the normal
   manner. The main functions of the computational device 102 are shown in
   Figure 13 and are further described herein below with additional reference to
20 Figures 3 to 11, which show a series of screen displays from an example
   gaming system implemented in accordance with the present invention, and with
   reference to Figure 12, which shows a flow diagram of processes controlled by
   the computational device 102.
25 Typically, the gaming system 100 will include both volatile and non-volatile
   memory and more than one of each type of memory, with such memories being
   collectively represented in Figure 2 by the memory 103. In addition, the
   functions of the computational device 102 may be separated into separate
   modules. The instructions to cause the game controller 101 to implement the
30 present invention will be stored in the memory 103.
   The gaming system 100 may include hardware meters 104 for the purposes of
   regulatory compliance and also include input/output ports 105 for
   +communicating with the peripheral devices of the gaming system 100. In
35 Figure 2, the peripheral devices that communicate with the controller are one or
   more displays 106, user interfaces 107, including in particular a selector 114A,
   114B for allowing selection of a matador or a bull (see herein below), card
   10467991_1 (GHMaers) P88323.AU.4

                                             11
    and/or ticket readers 108, printers 109, coin input mechanism and/or bill
    acceptor 110 and a coin output mechanism 111.
    In addition, the gaming system 100 may include a communications interface, for
  5 example a network card 112 to communicate with a network for such purposes
    as sending status information, accounting information and the like to a central
    controller, allowing communication from the central controller to the gaming
    system 100, for communicating across a network to a monitor of a linked
    progressive jackpot, or for other purposes.
10
    The outcomes of the gaming system, in accordance with the game process
    implemented by the gaming system as described herein below, are determined
    by the random number generator (RNG) 113. Various random number
    generators suitable for use in a gaming system will be known by the normally
is  skilled person in the relevant arts. Therefore the RNG 113 will not be described
    further herein. In some implementations of the present invention, the RNG 113
    may be part of the computational device 102. The RNG 113 may not
    necessarily consist of a single number generator.
20  Figure 2A shows an example of the main memory components that may
    comprise the memory 103. Each memory component will typically communicate
    with the computational device 102 through an address and data bus.
    A random access memory (RAM) 103A may temporarily store programs that
25  provide the computational instructions for the computational device 102 and
    also temporarily store data related to execution of the programs. An EPROM
    103B may store a boot program for the game controller 101 and may also store
    instructions for the loading of programs from a mass storage device 103C. The
    mass storage device 103C may be, for example, a hard drive, CD, DVD, static
30  RAM, flash drive, EPROM or the like. Some programs may be stored in the
    EPROM 103B.
    A description will now be given of the operation of the present invention. The
    following description assumes that the present invention is implemented by the
35  gaming machine 10, but as explained herein above, the present invention may
    be implemented in other gaming systems.
    10467991_1 (GHMaers) P88323.AU.4

                                              12
   Referring now to Figure 3, when the feature is triggered, a prize ladder
   selection screen 50 is displayed showing five different prize ladders 52.1 to
   52.5, in this case corresponding to different bulls that can be selected for a
   matador to fight.
 5
   The feature may be triggered in a number of ways. In this specific embodiment,
   as is illustrated in the flowchart of Figure 12, after a bet has been placed to play
   the base game at step 54, a progressive meter 509 (see Figure 13) is
   incremented by relevant amounts according to the size of the bet (step 56)
10 along the same lines as the Hyperlink TM feature, which forms the subject of the
   applicant's Australian patent 754689. Alternatively, a progressive meter for
   linked gaming machines may be used and accessed through the network card
   112. In Figure 13, linked progressive meters 509A are contributed to by an
   additional three gaming systems 100A, 100B and 100C, all, some, or none of
15 which may implement games in accordance with the present invention.
   After a base game 500 corresponding to the bet has been played at step 58, a
   number between one and the desired feature hit-rate (say one thousand) is
   randomly generated by the RNG 113 and received at 60 by a jackpot trigger
20 module 512 (see Figure 13) of the controller 101. In the event of the selected
   number being in the range from one to the size of the bet at step 62, the prize
   ladder selection screen 50 may be displayed, and a prize ladder is randomly
   selected at step 64 by the ladder selector 504. As can be seen on the selection
   or jackpot trigger screen 50, the "Diablo" bull prize ladder 52.1 has been
25 randomly or pseudo-randomly selected, and a message 68 confirming the
   selection appears on the screen.
   It is clear on reviewing the prize ladders 52.1 to 52.5 that they range from the
   "Diablo" prize ladder 52.1 carrying the largest series of prizes to the "Adora"
30 prize ladder 52.5 carrying the smallest series of prizes. The corresponding bull
   images 70 above the prize ladders are representative of the value of the prize
   and/or the strength of the bull opponent. The selection may be a weighted
   selection, which is weighted towards the prize ladders 52.1 to 52.5 in reverse
   order.
35
   In alternative embodiments the player may be invited to select from the five
   prize ladders 52.1 to 52.5, thereby choosing the volatility of their feature, or only
   10467991_1 (GHMaers) P88323.AU.4

                                             13
   one ladder may be provided, in which case no selection is required. Where the
    player makes the selection, a user interface monitor 502 of the controller 101
   monitors for the player's selection, which may be indicated by touching one of
   five touch pads L1-L5 provided as part of the user interface 107 (Figure 2) on
 5 the display 14, by depressing a button in the bank of button 22, or otherwise. In
   this embodiment, the odds of advancing up ladders with the largest prizes will
    be proportionately increased so that the return to player percentage is not
   affected by the player's selection.
10 A short time interval (approximately 5 seconds) after the prior selection screen
   66 has been displayed at step 72, a first feature game playing "arena" screen
   74 (see Figure 4) will be displayed (step 75). The screen shows the matador 76
    in the centre of the ring and the "Diablo" prize ladder 52.1 at the top right hand
   corner. The bottom minor jackpot prize 78 will be highlighted (step 80) to show
is the player which prize they are currently competing for.
   A three strike indicator area comprising three indicator blocks 82 is provided on
   the screen for collection of the three strikes or chances. Once the threshold
    number of "strikes", in this case three, has occurred (or equivalently a threshold
20 of two strikes has been exceeded), the feature game may end, or some other
    penalty event may occur.
   The indicator blocks 82 are lit under the control of a strike monitor 505 (see
    Figure 13), which monitors the play of the feature game 510 for "strikes". Below
25 the strike indicator areas respective matador and bull images 84 and 86 are
   displayed which are touch screen activated and monitored by the user interface
    monitor 502, particularly a symbol selector monitor 502A that forms one part of
   the user interface monitor 502 and which monitors the selector 114A, 114B, for
   allowing the player, invited by message 87, to select whether the bull or the
30  matador will win in the first round. The control logic waits for the player to select
   the bull or the matador at step 88, and then randomly determines at 90, with
   even odds, whether the player will win or lose.
   On the screen 50 in Figure 3 and on the subsequent screens are shown both
35  Major and Minor jackpot values 71.1 and 71.2 ($101.14 and $15.00
    respectively) which are applied to the prize values. Both the Minor and Major
   jackpots may be stand-alone jackpots that increment as a percentage of
   10467991_1 (GHMaers) P88323.AU.4

                                              14
    turnover of the gaming machine 10, or linked progressives contributed to by a
    plurality of gaming machines.
    Referring now to Figure 5, after the player has selected the matador 84 by
  5 touching the relevant area of the screen or pressing the corresponding button,
    the matador remains highlighted on the screen to show the selection, a game
    outcome generator 506 receives an output from the RNG 113 and selects either
    the matador or the bull and then an animation occurs that indicates the result of
    either the matador or the bull winning.
10
    In Figure 5, a matador win animation 92 is displayed, a "Your selection was
    CORRECT" message 93 appears and the highlighted prize moves up one
    position to the next MINOR +500 prize 94 on the prize ladder 52.1, in which the
    award represents the Minor jackpot of $15.00 incremented by 500 credits
is  ($5.00). This particular sequence is represented at steps 96, 98 and 100 in the
    flow diagram. The definition of the ladders is held in memory 103 and the
    definitions are represented graphically in Figure 13 by reference numeral 507.
    The selection invitation message 87 then reappears and the player makes
20  another choice to guess who will win the second round. In the next screen
    display of Figure 6, the player selected the matador 84 again, but the bull wins
    as is indicated at animation sequence 102. The prize ladder stays at the
    MINOR +500 position 94, a message 106 tells the player that their selection
    was unsuccessful, the strike monitor 505 notes the outcome and the display
25  controller 501 causes one strike marker 108 to appear in the first of the strike
    boxes 82. The underlying logic is illustrated at steps 109 and 113 in the
    flowchart of Figure 12. The logic sequence followed after a loss in which the
    player incorrectly selects the bull is similar and is illustrated sequentially at
    steps 109 and 110. As three strikes have not yet been highlighted, and the top
30  of the ladder has not been reached (subsequent decision steps 118 and 132),
    the bull/matador selection step 88 is returned to.
    The process continues, say, to a point where the screen of Figure 7 is
    displayed, in which the player has had three more successful attempts to
35  advance to the MINOR x 2 prize 111 on the prize ladder 52.1, by virtue of the
    player having successfully selected the bull 86 to win. The underlying logic is
    illustrated on the flowchart at steps 98 and 112.
    10467991_1 (GHMaers) P88323.AU.4

                                               15
    For the next round represented in the screen of Figure 8, the player selects the
    matador 84, but the bull wins and therefore the prize ladder remains unchanged
    at the MINOR x 2 prize level 111, the "selection INCORRECT" 106 message is
  5 played, and a second strike 114 is collected, and highlighted, with the same
    logic sequence of steps 109 and 110 being followed, and with the strike number
    accumulating to two.
    In the following round illustrated in the screen of Figure 9, a player selects the
io  matador 84 again, but once again the bull wins. The third strike 116 is then
    highlighted and collected which results in the feature terminating, as is indicated
    in the sequence of logic steps 118, 120 and 134. Since the strike monitor 505
    has now identified three strikes, at 134, the prize that will be awarded to the
    player is therefore at the current level 111 of the prize ladder, namely the value
is  of the minor progressive jackpot x2. Since the minor progressive jackpot is
    currently at $15 the win that is awarded by the controller 101 as determined by
    a win calculator 508 based on the definition of the ladders 507 will be $30. A
    win celebration animation and sounds will be played and the win will either be
    paid to the gaming machine credit meter by a credit control module 503 (Figure
20  13) of the controller 101 and as illustrated at 124 or else paid to the player via
    an attendant pay. Alternatively, if, as is shown in the screen of Figure 10, the
    player manages to make it all the way to the top of the prize ladder 52.1 without
    getting three strikes, they are awarded the top MAJOR x 5 prize 128, which
    amounts to the major jackpot of $101.14 x 5, namely $505.70.
25
    As is clear from Figure 11, a major winner message 130 then appears on the
    screen with appropriate rose graphics and music. The underlying logic
    sequence necessary to arrive at a major winner result is illustrated sequentially
    on the flowchart of Figure 12 at steps 112, 132, 120 and 134. At step 134, it is
30  noted that the progressive jackpot is reset to the start-up value before the base
    game screen is returned to.
    In all of the prize ladders 52.1 to 52.5, the quantum of prize values are modified
    so that they did not just reflect a series of progressively increasing bonus credit
35  amounts or a series of increasing multipliers applied to the amount wagered
    terminating in a jackpot. Rather, multipliers and bonus credit amounts are
    applied to major and minor jackpot values as a player advances up the prize
    10467991_1 (GHMaers) P88323.AU.4

                                             16
    ladder. In addition, feature events, (such as the award of additional bonus
    games) may also form part of the prize ladders. A single prize outcome could,
    for example, include a combination of a minor jackpot and five free games.
  5 The provision of modified prize values permits greater flexibility in providing
    prizes to the player, allowing an increased number of prizes in the ladder over,
    for example, offering some fixed credit prizes and the progressive prizes
    (typically one or two) that may be available. Although the examples provided
    herein provide prizes in credits alone, a non-credit prize may be used to modify
10  a progressive. For example, the largest prize offered might be the highest
    paying progressive plus a car.
    Figures 14 and 15 show screen displays 200 and 205 respectively of an
    alternative feature game according to the present invention. The alternative
is  feature game has a game outcome monitor, strike monitor, a symbol selector
    and a win calculator, all implemented by the controller 101 to perform similar
    functions as the corresponding functional components of the feature game 510,
    but in an appropriate way for the alternative feature game. The screen display
    200 shows a "pick-a-box" type game, in which the player selects boxes or
20  windows 201, which can reveal either a winning symbol, which results in
    progression up a ladder 203 defined in memory 103 and displayed on the
    display, or a losing symbol, in which case the strike monitor increments its
    count of strikes and determines if the feature game is to end. The strike monitor
    is again in this example represented on screen by three strike indicators 202.
25
    The symbol selector allows selection from the windows, there being 16
    windows in the examples. The game outcome generator for the alternative
    feature game may define the symbol to be revealed by each window if selected
    at the commencement of the feature game, or alternatively, the game outcome
30  generator may define the symbol to be revealed on the selection of a window
    based on a predetermined probability. In the latter case, a look-up table may be
    defined in memory 103 that is populated with the symbols in proportions
    representing their required frequency of occurrence. The game outcome
    generator may then select a position in the table based on an output from the
35  RNG 113.
    10467991_1 (GHMaers) P88323.AU.4

                                             17
    The screen display 200 shows the feature game at its commencement, with
    none of the windows having been selected and the prize ladder located at the
    lowest prize of 500 credits, which may be equal to or slightly less than a seed
    value for a minor progressive, which is the next prize outcome in the series of
  5 prize outcomes represented by the ladder 203. Further prizes, including
    progressive prizes and progressive prizes with a modifier are included in the
    ladder 203.
    In screen display 205, the player has selected five windows 201, with three
10  windows revealing a "winning" symbol and two revealing a "losing" symbol.
    Therefore, the prize ladder 203 is located at the fourth prize in the series and
    two of the three strike indicators 202 have been illuminated. The game ends
    when the player selects one more window with a losing symbol. If this occurred
    on the next selection, the player would be awarded the minor progressive
is  (which may be a linked progressive) plus 750 credits.
    In one embodiment of the present invention, some of the windows 201 may be
    neutral, not "winning" or "losing" as described above, but performing some
    other function in the feature game. For example, some windows may reveal an
20  "instant" credit prize. Another type of window may allow more strikes, for
    example by deleting a pre-existing strike, or by allowing four strikes, when
    previously three strikes ended the feature game. In the matador versus bull
    type game, a third outcome may be provided that provides one of these other
    types of prizes.
25
    In addition, the gaming machine and the game of the invention may include an
    ante bet game, in which the player can stake different bets in order to apply
    different prize modifiers to the progressive prizes. For example, when playing
    the standard game it may be possible to win one or more progressive prizes,
30  and by staking one or more different ante bets the progressive prizes may be
    multiplied or have bonuses added when they are awarded.
    The strike feature allows the prize values to be adjusted in such a way that
    there is a more gradual progression up the prize ladder which is acceptable to
35  players, in particular where there are even odds of progressing to the next step
    in the ladder, and the progressive modifier feature provides a larger range of
    dynamic prizes which can be applied to the prize ladder. The inclusion of prize
    10467991_1 (GHMaers) P88323.AU.4

                                             18
    modifiers in a ladder provides the further advantage that a large spread of
    progressive prizes can be provided that include a fixed number of progressive
   jackpot levels and still be sequential in value. Modifying the progressive prizes
   overcomes the problem that fixed credit prizes cannot, at least without
 5 significant restrictions on the progressive prizes, be included with values falling
    in between the different progressive levels because the progressive values are
   dynamic. By applying a modifier to a progressive value, it is guaranteed that the
    ladder contains sequential prizes that can sit between other progressive prize
   values.
10
    In addition to special game features such as free games being awarded in
    respect of prizes on the progressive prize ladder bonuses may be applied
   during the base game for a number of games or period of time in addition to the
    progressive prize being awarded. The progressive prizes may be stand-alone
is  prizes, or may be linked progressive prizes linked to other gaming machines.
    Figure 16 shows diagrammatically a screen display 300 showing a more
   general form of the present invention. The screen display 300 includes a game
   display 301, which displays representations of a game to a player under the
20 control of the game controller 101. The game displayed in the game display 301
    is typically a feature game of a gaming machine. While a spinning wheel type
   game is shown in Figure 16, this is provided merely as an example and other
   formats of feature game can be used. In addition, a progressive prize display
   302 is provided to inform a player of a progressive prize that they have won.
25 The progressive prize display 302 is also displayed under the control of the
   game controller 101 and may be displayed permanently during the game+ or
   only when a progressive prize has been won.
    In the example shown in Figure 16, the gaming machine 10 maintains two
30  progressive jackpots, a minor progressive 303 and a major progressive 304.
   The two progressives 303, 304 may be maintained using any known technique.
    In Figure 16, the progressive prize amount of the minor progressive 303 or the
    major progressive 304, whichever has been won is subjected to one of three
35 transformations indicated by arrows P1 to P3. Arrow P3 represents a unity
   transformation and represents the only option available in a traditional gaming
   system having a progressive.
   10467991_1 (GHMaers) P88323.AU.4

                                             19
   In the first transformation indicated by arrow P1, the progressive is subject to a
   predetermined modifier 305. There may be one, or two or more predetermined
   modifiers 305 and in Figure 16 five predetermined modifiers 305 are shown,
 5 ranging from add 500 credits to double the progressive and add a car prize.
   Where more than one predetermined modifier 305 is available, the particular
   modifier used may be determined based on an event in the game that is
   displayed in game display 301. For example, if the game display 301 showed a
   spinning reel game, the occurrence of three scatter symbols result in the add
10 500 predetermined modifier being used, whereas the occurrence of four scatter
   symbols may result in the add 1000 predetermined modifier being used. Other
   scatter symbols may result in the other predetermined modifiers being applied.
   Other events may determine what modifier 305 is applied.
15 Some of the predetermined modifiers may be only available to modify one of
   the minor progressive 303 or the major progressive 304. For example, the
   modifier 305 of add a car may be only available as a modifier to the major
   progressive 304, which is awarded less often than the minor progressive 303.
20 In the second transformation indicated by arrow P2, a random modifier 306 is
   selected. The random modifier 306 may be selected based on an output from
   the RNG 113. In one example, the random modifier 306 may be selected from a
   predefined set, for example the five modifiers 305, which may be weighted so
   that the higher value modifiers occur less frequently than the lower value
25 modifiers. For example, if a spinning wheel 307 with a segment selector 308
   was used, each segment of the wheel 307 could represent one of the five
   modifiers 305. The sizes of the segments could be varied to reflect the
   probability of selecting a particular modifier 305. In addition, different wheels
   may be displayed depending on which progressive is to be won.
30
   In an alternative embodiment, the modifier could be any integer that is randomly
   selected within a predefined range.
   In a gaming machine according to the present invention one or both of paths P1
35 and P2 may be available, optionally also with path P3. Where more than one
   path is available, the particular path selected will depend on variables in the
   game. For example, different paths may be available at different times, at
   10467991_1 (GHMaers) P88323.AU.4

                                            20
   different stages in the game or randomly selected for each award of a
   progressive.
   If any path other than P3 is selected, the game controller 101 calculates the
 5 modified progressive prize to be awarded and displays this amount in the
   progressive prize display 302 and awards the modified progressive prize to the
   player, or initiates an award event that leads to the awarding of the modified
   progressive prize.
10 It will be understood that the invention disclosed and defined in this
   specification extends to all alternative combinations of two or more of the
   individual features mentioned or evident from the text or drawings. All of these
   different combinations constitute various alternative aspects of the invention.
15 It will also be understood that modifications and additions may be made to the
   present invention without departing from the scope of the invention as defined
   in the appended claims.
   10467991_1 (GHMaers) P88323.AU.4

                                                21
   The claims defining the invention are as follows:
   1.          A gaming system for playing a base game having a base game
   outcome, and a bonus game having a plurality of bonus game rounds,
 5 wherein each said bonus game round has a losing outcome or a
   winning outcome, and wherein said base game is suspended when
   the bonus game commences, the system comprising:
               a credit input mechanism configured to receive a physical item
   associated with a monetary value for establishing a credit balance, the
io credit balance being increasable and decreasable based at least on
   wagering activity;
               a plurality of selectable prize ladders, each selectable prize ladder
   configured to represent a respective one of a plurality of prizes, and wherein
   the prizes of each selectable prize ladder has a prize value, and a ladder
is bottom, and are arranged in an increasing order of values and difficulties
   starting with the ladder bottom, and wherein information related to the
   difficulty is displayed to the player, and wherein at least some of said prizes
   have one of a plurality of progressive prize values and one of a plurality of
   modifier values;
20             a display configured to display, in accord with having established
   the credit balance via the credit input mechanism receiving the physical
   item, the base game, and, in accord with the bonus game, the plurality
   of selectable prize ladders;
               a selection prompt configured to prompt a player selection of
25 one of said plurality of selectable prize ladders, including a first
   selectable prize ladder showing the largest series prize values and a
   second selectable prize ladder showing the smallest series prize
   values;
               a strike count configured to maintain a count of losing bonus
30 game round outcomes and a positive threshold; and
               a credit module configured i) to award a current prize from said
   selected prize series when said bonus game outcome is a winning
   outcome, ii) to indicate a subsequent prize in said selected selectable
   prize ladder to be subsequently competed for when said bonus game
35 round outcome is a winning outcome, iii) to increase said strike count
   when said bonus game round outcome is a losing outcome, iv) to
   terminate the bonus game in response to said strike count equalling said
   104679911 (GHMaers) P88323.AU.4

                                                 22
    positive threshold, and v) to recommence said base game on said display
    when said bonus game has been terminated; and
                a controller configured to randomly select the one of a plurality of
    modifier values for at least some of the prizes.
  5
    2.          The gaming system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of prize values
    defining one of the plurality of prize ladders are different from another
    plurality of prize values defining another one of the plurality of prize
    ladders.
10
    3.          A method of operating a bonus game play for use in a gaming
    machine having a credit input mechanism configured to receive a physical
    item associated with a monetary value for establishing a credit balance, the
    credit balance being increasable and decreasable based at least on
is  wagering activity, a display, and a game controller, the method comprising:
                establishing a credit balance via said credit input mechanism
    receiving the physical item;
                in accord with having established the credit balance via the credit
    input mechanism receiving the physical item, displaying a base game on
20  the display;
    generating via the game controller a base game outcome;
                based on said base game outcome, suspending said base game via
    the game controller;
                showing on the display a plurality of selectable prize ladders, each
25  selectable prize ladder having a plurality of prizes, wherein the prizes of each
    selectable prize ladder has a prize value and a ladder bottom, said showing
    including arranging each prize ladder in an increasing order of values and
    difficulties starting with the ladder bottom, and displaying information related
    to the difficulty, and wherein at least some of said prizes have one of a
30  plurality of progressive prize values and one of a plurality of modifier values;
                prompting via the game controller a player selection of one of a
    plurality of selectable prize ladders, including showing a first selectable
    prize ladder having the largest series prize values and a second selectable
    prize ladder having the smallest series prize values;
35              maintaining via the game controller a count of losing bonus game
    round outcomes and a positive threshold; and
                awarding a current prize from said selected prize ladder when said
    104679911 (GHMaers) P88323.AU.4

                                              23
   bonus game outcome is a winning outcome, indicating a subsequent prize in
   said selected prize ladder to be subsequently competed for when said
   bonus game round outcome is a winning outcome, increasing said strike
   count when said bonus game round outcome is a losing outcome,
 5 terminating the bonus game in response to said strike count equalling said
   positive threshold, and recommencing said base game on said display when
   said bonus game has been terminated; and
               randomly selecting via the game controller the one of a plurality of
   modifier values.
10
   4.          The method of claim 3, wherein the plurality of prize values
   defining one of the plurality of prize ladders are different from another
   plurality of series values defining another one of the plurality of prize
   ladders.
   104679911 (GHMaers) P88323.AU.4

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
