                                                 24
ABSTRACT
A method for cleaning out a well in which artificial lift is normally provided by a PCP pump
and an inlet of the PCP pump has become blocked by solids is provided. The method
comprises removing the rotor string and rotor from the well, running in an inner tubing
through the stator tubing, the inner tubing carrying a jet pump, a further tube extending below
the jet pump, the further tube extending through the stator, the inner tubing having a packing
or a seal to form a seal between the inner tube and the stator tube, wherein water or fluid is
injected such that water or fluid passes through the further tube to exit an outlet of the further
tube to thereby stir up solids in the vicinity of the outlet of the further tube, and thereafter
water or fluid is injected such that it flows through the jet pump to form suction and
subsequently flows out through the annulus between the inner tube and the stator tube,
wherein the suction formed at the jet pump assists solids to be sucked up through the further
tube and into the annulus between the inner tube and the stator tube, whereby solids are
returned to the surface. An apparatus is also provided.

                                 ~--2.-.-22.
                 i 42
       ---   -t0                           35
 44 FIGRE--F                 R                7
10
                      [2.. --           --- 3
    FIGURE 1            FIGURE 2

                                                    1
TITLE
Method and apparatus for cleaning out wells
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001]        The present invention relates to a method and an apparatus for cleaning out a
well. In some embodiments, the present invention relates to a method and an apparatus for
cleaning out an oil well or gas well, such as a coal seam gas well or a conventional oil well or
a conventional gas well.
BACKGROUND ART
[0002]        The production of oil and gas typically involves drilling a well into a region in
which oil and gas deposits are located. The bore of the well is normally cased with an outer
casing. oil, gas or water enters into the outer casing and is raised to the surface. Wells that are
used to provide water operate in a similar manner.
[0003]        In some wells, the oil, gas or water in the deposit is under sufficient pressure that
it rises to the surface through the bore of the well without requiring any pumping. However,
many wells do not have sufficient pressure for this to occur. In wells that initially do raise the
oil, gas or water to the surface without requiring pumping, as production from the well goes
on, the pressure inside the well can drop and, following a period of production, the pressure
in the well may no longer be sufficient to raise the produced fluid to the surface.
[0004]        Artificial lift is a means of assisting a gas, oil or water well to lift fluids from the
bottom of the well to the surface. Most onshore wells will require artificial lift at some point
in their lifetime. At present, Australia's oil and gas production is being provided by roughly
18,000 existing oil and gas wells. Many of these wells require artificial lift to raise the
production fluid to the surface (in the oil industry, the production fluid is typically a mixture
of oil, gas and water from the oil deposit. In the gas industry, the production fluid is typically
a mixture of gas and water. In water wells, the production fluid is typically water that is
suitable for human or agricultural use or amenable to treatment to make it suitable for human
or agricultural use.).
[0005]        At present, artificial lift in the Australian oil and gas industry is predominantly
provided by using progressive cavity pumps (normally called PCP pumps or PCP systems). A

                                                    2
PCP pump normally consists of a helical rotor and a rubber or elastomeric stator. The rotor
seals tightly against the stator as it rotates, thereby forming a number of fixed sized cavities
between the rotor and the stator. The cavities move along the stator as the rotor rotates. Fluid
that is trapped in the cavities is thereby forced to move as well, thereby pumping the fluid. In
oil and gas wells, the PCP pump is normally run into the well by inserting a tubing in which
the stator is mounted into the bore of the well. The rotor is mounted on a separate rotor string
and the rotor string is run into the tubing that holds the stator. The rotor is inserted into the
stator. The PCP pump is typically located below a level of fluid in the well. In essentially
vertical wells, the PCP pump is typically located at or towards the bottom of the well. Once
inserted, the rotor string on which the rotor is mounted is caused to rotate, which commences
pumping of the production fluid. The production fluid will typically pass up through the
annulus between the stator tubing and the inner tubing.
[0006]        A typical problem that occurs with the use of PCP pumps as an artificial lift
system in wells arises from solids build-up in the bottom of the well to a point where the
pump intake is blocked. At this stage, the PCP pump stops pumping production fluid. One
currently used solution to overcome this issue involves treating the well with a "flush by"
where the rotor is pulled from the pump and fluid is pumped through the tubing and PCP
stator to clear out the intake. This is usually a short-term solution. Experience has shown that
it will eventually be necessary to pull out the tubing, followed by a clean out to bottom of the
well and a new pump run into the hole.
[0007]        As the wells are being dewatered, the ability to circulate with water is reduced
and many wells can no longer be circulated back to surface in this cleaning process as the
water simply goes into the subterranean formation quicker than it can be pumped down the
tubing. When this occurs, compressed air or compressed nitrogen is often used to blow the
solids to the surface. Use of compressed air can be dangerous due to increased risk of
explosion or fire. Using compressed nitrogen overcomes this issue but is significantly more
expensive. This is also a more expensive solution due to the high pressure/high-volume
compressor that is required, along with the tanks and handling equipment to deal with the
air/gas returns. It is also been found that the high volume of gas and high pressure required
can cause damage to the formation during the cleaning process and the resulting mixture can
be extremely volatile when introduced into the compression system upstream.
[0008]        An alternative solution to cleaning out solids build-up at the bottom of the well is

                                                   3
to run a bailer. A bailer is like a large syringe with a check valve on the bottom. In this
cleanout method, the PCP rotor and stator and associated tubing are pulled out of the hole and
the bailer is run into the hole. Fluid and solids are sucked into the tubing through the check
valve and the tubing is pulled to the surface, where the tubing is unloaded into buckets. This
is a slow and messy process, but it does allow for under balanced cleanouts. There may still
be some problems with managing the well-control while carrying out this operation,
especially if the well cannot be kept full in over-balanced pressure control when there is a
chance that the well will flow, creating a dangerous working situation.
[0009]        Therefore, there exists a need to provide an improved system for cleaning out the
bottom of the well that has become blocked with solids build-up.
[0010]        It will be clearly understood that, if a prior art publication is referred to herein,
this reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms part of the common
general knowledge in the art in Australia or in any other country.
SUMMARY OF INVENTION
[0011]        The present invention is directed to a method for cleaning out a well, which may
at least partially overcome at least one of the abovementioned disadvantages or provide the
consumer with a useful or commercial choice.
[0012]        In one aspect, the present invention provides a method for cleaning out a well in
which artificial lift is normally provided by a PCP pump and an inlet of the PCP pump has
become blocked by solids, the well comprising an outer casing, a stator tubing in which the
stator of the PCP pump is mounted, the stator tubing being positioned inside the outer tubing,
and a rotor string located inside the stator tubing during normal production of the well, the
rotor string having a rotor of the PCP pump mounted thereto, the method comprising
removing the rotor string and rotor from the well, running in an inner tubing through the
stator tubing, the inner tubing carrying a jet pump, a further tube extending below the jet
pump, the further tube extending through the stator, the inner tubing having a packing or a
seal to form a seal between the inner tube and the stator tube, wherein water or fluid is
injected such that water or fluid passes through the further tube to exit an outlet of the further
tube to thereby stir up solids in the vicinity of the outlet of the further tube, and thereafter
water or fluid is injected such that it flows through the jet pump to form suction and
subsequently flows out through the annulus between the inner tube and the stator tube,

                                                  4
wherein the suction formed at the jet pump assists solids to be sucked up through the further
tube and into the annulus between the inner tube and the stator tube, whereby solids are
returned to the surface.
[0013]       In one embodiment, the present invention provides a method for cleaning out a
well in which artificial lift is normally provided by a PCP pump and an inlet of the PCP pump
has become blocked by solids, the well comprising an outer casing, a stator tubing in which
the stator of the PCP pump is mounted, the stator tubing being positioned inside the outer
tubing, and a rotor string located inside the stator tubing during normal production of the
well, the rotor string having a rotor of the PCP pump mounted thereto, the method
comprising removing the rotor string and rotor from the well, running in an inner tubing
through the stator tubing, the inner tubing carrying a jet pump, a further tube extending below
the jet pump, the further tube extending through the stator, the inner tubing having a packing
or a seal to form a seal between the inner tube and the stator tube, wherein fluid is injected
through an annulus between the inner tube and the stator tube which results in water or fluid
passing through the further tube to exit an outlet of the further tube to thereby stir up solids in
the vicinity of the outlet of the further tube, and thereafter water or fluid is injected through
the inner tube such that it flows through the jet pump to form suction and subsequently flows
out through the annulus between the inner tube and the stator tube, wherein the suction
formed at the jet pump assists solids to be sucked up through the further tube and into the
annulus between the inner tube and the stator tube, whereby solids are returned to the surface.
[0014]       In one embodiment, the further tube has a diameter that is smaller than a diameter
of the inner tube. In one embodiment, the further tube comprises an extension of the inner
tube extending below the jet pump and through the stator when fully run in.
[0015]       In one embodiment, as the inner tube and further tube are being run in, water
passes through the further tube and out an outlet of the further tube to thereby agitate or stir
up solids located in a lower part of the well.
[0016]       The packing or seal may be located below the jet pump. Preferably, the packing
or seal is located such that when the inner tube is fully run in, the packing or seal is located
between the jet pump and the stator.
[0017]       In one embodiment, the annulus between the stator tube and the inner tube is
closed at the surface during run in. For example, this annulus may be closed on surface using

                                                   5
an industry-standard tubing stripper and/or blowout preventer.
[0018]       The jet pump may comprise a proprietary jet pump. The jet pump may include a
nozzle of reduced diameter, a venturi or an orifice. Water flowing through the inner tube
must pass through the nozzle, venturi or orifice. This results in the formation of a region of
lower pressure in the vicinity of the nozzle, venturi or orifice. The inner tube extends
downwardly past the nozzle, venturi or orifice. The jet pump may be provided with a flow
passage which receives water or fluid that has passed through the nozzle, venturi or orifice.
This flow passage may have an opening extending through a wall of the inner tube. This
opening may be located downstream of the nozzle, venturi or orifice. The region of lower
pressure in the vicinity of the nozzle, venturi or orifice is in fluid communication with an
inner flow passage of the further tube. As a result, when fluid flows through the inner tube,
the region of lower pressure is formed and this effectively acts as a source of suction to draw
up fluid and solids through the outlet of the further tube.
[0019]       When fluid or water is caused to flow from the surface through the annulus
between the stator tube and the inner tube, with no water or fluid flow occurring through the
inner tube, the fluid or water in the annulus can pass into the outlet of the jet pump through
the flow passage and then flow through the further tube to exit the outlet of the further tube.
When the further tube is located at or near regions that are blocked by solids, the water or
fluid flowing out of the outlet acts to stir up or agitate solids. This assists in properly running
in the further tube and also assists in facilitating removal of the solids once fluid is caused to
flow through the inner tube to thereby cause the jet pump to operate in a suction mode.
[0020]       In one embodiment, a check valve is provided upstream of the jet pump, with the
check valve allowing fluid to flow from the surface through the inner tube to the jet pump,
but preventing flow of fluid through the inner tube to the surface.
[0021]       In one embodiment, water or fluid is caused to flow from the surface through the
annulus between the stator tube and the inner tube during run in of the inner tube and further
tube. The water can then flow through the further tube and out through an outlet of the further
tube. In this manner, as the outlet of the further tube approaches the region where blockage
by solids has occurred, the water flowing out through the outlet of the further tube stirs up or
agitates the solids, thereby facilitating run in of the further tube.
[0022]       In another embodiment, flow is stopped to and from the annulus between the

                                                   6
stator tubing and inner tubing and water is provided to the inner tubing to flow through the
inner tubing and out of the further tube. In this manner, as the outlet of the further tube
approaches the region where blockage by solids has occurred, the water flowing out through
the outlet of the further tube stirs up or agitates the solids, thereby facilitating run in of the
further tube. The flow of fluid to or from the inner tube may be stopped by closing an
appropriate valve or valves on the surface of the well.
[0023]        In some embodiments, water or fluid is injected through the annulus between the
outer tube and the stator tube during solids removal. This may be a relatively low pressure
injection of water or fluid. This assists movement of water and solids into the outlet of the
further tube and up towards the jet pump.
[0024]        In some embodiments, the method of the present invention includes alternating
the water flows or fluid flows between an agitation mode and a suction mode.
[0025]        In some embodiments, the method further includes a step of inserting the further
tube to a first depth and operating in agitation mode, followed by operating in suction mode,
and thereafter inserting the tube to a second, deeper depth. During insertion of the tube to the
second, deeper depth, the water or fluid flows may be such that the method operates in
agitation mode. In a second aspect, the present invention provides an apparatus for cleaning
out a well in which artificial lift is normally provided by a PCP pump and an inlet of the PCP
pump has become blocked by solids, the well comprising an outer casing, a stator tubing in
which the stator of the PCP pump is mounted, the stator tubing being positioned inside the
outer tubing, and a rotor string located inside the stator tubing during normal production of
the well, the rotor string having a rotor of the PCP pump mounted thereto, the apparatus
comprising an inner tubing carrying a jet pump, a further tube extending below the jet pump,
the further tube extending through the stator, the inner tubing having a packing or a seal to
form a seal between the inner tube and the stator tube, wherein water or fluid is injected such
that water or fluid passes through the further tube to exit an outlet of the further tube to
thereby stir up solids in the vicinity of the outlet of the further tube, and thereafter water or
fluid is injected such that water or fluid flows through the jet pump to form suction and
subsequently flows out through the annulus between the inner tube and the stator tube,
wherein the suction formed at the jet pump assists solids to be sucked up through the further
tube and into the annulus between the inner tube and the stator tube, whereby solids are
returned to the surface.

                                                  7
[0026]        In one embodiment, the present invention provides an apparatus for cleaning out
a well, in which artificial lift is normally provided by a PCP pump and an inlet of the PCP
pump has become blocked by solids, the well comprising an outer casing, a stator tubing in
which the stator of the PCP pump is mounted, the stator tubing being positioned inside the
outer tubing, and a rotor string located inside the stator tubing during normal production of
the well, the rotor string having a rotor of the PCP pump mounted thereto, the apparatus
comprising an inner tube carrying a jet pump, a further tube extending below the inner tube,
the further tube having a diameter that allows the further tube to be inserted through the
stator, a packing or seal for forming a seal between the inner tube and the stator tube, the jet
pump being arranged such that a flow of fluid through the inner tube into the jet pump causes
a region of low pressure to be formed in the jet pump, the region of low pressure being in
fluid communication with the further tube, the inner tube and jet pump being arranged such
that when no fluid is flowing through the inner tube and fluid is flowing through the annulus
between the inner tube and the stator tube, fluid can flow through the further tube and exit at
a lower outlet of the further tube.
[0027]        In one embodiment, the jet pump may include a nozzle of reduced diameter, a
venturi or an orifice. Water flowing through the inner tube must pass through the nozzle,
venturi or orifice. This results in the formation of a region of lower pressure in the vicinity of
the nozzle, venturi or orifice. The inner tube extends downwardly past the nozzle, venturi or
orifice. The jet pump may be provided with a flow passage which receives water or fluid that
has passed through the nozzle, venturi or orifice. This flow passage may have an opening
extending through a wall of the inner tube. This opening may be located downstream of the
nozzle, venturi or orifice. The region of lower pressure in the vicinity of the nozzle, venturi or
orifice is in fluid communication with an inner flow passage of the further tube. As a result,
when fluid flows through the inner tube, the region of lower pressure is formed and this
effectively acts as a source of suction to draw up fluid and solids through the outlet of the
further tube.
[0028]        In one embodiment, a check valve is provided upstream of the jet pump, with the
check valve allowing fluid to flow from the surface through the inner tube to the jet pump,
but preventing flow of fluid through the inner tube to the surface.
[0029]        The packing or seal may be located below the jet pump. Preferably, the packing
or seal is located such that when the inner tube is fully run in, the packing or seal is located

                                                  8
between the jet pump and the stator.
[0030]       The method and apparatus of the present invention will require appropriate
piping, valving and pumps at the surface to ensure that the correct water flows or fluid flows
are provided. The skilled person will readily appreciate these requirements and therefore they
need not be described further.
[0031]       The method and apparatus of the present invention may also be used in other
wells where conventional cleanout by circulating fluid or gas is not possible or desirable. In
particular, the method and apparatus of the present invention may be used on a well that has
no stator in the well. In this aspect, an outer tubing string can be run into the well and an
inner tubing string placed inside the outer tubing string. The jet pump may be provided as
described above. As it is not necessary to run the inner tubing string through a stator, a
smaller diameter tubing (referred to above as the "further tube") need not be used and the
inner tubing may simply extend down into the region that is blocked by solids, such as
particulates or fines.
[0032]       In a third aspect, the present invention provides a method for cleaning out a well
which has had a build-up of solids accumulated therein, the well comprising an outer casing,
the method comprising running in a first tubing, running in an inner tubing inside the first
tubing, the inner tubing carrying a jet pump, the inner tubing extending below the jet pump,
the inner tubing having a packing or a seal to form a seal between the inner tube and the
stator tube, wherein water or fluid is injected such that water or fluid experts an outlet of the
inner tube to thereby stir up solids in the vicinity of the outlet of the further tube, and
thereafter water or fluid is injected such that it flows through the jet pump to form suction
and subsequently flows out through the annulus between the inner tubing and the outer
tubing, wherein the suction formed at the jet pump assists solids to be sucked up through the
inner tubing and into the annulus between the inner tubing and the outer tubing, whereby
solids are returned to the surface.
[0033]       In a fourth aspect, the present invention provides an apparatus for cleaning out a
well which has had a build-up of solids accumulated therein, the well comprising an outer
casing, the apparatus comprising a first tubing, an inner tubing inside the first tubing, the
inner tubing carrying a jet pump, the inner tubing extending below the jet pump, and the inner
tubing having a packing or a seal to form a seal between the inner tube and the stator tube,

                                                  9
wherein water or fluid is injected such that water or fluid exits an outlet of the inner tube to
thereby stir up solids in the vicinity of the outlet of the further tube, and thereafter water or
fluid is injected such that it flows through the jet pump to form suction and subsequently
flows out through the annulus between the inner tubing and the outer tubing, wherein the
suction formed at the jet pump assists solids to be sucked up through the inner tubing and into
the annulus between the inner tubing and the outer tubing, whereby solids are returned to the
surface.
[0034]        Any of the features described herein can be combined in any combination with
any one or more of the other features described herein within the scope of the invention.
[0035]        The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken
as an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of the common
general knowledge.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[0036]        Various embodiments of the invention will be described with reference to the
following drawings, in which:
[0037]        Figure 1 shows a side schematic view of a clean out apparatus in accordance with
one embodiment of the present invention, with the clean out apparatus being fully run in and
operating in agitation mode;
[0038]        Figure 2 shows a side schematic view of the apparatus shown in figure 1, with the
apparatus being operated in suction mode;
[0039]        Figures 3 to 6 show side schematic views of a cleaning out process for cleaning
out a well. In figure 3, the stator tube and stator are shown with the rotor removed. In figure
4, an apparatus in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention is shown in
agitation mode. In figure 5, the apparatus is shown in suction mode. In figure 6, the cleaned
out well with the cleaning apparatus pulled out is shown;
[0040]        Figure 7 shows a side schematic view of an apparatus in accordance with an
embodiment of the present invention used to cleanout a well that does not have a PCP pump.
In figure 7, the apparatus is being operated in agitation mode;

                                                 10
[0041]       Figure 8 shows a side schematic view of the apparatus shown in figure 7 but
being operated in suction mode; and
[0042]       Figure 9 shows a side schematic view of an apparatus that is similar to that shown
in Figure 1, but with the apparatus being operated in agitation mode and water or fluid being
delivered to and through the further tube via the inner tube.
DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[0043]       Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the drawings have been provided for
the purposes of illustrating preferred embodiments of the present invention. Therefore, it will
be understood that the present invention should not be considered to be limited solely to the
features as shown in the attached drawings.
[0044]       Figures 1 and 2 show an embodiment of an apparatus in accordance with the
present invention being used to clean out a well in accordance with an embodiment of the
method of the present invention. In figure 1, the apparatus is being operated in agitation mode
and in figure 2 the apparatus is being operated in suction mode. In figures 1 and 2, the
cleanout apparatus has been fully run in into the well.
[0045]       The well comprises an outer casing 10 that is used to line a bore of the well. The
outer casing 10 includes a plurality of openings, some of which are numbered at 12. The
plurality of openings allows production fluid to move from the subterranean formation into
the outer casing so that the production fluid can thereafter be removed from the well. The
well may be an oil well, gas well or a water well.
[0046]       The well is fitted with a stator tube 14 that has a stator 16 of a PCP pump
mounted therein. The stator 16 is of conventional design and need not be described further.
[0047]       The clean out apparatus comprises an inner tube 18. Inner tube 18 carries a jet
pump 20. A check valve 22 is located upstream of the jet pump 20. The check valve 22
allows fluid to flow from the surface downwardly through the inner tube to the jet pump 20.
However, the check valve 22 prevents fluid flowing upwardly from the jet pump to the
surface. The construction of jet valve 22 is entirely conventional and need not be described
further.
[0048]       A further tube 24 extends from the inner tube and is in fluid communication with

                                                 11
the inner tube. As can be seen from figures 1 and 2, the further tube 24 has a diameter that is
small enough so that the further tube 24 can pass through a central opening that extends
through the stator 16. The further tube 24 may be referred to as a "stinger." The further tube
24 has an outlet 25 at its lower end. The further tube 24 may be a continuation of the inner
tube or it may comprise a separate tube that is attached to the inner tube. In the embodiment
shown in figures 1 and 2, the further tube 24 is attached to a packing arrangement 26 which,
in turn, is attached to the inner tube 18.
[0049]        A packing arrangement 26, in the form of spaced swage cups 27, 28 (see figure 2)
that are mounted to a housing 29, is located below the jet pump 20 and above the stator 16.
The packing 26 forms a seal between the inner tube 18 and the inner surface of the stator tube
14 that is above the stator.
[0050]        The jet pump 20 includes a nozzle 30 having a nozzle outlet 32. The nozzle outlet
32 directs the flow of fluid leaving the nozzle outlet 32 into a venturi tube 34. Venturi tube 34
has an open top 35. The venturi tube 34 has an outlet 36 that extends through a side opening
in the inner tube 18. An annulus 38 is formed between the venturi tube 34 and the inner wall
of the inner tube 18.
[0051]        As shown in figures 1 and 2, an annulus 40 is formed between the inner tube 18
and the stator tube 14. An annulus 42 is also formed between the stator tube 14 and the outer
casing 10.
[0052]        Figure 1 shows operation of the cleanout apparatus in agitation mode. In this
mode, fluid is passed from the surface down through the annulus 40 between the inner tube
18 and the stator tube 14. This fluid is typically water or an aqueous fluid and, for
convenience, this fluid will be referred to as "power fluid". Arrows 44 in figure 1 shows the
power fluid flowing downwardly through the annulus 40. The seal formed by the packing
arrangement 26 means that the power fluid cannot pass below the seal formed by the packing
arrangement 26. Consequently, the power fluid is caused to flow in through outlet 36 of the
venturi tube 34 and upwardly through the venturi tube 34. This is shown by arrow 46. The
power fluid then flows upwardly through the venturi tube 34 and then out through the open
top 35 of the venturi tube. As the jet pump nozzle 30 is sealingly mounted inside the inner
tube 18, the power fluid leaving the open top 35 of the venturi tube 34 then flows
downwardly through the annulus 38 between the venturi tube 34 and inner tube 18. Arrows

                                                  12
48 show this flow. If any of the power fluid flows upwardly through the nozzle 30, the ball 50
of the check valve 22 is pushed upwardly against a seat 52 to thereby close the check valve
and prevent power fluid flowing upwardly through the inner tube 18.
[0053]       The power fluid then continues to flow downwardly below the venturi tube, as
shown by arrow 54 and into the further tube 24. Arrow 56 shows the power fluid flowing
downwardly through the further tube 24. The power fluid then exits outlet 25 of the further
tube 24, as shown by arrows 58. As the power fluid leaves the outlet of the further tube 24, it
stirs up or agitates solids located in the vicinity of the outlet 25, which loosens the build-up of
solids.
[0054]       The cleaning apparatus can be operated in the agitation mode as shown in figure 1
during run in of the cleaning apparatus. Consequently, as the outlet of the further tube 24
approaches the built-up solids around the stator 16, the power fluid stirs up the built-up solids
and loosens those solids to thereby facilitate continued insertion of the cleaning apparatus and
the further tube 24 into the well.
[0055]       Figure 2 shows the cleaning apparatus being operated in a suction mode. In this
mode, the flow of fluid from the surface down through the annulus 40 between the inner tube
18 and the stator tube 14 is stopped. Power fluid is then supplied to the inner tube 18, as
shown by arrow 56 in figure 2. This unseats the ball 50 from seat 52. The power fluid flows
into the venturi nozzle 18, as shown by arrow 58. The power fluid then flows through venturi
tube 34 and exits outlet 36 of the venturi tube 34. This is shown by arrow 60. The power fluid
then flows upwardly through the annulus 40 between the inner tube 18 and the stator tube 14,
as shown by arrow 62.
[0056]       The power fluid flowing through the outlet of the venturi nozzle 30 causes the
formation of a region of lower pressure in the vicinity of the open top 35 of the venturi tube
34. This region of lower pressure is in fluid communication with the outlet 25 of the further
tube 24, which acts to suck up production fluid and solids through the further tube. As shown
in figure 2, arrows 64 show the production fluid being sucked into the outlet of the further
tube 24. This will also result in solids being sucked up into the further tube 24. The fluid and
solids continue to flow upwardly through further tube 24, as shown by arrow 66 and 68. The
production fluid and entrained solids then flow through the annulus 38 between the venturi
tube 34 and the inner tube 18 and into the open top 35 of the venturi tube. This flow of fluid

                                                  13
is shown by arrows 70. The production fluid and entrained solids then flow into the venturi
tube 34, exit the venturi tube outlet 36 and flow upwardly with the flow of power fluid, as
shown by arrow 62. As a result, solids are removed from the build-up of solids at the lower
part of the well.
[0057]       To assist in removal of the solids, a low flow of water or fluid may be passed
downwardly through the annulus 42 between the stator tube 14 and the outer casing 10. This
is shown by arrow 72 in figure 2.
[0058]       Figures 3 to 6 show operation of the cleaning method in accordance with an
embodiment of the present invention. For convenience, the features shown in figures 3 to 6
that are common with the features shown in figures 1 and 2 are denoted by like reference
numerals.
[0059]       In figure 3, a well 80 has an outer casing 10 and a stator tube 14. During normal
production, the well 80 is normally filled with a rotor and rotor string that enables production
fluid to be pumped to the surface. However, the well 80 has had a build-up of solids 82 (as
shown by the darker grey area in figure 3) form around the pump inlet at the bottom of the
stator 16. As a result, the flow of production fluid 82 to the inlet of the pump has become
blocked.
[0060]       The first step of the cleanout process involves removal of the rotor and rotor
string to leave the stator tube 14 and stator 16 in place. The inlet to the pump (which
corresponds to the lower end of the stator 16) remains blocked at this stage, as shown in
figure 3.
[0061]       The cleanout apparatus is then run in through the stator tube 14, as shown in
figure 4. As the cleanout apparatus is being run in, the cleanout apparatus is operated in the
agitation mode as described in detail with reference to figure 1. As can be seen from figure 4,
as the outlet 25 of the stinger gets close to the outlet of the stator 16, the power fluid flowing
out of the outlet 25 acts to stir up the solids around the lower end of the stator. This leads to
formation of a zone 84 of agitated solids. In the zone 84, the agitated solids are stirred up or
even fluidised by the power fluid leaving the outlet 25 of the stinger. Continued running in of
the cleanout apparatus is then facilitated by the agitation of the solids by the power fluid
leaving the outlet 25 of the stinger. Thus, further insertion of the stinger into the well can be
achieved, as shown in figure 5 until the stinger is fully run in. The cleanout apparatus is then

                                                 14
operated in the suction mode as described in detail with reference to figure 2. As shown in
figure 5, this results in production fluid and solids being sucked up into the stinger tube and
removed through the annulus between the inner tube and the stator tube.
[0062]        Once the built-up solids have been sufficiently removed, as shown in figure 6, the
flow of power fluid to the cleanout apparatus can be stopped and the cleanout apparatus can
be pulled out of the well. This leaves the stator tube 14 and stator 16 in the well, with the
built-up solids being significantly lowered to a level well below the inlet of the pump (which
is the lower end of the stator 16). Thus, the inlet of the pump becomes surrounded by
production fluid 83. At this stage, the rotor string and rotor can be run in again and operation
of the PCP pump can recommence to enable production fluid to again be sent to the surface.
[0063]        The method of the present invention provides a method for cleaning out a well
that has become blocked by solids build-up that is relatively quick to operate. In this regard,
the method will simply require pulling out the rotor string, running in the inner tubing,
cleaning out the well, removing the inner tubing, and then running the rotor and rotor string
back in. The present inventors believe that the entire cleaning process is likely to be
completed in significantly less time than the time required for a full work over. A further
benefit is that the lower completions can stay in place during cleanout. There is no
requirement to remove the stator and stator tube.
[0064]        Further, in some embodiments, the cleanout can be conducted under-balanced and
there may be no need to kill the well during cleanout. Further, full well control may be
maintained during the cleanout operation, with there being a possibility of no requirement for
expensive snubbing or live work over systems. It is believed that it will not be necessary to
inject air into the well, thereby reducing the likelihood of damage to the wellbore or
surface/pipeline facilities with volatile air/gas mixtures. It is also anticipated that this process
will be significantly cheaper than current cleanout operations.
[0065]        Figure 7 shows a side schematic view of an apparatus that is generally similar to
that shown in figure 1. In figure 7, features that are similar to those as shown in figure 1 are
denoted by the same reference numeral as used in figure 1 but with a "1"added to the front.
For example, feature 12 in figure 1 corresponds to feature 112 in figure 7. These features will
not be described further for brevity of description.
[0066]        In the embodiment shown in figure 7, the further tube does not have to pass

                                                 15
through a stator. As a result, the further tube 124 can be formed as an extension of inner tube
118. The further tube 124 can be connected to the inner tube 118 or it can form part of the
inner tube 118. The further tube 124 does not need to have a smaller diameter than the inner
tube 118 in the embodiment shown in figures 7 and 8.
[0067]       The apparatus shown in figure 7 is being operated in agitation mode and
operation of the apparatus shown in figure 7 is essentially identical to that as shown in figure
1 (except, of course, that the further tube 125 does not have to pass through a stator).
Similarly, in figure 8, the apparatus of figure 7 is shown as being operated in suction mode.
Again, operation of the apparatus shown in figure 8 is generally similar to operation of the
apparatus as shown in figure 2 when in suction mode.
[0068]       In order to use the apparatus shown in figures 7 and 8, the first tube 114 and in a
tube 118 are run into the casing 110. If any pumps or artificial lift equipment are present in
the casing 110, they are removed prior to running in the tubes 114, 118. The outlet 125 of
further tube 124 has water flowing out through it in agitation mode (shown in figure 7) and as
the outlet 125 approaches the zone of solids buildup in the bottom of the well, the water 158
flowing out through the further tube 156 agitates the solids. This enables full running of the
inner tube. Once fully run in, the inner tube is then operated in suction made as shown in
figure 8 in order to remove solids from the bottom of the well.
[0069]       Figure 9 shows a side schematic view of an apparatus that is generally similar to
that shown in figure 1. The features in figure 9 that are in common with the features in figure
1 are denoted by a similar reference numerals, but with a "2" added to the front. For example,
feature 12 in figure 1 corresponds to feature 212 in figure 9. For convenience and brevity of
description, these features need not be described further.
[0070]       Although the apparatus shown in figure 9 is generally similar to that shown in
figure 1, the apparatus of figure 9 is operated in agitation mode by passing fluid or water
through the inner tube 218. In order to achieve this, the annulus 240 between the inner tube
218 and the stator tube 214 is closed at the surface, for example by closing appropriate
valving. Water is supplied from the surface through the inner tube 218. This is shown by
arrow 280 in figure 9. This water flows through nozzle 230 of the jet pump 220. Control of
water flows through the jet pump is achieved by use of appropriate valves or valve manifold
on the surface of the well. In this embodiment, switching from agitation mode to suction

                                                  16
mode is entirely controlled on the surface with a valve manifold.
 [0071]      In another embodiment, the jet pump 220 may be provided with a valve in the
venturi tube 234 or in the outlet 236 from the venturi tube, which valve is closed when in the
agitation mode. As a result, the water being provided through inner tube 218 cannot pass
through the venturi tube 234. Rather, this water flows through the jet pump as shown by
arrows 282 and the water continues to flow downwardly through inner tube 218, as shown as
shown by arrow 284 and continues to flow downwardly through further tube 224 as shown by
arrow 256. The water exits outlet 225 of further tube 224, shown by arrows 258 to thereby
agitate built up solids in the well.
 [0072]      In another embodiment, rather than having a valve in the venturi tube 234 or
outlet 236, the inner tube 218 may be provided with a bypass passage having a control valve
therein. The control valve may be operated such that water can flow through the bypass valve
to thereby bypass the jet pump 220 and to re-enter the inner tube 218 at a position below the
jet pump 220. The bypass passage is closed off to fluid flow when the apparatus is moved to
suction mode. In this embodiment, the flow down the inner tube and the micro-annulus
(between the two tubings - inner tube and stator tube) spaces, can be reversed (controlled)
from surface. Flowing down the inner tube at pressure causes the suction action through the
venturi of the jet pump, causing suction into the bottom of the extension tube inlet below.
Forcing flow down the micro-annulus can either force out through the jet pump body and
flow up the inner string, or if this is closed at surface (for agitation purposes), the flow will be
diverted through the jet pump body but downward and out the bottom of the extension tube
into the solids below the tubing strings.
 [0073]      In the present specification and claims (if any), the word 'comprising' and its
derivatives including 'comprises' and 'comprise' include each of the stated integers but does
not exclude the inclusion of one or more further integers.
 [0074]      Reference throughout this specification to 'one embodiment' or 'an embodiment'
means that a particular feature, structure, or characteristic described in connection with the
embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus, the
appearance of the phrases 'in one embodiment' or 'in an embodiment' in various places
throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.
Furthermore, the particular features, structures, or characteristics may be combined in any

                                                 17
suitable manner in one or more combinations.
[0075]       In compliance with the statute, the invention has been described in language more
or less specific to structural or methodical features. It is to be understood that the invention is
not limited to specific features shown or described since the means herein described
comprises preferred forms of putting the invention into effect. The invention is, therefore,
claimed in any of its forms or modifications within the proper scope of the appended claims
(if any) appropriately interpreted by those skilled in the art.

                                                 18
CLAIMS
1.       A method for cleaning out a well in which artificial lift is normally provided by a PCP
pump and an inlet of the PCP pump has become blocked by solids, the well comprising an
outer casing, a stator tubing in which the stator of the PCP pump is mounted, the stator tubing
being positioned inside the outer tubing, and a rotor string located inside the stator tubing
during normal production of the well, the rotor string having a rotor of the PCP pump
mounted thereto, the method comprising removing the rotor string and rotor from the well,
running in an inner tubing through the stator tubing, the inner tubing carrying a jet pump, a
further tube extending below the jet pump, the further tube extending through the stator, the
inner tubing having a packing or a seal to form a seal between the inner tube and the stator
tube, wherein water or fluid is injected such that water or fluid passes through the further tube
to exit an outlet of the further tube to thereby stir up solids in the vicinity of the outlet of the
further tube, and thereafter water or fluid is injected such that it flows through the jet pump to
form suction and subsequently flows out through the annulus between the inner tube and the
stator tube, wherein the suction formed at the jet pump assists solids to be sucked up through
the further tube and into the annulus between the inner tube and the stator tube, whereby
solids are returned to the surface.
2.       A method as claimed in claim 1 comprising removing the rotor string and rotor from
the well, running in an inner tubing through the stator tubing, the inner tubing carrying a jet
pump, a further tube extending below the jet pump, the further tube extending through the
stator, the inner tubing having a packing or a seal to form a seal between the inner tube and
the stator tube, wherein fluid is injected through an annulus between the inner tube and the
stator tube which results in water or fluid passing through the further tube to exit an outlet of
the further tube to thereby stir up solids in the vicinity of the outlet of the further tube, and
thereafter water or fluid is injected through the inner tube such that it flows through the jet
pump to form suction and subsequently flows out through the annulus between the inner tube
and the stator tube, wherein the suction formed at the jet pump assists solids to be sucked up
through the further tube and into the annulus between the inner tube and the stator tube,
whereby solids are returned to the surface.
3.       A method as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the further tube has a diameter
that is smaller than a diameter of the inner tube.

                                                 19
4.       A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the further tube
comprises an extension of the inner tube extending below the jet pump and through the stator
when fully run in.
5.       A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein as the inner tube and
further tube are being run in, water passes through the further tube and out an outlet of the
further tube to thereby agitate or stir up solids located in a lower part of the well.
6.       A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the packing or seal
is located below the jet pump.
7.       A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein, the packing or seal is
located such that when the inner tube is fully run in, the packing or seal is located between
the jet pump and the stator.
8.       A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the annulus between
the stator tube and the inner tube is closed at the surface during run in.
9.       A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the jet pump
includes a nozzle of reduced diameter, a venturi or an orifice such that water flowing through
the inner tube must pass through the nozzle, venturi or orifice to result in the formation of a
region of lower pressure in the vicinity of the nozzle, venturi or orifice and the inner tube
extends downwardly past the nozzle, venturi or orifice, the jet pump being provided with a
flow passage which receives water or fluid that has passed through the nozzle, venturi or
orifice, the flow passage having an opening extending through a wall of the inner tube, the
opening being located downstream of the nozzle, venturi or orifice, the region of lower
pressure in the vicinity of the nozzle, venturi or orifice being in fluid communication with an
inner flow passage of the further tube such that when fluid flows through the inner tube, the
region of lower pressure is formed and this acts as a source of suction to draw up fluid and
solids through the outlet of the further tube.
10.      A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein when fluid or water
is caused to flow from the surface through the annulus between the stator tube and the inner
tube, with no water or fluid flow occurring through the inner tube, the fluid or water in the
annulus passes into the outlet of the jet pump through the flow passage and then flows
through the further tube to exit the outlet of the further tube and when the further tube is

                                                   20
located at or near regions that are blocked by solids, the water or fluid flowing out of the
outlet acts to stir up or agitate solids to assist in properly running in the further tube and also
assist in facilitating removal of the solids once fluid is caused to flow through the inner tube
to thereby cause the jet pump to operate in a suction mode.
11.      A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein a check valve is
provided upstream of the jet pump, with the check valve allowing fluid to flow from the
surface through the inner tube to the jet pump, but preventing flow of fluid through the inner
tube to the surface.
12.      A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein water or fluid is
caused to flow from the surface through the annulus between the stator tube and the inner
tube during run in of the inner tube and further tube, the water then flowing through the
further tube and out through an outlet of the further tube such that as the outlet of the further
tube approaches the region where blockage by solids has occurred, the water flowing out
through the outlet of the further tube stirs up or agitates the solids, thereby facilitating run in
of the further tube.
13.      A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein flow of fluid or
water is stopped to and from the annulus between the stator tubing and inner tubing and fluid
or water is provided to the inner tubing to flow through the inner tubing and out of the further
tube such that as the outlet of the further tube approaches the region where blockage by solids
has occurred, the water flowing out through the outlet of the further tube stirs up or agitates
the solids, thereby facilitating run in of the further tube.
14.      A method as claimed in claim 13 wherein the flow of fluid to or from the inner tube is
stopped by closing a valve or valves on the surface of the well.
15.      A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein water or fluid is
injected through the annulus between the outer tube and the stator tube during solids removal.
16.      A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims comprising alternating the
water flows or fluid flows between an agitation mode and a suction mode.
17.      A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the method further
includes a step of inserting the further tube to a first depth and operating in agitation mode,

                                                 21
followed by operating in suction mode, and thereafter inserting the tube to a second, deeper
depth.
18.      A method as claimed in claim 17 wherein during insertion of the tube to the second,
deeper depth, the water or fluid flows is such that the method operates in agitation mode.
19.      An apparatus for cleaning out a well in which artificial lift is normally provided by a
PCP pump and an inlet of the PCP pump has become blocked by solids, the well comprising
an outer casing, a stator tubing in which the stator of the PCP pump is mounted, the stator
tubing being positioned inside the outer tubing, and a rotor string located inside the stator
tubing during normal production of the well, the rotor string having a rotor of the PCP pump
mounted thereto, the apparatus comprising an inner tubing carrying a jet pump, a further tube
extending below the jet pump, the further tube extending through the stator, the inner tubing
having a packing or a seal to form a seal between the inner tube and the stator tube, wherein
water or fluid is injected such that water or fluid passes through the further tube to exit an
outlet of the further tube to thereby stir up solids in the vicinity of the outlet of the further
tube, and thereafter water or fluid is injected such that water or fluid flows through the jet
pump to form suction and subsequently flows out through the annulus between the inner tube
and the stator tube, wherein the suction formed at the jet pump assists solids to be sucked up
through the further tube and into the annulus between the inner tube and the stator tube,
whereby solids are returned to the surface.
20.      An apparatus as claimed in claim 19 comprising an inner tube carrying a jet pump, a
further tube extending below the inner tube, the further tube having a diameter that allows the
further tube to be inserted through the stator, a packing or seal for forming a seal between the
inner tube and the stator tube, the jet pump being arranged such that a flow of fluid through
the inner tube into the jet pump causes a region of low pressure to be formed in the jet pump,
the region of low pressure being in fluid communication with the further tube, the inner tube
and jet pump being arranged such that when no fluid is flowing through the inner tube and
fluid is flowing through the annulus between the inner tube and the stator tube, fluid can flow
through the further tube and exit at a lower outlet of the further tube.
21.      An apparatus as claimed in claim 19 or claim 20 wherein the jet pump includes a
nozzle of reduced diameter, a venturi or an orifice such that water flowing through the inner
tube must pass through the nozzle, venturi or orifice to result in the formation of a region of

                                                22
lower pressure in the vicinity of the nozzle, venturi or orifice, and the inner tube extends
downwardly past the nozzle, venturi or orifice, the jet pump being provided with a flow
passage which receives water or fluid that has passed through the nozzle, venturi or orifice,
the flow passage having an opening extending through a wall of the inner tube, the opening
being located downstream of the nozzle, venturi or orifice, the region of lower pressure in the
vicinity of the nozzle, venturi or orifice being in fluid communication with an inner flow
passage of the further tube such that when fluid flows through the inner tube, the region of
lower pressure is formed and this effectively acts as a source of suction to draw up fluid and
solids through the outlet of the further tube.
22.      An apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 19 to 21 wherein a check valve is
provided upstream of the jet pump, with the check valve allowing fluid to flow from the
surface through the inner tube to the jet pump, but preventing flow of fluid through the inner
tube to the surface.
23.      An apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 19 to 22 wherein the packing or seal is
located below the jet pump.
24.      An apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 19 to 22 wherein the packing or seal is
located such that when the inner tube is fully run in, the packing or seal is located between
the jet pump and the stator.
25.      A method for cleaning out a well which has had a build-up of solids accumulated
therein, the well comprising an outer casing, the method comprising running in a first tubing,
running in an inner tubing inside the first tubing, the inner tubing carrying a jet pump, the
inner tubing extending below the jet pump, the inner tubing having a packing or a seal to
form a seal between the inner tube and the stator tube, wherein water or fluid is injected such
that water or fluid experts an outlet of the inner tube to thereby stir up solids in the vicinity of
the outlet of the further tube, and thereafter water or fluid is injected such that it flows
through the jet pump to form suction and subsequently flows out through the annulus
between the inner tubing and the outer tubing, wherein the suction formed at the jet pump
assists solids to be sucked up through the inner tubing and into the annulus between the inner
tubing and the outer tubing, whereby solids are returned to the surface.
26.      An apparatus for cleaning out a well which has had a build-up of solids accumulated
therein, the well comprising an outer casing, the apparatus comprising a first tubing, an inner

                                                 23
tubing inside the first tubing, the inner tubing carrying a jet pump, the inner tubing extending
below the jet pump, and the inner tubing having a packing or a seal to form a seal between
the inner tube and the stator tube, wherein water or fluid is injected such that water or fluid
exits an outlet of the inner tube to thereby stir up solids in the vicinity of the outlet of the
further tube, and thereafter water or fluid is injected such that it flows through the jet pump to
form suction and subsequently flows out through the annulus between the inner tubing and
the outer tubing, wherein the suction formed at the jet pump assists solids to be sucked up
through the inner tubing and into the annulus between the inner tubing and the outer tubing,
whereby solids are returned to the surface.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
