                                                -9
Abstract
The invention relates to a display system for a shop aisle, the aisle stocking a plurality of
items, the system comprising an electronic screen, a data repository storing information
regarding the items stocked in the aisle, and a controller in communication with the screen,
configured to display advertisements for a plurality of the items stocked in the aisle. Sign
boards may be positioned within or adjacent to the screen. The system may comprise
hardware to scan purchased items linked to the advertised products. The system may also
comprise a camera to obtain eye tracking data, facial analysis data or other customer
information.
                                          3464-3094-7594v2

                                                  -1
                                        SIGNAGE SYSTEM
                                                 Field
[0001]     The invention relates to a signage system for use in shops, in particular retail outlets
such as supermarkets.
                                             Background
[0002]     In a conventional supermarket, aisle boards are generally mounted to the ceiling, and
aligned within aisles to indicate the items that are stocked within that particular aisle. In most
supermarkets, these are simply boards with space for printed matter to be positioned, listing
the number of that aisle and the relevant goods categories for that aisle.
[0003]     Supermarkets may promote different products they are selling, for example using
stickers or tags with printed advertisements on shelves, or dedicated stands or displays for
particular items being promoted.
[0004]     Unfortunately, many retail environments (especially supermarkets) are cluttered and
burdened with promotional material which has become nothing but background noise for
shoppers.
[0005]     The retail environment is very competitive. In retail, the drivers are convenience
(location), availability (range), value (price) and customer experience (in-store experience).
Retailers cannot easily address convenience, and have large teams dedicated to choosing and
expanding their range, but there is a need to improve in the other drivers as well.
[0006]     Brands, at a strategic level, are looking to grow the category that they compete in
through increased traffic and then compete for share through brand positioning and
communication. However, there are serious limitations to existing ways of obtaining relevant
and measurable data, and difficulties in obtaining in-store penetration and effectiveness.
[0007]     The present invention aims to address or ameliorate some or all of the above
disadvantages in the shopping experience for brands and create a new revenue stream for
retailers.
                                              Summary
[0008]     In an aspect of the present invention, there is provided a signage system for a shop
aisle, the aisle stocking a plurality of items, the system comprising:
3464-3094-7594v2

                                                 -2
                an electronic screen;
                a data repository storing information regarding the items stocked in the aisle;
                and
                a controller in communication with the screen, configured to display
                advertisements for a plurality of the items stocked in the aisle.
[0009]    The signage system may further comprise one or more sign boards adjacent the
screen, indicating at least some of the items stocked in the aisle. A pair of sign boards may be
provided on either side of the screen.
[0010]    The signage system may further comprise a camera, wherein the controller analyses
camera images to obtain information regarding customers exposed to the signage system. The
information may comprises eye tracking data to determine the time spent by a customer
viewing the screen, and/or facial analysis data of a customer, whereby the controller can
select advertisements to display on the screen, based on the facial analysis data (e.g. based on
a determined demographic for the customer). The advertisements may be displayed in a
sequence - in one example, they may be displayed in a set rotation of advertisement time
slots, although different advertisement display sequences may be used.
[0011]    The signage system may further comprise a data scanning unit, wherein the
controller analyses the stocked items purchased to obtain information regarding the items that
a customer has purchased and determining the effectiveness of the advertising. The
information may comprise dollar sales, number of transactions and basket size for items that
have been displayed on the signage system.
[0011]    The present invention provides an integrated digital advertising and data platform
that displays targeted brand communication and content to shoppers directly where it matters
most. The platform is located in aisle incorporating the directional aisle boards, therefore
using clear and uncluttered space that is clearly visible to shoppers.
[0012]    The platform of the present invention is aimed at delivering increased product and
category sales and an increased shopper experience. It allows brands to communicate and
affect shopper purchasing behaviour when in buying mode and track campaign and
communication performance in real time as it relates to in-store sales activity.
                                           3464-3094-7594v2

                                                 -3
[0013]    The present invention enables not only real-time advertising of products at relevant
aisle locations to highly relevant customers, but it also allows the collation of measurable
data. Measurable real time media channels are few and far between which leaves brands little
option but to advertise based on assumed audience reach, minimal visibility on customer cut
through, recall and ultimate purchasing behaviour. Most recently, brands have raised
concerns with online advertising, its effectiveness, its reach and the uncontrollable nature of
brand associations. However, with the present invention, the advertisement frequency can be
monitored and compared to sales data for a particular product, enabling the effectiveness of
in-store advertising to be measured, as well as various other analytical comparisons.
[0014]    Further aspects of the present invention will also be described in the detailed
description of the invention below
[0015]    For the purposes of this specification, the term signage system is used broadly to
describe a system that can be used to display information (such as advertising material or
general signboard information) associated with an aisle or region of a shop. The signage
system may in some stores be used to display information associated with a region of the
store.
[0016]    A detailed description of one or more embodiments of the invention is provided
below, along with accompanying figures that illustrate by way of example the principles of
the invention. While the invention is described in connection with such embodiments, it
should be understood that the invention is not limited to any embodiment. On the contrary, the
scope of the invention is limited only by the appended claims and the invention encompasses
numerous alternatives, modifications and equivalents.
[0017]    For the purpose of example, numerous specific details are set forth in the following
description in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. The present
invention may be practiced according to the claims without some or all of these specific
details. For the purposes of clarity, technical material that is known in the technical fields
related to the invention has not been described in detail so that the present invention is not
unnecessarily obscured.
                              Brief Description of the Drawings
[0018]    Preferred embodiments of the invention will now be described with reference to the
accompanying drawings wherein:
                                           3464-3094-7594v2

                                                 -4
[0019]    Figure 1 is a perspective view of a signage system according to an embodiment of
the present invention.
[0020]    Figure 2 depicts technical specifications for a signage system according to an
embodiment of the invention, from front, back, top bottom and sides.
[0021]    Figure 3 is a representative image showing a signage system according to an
embodiment of the invention, in use in a supermarket.
[0022]    Figure 4 is a side and perspective view of a tiltable embodiment of the present
invention.
                                      Detailed Description
[0023]    Figure 1 depicts a signage system 100 in accordance with an embodiment of the
invention. The system 100 includes an electronic screen 110, and integrated menu boards 120
adjacent either side of the screen 110 which is achieved through the digital media player. A
mounting arrangement 130 is used to mount the screen to a ceiling, so that the system is
displayed within or near the head and tail of a shopping aisle.
[0024]    The screen 110 may be a custom built, integrated, ultra-wide, digital LCD HD
screens, such as a 480mm or 580mm high ultra-wide LCD HD panel of up to 15 10mm wide
incorporating an equivalent 32" or 42" screen with integrated aisle side-boards. The panels
are preferably of a commercial quality with anti-reflective glass and a 50,000 hour life cycle
(or 7.6 years).
[0025]    Each screen 110 is preferably fitted with a microprocessor and network connection
enabling it to communicate with a controller. The controller (also a microprocessor having a
CPU in communication with a memory) is configured to control the information displayed on
the screen. The controller is provided with access to a data repository listing the items stocked
in the relevant aisle (of course, a single data repository may be used for all aisles, and items
may be categorized by aisle in accordance with typical database field protocols).In one
embodiment, the controller will deliver (to the screen 110) ten 6 second, rotating product
advertisements per minute, for products stocked within that aisle. Of course, many other
advertisement rotations or selection algorithms may be used. In some embodiments, the
controller may also display product menus within supermarket aisles that replace existing
product menu markers, on the screen 110 - ie the screen itself may act as the menu boards.
                                           3464-3094-7594v2

                                                  -5
[0026]     The controller may be a local or a remote server. An individual controller may
control systems in multiple aisles and/or multiple stores.
[0027]     In addition, a camera is installed within the system 100, near the screen 110, directed
to observe customers who can view the screen 110. There may be a discreet/covert camera.
The camera may monitor consumers who enter the aisle related to the screen 110, and its
images may be analysed to obtain information regarding those consumers, including:
     *     eye tracking data, showing how long a particular consumer looked at the screen;
     *     facial analysis data, which can be used to estimate the age or other demographic
         information of the consumer.
[0028]     The data can then be analysed, for example by the controller, to monitor shoppers'
patterns and advertising success. Those analytics can then, for example, be fed back into the
selection process for determining which advertisements to display - brand owners may decide
to target particular demographics for their advertisements, for instance. And eye tracking data
can be used to determine which ads draw the most consumer attention.
[0029]     In addition, the data repository may include details such as sales details and prices,
and the controller may also be integrated with an inventory management system for the shop.
This enables automated price specials, price changes, surge pricing and connectivity between
the aisle boards and the shelf. It also enables the success of individual ads to be quantified,
including by correlation with the facial analysis and eye tracking data.
[0030]     In some embodiments, the invention may include beacon technology to enable two
way communication with shoppers, connection to the retailer rewards program, integration
with the on-line shopping app and also future digital innovation, and
[0031]     In some embodiments, hardware may be installed at the point of sale, to measure
sales items at the scanners to determine advertisement and campaign effectiveness, drive
conditional play and optimize the system utilizing artificial intelligence.
[0032]     These combine to provide not only automation in the 'back end' but also start-of-the
art functionality in rules-based media play. It also enables analytic reports to be generated for
both retailers and brands, giving them real-time shopper insights from their
customers/consumer such as;
     *     Product and category data - analysis of store scan data
                                            3464-3094-7594v2

                                                 -6
    *     Transaction and store traffic
    *     Average basket size
    *     From facial recognition technology
             o      Approximate Age
             o      Gender
    *     Shopper Disposition
    *     Screen views per store, by aisle and by product rotation
    *     Dwell time on screen views
[0033]    The present invention enables a brand to obtain analytics regarding the performance
of their strategy, and to develop and refine their communication strategy to advertise products
specifically stocked within that respective aisle and or co-promote a dual product offering
across aisles where appropriate. Factors such as the in-aisle positioning, height and width of
the units may be optimised, to ensure they deliver maximum results for shopper interaction
and engagement (based on the analytics gathered). Rules-based play enables the integration
with the scanning of products to not only determine the reach of brand communication, but
also its effectiveness. Based on the average store operating hours of 18 hours, the program
will rotate 1080 advertisements per screen, per day, per brand, providing an advertising
channel with extensive targeted exposure.
[0034]    Ceiling-hung screens 110 may be positioned back-to-back (2 screens per unit), and
located inside the aisle at both the entry and exit of each aisle, and the positioning may be
optimised for viewability for shoppers entering and exiting aisles.
[0035]    The length of each ad may also be adjusted to suit particular requirements. However,
the preferred ad length is approximately 6 seconds, and this may be set as a standard. If 10
advertisements are shown for 6 seconds each, this means that each ad is shown twice in two
minutes. This corresponds to the average aisle shop by consumers, of 2 minutes. Of course,
although a 10 advertisements x 6 second rotation is described above, more specific
advertisement targeting may be used to target advertisements at particular consumer
demographics, based on data from the camera. The rotation or sequence of advertisements
displayed may be chosen to maximise ads but minimise shopper distraction complaints. A
                                           3464-3094-7594v2

                                                 -7
preferred approach is to have four screens in an aisle, and to have all 4 screens in an aisle
rotate at the same time with the same content. All screens across all aisles in a shop may also
rotate at the same time, although it will be understood that each screen will display different
advertisement content to reflect the items stocked in the corresponding aisle.
[0036]    The facial recognition cameras may be positioned at approximately a 2.4m height to
maximise the number of views and utilise both long and short throw covert cameras.
[0037]    The screens may be connected to the Internet via wired and/or wireless connections
(e.g. Etherenet, wifi etc). This enables data to be directly uploaded from the cameras, and also
enables advertisement and/or aisle item information to be updated in real-time, if desired.
[0038]    Although the present invention has been described with particular reference to
supermarket shopping, it could be used in other retail environments. It is particularly suited to
large format retail environments, including grocery and liquor, pharmacy, department stores,
sports retail, and/or convenience stores, petrol stations and pet stores.
[0039]    Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
"comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of
integers or steps, but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or
steps.
[0040]    The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived
from it), or to any matter which is known is not, and should not be taken as an
acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or
information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general knowledge in
the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.
                                           3464-3094-7594v2

                                          -8
                                       Claims
   A display system for a shop aisle, the aisle stocking a plurality of items, the system
   comprising:
         an electronic screen;
         a data repository storing information regarding the items stocked in the aisle;
   and
         a controller in communication with the screen, configured to display
   advertisements for a plurality of the items stocked in the aisle.
2. The display system of claim 1, further comprising one or more sign boards integrated
   as part of the screen or adjacent to the screen, indicating at least some of the items
   stocked in the aisle.
3. The display system of claim 1 or 2, further comprising a camera, and wherein the
   controller analyses camera images to obtain information regarding customers
   exposed to the signage system.
4. The display system of claim 3, wherein the controller is further configured to obtain
   purchase tracking data to determine the effectiveness of advertising by time of day,
   day of week and month of year.
5. The display system of claim 3 or 4, wherein the information comprises at least one
   of:
         facial analysis data of a customer, and the controller selects advertisements to
   display on the screen, based on the facial analysis data; or
         the time spent by a customer viewing the screen.
                                    3464-3094-7594v2

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                   2/3
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                 Figure 3
              3464-3094-7594v2

                                   3/3
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                 Figure 4
              3464-3094-7594v2

