Abstract
A fluid exchange apparatus for removing and replacing fluids in an engine, particularly
for an automotive, the apparatus having a main base section and a main used fluid
container for receiving waste fluid. A used product hose is fluidly connected to the
main used fluid container and a pump means is operable to assist in withdrawing used
fluid from the engine to the main used fluid container as well as ejecting used fluid to a
separate storage container. In addition, the apparatus accommodates new fluid drums so
that new fluid can be readily dispensed and users can then readily replace said drums
from the main base section when required.

                   50
           110
    100                                   70
 131                                    72
             13                        90
120
   51                                    95
                                        80
     40                                    1
                                        22
                21                  22
                   21             1
        10
                               20
                      Figure 1

                                           1
Modular Fluid Changing System and Apparatus
Field of the invention
The present invention relates generally to a system for changing fluids in a fluid
receptacle having a drain plug opening, such as for example internal combustion engine
or other in which suction is used to remove the used fluids from the and uses pressure
then to replenish fluid receptacle lubrication related fluid receptacle said receptacle
with fresh fluids and automotive receptacle
Removing and changing engine fluids can be a messy and time-consuming process, the
most common method involves manually removing an oil pan drain plug from the
sump of the engine and then allowing gravity to drain any used oil through the drain
plug opening and into a strategically placed catching pan. After the drain plug is then
replaced, fresh oil is added to the engine through an opening provided in the valve
cover at the uppermost point of the engine. This particular method is quite time
consuming and involves either crawling beneath the engine or alternatively jacking the
engine up to an appropriate height to allow a user to easily access the sump region.
As such, depending upon the size of the engine, it can take 40 - 15 minutes to remove
and replace the oil. Whilst this may be acceptable to the domestic user, in professional
operations this amount of time becomes a barrier when multiplied by a large number of
engines that require servicing. In addition to the amount of time taken, there are work
place hazards to also consider with having several open containers of engine fluid
located about a workspace, which may inadvertently be knocked over resulting in
additional time to collect and clean the spilled waste oil all along with presenting as
being a potential for a significant health hazard.
Object of the invention
It is an object of the present invention to overcome, or at least substantially ameliorate,
the disadvantages and shortcomings of the prior art.
Other objects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the
following description, taking in connection with the accompanying drawings, wherein,

                                           2
by way of illustration and example, an embodiment of the present invention is
disclosed.
Summary of the invention
A fluid exchange apparatus for removing and replacing fluids including
a main base section;
         a main used fluid container for receiving waste fluid;
         at least one used product conduit fluidly connected to the main used fluid
container;
a pump in fluid communication with the main used fluid container;
         at least one new product dispensing conduit fluidly connected to at least one
new product intake conduit;
         at least one new product intake conduit fluidly connected to a new product fluid
container, wherein the new product fluid container is removable from the main base
section.
In preference the pump is reversible by means of a reversible valve
In preference, the pump is a diaphragm pump.
In preference, a 4-way directional evacuation valve is operatively connected to the used
product hose and the pump to effect either a filling of the main used fluid container or
an emptying of main used fluid container.
In preference, the main base includes a pair of openings for receiving a pair of
forklifting tangs there in to allow a forklift or pallets trolley to move the fluid exchange
apparatus.
In preference, the main base is a modular unit.
In preference, the apparatus includes at least one new fluid container restraining means.
Said new fluid container restraining mains being adapted to secure and restrain
movement of the new fluid container when placed upon the main base.

                                             3
In preference, the new fluid container restraining means is a cable or chain.
In preference, the at least one used product conduit has an adapter at one end for
coupling to a mating adapter fixed to a sump of a vehicle.
In preference, the at least one new product intake hose is adapted to releasably attach to
a new fluid container, said new fluid container release simply secured to the main base
or to the fluid exchange apparatus.
In preference, the main base has a smaller footprint compare to a standard pallet
footprint in order to fit within a utility tub.
In preference, the pump means is operated compressed air.
In preference, the connecting means is any such suitable device for attaching the to a
vehicles sump opening that is in fluid communication with engine fluid. In addition, the
coupling means funnel or fluid is drained., A coupling means can be fitted of a vehicle
permanently connection and operation of the present invention, such as for example a
quick connect / disconnect fitting.
Brief description of the drawings
By way of example, an embodiment of the invention is described more fully hereinafter
with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
Figure 1 is a front perspective view of the fluid exchange apparatus of the. An
embodiment of the present invention present invention;
Figure 2 is a rear perspective view by new fluid of the fluid exchange apparatus of the
present invention, without the new fluid drum on the platform section and without the
waste oil reel and new oil reels for clarity;

                                            4
Figure 3 is the same figure as figure 2 showing detail of the channels formed to provide
the openings for fork lift tangs;
Figure 4 is a back view of the apparatus shown in figure 1.
Description
Whilst the following description illustrates a particular configuration of the apparatus
of the present invention, which is particularly suitable for evacuating used fluid, such as
used oil, from an internal combustion engine and subsequently dispensing fresh new
fluid to the internal combustion engine of a vehicle, it should be understood that the
present fluid exchange apparatus is suitable for changing any type of fluid in a fluid
receptacle or container having a drain plug opening. In addition, the fluid exchange
apparatus as described may also be configured to dispense several different types of
fluid and furthermore be adapted to evacuate or remove several different types of fluid
from more than one location.
Referring now to the drawings, the fluid exchange apparatus is generally designated as
item 10, which consists of a platform section 15 having a ground engaging lower face
20 and an upper face 25. Located on the upper surface 25 of the platform section 15 is a
housing cabinet 30, which includes at least one main used fluid receptacle or container
40 for receiving a quantity of used fluid from a vehicle.
The present invention 10 includes a used fluid product hose 50 that is adapted to
engage with an opening of a vehicle sump, either by way of an quick fit adaptor
connection 51, which enables the used fluid product hose to quickly and readily
attachable by a snap fit to the adapter or may be otherwise securely and removably
attached to a required opening to a fluid chamber or sump in order to provide a
removably secure attachment through which used fluid may pass through. The other
end of the used fluid product hose 50 is in communication with a pump means 60 so as
to facilitate the extraction of spent or used oil from the sump reservoir into the main
used fluid container 40 by coupling the conduit 50 to the pump means 80 The main
used fluid container 40 within the housing 30 can then be used to store the used oil
extracted from the vehicle's engine.

                                           5
As shown in figure 1, the used fluid product hose 50 is contained on a reel 54 to
facilitate attachment of the connection means 51 at a distance away from the present
invention 10.
The used fluid product hose 50 is constructed from a suitable flexible material to
permit the conduit to be used in the desired environment, such as beneath a vehicle or
in the engine bay of a vehicle, which may require the conduit 50 to be bent or
configured as required to fit so as to effectively remove oil contained within the
required area.
In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the pump means 60 is located
adjacent to the used fluid product conduit 50, although other locations of the pump
means are considered to fall within the scope of the invention, and the pump means 60
has a vacuum means, such as a vacuum pump or diaphragm pump to provide a drawing
vacuum within the main used fluid container 40 which is sufficient to enable spent or
used oil to be withdrawn from an engines oil sump through the hose 50 and into the
container 40. A sight-gauge 85 can be located on the rear of the housing 30 to and in
fluid communication with the main used fluid container 40 so as to indicate the level of
used fluid within. Other fluid level measuring devices may be used as would be known
to those skilled in the field.
In this embodiment the pump means 60 is operated by air pressure via attachment of a
pressurised air source to an air pressure intake 70 via a snap on attachment to the air
inlet port 72. A four-way evacuation valve 80 with a selectable position selector 81 is
fitted in fluid communication with the pump means 60, used fluid product hose 50 and
the used fluid container 40. In a first position, the four-way evacuation valve 80 allows
used oil fluid to be drawn from an engine sump through the conduit 50 and into the
main waste container 40. Once that operation is complete, the distal end 52 of the
conduit 50 can be then attached to an additional separate used oil fluid container and
the 4-way evacuation valve 80 moved to a second position whereby operation of the
pump means 60 results in the used waste oil in the main container 40 being up through
the conduit 83, which is located in main waste container 40 having an end that sits
above the bottom of the main waste container 40 , the wast used oil fluid being expelled

                                           6
out through the waste oil conduit 50 and into the separate waste oil container for
subsequent disposal or storage as required.
As shown in figure 1 and 4, positioned on the platform section 15 is a new fluid
container 90, which in this embodiment is a standard oil drum 90 (200 L). A restraining
chain 95 is fixed to the rear section of the housing cabinet 30 and wrapped around the
outer surface of the drum 90 and then securely removably attached back to the housing
cabinet 30. A belt or number of chains/belts may be used to adequately secure the
container 90 housing cabinet 30 so as to allow the drum to the secured safely yet also
the removable when required, such as for example when the container 90 is empty and
needs replacing.
As shown in the figure 1, adjacent to the waste oil conduit reel 50 is a pair of new oil
reels 100 and 110, each of which have a flexible hose conduit 120 and a user operated
nozzle 130 through which new oil from the new fluid container 90 can be dispensed.
When a new fluid drum 90 is secured to the platform section 15, an adapter is secured
to an opening of the new fluid container 90 which includes a hose or conduit in fluid
connection to the new oil flexible hose conduits 120 through which oil can be forced
from the new oil container 90 by attachment of and pressurised air source, which may
be directed from the air pressure inlet attachment 70.
Compressed air is used to move product from the new fluid product container to the
new product dispensing conduit(s), the dispensing conduits are hoses or pipes or other
conduits that are considered suitable for transporting fresh product fluid to the desired
location, which located in the automobile. One end of the new product dispensing
conduit is fluidly connected to the new container and the other end, being the outlet is
controllable by way of a user operated fluid dispensing pump nozzle, which can be
operated or coupling means can be by a user used product conduit drip pan into which
to control the rate and amount of to the sump flow for fluid changing purposes. A
metred dispenser or other suitable reading device.
The introduction of air driven drum pumps into the new fluid container 90 then forces
oil up through the attached conduit and out through the flexible hose conduit 120 and
attached nozzle 130. A metering attachment may also be connected in a manner so as to

                                           7
measure the volume of fluid passing through the flexible hose conduit 120. More than
one new fluid container 90 may be placed upon the platform section 15, for example
next to the drum 90, such that additional new fluid material may be dispensed via the
new oil reel 110 and nozzle 131.
In this way, the present invention allows for the quick and easy placement of new fluid
containers on the platform section 15 and secured whilst in transit and in use and then
subsequently, when empty, readily replaced with new fluid containers as needs be. The
container 40 has and outlet/drain opening 42 located on a rear face of the housing
Cabinet 30 so as to enable additional drainage from the container 40 by attachment of a
suitable hose in order to direct waste fluid in the container 40 to another holding
receptacle. This provides for more complete emptying of the container 40 as well as for
the removal of additional sludge/contaminant build up within the container 40 that may
occur over time.
To facilitate movement/transportation of the present invention, the lower section has a
pair of openings 21 sized and shaped to receive a pair of fork lifting tangs so that a
forklift or pallet trolley may be used to move the present invention from one place to
another. The pair of openings 21 a are formed in the base panel 12 of the present
invention by the channels 24 through the full length of the base section 11 through to
opening 21b on the other side of the apparatus 10. Positioned substantially
perpendicular to the openings 21a and 21b are openings 22a and 22b with channels 27,
which allow for the insertion of tangs from a forklift or pallet truck from the
neighbouring sides.
A forklift can then be used to lift the present invention onto the back of a utility vehicle
or other suitable vehicle. the additional pair of openings 22 allow a forklift or pallet
truck to transport the apparatus from another angle, which may be necessary, for
example, when loading of the apparatus on to a tray top of a vehicle from the side,
which might be required due to space constraints around a particular job site/location.
As can now be seen, the present invention provides a fluid exchange apparatus that is
able to dispense fluid out of readily available oil containers such as 205 litre (44 gal)
drums directly to the distribution reels and nozzles. These oil drums can be readily

                                             8
obtained and exchanged as needed so that providing fresh oil or fluid can be easily
performed on-site without the need to utilise a separate filing of any supply reservoir or
potentially messy step of having to decant oil from the drums to a main supply
reservoir. In addition, it is relatively easy for an operator to change a drum of one
particular grade of oil to another with minor flushing of the hose as needed.
Although the invention has been herein shown and described in what is conceived to be
the most practical and preferred embodiment, it is recognized that departures can be
made within the scope of the invention, which is not to be limited to the details
described herein but it is to be accorded the full scope of the appended claims so as to
embrace any and all equivalent devices and apparatus.

                                            9
Claims
1. A fluid exchange apparatus for removing and replacing fluids including:
         a main base section;
         a main used fluid container for receiving waste fluid;
         at least one used product hose fluidly connected to the main used fluid
container;
         a pump means in fluid communication with the main used fluid container;
         at least one new product dispensing conduit fluidly connected to at least one
new product intake conduit;
         at least one new product intake conduit fluidly connected to a new product fluid
container, wherein the new product fluid container is removable from the main base
section.
2. The fluid exchange apparatus of claim 1, wherein the pump function is reversible
    by means of a reversible valve
3. The fluid exchange apparatus of any of the above claims, wherein the pump means
    is a diaphragm pump.
4. The fluid exchange apparatus of any of the above claims, wherein a 4-way
    directional evacuation valve is operatively connected to the used product hose and
    the pump to effect either a filling of the main used fluid container or an emptying of
    main used fluid container.
5. The fluid exchange apparatus of any of the above claims, wherein the main base
    includes a pair of openings for receiving a pair of forklifting tangs there in to allow
    a forklift or pallets trolley to move the fluid exchange apparatus.
6. The fluid exchange apparatus of any of the above claims, wherein the main base is a
    modular unit.
7. The fluid exchange apparatus of any of the above claims, wherein the apparatus
    includes at least one new fluid container restraining means. Said new fluid

                                          10
    container restraining mains being adapted to secure and restrain movement of the
    new fluid container when placed upon the main base.
8. The fluid exchange apparatus of any of the above claims, wherein the new fluid
    container restraining means is a cable, chain or strap
9. The fluid exchange apparatus of any of the above claims, wherein the at least one
    used product conduit has an adapter at one end for coupling to a mating adapter
    fixed to a sump of a vehicle.
10. The fluid exchange apparatus of any of the above claims, wherein the main used
    fluid container for receiving waste fluid is removably connected to the main base.
11. The fluid exchange apparatus of any of the above claims, wherein the at least one
    new product intake conduit is adapted to releasably attach to a new fluid container,
    said new fluid container release simply secured to the main base or to the fluid
    exchange apparatus.
12. The fluid exchange apparatus of any of the above claims, wherein the main base has
    a footprint smaller than a standard pallet footprint to enable fitting in a typical
    utility tub.
13. The fluid exchange apparatus of any of the above claims, wherein the pump means
    is operated by compressed air.
14. The fluid exchange apparatus of any of the above claims, wherein the connecting
    means is any such suitable device for attaching the to a vehicles sump opening that
    is in fluid communication with automobile fluid. In addition, the coupling means
    funnel or fluid is drained., A coupling means can be fitted of a vehicle permanently
    connection and operation of the present invention, such as for example a quick
    connect / disconnect fitting

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
