HRh,1tewoenNR PortN-CC'\DXLq (6720387_1.doc-2 8/03/2 018
ABSTRACT
A system including a computer system configured to access geographical information
system (GIS) data, including land-parcel data defining a plurality of land parcels, and
destination data representing locations of publicly accessible destinations including open
spaces, schools, train stops, tram stops, shops and/or shopping precincts, process the GIS
data to generate proximity data by determining distances between each land parcel and the
publicly accessible destinations, and representing the determined distances by the
proximity data, and communicate with a GIS server for the GIS server to receive the
processed GIS data and store the processed GIS data; and the GIS server configured to
receive request data representing one or more criteria including a requested distance for
selecting ones of the land parcels, access the stored GIS data, and generate response data,
from the stored GIS data, representing ones of the land parcels with ones of the determined
distances in the proximity data matching the criteria.

                                                 2/13
      ~l)CIA  1
10
                                       -C 0
                -lu
          o
   Ct                              CCq
                      -~C                   q
     E     zl
                    u          L)
                          Ct -u
                                             q'0
                             lL)uL
                             UU

IRR\dxl\r ,,r\
            NRr tb\DCC\)XLl 6720387_1.d,-28/B3/2018
 GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR SEARCHING
                                                    LAND PARCELS
TECHNICAL FIELD
[01]              The present invention generally relates to geographical information systems
and methods for searching land parcels, e.g., to identify appropriate land parcels for
property development.
BACKGROUND
[02]              Traditionally, in order to identify appropriate sites for potential property
development, property developers have identified sites by visual inspection of the sites
(e.g., by visiting sites), and inspection of maps (e.g., commercially available street maps).
Once potential sites were identified, the property developers would then need to request
relevant records from governments and authorities (e.g., planning agencies), to determine
information of interest, e.g., recent sale prices, land sizes, zoning requirements, etc.
[03]              Although it has recently become possible to view maps on real-estate websites
that provide additional property information on the maps (e.g., recent prices, number of
bathrooms, etc.), such maps are designed for individual property purchases, and thus are
not sufficiently fast, efficient, flexible and relevant for some property developers.
[04]              Currently, to gain a better understanding of available properties across large
areas, property developers may engage professional urban planning consultants to prepare
reports using professional analysis of large data sets, using complicated geographical
information system (GIS) tools, based on predefined criteria (e.g., a minimum lot size)
from the developers. This is a relatively slow and expensive process, and is undesirable if
the developers wish to adjust their criteria and access new reports; however, existing GIS
tools are too complicated, and the processing required takes too long, for convenient and
flexible use by property developers.
[05]              It is desired to address or ameliorate one or more disadvantages or limitations
associated with the prior art, or to at least provide a useful alternative.

IPR\dxl\r ,,r\
            NRr tb\DCC\)XLl 6720387 Ldc-28/B32018
                                                    -2
SUMMARY
[06]              In accordance with the present invention, there is provided a system including:
                  a computer system configured to:
                       access geographical information system (GIS) data, including land-parcel
data defining a plurality of land parcels, and destination data representing locations of
publicly accessible destinations including open spaces, schools, train stops, tram stops,
shops and/or shopping precincts,
                       process the GIS data to generate proximity data by determining distances
between each land parcel and the publicly accessible destinations, and representing the
determined distances by the proximity data, and
                       communicate with a GIS server for the GIS server to receive the processed
GIS date and store the processed GIS data; and
                  the GIS server configured to:
                       receive request data representing one or more criteria including a requested
distance for selecting ones of the land parcels,
                       access the stored GIS data, and
                       generate response data, from the stored GIS data, representing ones of the
land parcels with ones of the determined distances in the proximity data matching the
criteria.
[07]              The present invention also provides a method including:
                  accessing geographical information system (GIS) data, including land-parcel
data defining a plurality of land parcels, and destination data representing locations of
publicly accessible destinations including open spaces, schools, train stops, tram stops,
shops and/or shopping precincts;
                  processing the GIS data to generate proximity data by determining distances
between each land parcel and the publicly accessible destinations, and representing the
determined distances by the proximity data;
                  communicating with a GIS server for the GIS server to receive the processed
GIS data and store the processed GIS data;
                  receiving request data representing one or more criteria including a requested

IRL\dxl\terwN\NRPortbA\D CC\)XLl 6720387 Ldc-28/B3/2018
                                                         -3
 distance for selecting ones of the land parcels;
                        access the stored GIS data; and
                        generating response data, from the stored GIS data, representing ones of the
 land parcels with ones of the determined distances in the proximity data matching the
 criteria.
 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 [081                   Preferred embodiments of the present invention are hereinafter described, by
 way of non-limiting example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in
 which:
 [09]                   Figure 1 is a block diagram of a system;
 [10]                   Figure 2 is a block diagram of computational modules of the system;
 [11]                   Figure 3 is a flowchart of a pre-processing method performed by the system;
 [12]                   Figure 4 is a flow diagram of a distance-determination method performed by
 the system;
 [13]                   Figure 5 is a flowchart of a planning-control-determination method performed
by the system;
 [14]                   Figure 6 is a flowchart of an area-determination method performed by the
 system;
 [15]                   Figure 7A is an example map showing an identified land parcel and two train
 access points;
 [16]                   Figure 7B is an example map showing an on-street distance between the
 identified land parcel and a nearest one of the train access points;
 [17]                   Figure 7C is a map showing the identified land parcel overlapping with a
predefined zone area;

IRR\dxl\r ,,r\
            NRr tb\DCC\)XL l6720387_
                                1.d,-28/B3/2018
                                                   -4
[18]              Figures 8A, 8B and 8C are wire-frame diagrams of a user interface of the
system; and
[19]              Figure 9 is a diagram of a client map display relative to sub-regions of land
parcels represented in the system.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
Overview
[20]              Described herein is a system and a method that can enable a user (e.g., a
property developer) to search for land parcels (also referred to as "properties") based on
relevant selection criteria, selected by the user, and to display the search results comprising
the selected land parcels on a map in near real time, all with a user-friendly user interface
(UI) accessible in a web browser over the internet. The selected land parcels meeting the
criteria may be referred to as "search output". The user can control and modify the
selection criteria with the user interface, and the modified selection criteria can be used to
generate a new set of selected land parcels for display in near real time. The system and
method pre-process information from a plurality of data sources to provide processed data
representing the land parcels (based on land parcel identifiers), in association with values
of the potential search criteria for each land parcel, on an internet server system. On
receiving user input from an internet client system, the system and method can rapidly
select or filter the relevant land parcels by comparing the search criteria values to the
values in the processed data. The land parcels may be referred to as "cadastral lots" if they
are defined by coordinates specified in cadastral data, made accessible by State
Governments.
[21]              The system includes a GIS Server and an application server. The system may
be referred to as a tool. The criteria can include distance values representing on-street
distances between the land parcels and predefined locations of publicly accessible
destinations (which may be facilities). The distance from the land parcel may be
determined based on a coordinate in the land parcel, which may be a centroid, or a street
frontage point. The pre-defined locations may include public transport stops, or public

IRL\dxl\trwv\ NRPortb\DCC\)XLl 6720387 Ldc-28/B32018
                                                     -5
 destination access points, defined by coordinates. The distance values may be referred to
 as "proximities", "proximity values" or "accessibility values". The distance values can be
 valuable in determining how quickly a person can travel (by foot, bike and/or car) from the
 land parcel to the destination, and/or back.
 [22]               The system may provide user authentication and encryption for an
 authenticated user, and separate GIS authentication and encryption between the application
 server and the GIS server. The separate authentication methods allow the authorised users
 to access the application server without accessing the processed GIS data.
 [23]               By making the processed data accessible to the application server, the
 searching performed by the user can be rapid and flexible. The processed data may
 include, for each processed land parcel, information relating to accessibility distances,
planning controls, land features, and at least one pre-calculated weighted accessibility
 score. The system and method provide a pre-processing method that accesses published
 data sources and pre-processes raw GIS data in preparation for serving the processed data
 to the user.
 [24]               When using the system and the method, the user may rapidly filter out
 irrelevant land parcels from a very large dataset, which may represent an entire
 municipality or local government area, and quickly adjust the values of the search criteria
 to find potential development sites and to view them on a map in near real time over the
 internet. There may be as many at 2 million separate searchable land parcels, with
respective accessibility distances, planning controls, land features, etc., in the processed
 GIS data.
 [25]               Compared to real-estate websites, for example, the system and method is not
 limited to properties that are advertised for sale, and allows for filtering to immediately
 select and display only relevant properties, based on different selectable criteria, on an
 enhanced map (e.g., colour-coded, and/or not displaying irrelevant properties).
Furthermore, the criteria can be adjusted quickly by the user, and the enhanced map
updated in near real time, allowing the user to gain a thorough understanding of the

IPR\dxl\r ,,r\
            NRr tb\DCC\)XL l672038
                               7 Ldc-28/B32018
                                                -6
availability of sites having various levels of desirability (and thus which potential
properties to consider for development).
System
[26]              As shown in Figure 1, a system 100 for searching land parcels includes a pre
processing computer system 102 that accesses published geographical information system
(GIS) data (also referred to as "raw" GIS data) stored in accessible databases 104. The
pre-processing computer system 102 may include commercially available computer
hardware, and may communicate with the accessible databases 104 using commercially
available connectors and communications protocols. The pre-processing computer system
 102 imports and processes the raw GIS data to generate processed GIS data and imported
GIS data for the system 100.
[27]              The system 100 includes a GIS server 106 that communicates with the pre
processing computer system 102 to receive the processed GIS data and the imported GIS
data using commercially available connectors and communications protocols. The GIS
server 106 may be hosted by a commercial provider and/or an open-source provider, e.g.,
CartoDB, and/or GeoServer. The GIS server 106 stores the processed GIS data and the
imported data in one or more rapidly accessible data formats, which may include at least
one GIS data table, a plurality of data tables, map-tile data and/or look-up tables. The
processed GIS data and the imported GIS data may be converted by the processing
computer system 102 into acceptable formats for the GIS server 106, which may be
commercially available formats, including shape files (which may be referred to as
"shapefiles"), which may conform to the ESRI format from the Environmental Systems
Research Institute (ESRI). The shapefiles may be uploaded to the GIS server 106 using a
standard user interface of the GIS server 106. Alternatively, the pre-processing system 102
may export the data directly in a geospatial data format (including a vector data format,
which may be the MapInfo TAB format) for the GIS server 106.
[28]              The system 100 includes an application server 108, in communication with the
GIS server 106 using an internet protocol, to send data queries to the GIS server 106. The

IRR\dxl\r ,,r\
            NRr tb\DCC\)XLl 6720387_1.d,-28/B32018
                                                   -7
application server 108 may be an internet cloud-based web server platform, which may be
provided by a commercial provider, such as Amazon's Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2).
[29]              The data queries from the application server 108 are sent to an application
program interface (API) of the GIS server 106 with an access key or keys that identify the
processed data in the GIS server 106, and may be used for authentication, security,
encryption, and billing because the GIS server 106 may be part of an internet cloud server
with more than one account. The API of the GIS server is provided by a GIS server
module 220. The API key is a code provided by a tile proxy module 222 of the application
server 108 when calling the API of the GIS server 106 to identify the tile proxy module
222. The key includes a string of semi-random characters used to authenticate requests
coming from the tile proxy module 222 to the GIS server module 220. All server requests
must therefore be accompanied by a valid API key to be recognized and accepted by the
GIS server 106. Accordingly, the application server 108 is configured to receive the
request data from the client, and to send the response data to the client; and the GIS server
configured to communicate with the application server 108, to access the proximity data,
and to generate the response data, and the application server 108 stores and uses the key
data representing the access key to authenticate its communication with the GIS server.
The client does not access or use the key data, and thus cannot access the data in the GIS
server database 218 directly.
[30]              The system 100 includes one or more user devices 110 that communicate with
the application server 108 through a data network 112, which may be the internet. The
user devices 110 may include at least one smartphone, at least one tablet computer, at least
one desktop computer, and at least one laptop computer. Each of the user devices provides
a client for the application server 108. The client may be in the form of a web browser
230, which can include a commercially available web browser or a native application that
processes data formatted for the World Wide Web and/or the internet. The client allows
the user to log in and authenticate with quasi-unique user credentials (e.g., a user name and
password) to the application server 108 through a hypertext mark up language (HTML) or
web interface using standard protocols. The client provides a graphical user interface (UI)
for the user to generate the data queries.

IRR\dxl\r ,,r\NRr tb\DCC\1XL 6720387 Ldc-28/B3/2018
[31]                The user devices 110 send the data queries to the application server 108, which
in turn generates corresponding data queries for the GIS server 106; however, the data
queries from the user devices 110 do not include the access key or keys that are required to
access the processed data in the GIS server 106. The separation of the user devices 110
from the access key data (which is stored in the application server 108) provides security
of the processed data in the GIS server 106 from potential unauthorised access or copying
by the user devices 110.
[32]                The system 100 includes a map provider 114 that serves map data to the user
devices 110. An example map provider is the Google Maps server. The system 100 may
include one or more public content delivery networks (CDNs) 116 that serve publicly
available data libraries to the user devices. An example CDN is Amazon's CloudFront.
Where identical copies of common libraries are hosted all over the world, these can be
reused, and users are given the closest copy of the file. "jQuery" for example is used by a
number of different sites, and it does not need to be reloaded every time a website using
jQuery is loaded. Instead of using the CDN 116, or additionally, the application server 108
can download data representing some or all of the required libraries, compress the
downloaded data, compile the downloaded data offline, and deliver this pre-compiled data
to the client. The map provider 114 and the CDNs 116 communicate with the user
devices 110 using standard internet protocols to provide the maps and libraries as required
by the client.
[33]                As shown in Figure 2, the pre-processing computer system 102 includes an
input module 202 that is configured to access and upload input data to the pre-processing
computer system 102. The input module 202 includes a plurality of data connectors or
input tools that can access, and authenticate (if necessary) with a plurality of data sources
that contain information defining the publicly accessible destinations. The data connectors
receive the raw data from various sources. The data connectors may allow automatic
downloading of the raw data in existing formats. Alternatively, the raw data may be
downloaded from the sources using existing website interfaces, and stored in existing
formats, for uploading to-or opening by-the pre-processing computer system 102.

IRR\dxl\r ,,r\
            NRr tb\DCC\)XLl 6720387 Ldc-28/B3/2018
                                                     -9
[34]              The raw data include raw land-parcel data, including:
                 a.     land parcel map polygons representing geospatial coordinates (or
                       "geometry") of land parcels (e.g., Vicmap data source for Victoria,
                       Australia);
                 b. real-estate market data representing identifiers and values or codes of
                       properties for sale, and sold properties; and
                 c.    street address data representing geospatial coordinates of street address of
                       land parcels.
[35]              The raw data include raw region data representing regions or areas (including
zones or municipal areas), defined by coordinates, polylines, or polygons, and one or more
features of attributes of each area (including codes or values):
                 a. elevation data representing values of elevations of areas defined by
                       geospatial coordinates, and details of contours;
                 b. topography data, including slope data representing slope analysis plans,
                       including the steepnesses of the respective defined areas (regions);
                 c.    flood data representing values or codes associated with potential flooding
                       effects in respective defined areas (regions);
                 d. market region data representing identifiers and values of areas and real
                       estate prices or values in those areas (regions);
                 e. planning controls data (also referred to as "government planning data")
                       representing planning control codes and descriptions associated with areas
                       (regions) defined by geospatial coordinates (which may include polygons
                       defining the geometry, and attributes represented by characters, following
                       standard protocols within each administrative area, such as a State),
                       including planning zones, planning overlays, planning strategy zones,
                       planning decision zones, and heritage overlays;

IRR\dxl\r ,,r\
            NRr tb\DCC\)XLl 6720387 Ldc-28/B3/2018
                                                      - 10
                 f.    government boundaries data representing government and administrative
                       boundaries, including state boundaries, council boundaries, and suburb
                       boundaries; and
                 g. real estate government data representing statistical market prices (values)
                       for the areas (regions), e.g., median suburb house price, median suburb
                       apartment price, from the Australian Bureau of Statistics.
[36]              The raw data include raw publicly accessible destination data representing
specific locations of the public destinations or facilities, including:
                 a. tram stop data representing geospatial coordinates of tram stops;
                 b. train stop data representing geospatial coordinates of train stops;
                 c. bus stop data representing geospatial coordinates of bus stops;
                 d. retail data representing geospatial coordinates of shops and shopping
                       precincts;
                 e. open space data representing geospatial coordinates of open spaces;
                 f.    educational facility data representing geospatial coordinates of schools,
                       colleges, universities, etc.;
                 g. business district data representing geospatial coordinates of business
                       districts; and
                 h. foreshore data representing water fronts (e.g., beaches, bays, river banks,
                       etc.).
[37]              The raw data include raw street network data representing coordinates of a
street network, including streets and laneways (including geometry in the form of lines and
polylines), and street attributes in the form of integers representing different street classes
(e.g., freeway, highway, major road).

IRR\dxl\
     r   ,,\R rtb\DCC\)XLl 6720387_1.d,-28/B3/2018
                                                   - 11
[38]              The input module 202 combines the accessed GIS data into a raw GIS database
204 in the pre-processing computer system 102. The raw GIS data may be stored in a
format suitable for the pre-processing module 206, and this may be a commercially
available table format, e.g., the MapInfo table (TAB) format.
[39]              The input module 202 assigns quasi-unique identifiers (IDs) to the land
parcels, areas, and destinations in the raw GIS data. These IDs can be referred to as
"property IDs" or "Land Parcel IDs". The IDs can be characters or codes. For raw GIS
data in tables, where each type of imported data is in separate table (e.g., land parcels in
one table, train stops in a different table, etc.), an ID can be assigned to each row of each
table.
[40]              The input module 202 imports and processes some of the raw GIS data to
generate the imported GIS data (also referred to as look-up data). The imported GIS data
represent some of the information in the raw GIS data in suitable structures for use by the
system 100. The imported data can represent look-up tables of schools (including school
names associated with school IDs), look-up tables of supermarkets (including supermarket
names associated with supermarket locations), geometries of zones in the whole region,
and geometries of overlays in the whole region.
[41]              The pre-processing computer system 102 includes a pre-processing module
206 that processes the raw GIS data in the raw GIS database 204 to generate processed
GIS data. The pre-processing module 206 stores the processed GIS data in a processed
GIS database 208 in the pre-processing computer system 102, as described hereinafter.
The pre-processing computer system 102 includes an output module 210 that generates
output data for the GIS server 106 into formats compatible with the GIS server 106 (which
may be the shapefiles): the pre-processing module 206 may generate geospatial data in the
form of MapInfo Tables or MapInfo TAB files. The generated geospatial data may be
converted by the output module 210 into output data (including the ESRI shapefiles) for
uploading to the GIS server 106 using a data management interface of the GIS server 106.
Alternatively, the generated geospatial data may be the output data, without any need for
format conversion: thus, if the GIS server 106 can receive and process the generated

IRL\dxl\terwN\NRPr tb\DCC\)XL l672038
                                  7 Ldc-28/B3/2018
                                                    - 12
 geospatial data without conversion, the system 100 may not need the output module 210
 for additional format conversion. The output data are transmitted to the GIS server 106
 from the pre-processing computer system 102, and are stored in a GIS server database 218.
 The output data (which may be in the form of a plurality of shapefiles), and thus the stored
 GIS data, include the processed GIS data in the form of land-parcels data 212, representing
 the land-parcels and their respective processed attributes; and the layers data 214
representing the separate layers (based on portions of the imported GIS data).
 [42]                The GIS server 106 includes the GIS server module 220 that provides the
 application program interface (API) for the GIS server 106, and thus receives the data
 queries and respective access keys from the application server 108, and returns the query
results by applying the queries to the stored GIS data in the GIS server database 218. The
 GIS server 106 generates map tiles from the stored GIS data. If the land-parcels data are
 divided into a plurality of datasets corresponding to predefined sub-regions of the overall
region, these regional datasets are stored separately in the stored GIS data (which may
 include using separate data structure instances, including tables) for each sub-region. The
 data queries include sub-region identifiers (Region Geometry IDs) corresponding to the
 sub-regions so that the GIS server 106 can select one of the regional datasets for each data
 query (based on the Region ID), and apply the query to only that dataset. This can reduce
 the time to process the query, particularly for large regions. For frequent data queries
 (including when the user device 110 zooms in, or out, or pans the view), processing the
 stored data for only one of the sub-regions can substantively improve performance (e.g.,
 processing 600,000 land parcels rather than 3 million).
 [43]                The application server 108 includes the tile proxy module 222 that receives the
 data queries from the user devices 110, appends or adds the access key data, and sends the
 data queries with the keys (forming "data requests") to the GIS server module 220. The
 tile proxy module 222 also receives the query results from GIS server module 220 and
 serves them to the user device 110 (after removing details of the GIS access keys). The
 tile proxy module 222 may be implemented using a fast transactional server including a
 JavaScript-based runtime environment for server-side applications that is very efficient at
processing requests and relaying data, e.g., Node.JS.            The tile proxy module 222 may be

IRR\dxl\
      r  ,,\R rtb\DCC\)XLl 6720387_1.d,-28/B32018
                                                  - 13
implemented using computer-readable code that filters requests, then relays them to the
GIS server 106 after adding the API Key, and then sends the responses to the user device
 110.
[44]              The application server 108 includes a web server module 224 for
communicating with the user device 110, providing authentication of the user details from
the user device 110 (based on user data in a user database 226 of the application server
 108). The application server 108 includes stored web-server data 228 in computer
readable memory of the application server 108. The web server module 224 may use a
standard HTTP server. The user database 226 may store site and user data, including user
names, passwords, user preferences, user settings, and history data representing favourite
sites/locations and previous searches based on the previously generated data corresponding
to that user identifier (ID). The web-server data may include scripts and files to support
web protocols including personal home page (PHP), HTML, cascading style sheets (CSS),
Java Script, and image files. The web-server data may include a Hypertext Transfer
Protocol Secure (HTTPS) server, and Secure Socket Layer (SSL) certificates, for
authentication between the browser 230 and the web server module 224 and the tile proxy
module 222.
[45]              The user device 110 includes a client in a web browser 230 that provides a user
interface 232 to the user. The web browser 230 receives user-input data from the user
interface 232 to define the data queries that the web browser 230 sends to the tile proxy
module 222. The web browser 230 communicates with the web server module 224 to send
and receive data according to web protocols, including HTTPS and AJAX (Asynchronous
JavaScript and XML), which allow web pages to updated data without reloading the entire
page. This allows our users through the interface 232 to change sliders to update data
queries, submit the queries to the tile proxy module 222, and then update the map when the
new data tiles are ready. The client may be able to generate the data queries with a Region
ID by comparing a current requested screen display area or screen extent (e.g., a rectangle,
generated by the client) to local Region Geometries data (i.e., a set of geometry for each
sub-region in a region represented by the land-parcels data 212, stored in or by the client),
representing geometries of the available sub-regions in the stored GIS data with associated

IPR\dxl\r ,,r\
            NRr tb\DCC\)XLl 6720387 Ldc-28/B3/2018
                                                   - 14
Region IDs, and thus match the requested display area with at least one of the sub-region
geometries to select the appropriate at least one Region ID for the data queries. As shown
in Figure 9, in an example with six sub-regions (ID 1, ID 2, ID 3, ID 4, ID 5 and ID 6), the
client can determine that the screen area 902 (also referred to as a "screen extent") overlaps
two of the sub-regions (ID 5 and ID 6), and thus the client can generate a data query
specifying the Region IDs for these two sub-regions for use by the GIS server 106 when
generating the query results.
[46]              The query results from the GIS server module 220, received by the tile proxy
module 222, may be returned as text results, numerical values and map tiles. The map tiles
may be generated on the fly by the GIS server 106 after processing the data query. The
map tiles show the locations of parcels of land that fit the criteria selected in the data
queries. The bitmap images are overlaid on the base map. Each map tile is a square
bitmap graphic displayed in a grid arrangement to show a map: the standard is to use
256x256 pixel images. The map may be generated by the web browser 230 using public
map data accessed from public base map layers 234 in the map provider 114. The base
map layers 234, e.g., from Google Maps, include a plurality of map tiles, and various
selectable layers (retrieved in query results from the GIS server 106, and generated using
the layers data 214) are also in the form of map tiles, with transparency where there is no
data to display so that the base map tiles are displayed. The text results and map tiles are
processed by the web browser 230 to display them in the user interface 232 on a map. The
public map base layers 234 may include satellite images, or street maps, selectable by the
user interface 232, which are on the bottom layer of the map displayed, and available from
commercial and open-source providers, e.g., Google map servers, Bing map servers, and
Nokia map servers. The web browser 230 may generate the user interface 232 using
standard hosted web libraries 236 accessed in the CDN 116, or accessed in the application
server 108 and served by the web server module 224. The hosted libraries 236 may
include open-source Java Script libraries, which may include JQuery, JQuery-UI, leaflet,
bootstrap, and Carto-DB.
[47]              The client generates the data queries (for the tile proxy module 222). The data
queries include: (i) layer queries that request layer information, from the layers data 214,

IRL\dxl\trwv\NRPortb\DCC\)XLl 6720387 Ldc-28/B32018
                                                         - 15
 for displaying the layers on the map on the client; and (ii) filter queries that request
property-specific information, from the land-parcels data 212, for displaying on the map on
 the client. Each data query is associated with a data source. For each layer query, the data
 source is a non-property-specific data source in the layers data 214 (e.g., look-up data in a
 look-up table): accordingly, the layer query results may be referred to as results that do not
 have to be customised. For each filter query, the data source is the land-parcels data 212
 (e.g., a table including the land parcels for the whole region, or for a selected sub-region,
 with a row for each land parcel).                  Each data query can include one of the Region IDs,
 selected by the client based on which region covers the map displayed on the client. Each
 data query also defines a rendering style (also referred to as a "theme") that defines how
 the polygons of the query results are rendered in the map tiles in the query results. The
 style includes a line colour, a fill colour, a transparency, and/or a line thickness. The style
 may be defined using a standard protocol or map styling language, e.g., CartoCSS.
 [48]                The layer queries include: (i) a display area definition that can include a list of
required map tile IDs (based on the map area displayed by the client, according to a
 standard protocol, including zoom level, latitude and longitude) for the screen display area,
 as determined by the client; and (ii) a layer ID that represents which of the available layers
 has been selected, generated by the client, and which the GIS server 106 can interpret to
 select a corresponding predefined layer data source and a corresponding layer style when
 the layer query is received (i.e., the rendering style is set in the GIS server 106). The layer
 data sources include the layers data 214. The GIS server 106 responds to the layer query
 by generating one or more map tiles, using the layer data source and the layer style, to
 cover the defined display area in the layer query.                   The GIS server 106 also caches
 generated layer map tiles, and can serve these directly using the map tile IDs and the layer
 ID. For some relatively static layers, e.g., topographic layers, the map tiles can be pre
 cached before any layer queries are made, so the map tiles may be rapidly provided by the
 GIS server 106. For example, a client can generate a layer query to just show a suburbs
 layer for the area on the screen of the user device 110: this layer query will include a
 plurality of individual requests for the map tiles in the current screen, at the current zoom
 level (defined based on a naming convention that includes zoom level, latitude and
 longitude, so that the client can determine how many tiles to fit on the screen), and the

IRL\dxl\trwv\ NRPortb\DCC\)XLl 6720387 Ldc-28/B3/2018
                                                      - 16
 layer ID of the suburbs layer. In this example, on receipt of the layer query, the GIS server
 106 looks up the suburbs layer identifier in the stored data to determine the associated data
 source and layer style, then generates the requested map tiles using the data source in the
 layers data 214 (or retrieves them pre-generated from cache), and sends them to the client
 in response to the layer query.
 [49]               The filter queries (also referred to as "select queries" or "property queries")
 include criteria for filtering or selecting the land parcels in the processed GIS data, e.g.,
 including filters defined by structured query language (SQL) queries. The filter queries
 define the one or more selection criteria from the user that are used by the GIS server 106
 to select ones of the land parcels for transmission of relevant information back to the client
 via the application server 108. The client generates each filter query to refer to the land
 parcels data 212 as the data source (e.g., the processed table), and to include a rendering
 style (including a line colour, and a fill colour) for the polygons corresponding to the land
parcels with property information that match the criteria. The GIS server 106 selects a
 subset of the land parcels (or rows) based on each data query, e.g., using standard SQL
processing. The GIS server 106 then extracts or selects the geometry for each selected land
parcel in the subset (i.e., a polygon for each property). The GIS server 106 then
 determines the rendering style for each polygon from the filter query, then renders each
 property polygon based on the geometry shape and the rendering style. The GIS server
 106 thus returns results of the filter queries to the application server 108 in the form of
results data representing the information about the selected land parcels in the processed
 GIS data. The returned results data represent descriptive text, numerical values, process
 map visualisations in the form of map tiles, and a grid for detecting user-interface
 selections of points on the map (e.g., mouse clicks). The filter queries are validated by the
 application server 108 (the tile proxy module 222) before transmission to the GIS server
 106 to allow only preselected criteria and SQL, which can provide security against
 undesirable access by the client.
 [50]               Each of the pre-processing computer system 102, the GIS server 106, the
 application server 108, and the user device 110 includes one or more computer processors,
 which may be referred to as data processors, including microchip computers, and random

IPR\dxl\r ,,r\
            NRr tb\DCC\)XLl 6720387 Ldc-28/B32018
                                                  - 17
access memory (RAM) modules, and other computer-readable storage media, that store
computer-readable instructions that, when executed, allow these devices to perform the
functions and operations described herein. These systems and devices include non-volatile
and non-transitory (e.g., hard disk) computer-readable storage with machine-readable
instructions for controlling the respective computer processors to perform the methods and
processes described herein, and to embody the modules and software components
described herein. These systems and devices include external computer interfaces for
communicating with each other, including over an electronic network including the
internet. The boundaries between the modules and the software components can be
altered, and some embodiments may merge modules or impose an alternative
decomposition of functionality of modules. For example, the modules discussed herein
may be decomposed into submodules to be executed as multiple computer processes, and,
optionally, on multiple computers. Moreover, alternative embodiments may combine
multiple instances of a particular module or submodule. Furthermore, the operations may
be combined or the functionality of the operations may be distributed in additional
operations in accordance with the invention. Alternatively, such actions may be embodied
in the structure of circuitry that implements such functionality, such as the micro-code of a
complex instruction set computer (CISC), reduced instruction set computer (RISC),
firmware programmed into programmable or erasable/programmable devices, the
configuration of a field- programmable gate array (FPGA), the design of a gate array or
full-custom application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC). The data generation, data
storage and data communications operations relate to digital data operations. The digital
data may include electronic data defined by logic circuits-which may include binary logic
circuits-represented by electronic quantities, which may include voltage, current and/or
resistance.
[51]               As shown in Figure 3, the pre-processing module 206 includes a routing
submodule 302, and an areas-processing submodule 304 (also referred to as a "GIS Areas
Module 304").
[52]              The routing submodule 302 accesses the raw GIS data representing: land parcel
data (containing land parcels with individual land parcel identifiers); coordinates of a street

IRL\dxl\trwv\ NRPortb\DCC\)XLl 6720387 Ldc-28/B32018
                                                     - 18
 network corresponding to the geographical locations of the land parcels; and coordinates of
 the destinations, including locations and/or access points for the following destination
 types: train stations, tram stops, bus stops, shops, shopping precincts, open spaces, schools,
 colleges, universities and business districts, and a foreshore (e.g., beach front, or river
 edge). The routing submodule 302 calculates a distance from each land parcel to each of
 the closest one of each type of the destinations following the street network (or directly for
 the foreshore), and embeds these distances into the data record for each land parcel. For
 example, for a land parcel 702, as shown in Figure 7A, there may be two access points for
 the train station 704A, 704B, defined by coordinates in train station data, and a street
 network 706 defined by street coordinates, all in the raw GIS data. The routing submodule
 302 accesses or determines an access coordinate for the land parcel, which may be a
 centroid of the land parcel (which may be predefined in the raw GIS data), or a coordinate
 of the land parcel adjacent the street network. The routing submodule 302 then determines
 a shortest path or route along the street network from the access coordinate, defining
 location of the land parcel, to a closest coordinate defining the destination of each type.
 For example, the routing submodule 302 may determine a route from the centroid of the
 land parcel 702 to the closest train destination 7A along the calculated route 708, as shown
 in Figure 7B. The routing submodule 302 then determines the distance of this calculated
route, and enters or saves that distance value in the land-parcels data 212 identified by that
 land parcel identifier (ID). For example, the determined distances may be generated in a
 table indexed by the land parcels IDs, and distances may be added to the table of processed
 land parcels by matching the land parcel IDs, then inserting the nearest distances into the
respective rows for the matching land parcel IDs.           Each land parcel can then have
 corresponding row in the data table, and the distance to the nearest destination, for each
 type of destination, being updated into a different column along the row for that land
parcel ID. The routing submodule 302 may be implemented using commercially available
 software with a commercially available transport routing plugin.         By operation of the
routing submodule 302, the land-parcels data 212 include the plurality of accessibility
 distances for each land parcel (represented as decimal values), including a distance to
 nearest train station, a distance to nearest tram stop, a distance to nearest bus stop, a
 distance to nearest shop or shopping precinct, a distance to nearest open space (e.g., a park

IPR\dxl\r ,,r\
            NRr tb\DCC\)XL l672038
                               7 Ldc-28/B3/2018
                                                   -19
or reserve), a distance to nearest school or college (including primary school and
secondary school, each associated with a school ID), a distance to nearest university, and a
distance to nearest business district (which may be a specific business district such as a
central business district of a metropolitan area), and a direct distance to the nearest
foreshore.
[53]              The routing submodule 302 generates a weighted property accessibility score
(which may be referred to as an "Access Score" or "access score value") based on a
combination of a plurality of the accessibility distance values, wherein each of the different
accessibility values is weighted by a different pre-selected weighting based on the
associated destination type. The calculated property accessibility score may be referred to
as an "access rating". The access rating represents the overall accessibility of a land parcel
based on a combined and weighted rating of each parcel based on its accessibility to train
stations, bus stops, smart bus stops, tram stops, open space, retail and schools. In order to
calculate the rating, two functions are implemented in the routing submodule 302. The
first function assigns each land parcel in the database with a weighted Access Score. The
second function assigns each land parcel an overall Access Rating that is benchmarked
against the Access Scores of all land parcels. The function to calculate the Access Score
may use the following relationship:
                 Access Score = (Maximum(0,5-Train))*1 + (Maximum(0,3-Bus))*0.33+
                 (Maximum(0.3-Smart-bus))*0.66 + (Maximum(0,3-Tram)) *0.66 +
                 (Maximum(0,3-OpenSpace))*0.33 + (Maximum(0,5 -Retail)) *1+
                 (Maximum(0,3-Schools))*0.33.
[54]              The first part of the function "(Maximum(0,5-Train))" returns a value based on
the distance from a train station, in particular 5km minus the value of the distance from a
train station for each land parcel. The distance 5km may be selected as the maximum
distance from a train station as parcels beyond that distance are considered to have poor
accessibility to a station, so any land parcel which is further than 5km from a train station
will return a value of 0 (the 'Maximum' function returns 0 '5-Train' is less than 0). In
embodiments, the maximum 5km distance may be selected to be a different maximum,

IPR\dxl\r ,,r\
            NRr tb\DCC\)XLl 6720387 Ldc-28/B32018
                                                  - 20
which may be 3km, 4km, 6km, 7km or 8km. The second part of the function '*1' gives
the score a weighting because some of the destinations are considered to be more
important for overall accessibility than others. The train weighting above is "I" (a 100%
weighting), although in other embodiments the train weighting may have a different value.
The bus weighting (shown above with a 33% weighting) may be less than the train
weighting. The smart bus weighting may be 66%. The tram weighting may be 66%, the
open space weighting 33%, the retail weighting 100%, and the schools weighting 33%.
The maximum distance for tram stops, bus stops, smart bus stops, open spaces and schools
may be 3km. The maximum distance to retail may be 5km.
[55]              Once the Access Score is embedded into (or associated with) each land parcel
(e.g., added to each row of the table in the land-parcels data 212), the maximum Access
Score value of the entire database is calculated, and associated with the land parcel ID in
the land-parcels data 212. This score is considered to be the maximum benchmark for
accessibility and would give a property a 100% rating. The Access Rating value is then
generated for each land parcel by normalising that land parcel's Access Score value by the
maximum Access Score value, and associated with the land parcel ID in the land-parcels
data 212.
[56]              The data representing the publicly accessible destinations may define areas of
the destinations, but not necessarily coordinates where these areas intersect with the street
map. The train stop data may require processing to define the closest points on the road
network for each train stop. Similarly, the retail data may require processing to define the
closest points on the road network for each shop and/or shopping precinct. Accordingly,
the input module 202 and/or the pre-processing module 206 may use the street data and the
coordinates of the destinations to determine accessible points for the destinations. This
step of assigning access points to the destinations may be performed by the input module
202 and/or the pre-processing module 206, and may be automated, or may require one or
more manual sub-steps, depending on the destination type. Thus, the pre-processing
computer system 102 may be configured to determine access point coordinates for the
publicly accessible destinations, based on the coordinates of the destinations and on street

IRL\dxl\terwN\NRPr tb\DCC\)XLl 6720387 Ldc-28/B3/2018
                                                      - 21
 map data, and to generate the proximity data using the access point coordinates for the
 destinations.
 [57]                The areas-processing submodule 304 accesses the land parcel data, and the
region data in the raw GIS data. The raw region data are publicly accessible and represent
region or area definitions (based on coordinates, polylines, or polygons) representing area
 features or attributes, including planning controls, property features and general area
 features.         The planning controls data represent coordinates or polygons with codes or
 values defining land use zones, major road frontages, heritage controls, allowable building
heights, minimum sub-division lot size, and other planning overlays. The land use zones
 may include a farming zone, a green-wedge zone, a low-density residential zone, a rural
 activity zone, a rural conservation zone, a rural living zone, a township zone, an industrial
 zone, a commercial zone, and/or a residential zone. The property features data represent
 coordinates, polylines and values defining laneway access points, which may be referred to
 as right-of-way (ROW) access, and a land slope. The general area features data represent
 coordinates or polygons with codes or values defining suburb identifiers, city identifiers,
 municipality identifiers, and property prices (e.g., median house prices).               The areas
processing submodule 304 determines the coordinates of each land parcel in the land
parcel data, and embeds the relevant values (including zone IDs and overlay IDs) in the
 data record for each land parcel by determining which of the planning controls, property
 features and general features have areas that overlap with the area of the land parcel. The
 areas-processing submodule 304 determines the land slope for each land parcel by
 calculating an average from raw topographic values that overlap with the property area
 (e.g., by averaging the slope grid of points in each land parcel geometry).              The areas
processing submodule 304 determines the number of road frontages by: (i) editing the raw
road casement data to remove freeways and remove intersections; and (ii) determine a
 number of road frontages by calculating how many remaining road casements are adjacent
 to each land parcel geometry.
 [58]                If the zones and overlays are not defined in the raw data with same accuracy as
 the property geometries, a land parcel may overlap by only a small amount, so the areas
processing submodule 304 records a zone ID or overlay ID in association with a land-

IL\dxl\trwv\NRorNtbf\DCC\)XLl 6720387 Ldc-28/B3/2018
                                                     - 22
parcel ID in the land-parcels data 212 if the geometric overlap is above a selected threshold
(e.g., over 90%, or above 95%, or above 99%, or above 99.5%) in the zone.
[59]                 The areas-processing submodule 304 determines the property area of each land
parcel, based on the geometry coordinates or polygon of each land parcel, and this is
embedded into the data record for each land parcel, together with the property polygon
itself, and a longitude, a latitude, and a street address of the land parcel.            The areas
processing submodule 304 also determines and embeds a maximum length of the land
parcel and a maximum width of the land parcel.
[60]                 The areas-processing submodule 304 accesses historical title data (representing
ownership titles or lots) in the government data, and compares the title geometries with the
land parcel geometries to determine a number of titles for each land parcel, and embeds
this value in the land-parcels data 212.
[61]                 The areas-processing submodule 304 generates the following processed data in
the processed GIS data, for each land parcel: the relevant land use zone (a code or
description), whether there is a major road frontage (yes or no), the relevant heritage
control (a code or description), the relevant flooding control (a numerical value or a code),
the allowable building-height value (a numerical value), the minimum sub-division lot size
value (a numerical value), the lot area (a numerical value), whether there is laneway access
(yes or no), the average land-slope value (a numerical value), the suburb identifier (a code
or description), the municipality identifier (a code or description), one or more house or
property price values (numerical values). The flooding control can be based on a
superposition geometry by combining flood-related planning overlays and planning zones
in the raw data, and selecting the land parcels that touch the combined geometry.
[62]                 The areas-processing submodule 304 generates, for each land parcel, a data
record representing: geometry of the land parcel (including a polygon with coordinate
values); attributes of the property (including attributes in the raw data, and attributes
generated by the areas-processing submodule 304, including whether the land parcel has a
strata title); the property PFI (e.g., as a character or text); and the property identifier (e.g.,
an integer). The property Persistent Feature Identifier (PFI), which is an individual

IRR\dxl\r ,,r\
            NRr tb\DCC\)XLl 6720387 Ldc-28/B3/2018
                                                   - 23
property identifier provided by the State Government, can be used for searching and
identifying properties.
[63]              The areas-processing submodule 304 determines an orientation of each land
parcel, based on its raw geometry, and embeds the orientation in the land parcel record.
The areas-processing submodule 304 also determines a central point (i.e., a point generally
in or towards the center of the land parcel, which can be the centroid) for each land parcel,
based on its geometry, and uses a comparison of the central point with a latitude value
(from the raw data) to determine whether the land parcel has a equator-facing back yard:
i.e., a north-facing back yard (for the southern hemisphere), or a south-facing back yard
(for the northern hemisphere). The latitude value can be on or towards the boundary of the
geometry that is adjacent to the street, i.e., the front boundary. The latitude value can be a
street address point if the raw data provides street address points towards or on the street
boundary for each land parcel. Alternatively, the latitude value can be determined from an
overlap of the land parcel geometry with the adjacent road casement. For example, in the
southern hemisphere, the areas-processing submodule 304 can identify lots with a north
yard if they have: a N-S orientation (0-30 or 160-180), and (Lat < CentroidY(obj)).
[64]              The areas-processing submodule 304 also generates the separate layers data
representing the layers in the layers data 214. These separate layers include layers of any
one or more of the areas in the raw region data, and in the market data. The predefined
layers that are defined by an operator or designer of the system 100. Each predefined layer
includes a data source, layer criteria (e.g., an SQL query), and a layer style that defines the
map style (e.g., in a standard map styling language) used to generate a map from results of
the layer query. The predefined layers include: location layers, including a municipalities
layer, a suburbs layer, a property parcels layer; planning layers, including: a planning
zones layer, a heritage and built form overlays layer, a environmental and landscape
overlays layer, a land management overlays layer, a other overlays layer, a urban growth
boundary layer, a approved precinct structure plans layer, an urban planning
implementation plans layer; context layers, including at least a context plan layer;
topography layers, including contours (Im and 10m) layers, a slope analysis layer, an
elevation layer; real estate layers, including a median house prices layer, and a median unit

IPR\dxl\r ,,r\
            NRr tb\DCC\)XLl 6720387 Ldc-28/B32018
                                                  - 24
prices layer; and transport route layers. The context layer is a predefined layer including a
predefined combination of a plurality of layers, including: Retail Zones, Mixed Use Zones,
Office Zones, Commercial Zones, Industrial Zones, Education Zones, Open Space Zones,
and Transport Stops and Routes for Bus, Train and Tram. Each layer is pre-built by
selecting a data source, the layer criteria and the layer style. Each layer has a unique layer
identifier (ID), which is a code stored in the client and in the stored GIS data (in the GIS
server 106). The client sends a selected layer ID with each layer query, and the GIS server
module 220 selects the appropriate layer by matching the incoming layer ID with one of
the stored layer IDs, thus identifying the corresponding portions of the layers data 214 to
send.
[65]              The areas-processing submodule 304 also generates the look-up tables,
including school lookup tables that associate the school IDs and school names.
[66]              The pre-processing module 206 and/or the output module 210 are configured to
divide the processed geospatial data into a plurality of portions corresponding to the
different sub-regions of the region represented by the land-parcels data 212. The number
of sub-regions may be selected to be 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or 10 (or up to 20, 50, or 100),
depending on the number of land parcels in the region. Each sub-region corresponds to a
data set, e.g., a table stored as a TAB file, and each sub-region can thus correspond a sub
table in the processed GIS data. The data sets can be generated by the pre-processing
module 206 or the output module 210 using Boolean commands to generate the sub
regions, each including different land parcels so the sub-regions are not overlapping, based
on pre-selected central or centroid points for the respective sub-regions. The regional data
sets are associated with sub-region IDs in the processed GIS data. The data queries
include sub-region IDs that are used by the GIS server 106 to select an appropriate regional
data sets for each data query. The data sets are selected to define vertical and/or horizontal
boundaries between the sub-regions to reduce instances of the map display screen extent
on the client overlapping more than one of the sub-regions.
Method

IRL\dxl\trwv\NRPortb\DCC\)XLl 6720387 Ldc-28/B3/2018
                                                        - 25
 [67]                The system 100 performs or executes a data-processing method for searching
 land parcels, the method including the steps of:
                    a. accessing raw geographical information system (GIS) data, including land
                          parcel data representing land-parcel coordinates that define a plurality of
                          land parcels, and publicly accessible destination data representing
                          coordinates of publicly accessible destinations;
                    b. processing the raw data to generate the proximity data using a distance
                          determination method 400, as described hereinafter;
                    c. processing the raw data to generate the planning data and the land-features
                          data using a planning-control-determination method 500, as described
                          hereinafter;
                    d. processing the raw data to generate the property areas data using an area
                          determination method 600, as described hereinafter;
                    e. the user controlling the user device 110 to generate a request data for the
                          application server 108, including the access distance criteria, which may
                          include numerical values, and ranges of numerical values, and identifying
                          information for the one or more publicly accessible destinations associated
                          with each distance in the access distance criteria;
                    f.    the application server 108 receiving request data from the user device 110
                          representing selection criteria (including the access distance criteria) for
                          selecting ones of the land parcels;
                    g. the application server 108 combining the request data with key data, and
                          sending it to the GIS server 106;
                    h. the GIS server 106 authenticating the key data, performing the selection
                          based on the criteria in the request data (which include an SQL query),
                          including selecting the ones of the land parcels with determined distances
                          matching the requested access distance criteria, and returning response data

IRR\dxl\r ,,r\
            NRr tb\DCC\)XLl 6720387 Ldc-28/B3/2018
                                                    - 26
                       representing selected land parcels, and any requested additional
                       information, to the application server 108;
                 i.    the application server 108 removing any key data, and passing the selected
                       land parcels, and any requested additional information, to the user device
                        110; and
                 j.    the user device 110 displaying the selected land parcels, and any requested
                       additional information (which may be as a colour profile), on a map for the
                       user.
[68]              As shown in Figure 4, the distance-determination method 400 includes the
steps of:
                 a. accessing land parcel data, in the raw GIS database 204, that represent
                       geometry of the land parcels in the form of polygons, including coordinates,
                       and attributes identifying the land parcels, including an identifier (ID), and
                       the property PFI, and transmitting the land parcel data to the routing
                       submodule 302 (step 402);
                 b. accessing the destinations data, in the raw GIS database 204, representing
                       the destinations - or destinations of one type - including the geometry of
                       the destinations (including coordinate points), and attributes (including
                       quasi-unique IDs) and sending the destination data to the routing submodule
                       302 (step 404);
                 c.    accessing the street network data in the raw GIS database 204 including the
                       geometry (including lines and polylines of the coordinates of the street
                       network), and attributes (including a street class, represented by a code or
                       integer value), in sending the street network data to the routing submodule
                       302 (step 406).
                 d. the routing submodule 302 determining a distance for each land parcel to
                       the nearest destination of each type (e.g., the nearest train station for each

IRR\dxl\r ,,r\
            NRr tb\DCC\)XLl 6720387 Ldc-28/B3/2018
                                                      - 27
                       land parcel), which may be referred to as determining the nearest one results
                       for each type of destination (step 408);
                 e. receiving data representing the origin coordinate (as a character value), the
                       destination coordinate (as a character value), and the distance value (as a
                       decimal value) for each land parcel and its nearest destination of each type
                       (step 410); and
                 f.    storing the routing results from step 410 in the processed GIS database 208
                       in processed land parcel data (step 412).
[69]              The pre-processing module 206 operates on a regular and/or periodic basis to
generate the pre-process GIS data. For example, the pre-processing computer system 102
may operate to upload the raw GIS data, and pre-process the data, on a daily or nightly
basis, or on a monthly or weekly or monthly basis. This enables the processed data to be
kept up to date, without slowing down the serving of the processed data from the GIS
server 106. The input module 202 may operate to access the raw data at different intervals
from the different sources. The planning data may be updated monthly. The parcels data
may be updated quarterly to account for any subdivisions, or movement of the destinations
(e.g., bus stops, shopping precincts).
[70]              As shown in Figure 5, the planning-control-determination method 500 includes
the steps of:
                 a. accessing land parcel data, and transmitting it to the areas-processing
                       submodule 304 (step 502);
                 b. accessing planning controls data in the raw GIS database 204, where the
                       planning controls data include geometry of the planning zones, represented
                       by polygons, and coordinates, and attributes data representing control codes
                       (e.g., characters or text), and sending the planning controls data to the areas
                       processing submodule 304 (step 504);

IRR\dxl\r ,,r\
            NRr tb\DCC\)XLl 6720387 Ldc-28/B3/2018
                                                    - 28
                 c. the areas-processing submodule 304 processing the planning controls data
                       to determine overlapping planning controls for each land parcel based on
                       the land parcel polygon overlapping one of the planning controls (step 506);
                 d. the areas-processing submodule 304 updating the land parcel data to include
                       the control codes for each overlapping and planning (step 508); and
                 e. storing the updated land parcel data in the processed GIS database 208 (step
                       510).
[71]              The land-parcels data 212 include: a zone code for representing the relevant
land-use zone, a heritage code representing a heritage control, a building height code or
value representing an allowable building height, a major road code indicating whether a
land parcel fronts on to a major road; a minimum lot size value representing the control
minimum lot size for sub-division; and a planning overlays code representing other
planning overlays.
[72]              As shown in Figure 7C, it can be determined that the polygon representing the
example land parcel 702 overlaps by falling within the polygon of a zone 710, as displayed
on map 700C.
[73]              As shown in Figure 6, the area-determination method 600 includes the steps of:
                 a. accessing the land parcel data, and sending it to the areas-processing
                       submodule 304 (step 602);
                 b. determining the land parcel boundary coordinates from the land parcel
                       geometry data; and determining the area of each land parcel using a
                       mathematical function to determine the area, e.g., in square metres, to
                       generate area data representing this determined area (step 604);
                 c. updating the land parcel data to include the area value for each land parcel
                       (step 606); and

IRR\dxl\r ,,r\
            NRr tb\DCC\)XLl 6720387 Ldc-28/B3/2018
                                                   - 29
                 d. withdrawing the updated land parcel data, including the area data, in the
                       processed GIS database 208 (step 608).
[74]              As shown in Figures 8A and 8B, the user interface (UI) 232 includes a map
display 802 showing the land parcels as polygons on map tiles, and relevant map features,
including open spaces, public transport stops, public facilities, and roads.
[75]              The UI 232 includes a plurality of user controls 804 that receive input from a
user, and that generate data for the web browser 230 to generate the data queries. As
shown in Figure 8A, the controls 804 include location controls that can receive a street
address (as text), a suburb identifier (as text), or a local Government authority (as text).
These values are used to generate data queries to select only land parcels, represented in
the GIS server database 218, with values corresponding to these control values, and the
selected land parcels correspond to the land parcels displayed in the map display 802.
[76]              The controls 804 include accessibility controls, which can define a range of
values, which may be based on a lower numerical limit and an upper numerical limit, for
the following: the access rating, the train distance, the tram distance, the bus distance, the
activity centre distance, school distance, the business district distance and the open space
distance; lot size; the average land slope; and the allowable building height. These
numerical or value-based controls can include graphical sliders showing a range of values
represented by a line, with markers that can be moved through interaction with the user
interface 232 to define the lower and upper limit for the values (and thus a range of
acceptable values for the data queries). The controls 804 can include binary-input controls,
including a laneway access control that can be selected to select only land parcels with
laneway access. Similarly, a flood control can be selected to exclude flood prone land
parcels, a heritage control can be selected to exclude heritage overlay land parcels, and
road zone controls can be selected to include land parcels abutting a selected road zone
(e.g., road zone 1 or road zone 2).
[77]              In an example, land parcels can be selected with a minimum value (0 metres) a
maximum value of the distance to nearest train (800 metres), as shown in Figure 8A.

IPR\dxl\r ,,r\
            NRr tb\DCC\)XLl 6720387_1.d,-28/B3/2018
                                                    - 30
Additionally, land parcels may be selected with a minimum value (0 metres) and a
maximum value (200 metres) to the nearest tram stop, as shown in Figure 8B.
[78]              The controls 804 associated with accessibility, lot size, land use and planning
may be referred to as the "filtering controls" because these controls generate values used to
filter the land parcels by the data query. The filtering controls are used to generate a
plurality of criteria that are applied simultaneously in the data queries, thus the filtered land
parcels filter all of the criteria defined by the filtering controls. The criteria are used to
generate SQL queries, for example in the follow form:
                  SELECT * FROM property-layer WHERE AND overallrat >= 10 AND
overallrat <= 80 AND Train >= 0.555 AND Train <= 3.185 AND zonecode IN
('GRZ','NRZ','RGZ','RIZ','R2Z','R3Z','MUZ','UGZ') AND rdzonel IN ('RDZI'),
                  where the "overallrat" refers to the Access Rating, the "Train" values are
distances, the "zonecode" values are predefined zone codes, and "rdzonel" value is a
predefined road type.
[79]              The controls 804 may include layer controls (or "layering controls"), which
control the user interface 232 to display layers on top of the land parcels in a map display
802, including a planning control that can display the areas or polygons of the different
planning layers. The layers controls generate the layer queries.
[801              The controls 804 include colour controls that allow the land parcels to be
coloured according to a selected attribute. The selectable attributes include an access
rating, a distance from train stop, a distance from tram stop, a distance from bus stop, a
distance from shops, a distance from schools, a distance from the central business district,
and etc., as described hereinbefore. The colours applied to the land parcels are generated
based on the relevant value of each land parcel for that attribute (as received from the GIS
server module 220), and a colour map associating the different values with different
colours or colour temperatures. Style data (which may be in a commercial format)
representing the styles is stored in the application server 108. When a style is selected by
the user interface 232, corresponding data is submitted from the browser 230 to the tile

IRL\dxl\trwv\ NRPortb\DCC\)XLl 6720387 Ldc-28/B3/2018
                                                      -31
proxy module 222, and then submitted to the GIS server module 220 for generating the
response data according to the selected style.
 [81]               A user can use the user interface 232 to select an information window control
 for each displayed land parcel (or property), e.g., by selecting the land parcel polygon with
 a mouse cursor or touch screen. The client then generates a data query for that land parcel
 (with the property ID), and the GIS server 106 selects the processed GIS data for that land
parcel-based on the property ID-for the transmission in the results data (e.g., the whole
row of information in a region table or sub-region table for that land parcel). The GIS
 server sends the data (e.g., table row) associated with that property, and the client renders
 the Information Window. The user interface 232 can thus display the values and attributes
 of each of the selected land parcels received by the web browser, and this information may
be displayed in a pop-out display 806 that is linked to the selected land parcel 808, e.g., as
 shown in Figure 8C.
 [82]               The pop-out display 806 may be described as an information window displayed
 when a property is selected. The information is extracted from the GIS server database
 218 in a separate query when the land parcel is selected using the user interface 232: when
 the user selects (by clicking on) a parcel, relevant data are requested from the servers 108
 and 106 in a data query, then the resulting response data are displayed after they are
received by the web browser 230. The information window displays a summary of the
 site, which can be saved as a PDF, or bookmarked, and represented by data stored in the
user database 226. The data extracted for pop-out display may include: the street address,
 the lot area, the average land slope, the calculated accessibility score, the distances to the
 nearest destinations / facilities, the land use zone description or code, the planning control
 description or code, the descriptions or codes or overlapping overlays, and the maximum
building height.
 [83]               The data for the pop-out display 806 may include attributes of the selected land
parcel that are represented or stored in the separate layers data 214 in the GIS server
 database 218 but not in the land-parcels data 212. In this case, the GIS server 106
 performs the processing to match the selected land parcel to the relevant overlapping

IRR\dxl\
      r  ,,\R rtb\DCC\)XL l672038
                              7 Ldc-28/B32018
                                                  - 32
overlays because, for some overlays, the relevant attributes are not added to the land parcel
record in the land-parcels data 212 by the pre-processing computer system 102.
Accordingly, when the pre-processing computer system 102 generates the separate overlay
data representing the separate overlays, the GIS server 106 is configured to: receive a data
query representing a request for an attribute of the selected land parcel; process the
separate overlay data and the land-parcel data to determine an overlapping one of the
separate overlays with coordinates overlapping the selected land parcel coordinates;
determine the requested attribute from the overlapping overlay; and generate response data
representing the requested attribute for the land parcel. The requested attribute may be a
planning control zone. It may be preferable to have the GIS server 106 determine
attributes from overlapping overlays in cases where only one, or a few, properties are
selected (thus the data processing load on the GIS server 106 is not too great to lose the
flexibility and speed of the system 100), and/or where the overlay information changes
rapidly or frequently (thus the separate overlay data can be updated in the GIS server
database 218 without having to pre-process all of the land parcels in the entire area again).
[84]               As shown in Figures 8A-8C, the user interface 232 includes controls
associated with that user account, including a save map control, a save search control, a
bookmark search control, and controls to access the saved searches and bookmarked
searches for future. These saved searches and bookmarked searches are stored in the user
database 226 for future access by the authenticated user. Every land parcel can be saved
and associate with a data representing a "project", stored in the user database 226. One
user can have a plurality of associated projects. Each project includes a list of property
IDs, the street addresses, and a user-supplied name or description.
[85]               The user interface 232 may include a multi-attribute control that generates
filter queries with alternatives for different land-parcel properties. In contrast to the other
filter controls, this for land parcels to be selected that fulfil only one of a plurality of
requirements (i.e., "OR" filtering, rather than "AND" filtering). One such control is the
Transport Present control that provides a plurality of preset criteria, including: (1) nearest
train stop, or nearest tram stop, less than or equal to 200 in; (2) nearest train stop, or
nearest tram stop, less than or equal to 400 m; (3) nearest train stop less than or equal to

IRR\dxl\r ,,r\
            NRr tb\DCC\)XLl 6720387 Ldc-28/B3/2018
                                                    - 33
800 m, or nearest tram stop less than or equal to 400 m; (4) nearest train stop less than or
equal to 800 m, or nearest tram stop or smart-bus stop less than or equal to 400 m; (5)
nearest train stop less than or equal to 800 m, or nearest tram stop, smart-bus stop or sub
stop less than or equal to 400 m; and (6) nearest train stop less than or equal to 1.2 km, or
nearest tram stop or smart-bus stop less than or equal to 800 m, or nearest bus stop less
than or equal to 400 m. The routing submodule 302 may pre-generate a multi-attribute
value in the land-parcels data 212 that corresponds to one of the preset criteria, e.g., a
transport rank value that includes (1) to (6) corresponding to the 6 preset criteria described
directly hereinbefore, and a seventh null value if outside all of the preset criteria.
Example
[86]              Example land-parcels data 212 may represent the following columns and
exemplary values:
                 a. a quasi-unique ID for the GIS server = 261;
                 b. geometry= 25D96B186240B07273B5C etc.;
                 c. a unique government property ID (PFI) = 221558290;
                 d. a unique government property ID (UFI) 485570067;
                 e. a municipality = WYNDHAM;
                 f.    a suburb = POINT COOK;
                 g. a distance to the nearest primary school = 2.62 km;
                 h. a unique external primary school ID = 523;
                 i.    a distance to the nearest secondary school = 3.35 km;
                 j.    a unique external secondary school ID = 583;
                 k. a distance to the closest school (either primary or secondary)= 2.62 km;
                 1. zone IDs of zones that intersect the land parcel (also referred to as a
                       "property") = GRZI, UGZ1;
                 m. overlay IDs of overlays that intersect the property = DPO2, DCPO8;
                 n. a longitude of the property = 100.764581;

\dxl\teRwv\R Prtb\DCC\)XLl 6720387 Ldc-28/B3/2018
                                                      - 34
                 o. a latitude of the property = 100.894293;
                 p. a street address of the property 100 GREG NORMAN DRIVE POINT
                      COOK VIC 3030;
                 q. a transport ranking (of 1 to 7, where 1 is best) = 7;
                 r.   a transport rating (or access rating), or access score. as a score = 6.6611;
                 s. the transport rating, or access score, as % = 39.3 %;
                 t.   a property area = 637538.2 square meters;
                 u. a street distance to the nearest metro train station (i.e., electrified rail
                      station) = 4.731 kin;
                 v. a street distance to the nearest train station (of any type, i.e., electrified and
                      non-electrified rail stations) = 4.29 kin;
                 w. a street distance to the nearest bus stop = 1.32 kim;
                 x. a street distance to the nearest smart bus stop = 9.78 kin;
                 y. a street distance to the nearest tram stop = 19.18 kin;
                 z.   a street distance to the nearest open space = 0.85 km;
                 aa. a street distance to the nearest retail area = 0.26 kin;
                bb. a street distance to the nearest retail plan (e.g., a planned retail centre) =
                      3.84 kin;
                 cc. a street distance to the nearest central business district (i.e., distance to the
                      nearest point of a predefined CBD geometry) = 24.16 kin;
                 dd. a direct distance to the nearest foreshore = 3.228 km;
                 ee. an average slope of property = 0.5%;
                 ff. maximum length of property = 1377.58 m;
                 gg. maximum width of property = 1072.24 m;
                hh. a number of parcels or lots in each property (i.e., based on the geometry of
                      the land parcels in the property data, and the geometry of the titles (or lots)
                      in the historical titles data) = 9;
                 ii. number of road frontages (i.e., the number of road casements, excluding
                      intersections) = 10;

IRR\dxl\r ,,r\
            NRr tb\DCC\)XLl 6720387_1.d,-28/B3/2018
                                                          - 35
                 jj.   north facing backyard (TRUE or FALSE) = TRUE;
                 kk. orientation (degrees, 0 to 180) = 7.2;
                 11. property strata (TRUE or FALSE) = TRUE;
                 mm.                 part of a flood zone (TRUE or FALSE) = FALSE;
                 nn. first road zone (i.e., the road zone of a first adjacent road) = RDZ1; and
                 oo. second road zone (i.e., the road zone of a second adjacent road, if there is
                       one) = RDZ1.
Interpretation
[87]              Many modifications will be apparent to those skilled in the art without
departing from the scope of the present invention as hereinbefore described with reference
to the accompanying drawings.
[88]              The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information
derived from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an
acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or
information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general
knowledge in the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.
RELATED APPLICATIONS
[89]              The present application claims priority from Australian Provisional Patent
Application No. 2014904048, filed 10 October 2014, Australian Patent Application No.
2015330969, and Australian Innovation Patent No. <removed-apn>, the specifications of
which, as originally filed, are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties herein.

B:\dxl\hntewove\NR Portb1-3CC'\DXLq(672U387_1.doc-28/03/2 018
                                                              - 36
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.                      A system including:
                        a computer system configured to:
                               access geographical information system (GIS) data, including land-parcel
data defining a plurality of land parcels, and destination data representing locations of
publicly accessible destinations including open spaces, schools, train stops, tram stops,
shops and/or shopping precincts,
                               process the GIS data to generate proximity data by determining distances
between each land parcel and the publicly accessible destinations, and representing the
determined distances by the proximity data, and
                               communicate with a GIS server for the GIS server to receive the processed
GIS data and store the processed GIS data; and
                        the GIS server configured to:
                               receive request data representing one or more criteria including a requested
distance for selecting ones of the land parcels,
                               access the stored GIS data, and
                               generate response data, from the stored GIS data, representing ones of the
land parcels with ones of the determined distances in the proximity data matching the
criteria.
2.                      The system of claim 1, wherein the computer system is configured to
determine a closest one of each destination type to each land parcel in the publicly
accessible destinations, and to generate the proximity data using the closest destination of
each destination type.
3.                      The system of claim I or 2, wherein the computer system is configured to:
                        access street data representing coordinates of a street network; and
                        determine the distances between the land parcels and the publicly accessible
destinations by determining routes between the land parcels and the publicly accessible
destinations along the street network.

R dW trwoven\NR PortN-CC\DXLq (672U387_1.doc-28/03/2 018
                                                         - 37
4.                  The system of claim 3, wherein the computer system is configured to
determine the distances by determining the shortest routes between the land parcels and the
publicly accessible destinations along the street network.
5.                  A method including:
                    accessing geographical information system (GIS) data, including land-parcel
data defining a plurality of land parcels, and destination data representing locations of
publicly accessible destinations including open spaces, schools, train stops, train stops,
shops and/or shopping precincts;
                    processing the GIS data to generate proximity data by determining distances
between each land parcel and the publicly accessible destinations, and representing the
determined distances by the proximity data;
                     communicating with a GIS server for the GIS server to receive the processed
GIS data and store the processed GIS data;
                    receiving request data representing one or more criteria including a requested
distance for selecting ones of the land parcels;
                    access the stored GIS data; and
                    generating response data, from the stored GIS data, representing ones of the
land parcels with ones of the determined distances in the proximity data matching the
criteria.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
               <removed-apn>      <removed-date>
     !    %
   %
     ( %
      !
        '        ( %
      !    %             3     4
        '    !
                       ( %) $
                           *
 %
                           *
) %
                       '     +
 ) *

      <removed-apn>  <removed-date>
                      *
                !
       2       !
#
           !
  *
             2
           5
           5
    *

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
,   #
  !          2   !

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                   6
      6
                     6
6 ' 2
                 2

    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
'
  2            2

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
    7
                     7
7
7
)
                           7

    <removed-apn>       <removed-date>
                 7
7
                 7
                          7
                          )

<removed-apn>       <removed-date>
                 7
             7
                       7

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
