Abstract
The present invention relates to the development of two types of polymer
nanocapsules to encapsulate cloxacillin benzathine, an antimicrobial drug.             More
specifically, this invention relates to a new form of treatment for mastitis in dairy cattle.
Two nanocapsule formulations have been developed and can be used to encapsulate
various drugs, besides cloxacillin benzathine, providing a new therapy for mastitis in
cows, avoiding the inconvenience of the use of high doses of drugs used in
conventional formulations, thus contributing to an improvement in milk quality.

                                             1
"NANOPARTICULATE             COMPOSITION        CONTAINING          ANTIBIOTICS       FOR
INTRAMAMMARY ADMINISTRATION IN ANIMALS".
        The present application is a divisional application from Australian patent
application number <removed-apn>, which in turn is a divisional application from
Australian patent number 2011261098 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated
herein by reference.
        The present invention relates to the development of two formulations of
polymer nanocarriers (NC) which encapsulate antimicrobial drugs derivatives of
penicillin, such as cloxacillin benzathine. More specifically, this invention relates to a
new composition for the treatment of mastitis in livestock (cattle, goats, sheep,
buffaloes, horses and camelids) in the dry period.
        The present invention describes a technique of preparing two nanocarrier
formulations of the reservoir type that can encapsulate various drugs with antibiotic
activity, particularly the drug benzathine cloxacillin, widely used in the treatment of
bovine mastitis. The present invention aims at providing a new therapy for mastitis in
dairy cattle, avoiding the inconvenience of administering repeated doses, the use of
high doses of drugs used in conventional formulations, the low retention of the drug
inside the teat, contributing to an improvement in milk production. By using this
formulation the efficacy of the drug can be increased due to the high adhesion of the
nanocarriers mentioned herein to the glandular tissues of the upper portions of the
udder of the animals. In addition, the drug in its free form, as it is used in commercial
formulations, is available to reach the blood from the site of administration, and
therefore can reach other tissues other than those affected by microorganisms that
cause mastitis. The drug in the nanoencapsulated form is more restricted to the sites
of action in the tissue and in the target cells of infection by agents that cause
microbial mastitis, due to the specificities of the components of the formulation and
the method of production of the nanostructured formulations presented herein. The
encapsulated antimicrobial drug can thus achieve specific target and be released
slowly and mainly in the site of action, avoiding loss or inactivation of the drug in other
tissues.    Thus   the   doses   can   be   reduced    and   the    efficiency  increased.

                                          1a
       Bovine mastitis remains a limiting factor in milk production in many properties
in Brazil, emerging as the most frequent cause of profit loss to milk producers.
Treatment is limited to clinical emergency cases when the loss is already inevitable.
Antibiotics and anti-inflammatory are the most commonly used drugs for the treatment
of mastitis (Gruet etal., 2001).

                                              2
        Mastitis in dairy cattle frequently occurs during the dry period or in early
lactation. The main bacteria causing mastitis, Staphylococcus aureus, can form
encapsulated focuses in upper portions of the udder, developing a subclinical form,
which hinders the bacteriological cure during lactation, because antibiotics used in
this phase are short-shot (i.e. short half-life in the target of action), due to the milking
period, not remaining at therapeutic levels for long enough to determine the complete
elimination of bacteria in cystic form. In this case, if there is no treatment during
drying, these bacteria can resist the whole dry period and return in the next lactation.
Other bacteria have been isolated during the dry period, such as Streptococcus
uberis, Streptococcus agalactiae, and Corynebacterium pyo genes, which are also
among the agents causing microbial mastitis. The treatment of the animals during the
dry period reduces both the number of infections during this phase as the number of
new infections in the beginning of lactation. In average, it is possible to eliminate 90%
of the infections caused by Streptococcus agalactiae and 70% by Staphylococcus
aureus with the treatment in the dry period (Naztke, 1971). However, the efficacy can
be increased if the retention of the drugs in the infection sites is also increased.
        The majority of the formulations commercialized in Brazil for the treatment of
mastitis in bovine is of the intramammary-suspension type, as in the case of
Orbenin@ Extra Dry Cow. There are also antibiotic associations, as in the case of
Bovamast@ (Bayer), which is a suspension of antibiotics benzathine cloxacillin and
ampicillin. Several treatments are available, among which are those that prevent the
disease and those that treat it. Therefore, compositions for cleaning the teats are
presented in the American patent US 5,211,961, where it is used as an antimicrobial
douche.
        Another alternative, present in EP 1104233 and EP 799047 relate to
compositions capable of forming a film which can be applied to the teats of the
animals to form a barrier to bacteria. Another form involves forming a physical barrier
in the teat canal to prevent the entrance of pathogens as described in GB 1441747.
GB 2273443 describes the use of an antibacterial formulation and a barrier to treat
mastitis in cows. For example, in GB 2273441 this barrier is formed by a gel and a
non-toxic heavy metal salt. Contrary to the expected, the co-administration of an oil
based product with a formulation that blocks the teat canal containing a heavy metal

                                            3
salt leads to improvement in the barrier effectiveness as disclosed in GB 2296424.
Several types of oils are used, such as mineral, silicone and vegetable oils. However,
there is the risk of the accumulation of heavy metals in the organism of the animal
and subsequent contamination of milk during lactation.
       Most of the formulations cited above have the disadvantage of not eliminating
the focus of cystic bacteria, which leads to recurrence of infection in animals. The
formulations which act as a barrier (GB 1441747, GB 2296424) have a preventive
character and are not effective in already infected animals.
       The products commercialized in Brazil for the treatment of bovine mastitis have
the drawback of using high doses of drug (usually 500-600 mg per teat) by
intrammamary route. These treatments have the drawback of multiple infusions (1 to
4 applications during the dry phase) which may cause sores in the teat canal of the
animal due to the canula whereby the suspension penetrates into the udder,
increasing the risk of contamination of the gland with new pathogens during
administration.
       The traditional formulations used do not allow the drug to internalize into target
cells. The free drug, more soluble, has little chance of penetration in high
concentrations in infected neutrophils, not eliminating focuses of intracellular infection,
generating post-treatment late relapse. The proposed formulation, due to its
constitution, has the capacity of adhesion and intracellular penetration in the
mammary gland cells (phagocytes and acini surface cells, duct and gland cisterns)
penetrating by phagocytosis, nonspecific endocytosis and physical adsorption in the
cell surface (Mosqueira et al. 1999), both by electrostatic interactions of nanocarriers
with the cell membrane         and by hydrophobic interactions with proteins and
glycoproteins. These formulations have a great differential due to their increased
capacity of residence and adhesion inside the gland, which increases the chances of
resolution of infection (efficacy) and potentially reduces relapses, mainly because the
mammary gland has a high concentration of neutrophils (Oliveira et al., 2009).
Recurrences are frequent with traditional formulations which do not have high
intracellular penetration and thus do not reach the minimum inhibitory concentration
(MIC) within the intracellular compartment. The free drug penetrates into the cells by
other slower and transport-dependent unimolecular mechanisms, whereas in the

                                              4
nanoparticulate form a much larger number of molecules penetrate at once into the
cells, encapsulated inside the nanocarriers, acting as a "Trojan Horse". Another form
is the non-specific adhesion of thousands of nanocapsules on the surface of cells,
which promotes the absorption of a larger amount of drug by the target cell.
        The nanoencapsulation also prevents the rapid metabolism of the drug by the
cells after administration and prevents the rapid elimination of the drug from the site of
action, which occurs when the drug is administered in its free or non-encapsulated
form.    The    excipients   used    in the    proposed    formulations   are   innocuous,
biodegradable, biocompatible, of natural origin and do not compromise the functions
of the gland, not producing any type of cell damage or cytotoxicity (Mosqueira et al.,
2000 and 2001).
        In this context, the administration of a nanoparticulate formulation              by
intrammamary route is a promising alternative for the effective treatment of mastitis in
dairy cattle. Its application has the potential to increase drug retention in cells infected
with microorganisms, especially by S. aureus. An important property of the
formulations of the present invention is the ability to remain at the site of action during
the dry period of the animal (transition period between two lactations).
        Such nanostructures can encapsulate drugs such as antibacterial, antifungal,
antiparasitic, vitamins, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory, steroidal anti-inflammatory,
antiviral, antineoplastic, anesthetic, hormones or combinations thereof and be
administered by different routes of administration such as oral, intra-articular,
parenteral, ocular, mammary, topical, nasal, otologic, rectal, vaginal and/or a
combination of these routes.
        The present invention aims at providing a new therapy for the treatment and
prophylaxis of diseases in non-human animals bypassing the inconvenience of
administration of multiple doses and the use of high doses of drug used in traditional
formulations, which reduces animal stress and the occurrence of residues (of the
drug) in the animal products. The nanoparticulate compositions of drugs for veterinary
use also reduces the occurrence of side effects in relation to the use of the drug in
free form, because the nanostructures proposed herein direct the drug in the animal
body to the desired target of action, reducing the erratic distribution of the free drug.

                                              5
By using these formulations, the drug efficacy can be increased due to the active
targeting, to the adhesiveness and the ability of the nanocarriers to accumulate in
tissue in which an increase in vascular permeability occurs (passive targeting). These
can be the tissues in which the nanoparticles accumulate, for example, inflamed, and
neoplastic tissues, besides organs with intense phagocytic activity such as the
spleen, liver, lymph nodes, lung, bone marrow and mucous membranes in general.
Moreover, the drugs in their free form as they are administered in commercial
formulations require multiple administrations in order to achieve high concentrations
in different tissues, causing variations in plasma levels that are causing toxicity and/or
development of microbial resistance. Drugs in nanoencapsulated form show extended
release and are more restricted to sites of action and target cells, due to the
specificities of the components of the formulation and their physico-chemical
characteristics. Thus, the encapsulated drugs can achieve the specific target and be
released slowly and mainly in the site of action, avoiding loss or inactivation of the
drug in other tissues. Thus, doses can be reduced, efficacy can be increase and
toxicity can     be reduced, reducing the need for containment and excessive
manipulation of animals. Containment and change in handling are factors that hinder
the proper treatment of animals. These conditions are major causes of stress,
resulting in endogenous release of adrenaline, noradrenaline and corticosteroids,
which results in increased activity (fight-or-flight response) and decreased immunity.
This situation worsens as the administration of the drug needs to be more frequent.
Due to these difficulties, drug intervention may fail or be late. Additionally, the need
for multiple administrations to maintain therapeutic concentration can lead to
transposition of the toxicity threshold of the drug, causing adverse effects and an
increase in drug residues in animal products (Vandamme, 2010)
        According to Franga-Filho et al. (2006), among the major economic losses
associated with beef cattle is the stress caused by handling, which can lead to losses
of up to one kg weight/handling and abscess formation due to the application of
veterinary drugs using oily vehicle. However, the use of controlled delivery systems in
veterinary medicine may reduce the frequency of administration of the drug, reduced
duration of treatment and reduced stress for the animals (Sautter, 2006).

                                            6
        Particularly, the present invention allows the delivery of hydrophobic and
amphiphilic drugs in nanodispersed form in aqueous vehicles. Therefore, this
invention makes possible the administration of water-insoluble drugs by a number of
routes of administration including intravenous route.
        Most commercial formulations on the market have short half-life drugs and, to
reduce the number of applications, industry uses poorly soluble salts thereof in
aqueous and oily vehicles, as in the case of Terramycin@. A second strategy is to
increase the concentration of the active principle in the formula, as in the case of
Ivomec@Gold, which has a concentration of ivermectin 3.15 fold higher when
compared to simple Ivomec@. In both cases there are limitations. In the first, tissue
necrosis can occur due to incorrect application, as well as the limitation of volume to
be applied in the same location, in addition to the possibility that the location wherein
the drug is administered may become extremely painful. In the second case the
increase in drug concentration may result in toxicity in more sensitive individuals. In
turn, the nanocarriers of the present invention are able to vectorize poorly soluble
salts in aqueous vehicle while maintaining a sustained and often controlled release.
Such condition further allows its intravenous application and, by using an aqueous
vehicle, minimizes post-application pain when compared to the oily vehicle.
        Another strategy used to overcome the need for multiple applications of drugs
is the use of inserts and implants. Baeyens et al. (2000) describes the uses of inserts
for the treatment of eye infections in animals; however, such devices cause great
discomfort to the patient, in addition to the need for microsurgery and the risk of
infection. The nanocarriers described in the claims of the present document are not
noticed by the animal because they have nanometric size, and also have the
advantage of remaining adhered to the eye mucosa due to the mucoadhesive
characteristic confered by the chitosan (Ilium et al., 2001) coating the nanocarrier.
The mucoadhesive characteristic of said nanocarriers also allows them to be used
through other routes of administration, where the existence of mucosa gives support
to adhesion, namely, oral, nasal, anal and vaginal routes. In turn, Rathbone et al.
(2000) report the use of intravaginal and subcutaneous devices for the controlled
release of hormones, aiming at controlling the estrous cycle of animals. However,
such devices require at least two containments of the animals and, depending on the

                                             7
type/location of implant a more invasive intervention is necessary, which can be
surgical. In order to promote the controlled release of drugs without requiring the
removal of the implant, document US 4,938,763 discloses the use of biodegradable
implants for the controlled release of cisplatin; however, they require a more invasive
action when compared to the present invention, wherein administration can be made
with the aid of needle and syringe.
        Even though there are numerous articles in literature that mention the use of
polymeric nanoparticles for controlled release or targeting of drugs for veterinary use,
none of them defined which group of drugs can be encapsulated, which route of
administration of the drug must be used, or which disease can be treated with such
nanostructures (Rather et al. "Nanotechnology: A Novel Tool for Aquaculture and
Fisheries Development".
        Fisheries and Aquaculture Journal, Volume 2011: FAJ-1 6; Ramirez-Mella and
Herndndez-Mendo "Nanotechnology on Animal Production", Tropical and Subtropical
Agroecosystems, 12 (2010): 423-429; Chakravarthi and Balaji "Applications of
Nanotechnology in Veterinary Medicine" Veterinary World, 2010, v. 3 (10): 477-480;
Narducci, "An Introduction to Nanotechnologies: What's in it for Us?" Veterinary
Research Communications, 31 (Suppl. 1) (2007) 131-137; Scott "Nanotechnology and
animal health" Rev. sci. tech. Off. int. Epiz., 2005, 24 (1), 425-432). In the Article,
"Low-energy nanoemulsification to design veterinary controlled drug delivery devices"
Vandamne and Anton (International Journal of Nanomedicine, 2010:5 867-873)
describe the production of nanoemulsions for treating cattle, swine and poultry, in
which ketoprofen, sulfamethazine and vitamin D are encapsulated; however, they do
not describe which diseases can be treated. When comparing the nanoemulsion
produced by Anton and Vandamme to the nanoreservoirs of the present invention, the
latter are more stable in physiological media rich in proteins, basically due to the
presence of rigid polymeric coating. Additionally, the nanoemulsions described are
incapable of targeting the active principle.
       On the market, the nanostructured products Paccal @ Vet (paclitaxel),
Doxophos @ Vet (doxorubicin), Carbomexx @ Vet (carboplatin), Docecal @ Vet
(docetaxel), based on the Oasmia's platform of production of nanometric micelles
from XR-17, an acrylic ester with hydroxyl functional group, are available for

                                             8
purchase.      The   production   company     reports   the  reduction    of  toxicity of
chemotherapeutic drugs used in the formulation when applied to dogs and cats, but
does not report targeting or bioadhesion characteristics of the system. In addition,
micellar systems have limited stability in biological medium due to the lack of a hard
polymer coating and to the destruction of its structure after dilution in water. As
described in US 7850990 liposomes can also be used to promote controlled release
and targeting of anticarcinogenic chemotherapeutics and others veterinary drugs;
however, they present the same stability limitations in a biological environment as
micellar systems      and present high cost and difficulties in physico-chemical
stabilization.
        In patent document US 20100150832, the authors describe the preparation of
nanoparticles capable of promoting the controlled release and targeting of drugs,
using polyketal polymers. However, these nanoparticles do not have mucoadhesive
ability as those presented herein, they are readily hydrolyzable in water, and the
document does not describe the possible infections to be treated with the proposed
system. Patent document US 7767656 describes the preparation of nanoparticles
from blends of methylcellulose polymers and hyaluronic acid. Due to the hydrophilicity
of these polymers, these systems are less efficient in encapsulating hydrophobic
agents when compared to the present invention. Additionally, there is no mention in
said document of the surface electric charge of the nanoparticle, a factor that is
relevant to the targeting and mucoadhesion of the same due to electrostatic
interaction.
        The mechanism of incorporation of drugs into nanopores and their subsequent
application as controlled release system has been proposed in US 7713573;
however, the high polydispersity of nanopores prevents its use by intravenous route.
Moreover, the need for elevating temperature and pressure to incorporate drugs to
the nanopore is restrictive for various therapeutic compounds.
        Document US 7585521 proposes the use of ceramic nanoparticles for
controlled   release of drugs, including       veterinary drugs.   Differently from the
nanoparticles of the present invention such particles are not biodegradable and some
of the substances forming their composition, such as silica nanoparticles, are
responsible for silicosis in animals.

                                                9
Additionally, none of the patent documents (i.e. US 7585521; US 7713573; US
7767656; US 7767656; US 7767656; US 20100150832; US 7850990) define the
diseases to be treated non-human animals, which occurs in the present invention in
claim 55.
        In this context, the application of nanoparticulate formulations containing
antibacterial,  antifungal,    antiparasitic,   vitamins,   nonsteroidal   anti-inflammatory,
steroidal anti-inflammatory, antiviral, antineoplastic, anesthetic and/or hormones
administered by oral, parenteral, ocular, breast, topical, intra-articular, nasal, ear,
rectal, vaginal and/or combination of these routes is a promising alternative for the
treatment and effective prophylaxis of diseases in non-human animals.
        The Nanocarriers containing one or more antibacterial, antifungal, antiparasitic,
vitamins, non-steroidal or steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, antiviral, antineoplastic
drugs, anesthetics or hormones as active principle of the present invention are
selected from the group of sulfonamides, nitrofuran, quinolones, fluoroquinolones, the
cephalosporins of first to fifth generation, aminoglycosides, macrolides, lincosamides,
chloramphenicol, tetracyclines, polymyxins, beta-lactam, systemic antimycotics, topic
antimycotics, liposoluble vitamins, neuraminidase inhibitors, reverse transcriptase
inhibitors, non-glycoside inhibitors of reverse transcriptase, protease inhibitors,
nucleoside analog reverse transcriptase inhibitors, benzimidazoles, imidathiazoles,
tetrahydropyrimidines, organophosphates, avermectins,              milbemycin,    heterocyclic
compounds,        arsenicals,    nitroscanate,     benzimidazoles,     rafoxanide,   imidines,
imidothiazoles, niclosamides, carbamates, pyrethroids, imidacloprids, antiprotozoal,
salicylanides, imidacloprids, corticosteroids, anti-inflammatory non steroidal drugs,
salicylates, anthranilic acid derivatives, benzydamines, arylalkanoic derivatives,
propionic acid derivatives, pyrazolone derivatives, ergot alkaloids, protein hormones,
gonadotropin-releasing hormone analogue, agents for alkylating steroid hormone,
antimetabolite agents, natural or synthetic antineoplastic, and/or their combination
with other actives; examples of active principles are sulfamethazine, sulfamerazine,
sulphaquinoxaline, sulfachloropyridazine, sulfadiazine, sulfanilamide, sulfathiazole,
sulfisoxazole,   sulfamethizole,     sulfacetamide,     sulfamethoxazole,    sulfaphenazole,
sulfamoxole, sulfamethoxine, sulfametonidine, sulfadoxine, sulfamethoxypyrazine,
sulfadimethoxine,      sulfaguanidine,        phthalylsulfathiazole,    succinylsulfathiazole,

                                                 10
phtalylsulfacetamide, nitrosulfathiazole, sulfacetamide, mafenide, sulfadiazine and
salts      thereof,        sulfachloropyridazine,         sulfadimerazine,          sulfadimidine,
sulfaethoxypyridazine , sulfafurazole, sulfameter, sulfa methylpyridine, sulfameth,
sulfametopyrazine, sulfamethoxydiazine, sulfamethoxydine, sulfamethoxypyridazin,
sulfamethoxypyrimidin, sulfamezathine, sulfamidine, sulfamido dimethylpyrimidine,
sulfamonomethoxine,                   sulfanylacetamida,                sulfanilamidopyrimidine,
sulfanilaminothiazole, sulfanilguanidine, sulfapyridine, sulfapyrimidine, sulfasalazine,
sulfathalidine,    furaltadone    nitrofurantoin,    furazolidone,    furoxone,     nitrofurazone,
dapsone, nalidixic acid, oxolinic acid, pipemidic acid, ciprofloxacin, enrofloxacin,
loinefloxacin, norfloxacin, ofloxacin, perfloxacin, rosoxacin, levofloxacin, acrosoxacin,
cinoxacin,      besifloxacin,      penicillin,     netacilina,    tameticilina,       doxycycline,
benzilpenicilinas (penicillin V, phenoxymethylpenicillin and G sodium, potassium,
procaine or benzathine penicillins), aminopenicillins (ampicillin, amoxicillin, hetacillin
and carbenicillin), hetacillin, isoxazolylpenicilins (oxacillin, cloxacillin and dicloxacillin)
and antipseudomonal penicillin (ticarcillin, piperacillin, azlocillin and meziocilina),
ceftiofur, cefadroxil, cephalexin, cephaloridine, cefatotina, cephapirin, cefaloniun,
cefazolin, cephradine, cefacetrile, cefaclor, cefamandole, cephamycin, cefonicid,
ceforanide, cetoxitin, cefuroxime, cefquinome, cefixime, cefoperazone, cefotaxime,
ceftazidime,     ceftizoxime,     cefoxazole,      ceftriaxone,    moxalactan,       vancomycin,
trimethoprim,      aminocidine,      rifaximin,    tiamulin,    spectinomycin,       aminosidine,
streptomycin, dihydrostreptomycin, gentamycin, neomycin, tyrothricin, kanamycin,
dibekacin, netilmicin, tobramycin, framycetin clavulanic acid, rifamycin, fusidic acid,
oleandomycin,       penethamate        amikacin,    bacitracin,   clindamycin,      erythromycin,
spiramycin, lincomycin, novobiocin, pirlimycin, tylosin, chlortetracycline, doxycycline,
minocycline, oxytetracycline, tetracycline, polymyxin             B or polymyxin          (colistin),
nystatin,   griseofulvin,    amphotericin      b, ketoconazole,      itraconazole,     terbinafine,
tolciclate, tioconazole, clotrimazole, isoconazole, miconazole, ciclopirox olamine,
fluconazole, mebendazole, flubendazole, fenbendazole, cambendazole, albendazole,
oxibendazole,      oxfendazole,     parbendazol,      thiabendazole,      thiophonate,     amitraz,
tetramisole, levamisole, febantel, niclosamide, praziquantel,                 pyrantel pamoate,
pyrvinium pamoate, morantel tartrate, trichlorfon (metrifonate), diclorves, chlorpyrifos,
malathion,    diazinon,     dimethoate,     fenthion,   abamectin,      ivermectin,    moxidectin,
doramectin, nemadectin, milbemycin oxime d, phenothiazine, piperazine, nitroxynil,
disophenol,       thiacetarsamide         (arsenamide)       melarsomine         dihydrochloride,

                                                   11
mebendazole,         fenbendazole,         albendazole,       cambendazole,         thiabendazole,
parbendazole, flubendazole, oxfendazole, triclambendazole, febantel, thiophanate,
netobirnin, arsenious oxide, melarsoprol, tetramizole, levamizole, methylcarbamates,
parbendazole, mebendazole, flubendazole, flumethrin, permethrin,                      cypermethrin,
deltamethrin,      closantel,     rafoxanide,      tetraetiuran    monosulfide      (monosulfiram)
chloronicotinyl     nitroguanidine,      fipronil,    lufenuron,    nitenpyram,     metronidazole,
pyrimethamine, amprolium, clopidol, monenzin, nicarbazin, toltrazuril, maduramicin,
narazin, nitrofurazone, diaminazen aceturate, imidocarb, diquinolilurea, primaquina,
hidrocortisona,        cortisone,      prednisone,        prednisolone,        methylprednisolone,
triamcinolone,      paramethasone,        betamethasone        dexamethasone,        flumethasone,
dipirone, phenylbutazone, aminopyrine, naproxen, flunixin meglumine, pranoprofen,
surofeno,    flurbiprofen,     sodium      diclofenac,    acetylsalicylic   acid,   salicylic acid,
paraminofenol,       idoxuridine,      acyclovir,     ganciclovir,    amantadine,       rimantadine,
oseltamivir, zanamivir, nevirapine, delavirdine, efavirenz, zidovudine, didanosine,
zalcitabine,     stavudine,         lamivudine,       abacavir,     emtricitabine,       amprenavir,
fosamprenavir, indinavir, ritonavir, saquinavir, nelfinavir, tenofovir, adefovir, vitamin K,
vitamin A, vitamin D, vitamin E, tetracaine, proxymetacaine, lidocaine, xylazine,
ketamine,      ergovine       maleate,       methylergometrine         maleate,      bromocriptine,
nechlorethamine,        cyclophosphamide,          melphalan,      chlorambucil,     ethylenamines
(triethylenthiophosphoramide), alkyl sulfonates (busulfan), nitrosureas, triazenes
(dacarbazine), folic acid analogs (methotrexate), pyrimidine analogs (fluorouracil,
cytarabine), purine analogs (mercaptopurine), cisplatin, 1-asparginase, hydroxyurea,
vinblastine, vincristine, doxorubicin, dactinomycin, bleomycin, diethylestilbestrol;
estradiol   cyprionate,      allyltrenbolone,      medroxyprogesterone         acetate,    megestrol
acetate, progesterone, cloprostenol sodium, dinoprost tromethamine, altrenogest,
fluprostenol,    tiaprost,    prostaglandin       F-2-alpha,    melatonine,      human      chorionic
gonadotropin, follicle stimulating hormone, equine chorionic gonadotropin, luteinizing
hormone,      gestrinone,     gonadorelin,       goserelin,    buserelin,    leuprolide,    danazol,
deslorelin, growth hormone, testosterone propionate, testosterone cypionate or
oxytocin, not restricted to these active principles, its derivatives, their salts and/or
combinations thereof, highlighting that the active ingredient to be incorporated into the
nanosystems may belong to any of the above groups.

                                              12
         Thus, in order to obtain a product for mastitis' treatment, characterized by an
intramammary administration, or even by parenteral local injections, which does not
need multiple infusions (single dose and extended release) and which has the
capability of adhere and penetrate in the infected cells of the mammary gland of the
animal (direction of the active principle) it came to the which is an aspect of this
invention, which presents a new formulation of antibiotic encapsulated in nanocarriers
of lipidic and polymeric nature.
         Despite of the existence in the literature of micro particles containing antibiotics
in order to treat the mastitis, for example in the following works from: Ziv and Linder.
"Encapsulated      forms of slow-release dry cow products of rapidly absorbed
antibiotics". Journal of Veterinary Pharmacology and Therapeutics 6 (2008) 33 - 40;
Henry-Michelland e cols. Attachment of antibiotics to nanoparticles: preparation, drug
release and antimicrobial activity in vitro". International Journal of Pharmaceutics 35
(1987) 121-127 ; Fattal E. e cols. "Ampicillin loaded liposomes and nanoparticles:
comparison of drug loading, drug release and in vitro antimicrobial activity. Journal of
Microencapsulation 8 (1991)         29-36; Anderson J C. e cols.". "The effect of
incorporation of cloxacillin in liposomes on treatment of experimental staphylococcal
mastitis in mice". Journal of veterinary pharmacology and therapeutics 9 (1986) 303-9
and in the documents of patent EP0260854 and W09531180 (AI), the present
invention deals with the encapsulation of antibiotics in nanocarriers with adhesive
capacity in the udder of the animals.
         In the research conducted in the literature and in the in patent databases, no
registrations were found that related the antibiotic cloxacillin benzathine and
nanocarriers with increased antibacterial effectiveness in the mastitis in the
nanostructured form. Furthermore, in none of such documents it is made reference to
the use of materials which enable the adhesion of the nanocarriers to the cells of the
superior part of the teat after intramammary administration, which increases the
chances of effectiveness of said new formulations for veterinary use in relation to the
products sold and protected by patent. In the same context, there is no reference of
polymeric nanoparticles containing cloxacillin benzathine with high possibility to
penetrate the infected cells and release the drug in a prolonged form.

                                            13
        Patent W09531180       describes a treatment for mastitis comprising             an
administration of a formulation composed by an aqueous suspension of cloxacillin
benzathine micronized and subsequently of a gel containing heavy metal salts in
order to seal the teat, which can cause a possible contamination of the milk through
heavy metal salts in the period de lactating. Furthermore, in this document the results
regarding the speed of release of the antibiotic are not disclosed.
        Patent EP0260854 describes the microencapsulation of a mixture of cloxacillin
benzathine and amplicilin trihydrate for the treatment of mastitis, but it exhibits a very
large polydispersity of the particles, which make it difficult or impossible to predict the
speed of release of the drug from such microstructures. However, the microcapsules
have lower capacity of adhesion to the superior part of the teat cells due to its greater
weight, which can lead to sedimentation close to the teat canal due to the difference
in density, while the nanoparticulate form does not sediment due to its colloidal
characteristics.
        Patent RU2350332 describes an emulsion containing doxycycline for treatment
of the mastitis in cow in the dry period, the disadvantage of being unstable in the
physiological environment, mainly in the milk, which presents casein. Moreover, it
does neither present controlled release, nor targeting of the drug. The emulsions are
less stable biological environment due to the interactions with the lipoproteins,
releasing the drug faster (Mosqueira et al., 2007).             On the other hand, the
nanocarriers have a polymer wall more resistant to degradation and that controls the
drug release.
        Patent CN101439044 describes a gel containing Polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP-1)
for treatment of mastitis, but presents the inconvenience of being able to cause an
inflammatory reaction in the udder of the animal as adverse effect of the treatment,
having the potential of producing a chemical mastitis induced by the irritating effect of
iodine released.
        Patents   KR20080083499       and KR20070059787         use silver nanoparticles
colloidal for treatment of mastitis, but have the disadvantage of the presence of
residue in the milk or even the silver can cross the blood-glandular barrier reaching
the systemic circulation.

                                          14
        The Cloxacillin in a sodic form is used for the treatment of mastitis during
intramammary     lactation. According to Anderson        et al. (1986) the Cloxacillin
encapsulated in liposomes was directed to the treatment of the mastitis in the stage of
lactation, however, the use of release systems sustained during such period
increases the discharge of milk, since the time of release of the drug is increased.
The liposome has stability reduced in physiological environment when compared to
the polymeric nanocarriers. Said treatment was performed in murine model, which is
not directly related to the present proposal. The liposomes are formulated rather
unstable, expensive and presenting difficult stabilization and production comparatively
to the nanocapsules produced in this invention.
        Modern carrier drug systems has been the target of numerous studies in the
pharmaceutical area in order to control the speed of drug release in the organism,
decreasing the dose required and increasing the selectivity in relation to the target
(Schaffazick et al.,2003; Chac6n et al.,1999; De Chasteigner et al., 1996; Santos
Magalhaes et al., 2000).
        The polymeric nanocarriers of the reservoir type consist of an oily core
surrounded by a polymeric membrane (Legrand et al., 1999), working with the chosen
carrier for the administration of the substances of low solubility in water as the
cloxacillin benzathine, for they comprise stable polymers with low toxicity that
comprise biocompatible and biodegradable material, which are degraded in vivo into
smaller fragments easily excreted, as carbon dioxide and water.
        For the preparation of the nanocarriers polymers generally in the range of 0,2
to 2% (p/p) are used. Polyesters, polyamides, polycyanoacrylates, polycarbonates,
polyurethanes, chitosan, chitin, gelatine, methacrylates, copolymers of acrylic acid
and acrylic esters, polyalkylacrylates, polymethacrylates, vinyl alcohol polymer, or
combinations or mixtures of such material can be generally used. However the most
suitable by its degradability are the polyesters hydroxyacids: Polyesters of lactic,
glycolic acid and their co-polymers and their different combinations and proportions
with molecular weight ranging from 2.000 to 1.00.000, namely: poly (D, L - lactic acid),
poly (glycolic acid), poly (lactic-co-glycolic acid), poly-E- caprolactone, poly-p
hydroxybutyrate, p-poly (hydroxybutyrate-co-valerate) and poly (hydroxyalkanoates).

                                              15
        hydrophilic surfactants (such as polysorbates 20, 21, 40, 60, 61, 65, 80, 81, 85
and 120; copolymers of polyethylene oxide-polyethylene oxide propylene such as the
poloxamers 124, 188, 237, 338 and 407) and lipophilic (sorbitan esters such as
sorbitan     monolaurate,    sorbitan   trilaurate, sorbitan    monopalmitate,      sorbitan
monostearate, sorbitan tristearate, sorbitan monooleate, sorbitan trioleate; lecithins;
polyglyceryl-6 (dioleate) are also usually used from 0,2 to- 2% (w/w).
        The oils used can be vegetable (soybean, corn, cottonseed, olive, almond,
sunflower, grape) or mineral (liquid paraffin, liquid paraffin "light") or fatty acid esters
(polyglyceryl-6 dioleate, polyethylene glycol-6 olive oil, peanuts and corn) and
medium chain triglycerides (such as triglyceride of caprylic / capric acid), which
should present no toxicity, not being able to degrade or solubilize the polymer and
high capacity to dissolve the drug in question (Legrand et al., 1999).
        The nanocarriers can have their surface modified by coating with chitosan. The
nanocarriers herein proposed obtained from poly-E-caprolactone, for instance,
concentrate the encapsulate drugs in cells of the mononuclear phagocyte system
(MPS). The conventional nanocarriers coated with chitosan have a characteristic of
biodiversity, which increases the particle retaining charged with drug in the action
place, for instance, in the superior parts of the udder.
        In this context, recent studies with nanocarriers of the reservoir type have been
showing that such structures have specific advantages over liposomes, for they have
a greater physical stability in biological environment, low inherent toxicity, high
encapsulation of lipophilic substances in its oily core (Legrand et al., 1999, Mosqueira
et al., 2001 and 2006). Besides that, they can be produced by simple, fast, efficient
and of low costs methods. Similarly to the liposomes, the polymeric nanoparticles of
the same size can also be captured by inflammatory foci due to increased of vascular
permeability at determined place (Barratt, 2000), according to patents US 6, 171, 796;
US 6, 632, 671 and US 7, 060, 689 and P10605102-2A.
        The chitosan is a hydrophilic polysaccharide, amine derivative of the process of
deacetylation of the chitin which forms the shell of insects and crustaceans. Being a
natural and biodegradable polymer, chitosan has been proposed as an attractive
material for various uses, especially in engineering, biotechnology and medicine

                                             16
 (Hirano, 1999) . Chitosan is insoluble in water, which can be characterized as a
cationic polyelectrolyte. It is soluble in weak organic acids or diluted as 3% acetic acid
producing a viscous solution. In order to solve the problem of the insolubility in water,
which limits its application in vectors of drug, especially for vehicular peptides and
genes, papers have been published bringing different methodologies for obtaining
chitosan soluble in water (Signini and Campana, 2001; Garcia-Fuentes et al., 2005)
since incubation until incorporation of chitosan to methods of producing pre-prepared
nanoparticles. As an example, the coating of lipidic nanoparticles with negative
surface charge have its charge inverted when the chitosan is incubated in the
environment (Garcia Fuentes et al., 2005). Thus the resulting particles have surface
properties and different stability from the originals. The adaptation of existing
production methodologies to incorporate the chitosan can be evaluated based on the
work from Calvo et al. (1997), where the addition of chitosan in the acidified aqueous
phase permitted nanoemulsions and chitosan nanocapsules with chitosan adsorbed
to the phospholipids of the wall according to patent US 5, 843, 509. In the present
invention the chitosan in salt form is used in neutral aqueous phase.
        The cloxacillin is an p-lactam antibiotic used in veterinary practice due to of its
activity against bacteria gram positive and negative, the drug is used in the treatment
and prevention of mastitis bovina caused by Staphylococcus (P6rez et al., 1997).
        The advantage of this invention is in the creation of a new possibility of mastitis
therapy in dairy cattle by intramammary in the dry period through the encapsulation of
the drug cloxacillin benzathine in nanocarriers which are avidly phagocytosed by cells
present in the infected parts of the interior of the mammary gland. Said nanocarriers
have greater penetration in regions where the inflammation is present, as described in
patent P10605102-2A.
        The formulations of nanocarriers of reservoir type used in this invention
containing the cloxacillin benzathine in its interior were prepared with a method
different from the one described by Fessi et al. (1989), regarding the constituents of
the formulations and the proportions of the phases of the solvents, which were
specific to the drug used.

                                              17
       The polymers used in the preparation of the nanocarriers herein proposed
were the poly-E-caprolactone (PCL) and the chitosan (QUIT), both biocompatible and
biodegradable, being easily excreted by the organism.
       Thus, said nanostructures are interesting carriers due to their stability in
biologic environment and low toxicity depending on the use of the biodegradable
polymers. Considering all those aspects, the present invention was prepared to the
use of veterinary medicine as a new way of treatment to the bovine mastitis through
intramammary, in the dry period, having as principal advantages the ease handling in
the moment of the use, the simplicity in the preparation and the viability to the sale.
Besides this new possibility, said nanocarriers can also be used in the treatment of
such and other diseases, provided that the affinity between the drug and the oily core.
        In one aspect, the present invention provides a process for obtaining a
nanoparticulate composition, comprising the steps of:
       (i)   preparing a fraction A that consists of a solution containing: (a) a
hydrophobic polymer which is insoluble in water selected from the group comprising
by polyesters of lactic, glycolic acids and co-polymers thereof; (b) oil; and (c) at least
one surfactant dissolved in water-miscible organic solvents;
       (ii)  preparing a fraction B containing at least an antimicrobial agent from the
group of beta-lactams solubilized in an alcoholic solvent;
       (iii) preparing a fraction C that consists of a mixture of the fractions A and B;
       (iv)  preparing a fraction D that consists of a neutral aqueous solution
containing surfactant and cationic polymer of the aminopolysaccharide type from the
group of chitosans in the form of a water soluble salt; and
       (v)   simultaneously combining        the fractions C and D with subsequent
formation of nanoparticles coated with a polymer film.
       In another    aspect, the      present    invention provides    a    nanoparticulate
composition,    comprising     a   colloidal   suspension   provided     with  suspended
nanoparticules of 100 to 800 rm, carriers of at least one antimicrobial agent from the
group of beta-lactams having an oily or pasty core surrounded by a polymeric
membrane of polyesters of lactic, glycolic acids, and co-polymers thereof covered by
cationic polymers of the aminopolysaccharide type from the group of chitosans,
water-soluble neutral salts and/or derivatives thereof.

                                            17a
        In yet another aspect, the present invention provides a nanoparticle comprising
an oily or paste core, containing at least an antimicrobial agent from the group of
beta-lactams surrounded by polymer membrane of polyesters of lactic, glycolic acids
and co-polymers thereof coated by cationic polymers of the aminopolysaccharide type
from the group of chitosans, neutral water-soluble salts and/or derivatives thereof.
        The present invention is based in the fact that such nanostructured carriers are
captured by the mononuclear phagocyte system and the ones of surface modified by
the Chitosan are bioadhesive. Therefore, both formulations have potential of success
in the treatment of the mastitis, due to the greater penetration into the affected tissue.
        The nanocarriers of reservoir type were prepared by the method of interfacial
deposition of preformed polymer followed by the displacement of miscible solvents
with water and immiscible with oil and with the hydrophobic polymers.
        Preliminary clinical studies indicate the improved effectiveness with the
formulation proposed.
        A reference herein to a patent document or other matter which is given as prior
art is not to be taken as an admission that that document or matter was known or that
the information it contains was part of the common general knowledge as at the
priority date of any of the claims.
        Throughout the description and claims of the specification, the word "comprise"
and variations of the word, such as "comprising" and "comprises", is not intended to
exclude other additives, components, integers or steps.
         Examples:
        The experimental examples illustrate this invention, without however limit its
application.
         Example 1: Production of nanocarriers of reservoir type coated with chitosan
(NC PCL QUIT) containing antibiotic for veterinary use. The nanocarriers of the
cloxacillin benzathine were prepared according to the following constituents (% w/w):

                                           18
       Poly-E-caprolactone            0,80%
       Soy lecithin                  0,40%
       Labrafac CC                   0,25%
       Poloxamer 188                 0,60%
       Chitosan                      0,10%
       Cloxacillin benzathine         0,25%
       Water qsp                      100%
       For the preparation of the coated nanocarriers (NC-PCL-QUIT) containing
cloxacillin benzathine, the polymer poly-E-caprolactone (PCL) was diluted in 23 ml of
a solution of acetone containing soy lecithin (Epikuron 170) and Labrafac CC. The
drug cloxacillin benzathine was previously solubilized in 7 ml of methanol and added
to a solution of acetone. This phase remained for stirring and moderate heating (30 a
450C) until complete dissolution of the components. Subsequently, the organic
solution was     changed into    aqueous    solution   previously prepared containing
poloxamer 188 and 10 mg of Water-soluble chitosan, followed by stirring at moderate
speed, the ambient temperature with the assistance of magnetic stirrer for ten
minutes. After, such suspension was brought to the rotary evaporator, maintaining the
bath temperature at 40-45 * C for evaporation of the solvents at reduced pressure.
The size and the zeta potential of the nanocapsules obtained were 291 nm and +16
mV respectively. The efficiency of encapsulation was of 87%.
       Example 2: Production of conventional nanocarriers (NC PCL) containing
antibiotic of veterinary use. The nanocarriers of cloxacillin benzathine were prepared
according to the following constituents (% w/w):
       Poly-E-caprolactone                            6Ut
       Sorbitan monooleate                           0,40%

                                             19
        Plurol oleique                                     0,25%
        Poloxamer 188                                      0,75%
        Cloxacillin benzathine                             0,05%
        Water qsp                                          100%
        For the     preparation   of conventional nanocarriers containing       cloxacillin
benzathine, they were dissolute in 7 ml of a solution of acetone: The polymer poly-E
caprolactone (PCL), sorbitan monooleate and Plurol oleique. The drug cloxacillin
benzathine was previously solubilized in 3 ml of methanol and added to a solution of
acetone. Subsequently, the organic solution poured into an aqueous solution
containing poloxamer 188. Followed by stirring with the assistance of magnetic stirrer
for ten minutes. The evaporation of the solvents was carried out according to the
abovementioned methodology. The size was determined by photon correlation
spectroscopy and zeta potential by laser Doppler anemometry. The values were 322
nm and -28 mV respectively. The efficiency of encapsulation was of 37%. Through
the atomic force microscopy (AFM), images of the nanocapsules were obtained,
evidencing the character spherical and homogeneous of the particles.
        Table 1: Analysis of the size and zeta potential of the nanocarriers containing
different concentrations of cloxacillin benzathine.
                   % (p/v)      % (p/v) QUIT   Contraction of  Average size  Potential zeta3
                    PCL                           CLOXB           DP (nm)     DP2 (mV)
                                                 (mg/mL)
    NC- PCL          0.6                  --         0          308.9  8.2  -30.47  2.01
                     0.6                  --        0.5         322.4  3.9  -28.20  0.62
    NC- PCL-         0.8                 0.1         0          214.3  1.5  +21.00  0.53
     QUIT
                     0.8                 0.1        2.5          291  5.6*    +16.53
                     0.8                 0.1         5          242.9  5.7*  +14  2.75*
        1DP  = Standard deviation (n = 3); 2 1.P = Index de polidispersao (n=3); 3 Peak
width equal to 1,6 in all samples. The statistical analysis was conducted through the t
student test between the different formulations, in relation to the white NC. P<0,05 for

                                              20
the parameters shown in the table in relation to the white formulation, except of the
identified with *.
        Table 2: Efficiency and yield of encapsulation of the NC containing different
concentrations of cloxacillin benzathine.
Nanocarriers                                   EE(%)      Yield
NO POL cloxacillin benzathine 0.5 mg/ml        34%        23%
NO POL cloxacillin benzathine 2.5 mg/ml        unstable   ND
NO POL-QUIT cloxacillin benzathine 2.5 mg/ml   87%        76%
NO POL-QUIT cloxacillin benzathine 5.0 mg/ml   unstable   ND
        ND -    not determined
        In case of nanostructures of PCL-QUIT, there is a presence of chitosan in the
surface of such particles, a positively charged polymer that interacts with the anion
cloxacillin, increasing its absorption in the surface.
        Figure 1 shows the release profile of the CLOXB in vitro under 370C in PBS
environment containing 1% of polyethylene glycol and 1% of milk from the free
cloxacillin and from the formulations of NC of PCL 0.5mg and NC PLC-QUIT 2,5mg in
sink conditions.
        The evaluation of the release profile in vitro of the cloxacillin benzathine from
the nanocarriers of reservoir type was performed according to the direct dialysis
technique in two different release environments. Dialysis bags were inserted in
containers containing a buffered saline solution and 1% polyethylene glycol 300
(PBS:PEG) or a buffered saline containing 1% of skimmed milk (PBS:milk) under
370C with moderate stirring. In different dialysis bags with pores of 12.000 to 14.000
(cut off) were inserted: Free CLOXB, suspension of NC-PCL 0.5 mg/ml and
suspension      of NC-PCL-QUIT          2.5 mg/ml    in the    PBS:PEG   and  PBS:    milk
environments. In pre-defined lapses, aliquots were removed and the environment was

                                             21
re-added with the same volume withdrawn. Right after, the samples were prepared
and the supernatant dosed.
        According to figure 1, it is observed a slower release profile with the NC of 0.5
of CLOXB, since probably the quantity of the drug absorbed in the surface and ready
for desorption is smaller than in the NC of 2.5 of CLOXB. The latter present a profile
with plateau, probably due to the higher drug content adsorbed on the surface of NC
containing chitosan. In the two formulations of NC the release presents an almost
linear profile, which indicates controlled release in the first 6h, followed by the
appearance of a plateau, with retention of the remainder of CLOXB, probably related
to the quantity located into the oily core of the NC. Irwin et al. (1984) it was observed
that the CLOXB has its dissolution dependent on the pH value. Its group developed a
study of dissolution of the CLOXB in environments with different pH values: 2, 6 and
9, where was observed that in pH 2 and 9 the cloxacillin degrades and, in pH 6 its
dissolution is dependent of the solubility until 300 minutes of test. In this work, the
dissolution was conducted in pH 7.4 for it is about the pH of the milk of animals with
mastitis (Gruet et al., 2001). There was no degradation of the drug until 540 minutes
of test by HPLC in such experimental conditions.
        Regarding the drug release of the nanocapsules in different environments, it is
observed that its profiles are different. The NC-PCL-QUIT 2,5mg containing CLOXB
showed a faster release, more than 70% in 6h in an environment containing 1% of
milk than in the environment containing 1% of PEG. On the other hand, the NC-PCL
containing CLOXB showed a faster release in an environment with 1% of PEG than in
an environment containing 1% of milk. Between the three graphics there are
similarities in the release profile of the free CLOXB and of the encapsulated in NC
PCL. The release was bigger in environment containing 1% o PEG, differently of the
NC-PCL-QUIT that have greater release in milk. Thus, nanocapsules containing the
antibiotic cloxacillin benzathine are promising for the intramammary administration in
dairy cattle.
        As one can observe in figure 1, the retention of the cloxacillin benzathine in the
nanocarriers is bigger with the polymer PCL (Figure 1A). Even in environment
containing milk (Figure 1B) the drug retention and low speed of evidents compared to

                                          22
cloxacillin benzathine not charged. Said data attest the effectiveness of the
formulation for slow release of CLOXB in the animal teat.
       Figure 2 shows images of MFA intermittently de NC-PCL. Image height. (A)
White NC (B) NC PCL 0.5 mg/ml. scale: (5x5, pM)

                                             23
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
       1. A process for obtaining a nanoparticulate composition, comprising the steps
of:
           (i)   preparing a fraction A that consists of a solution containing: (a) a
                 hydrophobic polymer which is insoluble in water selected from the
                 group comprising by polyesters of lactic, glycolic acids and co
                 polymers thereof; (b) oil; and (c) at least one surfactant dissolved in
                 water-miscible organic solvents;
           (ii)  preparing a fraction B containing at least an antimicrobial agent from
                 the group of beta-lactams solubilized in an alcoholic solvent;
           (iii) preparing a fraction C that consists of a mixture of the fractions A and
                 B;
           (iv)  preparing a fraction D that consists of a neutral aqueous solution
                 containing      surfactant     and    cationic    polymer       of    the
                 aminopolysaccharide type from the group of chitosans in the form of a
                 water soluble salt; and
           (v)   simultaneously combining the fractions C and D with subsequent
                 formation of nanoparticles coated with a polymer film.
       2. The process according to claim 1, comprising using, as an insoluble
hydrophobic polymer, molecules selected from the group consisting of poly-E
caprolactone (PCL), diblock and multiblock polymers derived from poly(lactic acid)
polymers (PLA),      poly(lactic-co-glycolic) acid  (PLGA),   polyglycolic acid (PGA),
polyhydroxyalkanoates (PHA), poly-p-hydroxybutyrate and poly- p-(hydroxybutyrate
co-valerate).
       3. The process according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the amount of oil
ranges between 0.25 to 5% w/v in relation to the final volume of the aqueous medium.
       4. The process according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the antimicrobial
agent is constituted by at least one substance selected from the following group:

                                             24
penicillin and derivatives thereof, benzathine penicillin, cloxacillin, dicloxacillin,
flucloxacillin, cloxacillin benzathine, ampicillin, amoxicillin, hetacicillin.
        5. The process according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the amount of
hydrophobic polymer ranges between 0.1 to 3% w/v in relation to the final volume of
the aqueous medium.
        6. The process according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the amount of
cationic polymer ranges between 0.05 to 2% w/v in relation to the final volume of the
aqueous medium.
        7. The process according to any one of claims 1 to 6, comprising using
hydrophilic surfactant selected from the group consisting of polysorbate 20 or 21 or 40
or 60 or 61 or 65 or 80 or 81 or 85 or 120; derivatives of polyethylene oxide-propylene
oxide co-polymer such as poloxamer 124 or 188 or 237 or 338 or 407; wherein the
amount added ranges between 0 to 2% w/v in relation to the final volume of the
aqueous medium.
        8. The process according to any one of claims 1 to 7, comprising using
lipophilic surfactant selected from the group consisting of: derivatives of sorbitan
esters such as sorbitan monolaurate, sorbitan trilaurate, sorbitan monopalmitate,
sorbitan monostearate, sorbitan tristearate, sorbitan monooleate, sorbitan trioleate; or
derivatives of lecithin, such as soy lecithin; wherein the amount added ranges
between 0.2 to 2% w/v in relation to the final volume of the aqueous medium.
        9. The process according to any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the organic
phase, consisting of the Fraction C, is mixed with a neutral aqueous phase, Fraction
D, so that the total solvents are evaporated to less than one third of the total volume
of the mixture at the end of the process.
        10. The process according to any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the
nanoparticulate composition is sterilized by passage through sterile filters of 0.2 to 0.8
pm diameter.

                                                25
        11. A nanoparticulate composition obtained through the process as described
in any one of claims 1 to 10.
        12. A nanoparticulate composition, comprising a colloidal suspension provided
with suspended nanoparticules of 100 to 800 rm, carriers of at least one antimicrobial
agent from the group of beta-lactams having an oily or pasty core surrounded by a
polymeric membrane of polyesters of lactic, glycolic acids, and co-polymers thereof
covered by cationic polymers of the aminopolysaccharide type from the group of
chitosans, water-soluble neutral salts and/or derivatives thereof.
        13. The nanoparticulate composition according to claim 11 or 12, wherein the
antimicrobial agent is constituted by at least one substance selected from the
following group: penicillin and derivatives thereof, benzathine penicillin, cloxacillin,
dicloxacillin, flucloxacillin, cloxacillin benzathine, ampicillin, amoxicillin, hetacillin.
        14. The nanoparticulate composition according to any one of claims 11 to 13,
comprising nanoparticles with an oily core composed by: medium-chain triglyceride,
such as triglycerides of caprylic/capric acid or fatty acid esters of 6 to 18 carbon
atoms or oils of vegetable origin, such as soybean oil, corn, cottonseed, olive,
almond, sunflower or grape, or mineral oil such as liquid paraffin, or polyglyceryl-6
dioleate or polyethylene glycol-6 of olive oil or peanut or corn oils.
        15. The nanoparticulate composition according to any one of claims 11 to 14
comprising nanoparticles containing, in their structure, hydrophobic polymeric
molecules selected from the following groups: polyesters of lactic, glycolic acids and
co-polymers thereof and their different combinations, poly-E-caprolactone (PCL),
diblock and multiblock polymers derived from poly(lactic acid) polymers (PLA),
poly(lactic-co-glycolic) acid (PLGA), polyglycolic acid (PGA), polyhydroxyalkanoates
(PHA), poly- p-hydroxybutyrate and poly-p-(hydroxybutyrate-co-valerate).
        16. The nanoparticulate composition according to any one of claims 11 to 15
consisting of nanoparticles containing the cloxacillin benzathine antibiotic, which may
be administered by oral, parenteral, ocular, breast, topical, nasal, otologic, rectal,

                                             26
vaginal route and/or a combination thereof for the treatment and prophylaxis of
diseases in animals.
       17. The nanoparticulate composition according to any one of claims 11 to 16
comprising nanoparticles with controlled-release properties of the compounds inside
thereof.
       18. A nanoparticulate composition consisting of an association of the
composition obtained in accordance with any one of claims 1 to 10, and a
pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle.
       19. A nanoparticulate composition consisting of an association of the
composition obtained in accordance with any one of claims 1 to 10 and one or more
free active principles in solution, as well as, optionally, a pharmaceutically acceptable
vehicle.
       20. A use of the nanoparticulate composition obtained through the process
described in any one of claims 1 to 10 in the treatment and prophylaxis of diseases in
animals and/or as pharmacologic support.
       21. A nanoparticle being constituted by a nanocarrier obtained by the process
of any one of claims 1 to 10.
       22. A nanoparticle comprising an oily or paste core, containing at least an
antimicrobial agent from the group of beta-lactams surrounded by polymer membrane
of polyesters of lactic, glycolic acids and co-polymers thereof coated by cationic
polymers of the aminopolysaccharide type from the group of chitosans, neutral water
soluble salts and/or derivatives thereof.
       23. A nanoparticle according to claim 22, wherein the antimicrobial agent is
cloxacillin benzathine.

                                           27
       24. A use of the nanoparticle obtained through the process described in any
one of claims 1 to 10 or the nanoparticle as claimed in any one of claims 21 to 23 in
the treatment and prophylaxis of animals and/or as pharmacologic support.
       25. A method for treatment and prophylaxis of diseases in animals comprising
administering to an animal in need thereof an effective amount of the nanoparticulate
composition according to any one of claims 11 to 15 consisting of nanoparticles
containing cloxacillin benzathine antibiotic, wherein the nanoparticulate composition
may be administered by oral, parenteral, ocular, breast, topical, nasal, otologic, rectal,
vaginal route and/or a combination thereof.
       26.    A method for treatment and prophylaxis of diseases in animals
comprising administering to an animal in need thereof an effective amount of the
nanoparticulate composition obtained through the process described in any one of
claims 1 to 10.
       27.    A method for treatment and prophylaxis of animals comprising
administering to an animal in need thereof an effective amount of the nanoparticle
obtained through the process described in any one of claims 1 to 10 or the
nanoparticle as claimed in any one of claims 21 to 23.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       1/2

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       2/2

