Abstract
A formliner, sheet, system, and method of use and manufacture are provided in order to
provide a product that can minimize and/or eliminate visible seaming between interconnected
formliners during fabrication of a pattern on a curable material. In some embodiments, the
formliner can comprise raised sections that define interrelated inner and outer dimensions.
Thus, a plurality of formliners can be interconnected by overlaying raised sections thereof.
Further, the formliner can comprise one or more detents and one or more protrusions to
enable engagement between interconnected formliners without requiring adhesives. In this
manner, formliners can be interconnected in a nested manner such that visible seaming
between the interconnected formliners is reduced and/or eliminated.

                 6/39
    //
\         /         /   /
            \     /   /   /N
      N
  \ \   /     / /

C:\nternoven\NRrorbI'DCC\5AFJ7I22 I92i doc -7Ot2I0
                                              FORMLINER AND METHOD OF USE
                                                           BACKGROUND
Field of the Inventions
               [0001]                      The entire contents of Australian Patent Application Nos. <removed-apn>,
<removed-apn> and 2009296404 are incorporated herein by reference.
               [0001a]                     The present inventions relate generally to concrete formliners and
methods of using the same. More specifically, the present inventions relate to an improved
formliner with snap fitting components that eliminates the need for using adhesives for
interconnecting a plurality of formliners in a pattern. Further, the formliner is configured to
reduce and/or eliminate visible seams in order to create a more natural appearance in a
finished product.
Description of the Related Art
               [0002]                      Decorative    masonry    and   concrete  construction    have   become
increasingly popular in recent years. The facades of homes and other buildings that had
previously been constructed in very simple and plain concrete are now being replaced with
either decorative stone and brick or decorative concrete construction.
               t00031                      As a result of the increased demand for stone and brick work, various
improvements have been made in stone and brick masonry and concrete construction. These
improvements have lowered the cost for such construction by decreasing the time or skill
requirements previously needed to perform such work.
               [00041                      For example, in stone and brick masonry, facings and floors have
traditionally constructed by skilled artisans from individual units. However, recent advances
have been made in the masonry art which allow artisans to more quickly and accurately
perform stone or brick work. In particular, various panels, forms, and mounting systems have
been developed that allow individual units to be placed in precise geometric patterns, thus
eliminating much of the painstaking effort usually expended by the artisan. This now allows
generally unskilled artisans, such as the do-it-yourselfer, to create a high- quality product.
               [00051                      Perhaps more importantly for projects with a tighter budget, advances in
concrete construction now allow artisans to create a faux stone or brick appearance in

WO 2010/036971                                                               PCT/US2009/058489
concrete with a formliner. As a result, one may achieve the appearance of stone or brick
without the associated cost.
         100061     A concrete formliner generally comprises an interior surface onto which
concrete is poured. The interior surface of the formliner typically includes a desired pattern
or shape that will be transferred to the concrete to form a cured concrete casting. In many
cases, the formliner is lined up with additional formliners to create a pattern over a wide area.
The concrete casting can be created in a horizontal (such as for ilt          Lip construction) or
vertical casting process, and can be pre-cast, or cast-at-site construction.
         10007J     After the concrete has cured, the fornliners are removed from the exposed
surface of the concrete, thus revealing the desired pattern or shape. Such patterns or shapes
can include faux stone or brick, wave patterns, emblems, etc.
                                           SUMMARY
         100081     As noted above, in recent years, significant advances have been made in
the art of concrete laying. Various techniques and equipment have been developed that allow
for the creation of decorative patterns in the concrete, especially a faux stone or brick
appearance. The results of such techniques and equipment provide the appearance of stone or
brick without the cost.
         [0009]     However, according to at least one of the embodiments disclosed herein is
the realization that in using multiple formliners, seams are created between the fornliners
where the formliners meet. For example, in order to create a large pattern or casting with
prior art fOrmliners, the fbrmliners are merely placed together using but1 joints, thus creating
significant visible seams between the formliners, As a result, the appearance of the exposed
surface of the concrete is compromised. An unsightly scam is very easy to notice and takes a
substantial amount of time and effort to remove from cured concrete. Further, in large-scale
projects, it is simply too cost prohibitive to re-work the cured concrete in order to remove the
seams. As such, the seams are simply left in place resulting in an inferior concrete product.
         100101     Thus, the present inventions provide for a fornliner having one or more
cells and one or more raised sections or ribs. wherein the formliner is shaped and configured
to be interconnected with other such brnliners to create a pattern or array of formliners
                                                --2--

WO 20101036971                                                              PCT/US2009/058489
which nest with each other such that an applied material provides a natural appearance and
does not show seaming between the fornliners that were interconnected to create the pattern.
As discussed herein, there are various fealures that can be incorporated into this broad
conception of the formliner in order to provide various combinations and embodiments of the
fornnliner. In the present description, the disclosed features can be optionally incorporated
into the above-noted formliner in any combination.
         10011J      Accordingly, in at least one embodiment disclosed herein, an improved
fornliner is provided which minimizes and/or eliminates the seams between multiple
interconnected fornliners. One of the advantages of embodiments disclosed herein is that a
scam between adjacent formliners is created along corners at or along a bottom portion of a
prepared formliner assembly or mold cavity of a casting.                For example. in some
embodiments, a seam between adjacent and/or interconnected fonnliners can be formed by an
edge of a first formliner positioned against or in a comer or face of an adjacent second
fornliner. In some embodiments, the seam can        lie along the intersection of one or more
surfaces, such as at a corner of a mold or formwork. Additionally, in other embodiments, the
seam can be positioned such that the weight of a curable material, such as concrete, against
the formliners causes the formliners to be pressed against each other with greater force
thereby minimizing and/or eliminating the seam between the adjacent formliners,
         10012]      In accordance with yet another embodiment is the realization that the set
up and interconnection of formliners can be expedited by eliminating the need to apply
adhesives to the overlapping joints of interconnected formliners.           In other words, the
realization is that the assembly time for a forcing a large pattern of interconnected fornliners
can be substantially reduced, as well as the cost and parts required, by eliminating the need
for adhesives.    En order to provide such a superior benefit, embodiments of the fornliners
disclosed herein can comprise a snap-fit arrangement that allows overlapping formliners to
form an interlocking joint. Thus, the fonriliners can be securely connected without using
adhesives. Further, such embodiments also result in reduced seaming between the formliners
where the formliners meet.       Furthermore, another of the unique advantages of such an
interlocking joint is that the joint is further stabilized and strengthened through the
application of force to the overlapping formliners, such as the application of a curable

WO 2010/036971                                                             PCT/US2009/058489
material such as concrete. Therefore, such an intedocking joint not only allows for the
elimination of adhesives, but also provides several structural benefits that ultimately create an
aesthetically superior product.
        100131      As discussed herein, embodiments of the formliner can also be referred to
as a sheet or panel. Some embodiments of the forinliner can define interconnecting portions
such that multiple formliners can be overlaid with each other at the interconnecting portions
thereof    Optionally, the interconnecting portions of the forminer can define variable
geometries.
        10014]      For example, a given interconnecting portion of the formliner can nest
within another given interconnecting portion of the forniliner. In such embodiments, as well
as in other embodiments disclosed herein, the formliner can be configured such that upper
surfaces of the interconnected formliners are flush with each other and joints between the
interconnected forliners are minimized. Thus, embodiments disclosed herein can achieve a
natural appearance of faux stone and brick with minimized, negligible, or imperceptible
seaming.
        [0015I      in accordance with some embodiments, the formliner can comprise
interlocking portions configured to overlap when the formliner is interconnected with another
formliner such that seams between the interconnected fornliners run along an edge or corner
of the interconnected fornliners.        In this manner, the seams between interconnected
formliners can be masked among discontinuities in a surface. Thus, the seams can be further
concealed from view.
        [0016]      In accordance with an embodiment. a forniner is provide for use in
creating a decorative pattern on an exposed face of cementitious material The formliner can
comprise a sheet of material, at least one cell formed in the sheet of material, and at least one
rib extending along the cell to form a boundary of the cell. The rib can be formed in the sheet
of material and defining a raised profile.
        100171      The rib can comprise a first section, a second section, at least one opening.
and a transition zone. The first section can define an exterior surface and an interior surface.
The exterior surface of the first section of the rib can be configured to face outwardly toward
the cementitious material, and to define a cross-sectional exterior profile. The first section
                                               --4--

WO 2010/036971                                                               PCT/US2009/058489
can further define a recess adjacent to the interior surface thereof. The recess can define a
cross-sectional interior profile. Further, the at least one opening can be formed in the first
section.
         100181     The second section can define an exterior surface that defines a cross
sectional exterior profile. The cross-sectional exterior profile of the second section can be
less than the cross-sectional interior profile of the first section.
         [00191     The transition zone can be fonned in the rib between the first section in
the second section to interconnect the first section with the second section. The transition
zone can define a variable cross-sectional exterior profile increasing from the cross-sectional
exterior profile of the second section to the cross-sectional exterior profile of the first section.
         10020]      In some embodiments, a phirality of formliners can be interconnected by
overlaying first sections onto second sections such that the second sections are nested within
the recesses of the first sections. Further, exterior surfaces of the first sections of the ribs of
the plurality of fornliners can be positioned flush with each other upon the nesting of the
second sections within the first sections. Furthermore, an opening in the first section of a
first fornliner can mate against a transition zone of a second formliner such that visible
seams in the decorative pattern are minimized when the plurality of fornliners are
interconnected in use.
         10021]      In accordance with some aspects of embodiments of the fonliner, the first
section can define an inner corner wherealong the first section interconnects with the cell and
a free outer edge. The outer edge can comprise at least one protrusion that extends inwardly
toward the inner corner thereof. The first section can further define an exterior profile and a
recess that defines a cross-sectional interior profile. The second section can also define an
inner corner wherealong the second section interconnects with the cell and a free outer edge.
The inner coiner can comprise at least one detent extending inwardly toward the outer edge
thereof. In this regard, the plurality of formliners can be interconnected by overlaying first
sections onto second sections such that the protrusion of the first section engages the detent
of the second section such that visible seams in the decorative pattern are minimized when
the plurality of formnliners arc interconnected in use. Further, the protrusion of the outer edge
of the first section of the rib can define a length that is less than a total length of the outer
                                                --5-

WO 2010/036971                                                              PCT/US2009/058489
edge thereof. Furthermore, the detent of the inner corner of the second section of the rib can
define a length that is less than a total length of the inner comer thereof. Additionally, the
inner corner of the first section can comprise at least one protrusion that extends inwardly
toward the outer edge thereof, and the outer edge of the second section can comprise a detent
that extends inwardly toward the inner corner thereof
         100221     In accordance with some implementations, the ribs of the fonnliner can be
arcuately shaped. Additionally, the opening formed in the first section of the rib can extend
from a base of the rib to an apex of the rib. In this regard, the rib can be arcuately shaped and
the opening is curvilinear. Further, a rib edge formed along the opening in the first section of
a first formliner can abut the transition zone of a second formliner. In some implementations,
the rib and the cell can meet to form a corner, and the first section of the rib of the first
foniliner can define a peripheral edge. The peripheral edge of the first section of the rib can
be disposed along a corner formed by the intersection of the rib and the cell of the second
formlincr along the second section of the rib of the second fornliner. In this regard, the
peripheral edge of the first section of the rib can be generally straight.
         10023J     In yet other aspects of embodiments of the formliner, the fornliner can
comprise a plurality of cells with a plurality of ribs disposed intenediate the cells to forn
boundaries thereof. The cells can define a generally rectangular shape. Further. the cells can
define opposing narrow ends, and the cells can be arranged in a plurality of layers with each
layer having a plurality of cells disposed end-to-end.         In addition, embodiments of the
formliner can be arranged such that cells of a first layer can be offset from the cells of a
second layer. Moreoever, the fornliner can comprise a plurality of cells. The formliner can
define a first end and a second end. The first end can be formed to include a first finger joint
pattern, and the second end can be formed to include a second finger joint pattern that is
complementary to the first finger joint pattern such that a first end of the first formfliner can
be overlaid with a second end of the second fonliner.
          100241    In yet other aspects of embodiments of the foriliner, embodiments of the
forniliner can comprise a fold line extending along the sheet of material and crossing the at
least one cell and at least one rib formed in the sheet of material.         The fold line can he
configured to allow the formliner to be folded for fitting against a corner of a mold. In this
                                                --6--

WO 2010/036971                                                              PCT/US2009/058489
regard, the rib can comprise a recess where the rib intersects with the fold line, and the recess
can be configured to enable upper surfaces of first and second portions of the formliner to
fold inwardly toward each other.       Moreoever, in some iTplementations, the recess can
comprise a pair of surfaces being oriented at an approximately 90" angle with respect to each
other. The pair of surfaces can be configured to contact each other when the formliner is
folded such that the first and second portions of the formiiner are oriented                at an
approximately 900 angle. Further, the fold line can comprise an indentation in the sheet of
material.
        100251      In accordance with another embodiment, a sheet is provided for forming a
pattern on a surface of a cemrentitious material.    The sheet can comprise rows of recesses.
Each recess can be shaped to impart the pattern to the surface of the material. The recesses in
a given row can be offset with respect to the recesses in an adjacent row. Each recess can be
surrounded with ridges defining the recess. Further, the sheet can be combinable with a
similar sheet by means of overlapping at least some of the ridges. Furthermore, a plurality of
sheets can be interconnected at their ends to forn a junction along ridges of offset recesses
such that the sheets are interconnected without a substantial seam at the junction.
        [0026]      In yet another embodiment, a system of panels is provided for morning a
pattern in a curable material.     Each panel can comprise a series of shaped regions for
imparting, when curable material is in the regions, the pattern on a wall or the like. The panel
can be formed with the shaped regions each being bounded by ridges. The ridges of the panel
can be configured to enable the panel to be engageable with another panel to increase the area
of application of the pattern. At least one of the ridges of the panel can have an open end to
allow the ridges of the panel to overlay at least one of the ridges of the other panel.
         100271      in some implementations of the system, the ridges of the panel can include
an overlapping ridge and an overlapped ridge. The overlapped ridge can comprise a detent
that is configured to engage with a protrusion of an overlapping ridge of another panel when
the overlapping ridge of the other panel is overlaid onto ihe overlapped ridge in order to
interconnect the panels. Further, the panel can deflne a perimeter and the ridges extend about
the perimeter thereof.       Additionally, the panel can comprise overlapped ridges and
overlapping ridges. The overlapping ridges of the panel can comprise one or more open ends
                                               --7--

WO 2010/036971                                                            PCT/US2009/058489
such that ridges of the other panel can be overlapped by the overlapping ridges of the panel
and extend from the open end in the overlapping ridges of the panel. The overlapping ridges
can define an interior dimension that is greater than an exterior dimension of the overlapped
ridges.
         10028]      In some aspects of embodiments of the system, the system can be
configured such that the shaped regions of the pane] can be formed in generally rectangular
shapes, and the panel can define a perimeter comprising one or more ridges having an open
end at a corner of the perimeter of the panel. The detent can be formed in a corner between
the overlapped ridge and the shaped region of the panel. Further, the detent can extend in a
direction away from the shaped region of the panel. Additionally, the protrusion of the panel
can be formed along a f-ce side edge of the overlapping ridge of the panel. In this regard, the
protrusion can extend in a direction toward the shaped region of the panel.
         100291      In other aspects of embodiments of the system, the system can be modified
such that the overlapped ridge can comprise at least a pair of detents that are disposed on
opposing sides of the overlapped ridge. The overlapping ridge can comprise at least a pair of
protrusions disposed on opposing sides of the overlapping ridge. In this regard, a plurality of
panels can be interconnected such that the protrusions of the overlapping ridge engage the
detents of the overlapped ridge.
         100301      in accordance with yet another embodiment, a method is provided for
transferring a decorative pattern to a curable material. The method can comprise: providing a
plurality of forrnliners, each fornliner comprising one or more shaped regions being bounded
by ridges, each formliner defining overlapped ridges and overlapping ridges; engaging a first
foonliner with a second formliner by overlaying overlapping ridges of the first formliner on
to overlapped ridges of the second formliner; and placing the curable material against the first
and second formliners to transmit a decorative pattern formed by the shaped regions of the
first and second formliners to the curable material.
         100311      In some implementations of the method, each formliner can be configured
with the overlapped ridges having a detent and the overlapping ridges having a protrusion.
and the method can further comprise causing engagement between a protrusion of one of the
overlapping ridges with a detent of one of the overlapped ridges. Further, the step of causing
                                               -_8--

WO 2010/036971                                                             PCT/US2009/058489
engagement between a protrusion of one of the overlapping ridges with a detent of one of the
overlapped ridges can be completed prior to placing the curable material against the first and
second formliners. In some implementations of the method, no adhesive is used to engage
the first formliner with the second fonrliner.
         10032]     Additionally, the method can be implemented such that the step of causing
engagement between a protrusion of one of the overlapping ridges with a detent of one of the
overlapped ridges can comprise engaging a pair of protrusions of an overlapping ridge with a
pair of detents of the overlapped ridge. In this regard, the pair of protrusions can be disposed
on opposing sides of the overlapping ridge and the pair of detents are disposed on opposing
sides of the overlapped ridge.
         100331     In other aspects of embodiments of the method, the method can be
implemented such that each formliner further comprises non-overlap ridges and at least one
open end formed in the overlapping ridges. In such implementations. the method can further
comprise overlaying the overlapping ridges of the first fonnliner onto the overlapped ridges
of the second formliner with a non-overlap ridge of the second formliner extending from an
open end of the overlapping ridges of the first formliner. Further, the non-overlap ridge of
the second formliner can be interconnected with and extend from the overlapped ridge of the
second fornmliner.
          100341    In another aspect of embodiments of the method, the method can he
implemented such that overlapping ridges of the first formliner can define an interior
geometry that is greater than an exterior geometry of the overlapped ridges of the second
 fornliner. In such an implementation, the method can further comprise engaging a third
 formliner with the first fbrmliner and the second forinliner. The third formliner can comprise
 overlapping ridges and overlapped ridges.        Further, one of the first, second, and third
 forrmliners can comprise a sub-overlapped ridge section that defines an exterior geometry that
 can be less than an interior geometry of the overlapped ridges. In such an implementation,
 the method can further comprise overlaying an overlapped ridge on to the sub-overlapped
 ridge section,   Further, the first formliner can comprise the sub-overlapped ridge section
 formed along a corner of a periphery of the first formliner, and the second formliner and the
                                               --9-

WO 2010/036971                                                              PCT/US2009/058489
third formliner can overlap the first formliner at the sub-overlapped ridge section of the first
formliner.
        [0035]       In yet other aspects of embodiments of the method, the first formliner and
the second formliner each comprise at least one row with a projecting cell hounded in at least
one adjacent row with a non-projecting cell, the first formliner and the second fonnliner
being engaged with a projecting cell in a first row of the first forinliner being positioned
adjacent to a non-projecting cell in a first row of the second fonnliner and a projecting cell in
a second row of the second formliner being positioned adjacent to a non-projecting cell in a
second row of the first formliner.
        [0036]       Other implementations of the method can be provided wherein edges the
overlapping ridges of the first formliner extend downwardly toward a bottom portion of
respective shaped regions located adjacent to overlapped ridges of the second fonnliner.
Accordingly., the method can comprise placing the curable material against the overlapping
ridges of the first frirmliner such that the edges of the overlapping ridges of the first formliner
are urged adjacent to the bottom portion of respective shaped regions to minimize and/or
eliminate a seam formed between the edges and the bottom portion of the respective shaped
regions.
        100371       In accordance with yet another embodiment, a method of manufacturing a
formliner is provided.       The method can comprise: forming a formliner of one of the
embodiments disclosed herein.         Further, the method can be implemented such that an
opening in the first section of a rib of the formliner is formed by trimming a rib protrusion
that extends from the rib.
        10038]        Further, the method of fonning a formliner can be implemented using a
variety of tools and machines.          For example, the formliner can be formed using a
thermoforing operation. Additionally, a periphery of the formliner can be trimmed using a
laser cutting operation,
         [0039]      Additionally, in accordance with at least one embodiment disclosed
herein, the formliner can comprise a plurality of cells.            Optionally, the cells can be
rectangularly shaped, thus taking on the appearance of bricks,       The cells can be arranged in
an offset pattern. In this regard, the formliner can be interconnected with another formliner
                                                --10-

WO 2010/036971                                                               PCT/US2009/058489
to produce a finger jointed pattern in the concrete. Additionally, the cells can be shaped in
the forn of various types of stone. The stone shapes may be rounded, thin, square, and in
other myriad shapes. Embodiments of the fonnliner can be formed to include cells that are
identical or that very in size. Optionally, embodiments of the formliner can comprise one or
more cells that define a substantially planar face. Alternatively, the formliner can comprise
one or more cells that define a roughened or textured face.
         100401     In an embodiment., a formliner is provided for use in creating a decorative
pattern on a treated or exposed face of a curable material. Embodiments can be used in
horizontal or vertical casting. Some embodiments can be used with materials such as cement,
plaster, or other such curable materials. In other embodiments, the fonnliner can comprise a
sheet of material, at least one cell, and at least one rib. This material can optionally lie
formed from a plastic material. The cell can be formed in the sheet of material. The rib can
extend along the cell and form-r  a boundary of the cell The rib can be formed in the sheet of
material and define a raised profile.
         10041]     In some embodiments, the rib can comprise a first section, a second
section, at least one opening, and a transition zone. The first section can define an exterior
surface and an interior surface. The exterior surface of the first section of the rib can be
configured to face outwardly toward the cementitious material The first section can define a
recess adjacent to the interior surface thereof. The recess can define a cross-sectional interior
profile.
         100421     The second section can define an exterior surface forming a cross
sectional exterior profile. The cross-sectional exterior profile of the second section can be
less than the cross-sectional interior profile of the first section. The opening can be formed in
the first section.
         [00431      The transition zone can be formed in the rib between the first section in
the second section to interconnect the first section with the second section. The transition
zone can define a variable cross-sectional profile increasing from the cross-sectional exterior
profile of the second section to the cross-sectional interior profile of the first section.
         100441      It is contemplated that a first formliner can be intercomiected with a
second formliner by nesting the overlaying the first section of the rib of the first formliner
                                               -- lI--

 WO 2010/036971                                                            PCT/US2009/058489
onto the second section of the rib of the second formliner such that the second section of the
rib of the second formliner is nested within the first section of the rib of the first formliner.
Further. exterior surfaces of the ribs of the first formliner and the second [ormliner can be
flush with each other upon nesting of the second section of the second fornliner within the
first section of the first formliner. Additionally, an opening in the first section of the first
fonnliner can mate against a transition zone of the second formliner such that visible seams
in the decorative pattern are minimized when the first formliner and the second formliner are
interconnected in use.
         [00451     In some embodiments, the ribs of the first formliner and the second
formliner can be arcuately shaped.     The opening formed in the first section of the rib can
extend from a base of the rib to an apex of the rib. The rib can be arcuately shaped and the
opening can be curvilinear. Further, a rib edge formed along the opening in the first section
of the first formliner can abut the transition zone of the second formliner. The rib and the
cell can meet to form a corner.
         [0046]     Further, the first section of the rib of the first formliner can define a
peripheral edge. The peripheral edge of the first section of the rib can be disposed along a
corner formed by the intersection of the rib and the cell of the second fonnliner along the
second section of the rib of the second fornliner. The peripheral edge of the first section of
the rib can be generally straight. The forinliner can comprise a plurality of cells with a
plurality of ribs disposed intermediate the cells to form boundaries thereof. The cells can
define a generally rectangular shape. The cells can define opposing narrow ends. Further,
the cells can be arranged in a plurality of layers with each layer having a plurality of cells
 disposed end-to-end.
          100471     In other embodiments, the cells of a first layer can also be offset from the
 cells of a second layer. Further, the fornliner can comprise a plurality of cells and define a
 first end and a second end. In this regard, the first end can be formed to include a first finger
joint pattern and the second end can be formed to include a second finger joint pattern that is
 complementary to the first finger joint pattern such that a first end of the first forrnliner can
 be overlaid with a second end of the second formliner.
                                              -12~.

 WO 2010/036971                                                            PCT/US2009/058489
         10048]     In accordance with yet another embodiment, a panel is provided for
forming a repeated pattern on a rigid surface. The panel can comprise a plurality of cells and
a panel periphery.     The plurality of cells can be configured to receive material to be applied
to the surface and can be arranged in rows with the cells of each row being offset with respect
to cells of an adjacent row. The panel periphery can bound the plurality of cells by a plurality
of sides. Each cell can comprise a recess portion for receiving the material and being shaped
to confer a pattern on the material.       In this regard, at least one given side of the panel
periphery can be formed with cells in offset configuration such that the given side has at least
one row with a projecting cell bounded in at least one adjacent row with a non-projecting
cell. In some embodiments, the cells can be uniformly sized. For example, the cells can be
rectangular.
         100491     Additionally, in accordance with another aspect of the present inventions,
a set of panels can be provided which comprises a first panel as claimed in Claim 14 and a
second panel.     The second panel can have a panel periphery with at least one side being
 fonned with cells in offset configuration such that the side has at least one row with a
projecting cell bounded in at least one adjacent row with a non-projecting cell. The first and
second panels can be configured to interconnect along the sides thereof having the projecting
cells. The projecting cell of the first panel can be positioned in the same row as the non
projecting cell of the second panel and can be offset from the projecting cell of the second
panel. The projecting cell of the second panel can be positioned in the same row as the non
projecting cell of the first panel.   The firsi and second panels can form a continuous sheet
with offset cells along their juncture. As mentioned above, in some embodiments, the cells
can be uniformly sized. For example, the cells can be rectangular.
         100501      In accordance with yet another embodiment, a sheet is provided for
 forming a pattern on a surface of a cementitious material. The sheet can comprise rows of
 recesses. Each recess can be shaped to impart the pattern to the surface of the material. The
recesses in a given row can be offset with respect to the recesses in an adjacent row.       Each
 recess can be surrounded with ridges defining the recess. The sheet can be combinable with a
 similar sheet by means of overlapping at least some of the ridges. In this regard, a plurality of
                                                --13-

WO 2010/036971                                                              PCT/US2009/058489
sheets can be interconnected at their ends to form a junction along ridges of offset recesses
such that the sheets are interconnected without a substantial seam at the junction.
         10051}     In yet another embodiment, a panel is provided for imparting a decorative
appearance to a surface, such as a casting (whether horizontal or vertical), a wall, walking
area or the like through application of a curable material to the surface that shaped to the
decorative appearance by a series of recesses. The recesses can be configured to receive the
curable material and provide the decorative appearance as the curable material cures. The
recesses can have projections defining a first dimension. The panel can have first and second
edge areas configured to allow a plurality of panels to be interconnected along the first and
second edges areas in an end-to-end manner. The first edge area of the panel can define first
projections having an underside. The second edge area of the pane] can have, at least in part,
second projections of a reduced dimension for mating with the underside of the first
projections of another panel by overlaying the first projections of the panel on the second
pTojections of reduced dimension.
         10052]     In accordance with another embodiment, a panel is provided for forming a
pattern in a curable material.     The panel can comprise a series of shaped regions for
imparting, when curable material is in the regions, the pattern on a wall or the like. The panel
can be formed with the shaped regions each being bounded by ridges. The ridges of the panel
can be configured to enable the panel to be engageable with another panel to increase the area
of application of the pattern. Further, at least one of the ridges of the panel can have an open
end to allow the ridges of the panel to overlay at least one of the ridges of the other panel.
         100531     Additionally, the panel can be optionally configured to define a perimeter
 and the ridges can extend about the perimeter thereof. The panel can comprise overlapped
ridges and overlapping ridges. This regard, the overlapping ridges of the panel can comprise
 one or more open ends such that ridges of the other panel can be overlapped by the
 overlapping ridges of the panel and extend from the open end in the overlapping ridges of the
panel. In some implementations, the overlapping ridges can define an interior dimension that
 is greater than an exterior dimension of the overlapped ridges, In other embodiments, the
 shaped regions of the panel can he forced in generally rectangular shapes and the panel can
                                              -- 14--

WO 2010/036971                                                            PCT/US2009/058489
define a perimeter comprising one or more ridges having an open end at a corner of the
perimeter of the panel.
        100541      In accordance with yet another embodiment, a method is provided for
transferring a decorative pattern to an exposed surface of a curable material. The method
comprise the steps of: providing a plurality of formliners, each formliner comprising one or
more shaped regions being bounded by ridges, each formliner defining overlapped ridges and
overlapping ridges; engaging a first forliner with a second forniliner by overlaying
overlapping ridges of the first formliner on to overlapped ridges of the second formliner; and
placing the curable material against the first and second formliners to transmit a decorative
pattern formed by the shaped regions of the first and second formliners onto the exposed face
of the curable material.
        10055]      In some embodiments, each formliner can further comprise non-overlap
ridges and at least one open end formed in the overlapping ridges. In this regard, the method
can further comprise overlaying the overlapping ridges of the first formliner onto the
overlapped ridges of the second formliner with a non-overlap ridge of the second fonnliner
extending from an open end of the overlapping ridges of the first formliner. Further, the non
overlap ridge of the second formliner can be interconnected with and extends from the
overlapped ridge of the second formliner.
        [0056]      Additionally, the overlapping ridges of the first tbrmnliner can define an
interior geometry that is greater than an exterior geometry of the overlapped ridges of the
second formliner. In such embodiment, the method can further comprise engaging a third
formliner with the first formliner and the second formliner. The third fornliner can comprise
overlapping ridges and overlapped ridges, and one of the first, second, and third formliners
can comprise a sub-overlapped ridge section. The sub-overlapped ridge section can define an
exterior geometry that is less than an interior geometry of the overlapped ridges, the method
further comprising overlaying an overlapped ridge on to the sub-overlapped ridge section.
         100571      Further, in some embodiments, the first formliner can be configured with
the sub-overlapped ridge section formed along a coiner of a periphery of the first formliner.
Further, the second formliner and the third formliner can overlapped the first formliner at the
sub-overlapped ridge section of the first Formliner.
                                             -- 15--

WO 2010/036971                                                              PCT/US2009/058489
         100581      In other implementations of the method, the first formliner and the second
fornliner can each comprise at least one row with a projecting cell bounded in at least one
adjacent row with a nor-projecting cell. The first fonnliner and the second fonliner can be
engaged with a projecting cell in a first row of the first formliner being positioned adjacent to
a non-projecting cell in a first row of the second formliner and a projecting cell in a second
row of the second formliner being positioned adjacent to a non-projecling cell in a second
row of the first formliner.
         100591      Furthermore, some embodiments of the method can allow for minimized
and/or eliminated seaming between the forniners. For example, the overlapping ridges of
the first formliner can be configured to include edges that extend downwardly toward a
bottom portion of respective shaped regions located adjacent to overlapped ridges of the
second formliner.       The method can comprise placing the curable material against the
overlapping ridges of the first formliner such that the edges of the overlapping ridges of the
first fonnliner are urged adjacent to the bottom portion of respective shaped regions to
minimize and/or eliminate a seam formed between the edges and the bottom portion of the
respective shaped regions.
         10060]      In accordance with sone embodiments, it is contemplated that the
fornliner can be attached to another formliner and/or to a form work by means of an
adhesive. Such an adhesive can be applied to the formliner at the site. However, in some
embodiments, the forinliner can comprise an adhesive that can be activated or exposed in
order to enable adhesive attachment of the formliner to another formliner or to a fonn work.
For example, the adhesive can be pre-applied to the formliner, which adhesive can be
exposed by removing a strip or by dampening with a liquid such as water or otherwise. In
this manner, the foriliner can be securely attached in a pattern and/or in a form work to
facilitate handling and placement of the fonnliner.
         100611      In such an embodiment, a formliner is provided for creating a decorative
pattern on a curable material. The formliner can comprise a sheet of material, at least one
 cell formed in the sheet of material, and at least one rib extending along the cell and forming
 a boundary of the cell. The rib can define a raised profile. Further, the rib can comprise a
 hollow first section and a second section.
                                              -16--

WO 2010/036971                                                               PCT/US2009/058489
         100621     The hollow first section can define an inner corner wherealong the first
section interconnects with the cell and a free outer edge. The outer edge can comprise at least
one protrusion that extends inwardly toward the inner corner thereof. The first section can
further define a cross-sectional exterior profile and a recess that defines a cross-sectional
interior profile.
         [00631      The second section can define a cross-sectional exterior profile.           The
cross-sectional exterior profile of the second section can be less than the cross-sectional
interior profile of the recess of the first section. The second section can further define an
inner corner wherealong the second section interconnects with the cell and a free outer edge.
The inner corner can comprise at least one detent extending inwardly toward the outer edge
thereof, in this regard, a plurality of foriliners can be interconnected by overlaying first
sections onto second sections such that the protrusion of the first section engages the detent
of the second section such that visible seams in the decorative pattern are minimized when
the first formliner and the second fornliner are interconnected in use.
          100641     In some embodiments, the protrusion of the outer edge of the first section
of the rib can define a length that is less than a total length of the outer edge thereof Further,
the detent of the inner corner of the second section of the rib can define a length that is less
than a total length of the inner comer thereof In other embodiments, the inner corner of the
 first section can comprise at least one protrusion that extends inwardly toward the outer edge
 thereof, and the outer edge of the second section can comprise a detent that extends inwardly
 toward the inner corner thereof. Further, the at least one rib of the fonliner can be arcuately
 shaped,
          100651     Additionally, the forliner can further comprise at least one opening
 formed in the first section and a transition zone formed in the rib between the first section in
 the second section to interconnect the first section with the second section. The transition
 zone can define a variable cross-sectional exterior profile increasing from the cross-sectional
 exterior profile of the second section to the cross-sectional exterior profile of the first section.
          10066]      In accordance with another embodiment, a panel is provided for forming a
 pattern in a curable material.      The panel can comprise a series of shaped regions for
 imparting, when curable material is in the regions, the pattern on a wall or the like. The panel
                                                --17--

WO 2010/036971                                                               PCT/US2009/058489
can be formed with the shaped regions each being bounded by ridges. The ridges of the panel
can be configured to enable the panel to be engageable with another panel to increase the area
of application of the pattern. In this regard, at least one of the ridges of the panel can have an
open end to allow the ridges of the panel to overlay at least one of the ridges of the other
panel. Further, the ridges of the panel can include an overlapping ridge and an overlapped
ridge. The overlapped ridge can comprise a detent that is configured to engage with a
protrusion of an overlapping ridge of another panel when the overlapping ridge of the other
panel is overlaid onto the overlapped ridge in order to interconnect the panels.
        100671      In some implementations, the decent of the panel can be fonned in a corner
between the overlapped ridge and the shaped region of the panel. Further, the detect can
extend in a direction away from the shaped region of the panel. Additionally, the protrusion
of the panel can be formed along a free side edge of the overlapping ridge of the panel. In
this regard, the protrusion can extend in a direction toward the shaped region of the panel.
         100681     In other implementations, the overlapped ridge can comprise at least a pair
of detents that are disposed on opposing sides of the overlapped ridge, and the overlapping
ridge can comprise at least a pair of protrusions disposed on opposing sides of the
overlapping ridge. In this regard, a plurality of panels can be interconnected such that the
protrusions of the overlapping ridge engage the detents of the overlapped ridge.
         10069]      According to yet another embodiment. a system oF interconnectable panels
is provided for forming a pattern in a curable material. Each panel can comprise one or more
shaped regions for imparting, when curable material is in the regions, the pattern on a wall or
the like. The shaped regions can each be bounded by ridges. At least one of the ridges of
each panel can have an open end to allow the ridges of the panel to overlay at least one of the
ridges of the other panel.      The ridges can comprise a detent and a protrusion that are
configured to enable a given panel to be engageable with another panel when the ridges of the
panels are overlaid to increase the area of application of the pattern.
         100701      The system can be configured such that the ridges can comprise at least a
pair of detents disposed on opposing sides of the ridge and at least a pair of protrusions
 disposed on opposing sides of the ridge.           For example, a plurality of panels can be
 interconnected with the ridge of a given panel being overlaid onto the ridge of another panel
                                               -18-

WO 2010/036971                                                           PCT/US2009/058489
such that protrusions of the ridge of the given panel engage the detents of the ridge of the
other panel.
        10071]      In some embodiments, the system can be configured such that each panel
comprises an overlapping ridge and an overlapped ridge. The overlapped ridge can comprise
the detent, and the overlapping ridge can comprise the protrusion. In this regard, the panels
can be engaged by overlaying an overlapping ridge onto an overlapped ridge to engage a
protrusion of the overlapping ridge with a detent of the overlapped ridge.         Further, the
protrusion of each panel can be formed along a free side edge of the overlapping ridge. For
example, the protrusion can extend in a direction toward the shaped region. Furthennore, the
detent of each panel can be formed in a corner portion of the panel between the overlapped
ridge and the shaped region. For example, the detent can extend in a direction away from the
shaped region.
         10072]     In some implementations, each panel can define a perimeter and the ridges
extend about the perimeter thereof. Further, each panel can comprise overlapped ridges and
overlapping ridges, The overlapping ridges can comprise one or more open ends such that an
overlapped ridge can be overlaid by an overlapping ridge and extend from the open end of the
overlapping ridge. In this regard, the overlapping ridges can define an interior dimension that
is greater than an exterior dimension of the overlapped ridges.
         100731     In accordance with yet another embodiment, a method is provided for
transferring a decorative pattern to a curable material. The method can comprise: providing a
plurality of formliners, each forniliner comprising one or more shaped regions being bounded
by ridges, each formliner defining overlapped ridges and overlapping ridges, the overlapped
ridges having a detent, the overlapping ridges having a protrusion; engaging a first fornliner
with a second formliner by overlaying overlapping ridges of the first formliner on to
overlapped ridges of the second formliner; causing engagement between a protrusion of one
of the overlapping ridges with a detent of one of the overlapped ridges; and placing the
curable material against the first and second formliners to transmit a decorative pattern
formed by the shaped regions of the first and second formliners to the curable material.
         100741      One of the unique aspects of such a method is that it can be implemented
such that no adhesive is used to engage the first formliner with the second formnliner. In some
                                              -- 19--

WO 2010/036971                                                              PCT/US2009/058489
implementations, the step of causing engagement between a protrusion of one of the
overlapping ridges with a detent of one of the overlapped ridges can be completed prior to
placing the curable material against the first and second fonnliners.        Further, the step of
causing engagement between a protrusion of one of the overlapping ridges with a detent of
one of the overlapped ridges can comprise engaging a pair of protrusions of an overlapping
ridge wiih a pair of detents of the overlapped ridge. In this regard, the pair of protrusions can
be disposed on opposing sides of the overlapping ridge and the pair of detents can be
disposed on opposing sides of the overlapped ridge.
         100751    Moreover, the method can also further comprising the step of engaging a
third fornliner with the first formliner and the second formiliner. The 1hird fonrliner can
comprise overlapping ridges and overlapped ridges, and one of the firs1, second, and third
fonnliner comprising a sub-overlapped ridge section. The sub-overlapped ridge section can
define an exterior geometry that can be less than an interior geometry of the overlapped
ridges. In this regard, the method can further comprise overlaying an overlapped ridge onto
the sub-overlapped ridge section.       Additionally, the sub-overlapped ridge section can be
formed along a corner of a periphery of the first formliner, and the method can comprise
overlaying the second formliner and the third formliner onto the first forrnliner at the sub
overlapped ridge section of the first fonnliner.
                        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
         100761    The abovementioned and other features of the inventions disclosed herein
are described below with reference to the drawings of the preferred embodiments.              The
illustrated embodiments are intended to illustrate, but not to limit the inventions.          The
drawings contain the following figures:
         100771     Figure 1 is a perspective view of a formliner, according to an embodiment
of the present inventions.
         10078]     Figure 2 is a top view of a plurality of formliners that are interconnected to
create a formilner assembly, according to an embodiment.
         100791     Figure 3 is a cross-sectional side view taken along section 3-3 of Figure 2.
         100801     Figure 4 is a top view of a formliner, according to an embodiment.
                                               --20--

WO 2010/036971                                                               PCT/US2009/058489
         100811     Figure 5 is an end view taken along section 5-5 of Figure 4.
         10082]     Figure 6 is a perspective view of first and second fornliners as the first
formliner is overlaid onto the second formliner, according to an embodiment.
         100831     Figure 7 is an enlarged perspective view of a rib corner of the formliner
shown in Figure 4.
         10084]     Figure 8 is a perspective view of a first formliner, a second formlincr, and
a third formliner illustrating nesting of the formliners along a rib corner of the first formlincr,
according to an embodiment.
         100851     Figure 9 is a perspective view of first and second fornliners in an
interconnected configuration, according to an embodiment.
         10086]     Figure 10 is a cross-sectional side view of the first and second formliners
shown in Figure 9 illustrating  flush exterior surfaces of the first and second formliners.
         |00871     Figure I I is a top view of a formliner for forming a mold corner,
according to another embodiment.
         [0088]     Figure 12 is a perspective view of first and second formliners configured
to form a mold corner, according to an embodiment.
         [0089]      Figure 13 is a perspective view of first and second formliners configured
to form a mold corner, according to another embodiment.
         10090]      Figure 14 is a perspective view of first and second formliners configured
to form a mold corner, according to yet another embodiment.
         100911      Figure 15 is a top view of an alternative configuration of a formliner,
according to an embodiment.
         [0092]      Figure 16 is a top view of another alternative configuration of a formliner,
according to another embodiment.
         100931      Figure 17 is a perspective view of yet another alternative configuration of
a formliner, according to another embodiment.
         [0094]      Figures 18A-C illustrate a prior art brickwork form system.
         [0095]      Figure 19 is a perspective view of a formliner, according to an
embodiment of the present inventions.
                                               --21-

WO 2010/036971                                                               PCT/US2009/058489
         100961      Figure 20 is a top view of a plurality of fonnliners that are interconnected
to create a fonrnliner assembly, according to an embodiment.
         100971      Figure 2 IA is a cross-sectional side view taken along section 21A-21A of
Figure 20.
         100981      Figure 21B is an enlarged view of a portion of the cross-sectional side
view of Figure 21 A.
         100991      Figure 2 1C is another enlarged view of a portion of the cross-sectional
side view of Figure 21A wherein the fonrmliners are shown prior to interconnection thereof,
according to an embodiment.
         101001      Figure 22A is an enlarged cross-sectional side view of a formliner, similar
to that shown in Figures 21 A-C, according to another embodiment.
         101011      Figure 22B is an enlarged cross-sectional side view of a formliner, similar
to that shown in Figures 21 A-C. according to yet another embodiment.
         10102]      Figure 22C is an enlarged cross-sectional side view of a formliner, similar
to that shown in Figures 2 1 A-C, according to yet another embodiment.
         101031      Figure 23 is a top view of a formliner, according to an embodiment.
         101041      Figure 24 is an end view taken along section 24-24 of Figure 23.
         101051      Figure 25 is a perspective view of first and second formliners as the first
 formliner is overlaid onto the second formliner, according to an embodiment.
         101061      Figure 26 is an enlarged perspective view of a rib corner of the fornliner
 shown in Figure 19.
         101071      Figure 27 is a perspective view of a first formliner, a second formliner, and
 a third formliner illustrating nesting of the forliners along a rib corner of the first fornliner,
 according to an embodiment.
          101081     Figure 28 is a perspective view of first and second formliners in an
 interconnected configuration, according to an embodiment.
          [0109}     Figure 29 is a cross-sectional side view of the first and second formliners
 shown in Figure 28 illustrating   lush exterior surfaces of the first and second formliners.
          10110]      Figure 30 is a top view of a formliner for forming a mold comer,
 according to another embodiment.
                                                --22--

WO 2010/036971                                                             PCT/US2009/058489
        101111      Figure 31 is a perspective view of first and second formliners configured
to forn a mold corner, according to an embodiment.
        101121      Figure 32 is a perspective view of first and second formliners configured
to form a mold corner, according to another embodiment.
        101131      Figure 33 is a top view of an alternative configuration of a formliner,
according to an embodiment.
        [01141      Figure 34 is a top view of another alternative configuration of a fornliner,
according to another embodiment.
        101151      Figure 35 is a perspective view of yet another alternative configuration of
a formuliner, according to another embodiment.
         10116]     Figure 36 is a top view of yet another embodiment of an alternative
configuration of a formliner. according to another embodiment.
         101171     Figure 37 is a top view of a mold corner, according to another
 embodiment.
         10118]     Figure 38A is an enlarged view of a portion of the mold corner shown in
 Figure 37.
         101191     Figure 38B is a side view of a portion of the mold corner shown in Figure
 37.
                                   DETAIlED DESCRIPTION
         101201      While the present description sets forth specific details of various
 embodiments, it will be appreciated that the description is illustrative only and should not be
 construed in any way as limiting. Furthennore, various applications of such embodiments
 and modifications thereto, which nay occur to those who are skilled in the art, are also
 encompassed by the general concepts described herein.
         10121]      As generally discussed above, embodiments of the present inventions are
 advantageously configured in order to enhance the aesthetic finish of a concrete structure. In
 particular, embodiments disclosed herein can be used to create a natural, seamless appearance
 of brick, stone, and other types of materials in a concrete structure.
                                               --23--

          [0122]          In contrast to prior art formliners that produce an inferior quality
product, the structures of embodiments of the formliner disclosed herein, which can also be
referred to as a panel or sheet, allow the formliner to create decorative patterns that are
visually superior to results provided through the prior art. These significant advantages are due
at least in part to the nesting arrangement of the variable size channels of embodiments of the
formliner disclosed herein. In particular, the formliner can comprise one or more large
interconnection sections and one or more small interconnection sections such that a plurality
of formliners can be interconnected at their respective large and small interconnection
sections. When interconnected, the plurality of formliners can define one or more generally
continuous dimensions or shapes of raise portions thereof. For example, the large and small
interconnection sections can configured as nesting semi-cylinders that form a rib structure.
Additional advantages and features of embodiments of the fonnliner are discussed further
below.
          [0123]          In some embodiments, it is contemplated that the formliner can be
attached to another formliner and/or a form work by means of an adhesive. The adhesive can
be disposed on a rear surface or back of the formliner and/or onto a front surface of the
formliner. For example, the adhesive can be disposed on the front surface along a rib or ridge
that will be overlaid by a portion of another formliner.
          [01241           In some embodiments, the adhesive can be applied to the formliner at
the site. For example, the adhesive can be applied or sprayed onto the fornliner. However, in
other embodiments, the formliner can comprise an adhesive that can be activated or exposed in
order to enable adhesive attachment of the formliner to another formliner or to a form work.
In such embodiments, the adhesive can be pre-applied to the formliner and can be exposed by
removing a cover strip or activated by dampening with a liquid such as water or otherwise. As
such, by peeling away a cover strip or by providing moisture to the adhesive, the adhesive can
be activated to adhesively attach the formliner to another formliner or to a form work. As
noted above in this manner, the formliner can be securely attached another formliner in a
pattern and/or to a form work to facilitate handling and placement of the fornliner.
                                                24

WO 2010/036971                                                             PCT/US2009/058489
         101251     Embodiments of the formliner and formliner components disclosed herein
can be manufactured using any of a variety of processes. For example, it is contemplated that
some embodiments can be formed using a sheet and a vacuum forming operation. Other
manufacturing processes such as injection molding. stamping, extrusion, etc. can also be
used.
         101261     With reference now to the figures, Figure 1 is a perspective view of an
embodiment of a formliner., panel, or sheet 100. The fornliner 100 can comprise a plurality
of ribs, ridges, or channels 102. The ribs 102 can be a raised portion of the forliner 100.
The ribs 102 can define an outer perimeter of the fornliner 100. Additionally, the ribs 102
can extend inwardly to forn one or more cells or recesses 104.
         101271     In some embodiments, the cells 104 can comprise a recessed portion of the
formliner 100. The recessed portion of the cell 104 can be configured to receive a curable
material to which a pattern of the formilner can be conferred or transferred. The cells 104
can be uniformly sized.       For example, the cells 104 can be rectangularly shaped.          As
discussed below, embodiments of the formliner 100 can implement other shapes, depths, and
sizes of the cells 104.
          101281    As illustrated in the embodiment of Figure 1, the cells or recesses 104 can
be arranged in rows. As will be discussed further below, the cells or recesses 104 of a given
row can be offset with respect to cells or recesses of an adjacent or neighboring row. In this
regard, a plurality of formlincrs 100 can be interconnected along ends thereof in such a way
as to reduce any visible appearance of a seam between interconnected formliners. The offset
configuration of the cells or recesses 104 in some embodiments can aid in concealing or
hiding any seaming between fonrliners.
          10129]    Additionally, the embodiment illustrated in Figure I illustrates that the
 cells 104 of adjacent rows can be offset from each other such that at opposing ends of the
 foniliner 100, some of the cells 104 protrude at the end. In this regard, the rows can be
 fonned to include projecting and non-projecting cells 104. The projecting cells can be
 considered to be complete or whole cells. In other words, the projecting cells are not smaller
 in size than other cells 104 of the pattern even though the offset configuration of the cells 104
 causes the projecting cells to protrude at one side or end of the formliner 100. As will be
                                               --25--

WO 2010/036971                                                            PCT/US2009/058489
discussed further below, the projecting cells of the pattern can be interconnected with
projecting cells of another forrmliner.
         101301     The embodiment illustrated in Figure I can be used to create a faux brick
pattern on a concrete structure. The forrliner 100 can define a panel periphery bounding the
plurality of cells 104 by a plurality of sides. The formiiner 100 defines an upper surface I10.
Although not shown in Figure 1, the formliner 100 also defines a lower surface. In use, the
upper surface 110 of the formliner 100 would be positioned such that it can be pressed into
fresh concrete. This can be accomplished by placing the upper surface 110 of the formliner
100 against an exposed surface of fresh concrete. Otherwise, this can be accomplished by
affixing the lower surface of the fornliner 100 to an interior wall of a pattern, casting, or
formwork before concrete is poured into the pattern, casting, or formwork. In either case, a
material, such as concrete can be placed against the decorative pattern of the formliner 100
defined by the ribs 102 and the cells 104 in order to transfer the decorative pattern to the
exposed surface of the material as the material cures.
         [0131]      In many cases, the exposed surface of a given structure, such as a wall,
walking area, or the like, consists of a large surface area. In order to cover the entire area,
several formliners must be used. As shown in the formlincr assembly of Figure 2, several
fornliners 120, 122, and 124 can be interconnected in order to transfer a decorative pattern
onto a large surface area. The interconnection of these formliners 120, 122, and 124 provides
 a distinct advantage over prior art to fornmliners because the seams between the formliners
 120, 122, and 124 are insubstantial and/or eliminated compared to prior art fonnliners.
         101321      As discussed above, Figure 2 illustrates that the formiliner 120 can
 comprise projecting cells 125 in the fornliner 122 can comprise one or more projecting cells
 126. These projecting cells 125, 126 can be positioned in different rooms of the formliners
 120, 122. Thus, the projecting cells 125 can be positioned adjacent to non-projecting cells of
 the formliner 122 in the projecting cell 126 can be positioned adjacent to a non-projecting
 cell of the formliner 120. Thus, the cells of the formliner 120 can be offset with respect to
 each other and with respect to cells above the formliner 122. Moreover, the interconnection
 of the foriliners 120, 122 can be accomplished using offset projecting cells 125, 126.
                                                --26--

WO 2010/036971                                                             PCT/US2009/058489
         10133]     In accordance with some embodiments., the formliner 100 illustrated in
Figure I can be configured such that a plurality of fornliners 100 can be interconnected at
their top and bottom ends and sides. Figure 2 illustrates this principle. The fonmliners 120,
122, and 124 are each interconnected and overlap each other. This interconnection allows the
formliners to be easily handled and assembled to a given size. Importantly however, the
formliner is configured such that portions thereof can overlap and create a generally uniform
and seamless rib structure on the upper surface 110 of the formliners 120, 122, and 124. In
other words, the shape and depth of the rib structure formed in the exposed surface of the
concrete structure can be generally constant and the transition from a given formliner to
another given formliner can be generally imperceptible.
         10134]     Moreover, in some embodiments, edges of each of the respective
formliners 120, 122, and 124 can lie along a corner or edge feature of the decorative pattern.
As such, when a curable material is placed in against the formliners and takes the shape, in
this case of a rectangle having right-angle corners, an edge 127 of the lbrmliner 122 forms a
portion of the corner of the molded or formed rectangle and becomes nearly imperceptible.
Accordingly, the overlapping edges 127 of the fornliner 122 create minimal visible seaming,
if at all, between the formliners 120 and 122. This principle is illustrated in greater detail in
 Figures 6-9.
          101351     Additionally, transition zones or joints 128 are formed where upper
 surfaces of ribs the forinliners 120, 122. and 124 meet. In this regard. the transition zones or
joints 128 can be toleranced in order to define an extremely narrow gap between
 interconnected fonrliners. Thus, any seaming at the transition zones or joints 128 can also be
 greatly reduced in order to reduce and/or eliminate visible seaming.
          101361     In this regard, the formliner 100 can be configured such that the plurality
 of ribs 102 includes one or more overlapping portions 130 and one or more overlapped
 portions 132. In some embodiments, the plurality of ribs 102 of the formfliner 100 can be
 configured to comprise one or more non-overlap portions 134. The overlapping portions 130
 can be configured to include an internal cavity with an internal geometry that accommodates
 the external geometry of the overlapped portions 132. Thus, the overlapped portions 132 can
 be received within the internal cavities of the overlapping portions 130. The non-overlap
                                               --27--

WO 2010/036971                                                                PCT/US2009/058489
portions 134 can extend between overlapping portions 130 and overlapped portions 132.
However, the non-overlap portions 134 will not overlap or be overlapped by portions of
another formliner win a plurality of fornliners are interconnected.            When a plurality of
formliners is interconnected, the external surface of the overlapping portions 130 can be flush
with the external surface of the non-overlap portions 134.
         10137]     An illustration of this principle is shown in Figure 3 and 7B and described
below. Figure 3 it is a cross-sectional side view taken along Section 3-3 of Figure 2. Figure
2 illustrates that a right side 140 of the forrmliner 120 overlaps with a left side 142 of the
forrnliner 122,
         101381      In Figure 3, an overlapping portion 144 of the formliner 122 rests on top of
an overlapped portion 146 of the formliner 120. The cross-sectional side view also illustrates
a cell 150 of the formliner 120. Further, the formliners 120, 122 are configured such that the
overlapping portion 144 of the formliner 122 defines an outer surface that matches an outer
surface of the ribs 102 of the fornliners 120, 122, and 124. In other words, the overlapping
portions of a formliner can have an outer dimension that is equal to an outer dimension of the
non-overlap portions of the ribs of the formliner.             Thus, the overall rib structure of
 interconnected fornliners will seem continuous in shape and dimension because the
overlapping portions and the non-overlap portions (and not the overlapped portions) of the
 ribs of the formliners are the only portions of the ribs that are exposed.
          101391     In addition, as discussed below with regard to Figure 10, one of the
 significant advantages of embodiments disclosed herein is that they are able to reduce and/or
 eliminate seams between adjacent formliners using the significant compressive stresses
 created by the weight of a curable material, such as concrete, poured onto a fornliner
 assembly or formliner mold cavity. In other words, the configuration of the overlapped and
 overlapping portions of adjacent fornliners enabled the weight of the material to press down
 upon the overlapping portions of a fonnliner in order to optimize the fit between overlapping
 portions and overlapped portions of adjacent fornliners to thereby reduce any visible
 seaming between the formliners.
          101401      Referring still to Figure 3, the rib structure of the formliners 120, 122 can
 be generally defined by a semicylindrical or arch shape.            Accordingly, the overlapping
                                                 --28--

WO 2010/036971                                                              PCT/US2009/058489
portions 144 and the overlapped portions 146 can be defined by a radius. In particular, a
lower surface 160 of the overlapping portion 144 of the formliner 122 can be defined by a
first radius. Similarly, an upper surface 162 of the overlapped portion 146 of the formliner
120 can be defined by a second radius. The first radius can be greater than the second radius
in order to allow the overlapped portion 146 to be nested within the overlapping portion 144.
As such, the overlapped portions 146 can define a smaller cross-sectional profile than the
interior cavity of the overlapping portions 144.
         101411      Furthermore, although the rib structure is illustrated as being formed by
semicylindrical or arch shaped channels, the rib structure can be formed by a rectangular
cross-section.    In this regard, any variety of shapes can be used.      For example, while an
embodiment of the formliners discussed herein is generally intended to create an appearance
of faux brick, other embodiments of the fonriliners disclosed herein can be designed to create
 an appearance of faux stone, including any of various commercial stone such as cut stone,
 castle rock, sand stone, ledgestone, fieldstone, etc., as well as, wood, river rock, slate, or
 other materials and variations, which is merely an exemplary and non-limiting list of
 potential appearances and applications. Thus, the rib structure can be varied and diverse.
 The dimensions of the rib structure can be variable and allow lor irregular patterns as may be
 seen in natural settings of stone, brick, wood, or other materials.
          101421      In addition, referring again to Figure I. the formliner 100 can comprise a
 plurality of rib openings 180. The rib openings 180 can be positioned along the ribs 102 of
 the rib structure of the fonnliner 100. The location of the openings 180 can correspond to a
 location of a corresponding rib of another formliner to which the formliner 100 is
 interconnected.    The rib openings 180 can facilitate precise alignment of a plurality of
 formliners. Further, the rib openings 180 can further contribute to the natural appearance of
 the faux brick pattern created in the concrete structure. The fonnation and configuration of
 rib openings 180 is shown and described further below.
          10143]      Figure 4 is a top view of a formliner 200 in accordance with an
 embodiment. As with the formliner 100, the forliner 200 comprises a plurality of ribs 202
 that form a ribs structure. The ribs 202 can comprise one or more overlapping portions 204
 and one or more overlapped portions 206. Additionally, the fonnliner 200 can comprise non
                                                 --29--

WO 2010/036971                                                             PCT/US2009/058489
overlap poi1ions 208. The embodiment of Figure 4 illustrates that the overlapping portions
204 and the non-overlap portions 208 can define a common outer dimension 1. Thus, when a
plurality of the formliners 200 are interconnected, the overlapping portions 204 overlap with
the overlapped portions 206 and the resulting rib structure of the interconnected formiliners
has a common outer dimension 1.
         101441     In this regard, as discussed above, the overlapped portions 206 can define
an outer dimension 2.       The outer dimension 2 can be less than the outer dimension 1.
Further, an inner dimension of the overlapping portions 204 can also be greater than the outer
dimension 2 of the overlapped portions 206.
         101451     Moreover, it is contemplated that in using a formliner that defines a
generally rectangular perimeter, there may be sections of interconnected formliners in which
more than two formliners overlap. Accordingly, in some embodiments, the formliner 200
can be configured to define a sub-overlapped section 210. As illustrated in the upper and
lower right corners of the formilincr 200. the sub-overlapped sections 210 can define an outer
dimension 3. The outer dimension 3 can be less than the outer dimension 2 and the outer
dimension 1. Further, an inner dimension of the overlapped portions 206 can also be greater
than the outer dimension 3 of the sub-overlapped portions 210. Additionally. as described
above with respect to Figure 1, the formliner 200 can also be configured to include a plurality
of rib openings 220. As similarly described above, the plurality of rib openings 220 can be
 located and configured to correspond with corresponding ribs of adjacent interconnected
 fonniners.
         [01461     In this manner., a single configuration of a fonnliner can be used to create a
 continuous decorative      pattern  that can    be   used  for any size concrete       structure.
 Advantageously, in contrast to prior art formliners, embodiments of the fornliners disclosed
 herein can be interconnected to create a dimensionally continuous, precise assembly of
 formliners.
         101471     Referning now to Figure 5, an end view of the sub-overlapped section 210
 of Figure 4 is illustrated.     As shown, the sub-overlapped section 210 defines an outer
 dimension 3 that is less than the outer dimension 2 of the overlapped section 206 (shown in
 dashed lines). Additionally, the outer dimension I of the overlapping sections 204 is also
                                               --30--

WO 2010/036971                                                             PCT/US2009/058489
shown dashed lines and illustrated as being greater than both the outer dimension 2 and the
outer dimension 3.
         10148]      Figure 6 is a perspective view of the fonnliner assembly of Figure 2. In
particular, the formliner 122 and the formliner 120 are shown in a pre-assembled state, Jn
this regard, Figure 6 illustrates that the overlapped sections 146 of the formliner 120 are
received within cavities of the overlapping sections 144 of the fonnliner 122. As discussed
below in reference to Figure 10, the upper surfaces of the overlapping sections 144 of the
formliner 122 can be generally flush with the upper surfaces of non-overlap sections 148 of
the fornliner 120.
         [01491]     Figure 7 is a partial perspective view of the fonrliner 200. illustrating the
sub-overlapped portion 210 thereof. As shown, the sub-overlapped portion 210 defines a
smaller cross-sectional profile or dimension than the overlapped portion 206.
         10J501      Figure 8 is a perspective view of the formliner assembly of Figure 2
illustrating the formliners 120, 122, and 124. In this view, the ribs structure of the formliner
 120 comprises overlapping portions 300, overlapped portions 302, and a sub-overlapped
portion 304.     The formliner 124 is first placed onto the overlapped portion 302 of the
fornliner 120. As can be appreciated, an overlapping portion 310 of the formniliner 124 is
placed onto an overlapped portion 302 of the fornliner 120. Additionally, an overlapped
portion 312 (shown as a T-connection) of the formliner 124 is placed onto the sub-overlapped
portion 304 of the fonnliner 120. Finally, overlapping portions 320 of the formliner 122 are
placed onto the overlapped portions 302 of the forrnliner 120 and the overlapped portion 312
 of the formliner 124.
          1015]1     One of the unique features of embodiments disclosed herein is the
inclusion of rib openings that allow the overlapped portions of the ribs to be nested within
 overlapping portions of other ribs and to extend through the rib openings. For example, with
reference to Figure 6, rib openings 150 can be provided in the overlapping sections 144 of the
 formliner 122.     Further, with regard to Figure 8, a rib opening 322 is provided in the
 overlapping portions 320 of the formliner 122. This rib opening 322 allows the overlapping
portions 320 to be overlaid onto the overlapped portion 312 with the overlapped portion 312
 extending through the rib opening 322. Similarly, a rib opening 324 allows the overlapped
                                                --31--

WO 2010/036971                                                             PCT/US2009/058489
portions 302 the past theretbrough thus enabling the overlapping portions 320 to be overlaid
onto the overlapped portions 302. Finally, the illustrated embodiment in Figure 8 also shows
a rib opening 326 formed in the overlapped portion 312, which enables the sub-overlapped
portion 304 to extend therethrough. As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art, the rib
openings of some embodiments disclosed herein uniquely allow overlapping formliners to
minimize visible seaming by allowing the overlapping portions of the formliners to fit tightly
and closely together,
         101521     With reference to Figure 8, once assembled, the overlapping portions 300,
310, and 320 each define a common outer dimension or shape. Thus, when the formliner
assembly is pressed into an exposed surface of fresh concrete or when concrete is poured
thereagainst, the impressions of the rib structure of the formliner assembly will appear
seamless and uniform.
         10153]     In addition, as will be appreciated. once the forniliners 120, 122, and 124
are assembled, an edge 330 of the overlapping portion 310 of the fbrnliner 124 will be
disposed into a coner 332 formed between the overlapped portion 302 and a cell 334 of the
formliner 120. As such, any seaming between the overlapping portion 310 of the fornliner
124 and the cell 334 of the formliner 120 will be reduced and/or eliminated.
         101541     Similarly, an edge 340 of the overlapping portion 320 of the formliner 122
will be disposed into a corner 342 formed by the overlapped portion 302 and the cell 334.
Thus, seaming between the formliner 120 and forinliner 122 will be greatly reduced and/or
eliminated.
         101551     Figure 9 illustrates many of the above-discussed principles. In this figure,
a first formliner 400 is mated with a second formliner 402. And overlapping portion 406 of
the first formliner 400 is placed onto an overlapped portion 408 of the second formliner 402.
As discussed above with respect to Figure 8, the mating of an edge 410 of the overlapping
portion 406 with 412 of the second formliner 402 can create an imperceptible scam between
the first and second formliners 400, 402. Further, transition zones or joints 420 between the
overlapping portion 406 of the first formiliner 400 and an overlapping portion 422 of the
second formliner 402 can be minimized so as to reduce and/or eliminate any visible seaming
at the transition zones or joints 420.
                                              -32-

WO 2010/036971                                                             PCT/US2009/058489
         101561     Referring now to Figure 10, an enlarged view of a transition zone or joint
420 of Figure 9 is illustrated. As shown, the transition zone or      joint 420 can comprise a
simple step 430 from a first dimension to a second dimension. In some embodiments, this
may be an immediate increase in the dimension along the rib of the second formliner,
specifically from the overlapped portion 408 to the overlapping portion 422. However, in
other embodiments, it is contemplated that the step 430 can be a tapered transition between
the overlapped portion 408 in the overlapping portion 422. Additionally, a side edge 432 of
the overlapping portion 406 of the first fornliner 400 can be configured to correspond to the
shape and dimension of the step 430.
         [01571     Further, Figure 10 also illustrates the nesting arrangement of the
overlapping portion 406 of the first formliner 400 is shown with respect to the overlapped
portion 408 of the second formliner 402. Finally, Figure 10 also illustrates the orientation of
the edge 410 of the overlapping portion 406 of the formliner 400 is shown with respect to the
cell 412 of the second formliner 402.
         10158]      With continued reference to Figure 10, it will be appreciated that a seam
440 formed between the edge 410 and the cell 412 can be reduced as the fit between the first
formliner 400 and the second formliner 402 are optimized.           In this regard, the internal
geometry of the overlapping portion 406 can be specifically configured to match the external
geometry of the overlapped portion 408, thus reducing any seam (whether along the edge 410
or the side edge 432) between the overlapping portion 406 and the overlapped portion 408.
         10159]      As noted above. one of the advantages of embodiments disclosed herein is
that seanis of overlapped portions of adjacent formliners can be minimized and/or eliminated.
In this regard, as illustrated in Figure 10, the seam 440 is created along a corner at or along a
bottom portion of the cell 412 of the formliner 402 which forms part of a prepared formliner
mold cavity. In this regard, the seam 440 is positioned such that the weight of a curable
material, such as concrete, against the first fonrliner 400 causes the overlapping portion 406
of the first forliner 400 to be pressed against the overlapped portion 408 of the second
forrmliner 402 with great force thereby causing the edge 410 to be positioned as close as
possible relative to the cell 412 in order to minimize and/or eliminate the seam 440 between
the adjacent formliners 400. 402. This innovative feature of embodiments disclosed herein,
                                               --33--

   which allows seams to be created along the bottom faces or portions of the mold allows the
   weight of the curable material to act as a compressive agent in reducing and/or eliminating
   seams between adjacent fonnliners.       For example, a common curable material such as
   concrete generally weighs 150 pounds per cubic foot, and embodiments of the present
 5 inventions are able to take advantage of the significant force of such a material in order to
   create an aesthetically superior product.
             [0160]    Furthermore, the tolerances between the overlapping portion 406 and
   the overlapped portion 408 can also define a seam 442. Specifically, the distance between
   the edge 432 and the step 430 can define the seam 442.           It is contemplated that the
10 overlapping portion 406 can be toleranced with a longitudinal length such that the edge
   432 thereof abuts the step 430.     It is also contemplated that as with the seam 440, the
   compressive forces of the material against the first forriliner 400 and the second formliner
   402 can serve to reduce the size of the seam 442 to thereby create a superior finished
   product.
15           [0161]    Referring now to Figures 1-10, it is noted that the above-discussed
   embodiments of the formliner and formliner components provide for a distinct shelf or step
   between rib sections having differing geometries or configurations. For example, as noted
   above with respect to Figure 10, the step 430 is a transition zone, shelf, or shoulder
   between the overlapping portion 422 and the overlapped portion 408 of the second
20 formliner 402. As briefly mentioned above, the step 430 can provide a gradual transition
   from the overlapping portion 422 to the overlapped portion 408. However, in some
   embodiments, it is contemplated that the fonrliner can be formed with ribs or ridges that
   taper from a first geometry or configuration to a second geometry or configuration.       As
   such, the shoulder 430 can be eliminated from such embodiments.
25           [01621   For example, referring generally to a side view similar to that of Figure
    10, it is contemplated that a rib can taper from a first dimension or configuration in an
   overlapping portion to a second dimension or configuration in an overlapped portion. In
   yet other embodiments, it is contemplated that the rib can taper from the second dimension
   or configuration to a third dimension or configuration. The tapering of the rib from one
30 dimension to another can comprise a generally constant taper or a variable taper.
                                                - 34 -

WO 2010/036971                                                             PCT/US2009/058489
         10163]    Further, in some embodiments, overlapping portions of the ribs of the
fornliner can be configured to define a variable thickness corresponding to the tapering of
the overlapped portions onto which the overlapping portions will be overlaid. As such, the
cumulative dimension or configuration of nested or overlaid rib portions can be generally
constant.    However, it is likewise contemplated that the thickness of overlapping or
interconnecting fonmliners can be generally constant along their respective ribs or ridges.
         101641     Additionally, in accordance with at least one of the embodiments disclosed
herein is the realization that in forming a pattern of interconnected fonnliners, the edgcs
along the top, bottom, left, and right sides of a pattern or casting can be carefully arranged in
order to ensure a natural appearance. Commonly, a plurality of formnliners must be used in
order to form a pattern or casting larger than a few square feet in size. Typically, in arranging
or interconnecting the formliners, an artisan may begin from a top left corner and work down
and across toward the bottom right corner. Thus, the left side and the top side of the pattern
or casting can generally be comprised of whole or entire formliners that are interconnected
vertically and horizontally.    Additionally, formliners located in the center portions of the
pattern or casting are also whole or entire formliners. However, according to at least one of
the embodiments disclosed herein is the realization that fonrliners located along the bottom
and right sides of the pattern or casting may only be partial sheets. In some embodiments.
this deficiency can be overcome by providing alternative embodiments of a formliner that
enable the artisan to create desirable bottom and right side edges and/or that can be
interconnected with other formliners along a partial length thereof in order to form a clean
edge, whether it is a straight edge, curved edge, angled edge, or otherwise.
         101651     Accordingly,     referring     to  Figures    11-14,  alternative    Formliner
 embodiments are shown. In Figure 11, a formliner end portion 500 is shown. The foriliner
 end portion 500 can comprise many of the same features as discussed above with respect to
 the other formliner embodiments.         However, the formliner end portion 500 can also
 optionally comprise a generally straight side 502 that is configured to mate with a
 corresponding forrnliner end portion.       In this regard, it is contemplated that in use, the
 formliner end portion 500 can be used at a far side or end of the desired pattern.            For
                                                -,35--

example, the formliner end portion 500 can be used for a left side boundary or a right side
boundary.
         [01661         In some embodiments, the formliner end portion 500 can be configured
to mate with another formliner to form a corner of a pattern, casting, or formwork. In such an
embodiment, the formliner end portion 500 can also optionally comprise a ledge recess 522, as
described below. For example, the ledge recess 522 can be forwarded by a length of the ribs
504 which comprises a reduced geometry or dimension, as shown in dashed lines in Figure 11.
Accordingly, some embodiments of the formliner end portion 500 can be provided in which
the side 502 can mate with corresponding formliner components or portions.
         [0167]         For example, an exemplary mating arrangement of the formliner end
portion 500 with a formliner component or portion is illustrated in Figure 12. As shown
therein, the formliner end portion 500 can receive a corresponding formliner end portion 510.
The formliner end portion 500 and the corresponding formliner end portion 510 can be
interconnected or positioned such that they form a corner in a pattern, casting, or formwork.
         [01681         In accordance with the embodiments of the formliner end portion 500
and the corresponding formliner end portion 510 illustrated in Figure 12, the corresponding
formliner end portion 510 can define a plurality of recesses 512 formed at the ends of rib
members 514. The recesses 512 can be configured to allow the rib members 514 to fit over
the ribs 504 of the formliner end portion 500. Thus, the formliner end portion 500 and the
corresponding formliner end portion 510 can be positioned relative to each other at a right
angle such that a right angle corner in the pattern or casting is produced. However, it is
contemplated that the recesses 512 can define other shapes that allowed the corresponding
formliner end portion 510 to be oriented at any variety of angles relative to the formliner end
portion 500. In this regard, the side 502 can be oriented generally perpendicularly relative to
the ribs 504, or the side 502 can be disposed at an angle relative to the ribs 504, thereby
facilitating a desired angular interconnection between the formliner end portion 500 and the
corresponding formliner end portion 510.
          [0169]        Additionally, in the embodiments illustrated in Figure 12, the
corresponding formliner end portion 510 can also comprise a mating ledge 520. In some
embodiments, the mating ledge 520 can be connected to both the ribs 514 and the planar
portions of the cells above the corresponding formliner end portion 510. As such, the mating
ledge 520 could be generally rigidly positioned relative to the ribs 514. Such an embodiment
could be advantageous in facilitating the alignment between the formliner end portion 500 and
                                               36

the corresponding formliner end portion 510. In this regard, as mentioned above with respect
to the side 502, the mating ledge 520 can be oriented at a given angle relative to the ribs 514.
As illustrated, the mating ledge 520 can be oriented at approximately a right angle relative to
the ribs 514. However, it is contemplated that the mating ledge 520 can also be oriented at
any variety of angles relative to the ribs 514. In some embodiments, the mating ledge 520 can
be configured to fit into or be received in the ledge recess 522 formed along the formliner end
portion 500.
         [0170]          However, in other embodiments, the mating ledge 520 can be hingedly
or moveably attached to the corresponding formliner end portion 510. For example, the
mating ledge 520 can be attached to the corresponding formliner end portion 510 along the
length of the cells thereof, but not connected to the ribs 514. In other words, the mating ledge
520 can be separated or cut from the ribs 514 by means of a slit 530. Thus, the slit 530 can
allow the mating ledge 520 to be generally flexible or movable relative to the corresponding
formliner end portion 510. In such embodiments, the mating ledge 520 can be folded under a
portion of the formliner end portion 500. Optionally, the side 502 of the formliner end portion
500 can be eliminated in order to allow the mating ledge 520 to extend to underneath the
formliner end portion 500.
         [0171]          However, in other embodiments, such as that illustrated in Figure 13, it
is contemplated that the ledge recess can be eliminated and that the ribs define a generally
constant cross-sectional geometry. For example, the cross-sectional geometry of the ribs can
be generally constant along central portions and end portions of the ribs adjacent the side of
the formliner end portion.
         [0172]          Referring to Figure 13, a formliner end portion 550 can comprise one or
more ribs 552. Optionally, the formliner end portion can also comprise a side 554. However,
as described above, the side 554 can also be eliminated in some embodiments. Additionally,
the corresponding formliner end portion 560 can be configured to mate with the formliner end
portion 550. The embodiment of the corresponding formliner end portion 560 does not
include the mating ledge of the embodiment discussed in regard to Figure 12. As will be
appreciated with reference to Figure 13, openings 562 in ribs 564 of the corresponding
formliner end portion 560 can be mated against the ribs 522 of the formliner end portion 550
to create a corner of a desired angle measurement for a pattern or casting. Further, the
openings 562 are preferably configured such that an edge 566 of the corresponding formliner
end portion 560 can be positioned against the top surface of the cells of the formliner end
                                                 37

portion 550. Optionally, the openings 562 can be configured to be manipulated in order to
allow varying angles of orientation between the formliner end portion 550 and the
corresponding formliner end portion 560. For example, a portion of the ribs 564 can be
configured as a "tear away" that allows the openings 562 to be enlarged. The embodiment of
Figure 13 can facilitate a tight fit between the formliner end portion 550 and the corresponding
formliner end portion 560.
         [01731         Referring to Figure 14, another embodiment of a formliner end portion
570 can be provided which comprises one or more ribs 572. As noted above, the formliner
end portion 570 is an embodiment in which no side is used. Similar to the other embodiments
disclosed herein, the formliner end portion 570 can be configured to mate with a
corresponding formliner end portion 580. The embodiment of the corresponding formliner
end portion 580 does not include the mating ledge of the embodiment discussed in regard to
Figure 12. As will be appreciated with reference to Figure 14, openings 582 in ribs 584 of the
corresponding formliner end portion 580 can be mated against the ribs 572 of the formliner
end portion 570 to create a corner of a desired angle measurement for a pattern or casting.
        [0174]          Additionally, as illustrated in the embodiment of Figure 14, the
corresponding formliner end portion 580 can comprise a flange 586 extending from an edge
thereof. The flange 586 can be monolithically formed with the corresponding formliner end
portion 580. The flange 586 can be flexible relative to other portions of the corresponding
formliner end portion 580. For example, the flange 586 can be folded underneath the
formliner end portion 570 when the corresponding formliner end portion 580 is fitted onto the
formliner end portion 570. In this manner, the corresponding formliner end portion 580 can be
placed against and/or interconnected with the formliner end portion 570. Further, in some
embodiments it is contemplated that the formliner end portion 570 and the corresponding
formliner end portion 580 can be attached along the flange 586 by means of an adhesive. The
embodiment of Figure 14 can facilitate a tight fit between the formliner end portion 570 and
the corresponding formliner end portion 580.
        101751          It is contemplated that the embodiment of Figures 11-14 can aid the
artisan in creating a dimensionally accurate and seamless corner of a faux brick mold. It is
contemplated also that other such features, such as three-point corners, convex arches, and
concave arches can be formed using similar principles.
         [0176]         Further, Figures 15-16 illustrate other embodiments of a formliner,
sheet, or panel having other shapes and geometries for imparting different patterns onto the
                                                 38

treated or exposed surface. As discussed above, such patterns can be of stone, wood, slate, or
other materials. Figure 15 is a representation of a formliner 600 used to produce a stone
pattern on an exposed surface six or 50. Figure 16 is a representation of a formliner used to
produce a rock pattern on an exposed surface.
         [01771           Figure 17 illustrates yet another embodiment of a formliner, sheet, or
panel 700 having a pattern configured to provide the appearance of cut stone. As shown
therein, first rib portions 702 of the formliner 700 can be configured to define a first geometry
or configuration, and second rib portions 704 can define a second geometry or configuration
that corresponds to the first geometry or configuration and enables multiple formliners 700 to
be interconnected along the rib portions 702, 704.
         [0178]           In some embodiments, the formliner 700 can comprise one or more
third rib portions 706 that can define a third geometry or configuration that corresponds to one
of the first and second geometries or configurations. For example, the first rib portion 702, the
second rib portion 704, and the third rib portion 706 can allow the formliner 700 to be
overlaid with other formliners 700 in a similar manner as to the formliner 100 described
above, and as shown in Figures 2-10.
         [01791           As mentioned above with respect to the embodiments disclosed in
Figures 1-10, the first rib portions 702, the second rib portions 704, and the third rib portions
706, can each comprise rib portions having a generally constant geometry or configuration,
such as a cross-sectional geometry. However, it is also contemplated that the first rib portions
702, the second rib portions 704, and the third rib portions 706 of the formliner 700 can taper
from one geometry or configuration to another. In other words, the ribs or ridges of the
formliner 700 can taper from the first geometry or configuration to the second geometry or
configuration. In yet other embodiments, the ribs or ridges of the formliner 700 can also taper
from the second geometry or configuration to the third geometry or configuration. The
tapering in any such embodiment can be formed as a constant taper from one geometry or
configuration to another, from one corner to another or along lengths of the ribs or ridges. The
tapering in other embodiments can also be formed over discrete sections of the ribs or ridges.
Accordingly, in such embodiments, the ribs or bridges can be formed without a distinct shelf
or step from a given geometry or configuration to another geometry or configuration. Further,
it is contemplated that overlapping portions of adjacent formliners can be configured to define
variable thicknesses that taper along with the dimension or configuration of that portion of the
ribs or ridges.
                                                 39

        [01801          Moreover, the formliner 700 can also comprise one or more openings
710 in one or more of the first, second, or third rib portions 702, 704, 706 in order to allow
nesting and overlaying of the rib portions with each other, as similarly described above with
respect to the embodiments shown in Figures 1-10. In this manner, a plurality of the
formliners 700 can be used to create a desirable cut stone pattern while eliminating any
appearance of seaming between the formliner 700.
        [01811          Additionally, in accordance various embodiments, no adhesive is
required to interconnect a plurality of the formliners during set up. As noted above, one of the
inventive realizations disclosed herein is that the set up and interconnection of formliners can
also be expedited by eliminating the need to apply adhesives to the overlapping joints of
interconnected formliners. Thus, the assembly time for a setting up a large pattern of
interconnected formliners can be substantially reduced, as well as the cost and parts required,
by eliminating the need for adhesives.
        [0182]          In order to provide such a superior benefit, embodiments of the
formliners disclosed herein can comprise a snap-fit arrangement that allows overlapping
formliners to form an interlocking joint. Thus, the formliners can be securely connected
without using
                                                40

WO 2010/036971                                                             PCT/US2009/058489
adhesives. Further, such embodiments also result in reduced seaming between the formliners
where the formliners meet.      Furthermore, another of the unique advantages of such an
interlocking joint is that the joint is further stabilized and strengthened through the
application of force to the overlapping fonliners, such as the application of a curable
material such as concrete.     Therefore, such an interlocking joint not only allows for the
elimination of adhesives, but also provides several structural benefits that ultimately create an
aesthetically superior product.
         10183}     Another unique benefit of embodiments disclosed herein is that the
interlocking joint can be forced by encasing a rib or ridge of an overlapped formliner with a
rib or ridge of an overlapping formliner. In other words. the rib of the overlapping formliner
can comprise a recess or cavity into which the rib of the overlapped formliner can be
received.   The cavity can comprise an opening that is less than the cross-sectional size or
passing profile of the rib of the overlapped fonnliner. Thus, the opening of the cavity must
be expanded when the rib of the overlapped formliner is inserted therein. Such expansion
can occur through deflection or elastic defonnation of the opening. The rib of the overlapped
formliner can be inserted into the cavity until being fully received therein such that the
opening of the cavity returns to its normal size, thus collapsing around a lower portion or
base of the rib of the overlapped fornnliner.      In this manner, the rib of the overlapped
fornliner is encased within the cavity. The term "snap-fit" can refer to the interference fit,
deformation, and subsequent collapsing of the opening to its normal size around the base of
the rib of the overlapped formliner. Additionally, the encasing of the rib of the overlapped
 formliner thereby prevents horizontal and vertical relative movement between the overlapped
and overlapping fornliners.
         10184]     In this regard, the interlocking joint and encasing disclosed above is
distinct from various other prior art systems, such as that disclosed in U.S. Patent No.
4,858,410, issued to Goldman (hereinafter "Goldman").          Figures ISA-C are the original
 Figures 20-22 taken from the Goldman reference and illustrate a modular brickwork form
 802 that is disclosed in Goldman. The brickwork form 802 comprises raised dividers 803
 and raised edges 804. A first edge 807 of first form 808 overlaps a second edge 809 of a
 second form 810. Dimples 806 on the first edge 807 nest within the dimples 806 on the
                                             --41-

WO 2010/036971                                                             PCT/US2009/058489
second edge 809 (see Figure 18C).        Goldman indicates that the dimples 806 are concave
up/convex down depressions on the edge 804. The shape and location of the dimples, raised
dividers and edges allow nesting of the forms when stacked. Further, the notches or dimples
806 are also placed to overlap and nest within adjoining dimples (see Figure 18B).
         101851     Figure 18C illustrates a cross-sectional side view of the dimples 806 of the
Goldman brickwork forn.        Goldman indicates that the forms are stacked such that the first
forn 808 is placed on top of second form 810. Dividers 806 provide a spacing "a" between
bricks (see Figure 18B). The dividers and dimpled edges 804 are tapered by an angle "b" to
allow nesting when stacked.        The edge dimension "c" is slightly smaller than "a" and is
selected to provide a spaced apart dimension "a" between adjoining bricks when first fon
808 is placed on top of the second form 810. The depth "d" of dimples 806 is a function of
the need to retain adjoining forns. If the forms are to be laid out on a flat horizontal surface,
the dimples function only as locators, requiring a nominal projection into the adjoining edge.
The depth "d" of the prefered embodiment in this case is less than 3 cm (0.125 inches) in
 comparison to the overall raised edge dimension "e" which is approximately 9 cm (0.375
 inches).
          101861     Thus, although the Goldman reference discloses a brickwork form with
 dimples, the dimples thereof do not comprise any protrusion or detent, for example, to
 interlock the dimples 806 of the first form 808 with the dimples of the second form 810. The
 dimples 806 serve only a locating function when positioning the forms to align the ridges of
 the forms relative to each other. However, the dimples can easily be dislodged or shifted.
 Further, it is apparent that loading on the edges of the forns can create deformation of the
 edges. Because the dimples do not serve to restrict separation between the fonns in a vertical
 direction, such loading can cause the forms to be disengaged and become misaligned. The
  dimples simply do not interlock the forms or provide any meaningful engagement between
  the forms that can eliminate the need for adhesives. Indeed, adhesives are required in order
  to properly adjoin the forms disclosed in the Goldman reference.
          101871      In   contrast,  embodiments      disclosed   herein    provide   a   secure
  interconnection and engagement between overlapping formliners. For example. as discussed
  herein, an embodiment of the formliner can comprise a protrusion and a detent such that a
                                               --42--

WO 2010/036971                                                             PCT/US2009/058489
plurality of formliners can be interconnected with the protrusions engaging respective detents
such that the formliners are not only restrained in a horizontal direction, but also in a vertical
direction. As such, these features can effectively eliminate the need for glues and adhesives
required by inferior prior art designs. The Goldman reference simply does not disclose such
features and provides no teaching or suggestion of such features.
         101881     Embodiments of the formuliner and formliner components disclosed herein
can be manufactured using any of a variety of processes. For example, it is contemplated that
some embodiments can be formed using a sheet and a vacuum forming operation. Other
manufacturing processes such as injection molding, stamping, extrusion, etc. can also he
used.
         10189]      With reference now to Figures 19-35, Figure 19 is a perspective view of an
embodiment of a formliner, panel, or sheet 1100 in accordance with an embodiment of the
present inventions. The fonnliner J100 can comprise a plurality of ribs, ridges, or channels
 1102. The ribs 1102 can be a raised portion of the formliner 1100. The ribs 1102 can define
an outer perimeter of the formliner I100. Additionally, the ribs 102 can extend inwardly to
form one or more cells or recesses 1104.
         [01901      In some embodiments, the cells 1104 can comprise a recessed portion of
the formliner 1100. The recessed portion of the cell 1104 can be configured to receive a
curable material to which a pattern of the fonnliner can be conferred or transferred. The cells
 1104 can be uniformly sized. For example, the cells 1104 can he rectangularly shaped. As
 discussed below, embodiments of the fonnliner 1100 can implement other shapes, depths.
 and sizes of the cells 1 104.
          101911     As illustrated in the embodiment of Figure 19, the cells or recesses 1104
 can be arranged in rows. As will be discussed further below, the cells or recesses 1104 of a
 given row can be offset with respect to cells or recesses of an adjacent or neighboring row. In
 this regard, a plurality of fornliners 1100 can be interconnected along ends thereof in such a
 way as to reduce any visible appearance of a seam between interconnected fornliners. The
 offset configuration of the cells or recesses 1104 in some embodiments can aid in concealing
 or hiding any seaming between form liners.
                                               -43--

WO 2010/036971                                                            PCT/US2009/058489
        101921      Additionally, the embodiment illustrated in Figure 19 illustrates that the
cells 1104 of adjacent rows can be offset from each other such that at opposing ends of the
fonnliner I100, some of the cells 1104 protrude at the end. In this regard, the rows can be
formed to include projecting and non-projecting cells 1104. The projecting cells can be
considered to be complete or whole cells. In other words, the projecting cells are not smaller
than other cells 1104 of the pattern even though the offset configuration of the cells 1104
causes the projecting cells to protrude at one side or end of the fonilminer 1100- As will be
discussed further below, the projecting cells of the pattern can be interconnected with
projecting cells of another fonnliner.
        101931      The embodiment illustrated in Figure 19 can be used to create a faux brick
pattern on a concrete structure. The formliner 1100 can define a panel periphery bounding
the plurality of cells 1104 by a plurality of sides. The fornliner I100 defines an upper
surface I I10. Although not shown in Figure 19, the formliner I100 also defines a lower
surface. In use, the upper surface 1110 of the formliner I 100 would be positioned such that it
can be pressed into fresh concrete. This can be accomplished by placing the upper surface
I I 10 of the formliner I 100 against an exposed surface of fresh concrete. Otherwise, this can
be accomplished by affixing the lower surface of the form liner 1100 to an interior wall of a
pattern, casting, or formwork before concrete is poured into the pattern, casting, or forinwork.
In either case, a material, such as concrete can be placed against the decorative pattern of the
form liner I100 defined by the ribs 1102 and the cells I 104 in order to transfer the decorative
pattern to the exposed surface of the material as the material cures.
         [01941      In many cases, the exposed surface of a given structure, such as a wall,
walking area, or the like, consists of a large surface area. In order to cover the entire area,
several formliners must be used. As shown in the formliner assembly of Figure 20, several
 fornliners 1120, 1122, and 1124 can be interconnected in order to transfer a decorative
pattern onto a large surface area. The interconnection of these formliners 1120. 1122, and
 1124 provides a distinct advantage over prior art to formliners because the seams between the
 formliners 1120, 1122, and 1124 are insubstantial and/or eliminated compared to prior art
 formliners.
                                              --44--

WO 2010/036971                                                               PCT/US2009/058489
          10195}     As discussed above, Figure 20 illustrates that the fonliner 1120 can
comprise projecting cells 1125 in the formliner 1122 can comprise one or more projecting
cells 1126. These projecting cells 1125, 1126 can be positioned in different rooms of the
fornliners 1120, 1122. Thus, the projecting cells 1125 can be positioned adjacent to non
projecting cells of the formliner 1122 in the projecting cell 1126 can be positioned adjacent
to a non-projecting cell of the formliner 1120. Thus, the cells of the formliner 1120 can be
offset with respect to each other and with respect to cells above the formliner 1122.
Moreover, the interconnection of the formliners I120, 1122 can be accomplished using offset
projecting cells 1125, 1126.
          101961     In accordance with some embodiments, the formliner 1100 illustrated in
Figure 19 can be configured such that a plurality of formliners I 100 can be interconnected at
their top and bottom ends and sides.        Figure 20 illustrates this principle. The formliners
 1120, 1122, and 1124 can be interconnected and overlap each other. This interconnection
allows the fonnliners to be easily handled and assembled to a given size.             Importantly
however, the formliner is configured such that portions thereof can overlap and create a
generally uniform and seamless rib structure on the upper surface 1110 of the formliners
 1120, 1122, and 1124. In other words, the shape and depth of the rib structure formed in the
exposed surface of the concrete structure can be generally constant and the transition from a
given fonliner to another given lormliner can be generally imperceptible.
          [0197]      Moreover, in some embodiments, edges of each of the respective
fornliners 1120, 1122, and 1124 can lie along a corner or edge feature of the decorative
pattern. As such, when a curable material is placed in against the formliners and takes the
 shape, in this case of a rectangle having right-angle corners, an edge 1127 of the fornliner
 1122 forms a portion of the corner of the molded or formed rectangle and becomes nearly
 imperceptible.     Accordingly, the overlapping edges 1127 of the formliner 1122 create
inirnal visible seaming, if at all, between the formliners 1120 and 1122. This principle is
 illustrated in greater detail in Figures 25-28.
           10198]     Additionally, transition zones or joints 1128 are formed where upper
 surfaces of ribs the formliners 1120, 1122, and 1124 meet. In this regard, the transition zones
 or joints 1128 can be toleranced in order to define an extremely narrow gap between
                                                 --45--

WO 2010/036971                                                             PCT/US2009/058489
interconnected formliners. Thus, any seaming at the transition zones or joints 1128 can also
be greatly reduced in order to reduce and/or eliminate visible seaming.
        101991      In this regard, the formliner I 100 can be configured such that the plurality
of ribs 1102 includes one or more overlapping portions 1130 and one or more overlapped
portions 1132. The overlapping portions 1130 can be configured to include an internal cavity
with an internal geometry that accommodates the external geometry of the overlapped
portions 1132.     Thus, the overlapped portions 1132 can be received within the internal
cavities of the overlapping portions 1130.
        102001      The formliner 1100 can be configured to comprise a protrusion and a
detent in order to facilitate interconnection between a plurality of formliners. For example,
the ribs 1102 can be configured to comprise one or more protrusions 1136 and/or detents
 1138. In some embodiments, as shown in Figures 19 and 21A-C, the protrusion 1136 and/or
the detent 1138 can be disposed on the rib 1102. The protrusion 1136 and/or detent 1138 can
extend along less than the entire length of a respective rib 1102 such that the protrusion 1136
 and/or detent 1138 is offset from a corner or end of the respective rib. Indeed, a series of the
protrusions 1336 and/or detents 1138 can extend along a length of the rib, with a series of
 breaks between respective protrusions 1136 and/or detents 1138.
         [02011      For example, the protrusion 1136 can be disposed on overlapping portions
 1130 of the rib 1102, and the detent 1138 can be disposed on overlapped portions 1132 of the
 rib 1102.   As such, when the formliner 1100 is interconnected with other fornliners, as
 shown in Figure 20, the protrusions and the detents can engage each other to interlock the
 formliners in an assembled state. Due to the superior engagement created by the prolrusions
 and detents, no adhesives need be used to secure the formliners to each other. Thus. the
 assembled formliner system can be placed in a form and a curable material can be placed
 thereon without worry of having the edges or ribs of the formliners become disengaged from
 each other. Moreover, no adhesive is required for such exceptional performance. As noted
 above, these advantages are not present or taught in the prior art.
         10202]      In some embodiments, the plurality of ribs 102 of the formliner I 100 can
 be con figured to comprise one or more non-overlap portions 1134. The non-overlap portions
  1134 can extend between overlapping portions 1130 and overlapped portions                 1132.
                                               --46--

WO 2010/036971                                                             PCT/US2009/058489
However, the non-overlap portions 1134 will not overlap or be overlapped by portions of
another formliner win a plurality of fonrliners are interconnected,         When a plurality of
formliners is interconnected, the external surface of the overlapping portions 1130 can be
flush with the external surface of the non-overlap portions 1134.
         [0203]     An illustration of this principle is shown in Figures 21A-C and 24 and
described below. Figure 21 A it is a cross-sectional side view taken along Section 21A-21A
of Figure 20. Figure 20 illustrates that a right side 1140 of the formliner 1120 overlaps with a
left side 3142 of the forniner 1122.
         [02041     In Figure 21A, an overlapping portion 1144 of the formliner 1122 rests on
top of an overlapped portion 146 of the form liner 1120. The cross-sectional side view also
illustrates a cell 1150 of the foriliner 1120.          Further, the formliners 1120, 1122 are
configured such that the overlapping portion 1144 of the formliner 1122 defines an outer
 surface that matches an outer surface of the ribs 1102 of the formliners 1120, 1122, and 1124.
 In other words, the overlapping portions of a forniliner can have an outer dimension that is
 equal to an outer dimension of the non-overlap portions of the ribs of the fornliner. Thus,
 the overall rib structure of interconnected formliners will seem continuous in shape and
 dimension because the overlapping portions and the non-overlap portions (and not the
 overlapped portions) of the ribs of the formlincrs arc the only portions of the ribs that are
 exposed.
          [02051     In addition, as discussed below with regard to Figure 29, one of the
 significant advantages of embodiments disclosed herein is that they are able to reduce and/or
 eliminate seams between adjacent fornliners using the significant compressive stresses
 created by the weight of a curable material, such as concrete, poured onto a Formliner
  assembly or formliner mold cavity. In other words, the configuration of the overlapped and
  overlapping portions of adjacent formliners enabled the weight of the material to press down
  upon the overlapping portions of a formliner in order to optimize the fit between overlapping
  portions and overlapped portions of adjacent formliners to thereby reduce any visible
  seaming between the formliners.
          [02061     Figure 21 A also illustrates that in some embodiments, the overlapping
  portions 1144 can comprise the protrusions 1136 that engage with detents 1138 of the
                                                -- 47--

WO 2010/036971                                                            PCT/US2009/058489
overlapped portions 1146. In the embodiment illustrated in Figures 21A-C, the protrusions
1136 and the detents 1138 can define a generally trapezoidal cross-sectional profile.
However, as described below, the protrusions and detents in some embodiments can define a
variety of cross-sexual profiles. Further, Figure 21A indicates that in some embodiments, the
ribs of the formliners 1120, 1122, 1124 can each comprise free side edges and comer portions
wherealong the rib interconnects with the cell of the formliner. For example, the ribs of the
formliner 1120 can comprise a corner portion 1170 and a free side edge 1172. Additionally,
the ribs of the formliner 1122 can comprise a comer portion 1174 and a free side edge 1176.
Likewise, the ribs of the formliner 124 can also comprise a corner portion and a free side
edge.
         102071      As illustrated, sone embodiments can be configured such that the corner
portions of the ribs are fonned to include a protrusion or a detent. Similarly, embodiments
can be configured such that the free side edges are formed to include a protrusion or a detent.
The arrangement of the protrusions and detents along the corner portions or free side edges
can be determined based on the pattern, for example. However, as shown in Figure 21B, in
some embodiments, if the rib portion of the formliner 120 is configured to be overlapped by
 the rib portion of formliner 1122, and therefore of a smaller profile, the corner portion 1170
 of that rib portion and the free side edge 1172 can each comprise a detent 1138. Further, if a
rib portion of the fonnliner 1122 is configured to be overlapping the rib portion of the
 formiliner 1120, and is therefore of a larger profile, the corner portion 1174 and the cancel
 free side edge 1176 can each comprise a protrusion 1136. However, although the rib portions
 are shown as comprising a pair of protrusions or detents disposed on opposing sides of the rib
 portion (whether overlapping or overlapped), it is also contemplated that a single protrusion
 or decent can be used on a side of the rib portion (whether overlapping or overlapped).
 Further, it is contemplated that in some embodiments, the overlapped portion of the rib (such
 as the rib of the foriliner 120) can contact only a portion of the internal surface of the
 overlapping portion of the rib (such as the rib of the forinliner 122). In this regard, some
 embodiments can be configured such that the interlocking or overlapping of the formliners
 can be accomplished by complete or partial surface contact between the external and internal
 surfaces of overlapping rib portions.
                                              --48-

WO 2010/036971                                                              PCT/US2009/058489
         [0208]      In this regard, one of the unique features of some embodiments disclosed
herein is that an overlapping rib can define a recess or interior cavity whereinto an overlapped
rib of an adjacent formliner can be placed. However, in order to insert the overlapped rib into
the recess or interior cavity, an opening of the recess can be expanded to receive the
overlapped rib. For example, Figure 21C illustrates that a recess 1180 of a rib 1178 of
formliner 1122 comprises an inner diameter, profile, or dimension 1182 that is sufficiently
large to accommodate the outer diameter, profile, or dimension 1184 of a rib 1179 of the
formliner 1120. However, the recess 1180 comprises an opening 1186 having a passing
profile or width 1188 that is less than the outer diameter, profile, or dimension 1184 of the rib
 1179 of the forliner 1120. Thus, the rib 1179 of the formliner 1120 must cause the opening
 1186 to expand in order to be fitted within the recess 1180.          Further, the rib 1179 can
comprise a base profile 1190 that is less than the passing profile or width 1188 of the rib
 1178. In this regard, once the rib 1179 of the formliner 1120 is received into the recess 1180
of the rib 1178 of the formliner 1122, the opening 1186 can converge or snap onto the base
profile 1190 of the rib 1179, as shown in Figure 21 B.
          10209]     Further, the formliner 1122 can be fabricated from a resilient material such
that after the rib of the formliner 1120 is inserted within the cavity 1180, the opening 1180
 elastically returns to its original dimension I188. In this manner, the opening I 180 closes
 around a base of the rib of the fornliner 1120. In other words, with the rib of the formliner
 1120 received within the recess 1180, the width 1188 of the opening 1180 will return to less
 than the outer diameter, profile, or dimension 1184 of the rib of the formliner 1120, thus
 encasing the rib within the recess 1180. This is shown in Figure 21B. Further, as noted
 herein, such encasing or snap-fit between the ribs allows the formliner 1122 to restrict not
 only horizontal, but also vertical movement of the fornliner 1120 with respect to the
 formliner 1122.
          102101      The protrusions and the detents can be configured to extend inwardly
 toward an interior of the rib. It is contemplated that in some implementations, the protrusions
 and detents can be fonned into the formliner during the molding process. For example, the
 fornliner can be vacuum formed with such features included therein. However, it is also
 contemplated that the protrusions and detents can be forced subsequent to the initial forming
                                                --49--

WO 2010/036971                                                              PCT/US2009/058489
operations. Further, although the protrusions and detents can be formed integrally with the
formliner, such as by forming the formliner and protrusions and detents of a common sheet of
material, these features could potentially be added to the fonnliner in a finishing step.
         10211]      Referring again to Figure 21A, the rib structure of the formliners 1120,
1122 can be generally defined by a semicylindrical or arch shape.               Accordingly, the
overlapping portions 1144 and the overlapped portions 1146 can be defined by a radius. In
particular, a lower surface 1160 of the overlapping portion 1144 of the formnliner 1122 can be
defined by a first radius. Similarly, an upper surface 1162 of the overlapped portion 1146 of
the formliner 1120 can be defined by a second radius. The first radius can be greater than the
second radius in order to allow the overlapped portion 1146 to be nested within the
overlapping portion 1144. As such, the overlapped portions 1146 can define a smaller cross
 sectional profile than the interior cavity of the overlapping portions 1144.
          10212]     Furthermore, although the rib structure is illustrated as being lfoned by
 semicylindrical or arch shaped channels, the rib structure can be formed by a generally
 rectangular or polygonal cross-section, to provide the appearance of a "rake joint." In this
 regard, any variety of shapes can be used.          For example. while an embodiment of the
 formliners discussed herein is generally intended to create an appearance of faux brick, other
 embodiments of the foniliners disclosed herein can be designed to create an appearance of
 faux stone, including any of various commercial stone such as cut stone, castle rock, sand
 stone, ledgestone, fieldstone, etc., as well as, wood, river rock, slate, or other materials and
 variations, which is merely an exemplary and non-limiting list of potential appearances and
  applications. Thus, the rib structure can be varied and diverse. The dimensions of the rib
  structure can be variable and allow for irregular patterns as may be seen in natural settings of
  stone, brick, wood, or other materials.
           10213]     For example, referring now to Figure 22A, the rib structure in some
  embodiments can be configured to define arcuate protrusions and detents formed therealong.
  This type of structure is often referred to in masonry as a "tool joint." Figure 22A illustrates
  an overlapping rib 1192 having a pair of opposing protrusions 1194 and an overlapped rib
   1196 having a pair of opposing detents 1198 that are configured to receive the protrusions
  1194 of the rib 1192. The protrusions 1194 and the detents 1198 can comprise a shape that is
                                                 --50--

WO 2010/036971                                                             PCT/US2009/058489
farmed using a transition between convex and concave.              In some embodiments, the
configuration can be described as an "S" shape.        In this regard, the arcuate shape of the
surfaces can facilitate interlocking between the ribs 1192, 1196.         Further, as illustrated
therein, the protrusions 1194 and the recesses 1198 can be configured to extend inwardly to a
lesser degree than the embodiment shown in Figures 21 A-C. Accordingly, it is contemplated
that the embodiment of the rib structure shown in Figure 22A can be substituted for that
shown in Figures 21A-C and implemented with the embodiments of the formliners disclosed
herein.
         102141      Figure 22B is an enlarged cross-sectional side view of another
embodiment of a formliner. In the embodiment illustrated in Figure 22B, the rib structure of
the formliner is provided with a polygonal geometry to provide the appearance of a "rake
joint," mentioned above. As illustrated, an overlapped rib 1250 can comprise a generally
trapezoidal cross-section. The overlapped rib 1250 can define an external geometry or profile
that is less than an internal geometry or profile of an overlapping rib 1252. In this regard, the
overlapping rib 1252 can be overlaid onto the overlapped rib 1250, as illustrated.         In the
illustrated embodiment, the overlapped rib 1250 generally makes contact with the internal
surface of the overlapping rib 1252. However, in accordance with some of the embodiments
disclosed herein, it is contemplated that the overlapped rib 1250 contact only a portion of the
internal surface of the overlapping rib 1252.
         [02151      Figure   22C is an enlarged cross-scetional        side view of another
embodiment of a formliner.        Similar to the embodiment illustrated in Figure 22B, the
embodiment shown in Figure 22C can provide the appearance of a "rake joint." However, in
 addition to the aesthetic distinction, the embodiment in Figure 22C can also provide
 enhanced engagement through the use of protrusions and recesses.             As illustrated, an
 overlapped rib 1260 can comprise one or more recesses 1262. In the illustrated embodiment,
the recesses 1262 can be oriented along a lower portion or lower edge of the rib 1260.
 However, as with other embodiments disclosed herein, the recesses can be disposed on other
 portions of the rib. Referring again to Figure 22C, and overlapping rib 1270 can comprise
 one or more protrusions 1272 that can engage the one or more recesses 1262.      IT]this manner,
 when the overlapping rib 1270 is overlaid onto the overlapped rib 1260, the protrusions 1272
                                              --5 1--

WO 2010/036971                                                               PCT/US2009/058489
can engage the recesses 1262 in order to facilitate interlocking engagement between the ribs
1260, 1270 of the formliners. As noted herein, this interlocking engagement provides several
advantages in assembling and using the fonnliners
         102161     In addition, referring again to Figure 19, the formliner 1100 can comprise
a plurality of rib openings 1180. The rib openings 1180 can be positioned along the ribs
1102 of the rib structure of the forunliner I 100. The location of the openings I 180 can
correspond to a location of a corresponding rib of another fonliner to which the fonrliner
I100 is interconnected. The rib openings I 180 can facilitate precise alignment of a plurality
of formliners. Further, the rib openings 1180 can further contribute to the natural appearance
of the faux brick pattern created in the concrete structure. The formation and configuration
of rib openings 1180 is shown and described further below.
         10217]     Various methods are also provided for manufacturing embodiments of the
fornliners disclosed herein. Generally, many of the embodiments disclosed herein can be
manufactured using material to formation processes such as vacuum or thenroforming,
injection molding, and other such processes. Thermoforming with the vacuum assist can be
used to achieve superior results for thick or thin gauge formliners.
         102181     As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art, the themioforming process
begins with a blank that is heated and placed over a mold. Often, a mating mold can be
placed over the heated blank to trap the blank between the mold and the mating mold.
Vacuum pressure can also be applied to remove any air between the mold and the blank and
thereby further draw the blank into the mold.
         102191     In accordance with a unique aspect of some of the methods disclosed
herein, the formed sheet can be formed to include excess material length.           For example,
 referring to Figure 36 below, a formliner 1800 is shown in a nearly completed state. As
 shown, the formliner 1800 can include rib protrusions 1804 that can extend from the left
 and/or right sides of a formliner 1800. In this manner, using a subsequent cutting step, the rib
protrusions 1804 can be removed or trimmed such that the left and/or right sides of the
 formliner 1800 are prepared to receive or be overlaid with other foriliners. The trimming of
 the rib protrusions 1804 can be used to create one or more rib openings discussed above. In
 this manner, the initial forming operation can be simplified while allowing a precise edge to
                                               --52--

WO 2010/036971                                                             PCT/US2009/058489
be cut in order to define the rib openings. Therefore, in accordance with some embodiments
disclosed herein, the forming step can comprise fonning one or more rib protrusions in the
formed sheet during manufacturing of the formliner.              Subsequently, the method of
manufacturing the formliner can comprise trimming or otherwise removing the one or more
rib protrusions from the formliner in order to define one or more rib openings.
         [02201     Once a blank has been formed into a formed sheet using a thermoforning
machine, the formed sheet can be further processed using cutting equipment.            In some
embodiments, the process can employ a lascr-cutting device. A laser can provide superior
results by exact dimensioning and tolerancing; however, other cutting devices can also be
used. The cutting operation or step allows the rib openings discussed above to be formed for
those embodiments in which rib openings are used.             however, in all embodiments, the
cutting operation or step can be used to remove excess material from the edges of the formed
sheet in order to produce a prepared formlincr.          The cutting operation or step can be
particularly important in order to ensure that mating edges properly align with corresponding
portions of other formliners. Additionally, the cutting operation or step can be particularly
important in ensuring that protrusions and recesses of formliners can be properly engaged in
assembling a plurality of formliners.
          [0221]     Figure 23 is a top view of a formliner 1200 in accordance with an
 embodiment. As with the formliner 1100, the fonnliner 1200 comprises a plurality of ribs
 1202 that form a rib structure. The ribs 1202 can comprise one or more overlapping portions
 1204 and one or more overlapped portions 1206.           Additionally, the formliner 1200 can
 comprise non-overlap portions 1208.         The embodiment of Figure 23 illustrates that the
 overlapping portions 1204 and the non-overlap portions 1208 can define a common outer
 dimension 1001.      Thus, when a plurality of the formliners 1200 are interconnected. the
 overlapping portions 1204 overlap with the overlapped portions 1206 and the resulting rib
 structure of the interconnected formliners has a common outer dimension 1001. Further, the
 protrusions and detents can be placed on a single side or both sides of a peripheral rib, in
 accordance with some embodiments.
          102221     In this regard, as discussed above, the overlapped portions 1206 can define
 an outer dimension 1002. The outer dimension 1002 can be less than the outer dimension
                                                --53--

WO 2010/036971                                                              PCT/US2009/058489
1001. Further, an inner dimension of the overlapping portions 1204 can also be greater than
the outer dimension 1002 of the overlapped portions 1206.
         [02231     Moreover, it is contemplated that in using a formliner that defines a
generally rectangular perimeter, there may be sections of interconnected formliners in which
more than two formliners overlap. Accordingly, in some embodiments, the formliner 1200
can be configured to define a sub-overlapped section 1210. As illustrated in the upper and
lower right corners of the fornliner 1200, the sub-overlapped sections 1210 can define an
outer dimension 1003. The outer dimension 1003 can be less than the outer dimension 1002
and the outer dimension 1001. Further, an inner dimension of the overlapped portions 1206
can also be greater than the outer dimension 1003 of the sub-overlapped portions 1210.
Additionally, as described above with respect to Figure 19, the formliner 1200 can also be
 configured to include a plurality of rib openings 1220. As similarly described above, the
plurality of rib openings 1220 can be located and configured to correspond with
 corresponding ribs of adjacent interconnected formliners.
          [02241     As noted above, in some embodiments, the overlapped portions can
 comprise one or more detents, and the overlapping portions can comprise one or more
 protrusions. In this regard, it is contemplated the protrusions and detents can extend along
 any length of a respective rib. For example, the protrusions and detents can extend along less
 than the entire length of a respective rib such that the protrusion and/or decent is offset from a
 corner or end of the respective rib. It is also contemplated that the protrusions and detents
 can extend continuously or discontinuously along the respective rib.             Moreover, it is
 appreciated that the design and interlocking profile of the formliner can dictate the
 arrangement, length, and pattern of the protrusions and detents.
          [02251     In this manner,. a single formliner can be used to create a continuous
  decorative pattern that can be used for any size concrete structure.        Advantageously, in
  contrast to prior art formliners, embodiments of the formliners disclosed herein can be
  interconnected to create a dimensionally continuous, precise assembly of formliners.
           [0226]    Referring now to Figure 24, an end view of the sub-overlapped section
  1210 of Figure 23 is illustrated. As shown, the sub-overlapped section 1210 defines an outer
  dimension 1003 that is less than the outer dimension 1002 of the overlapped section 1206
                                               -- 54--

WO 2010/036971                                                             PCT/US2009/058489
(shown in dashed lines). Additionally, the outer dimension 1001 of the overlapping sections
1204 is also shown dashed lines and illustrated as being greater than both the outer dimension
1002 and the outer dimension 1003.
          102271     Figure 25 is a perspective view of the formliner assembly of Figure 20. In
particular, the formliner 1122 and the fornliner 1120 are shown in a pre-assembled state. In
this regard, Figure 25 illustrates that the overlapped sections 1146 of the formliner 1120 are
received within cavities of the overlapping sections 1144 of the formliner 1122.              As
discussed below in reference to Figure 29, the upper surfaces of the overlapping sections
1144 of the formliner 1122 can be generally flush with the upper surfaces of non-overlap
sections 1148 of the formliner 1120.
          102281     Figure 25 also illustrates another view of the engagement between the
protrusions 1136 formed on the free side edges 1176 and the corner portions 1174 of the
overlapping sections 1144 of the formliner 1122 and the detents 1138 formed on the free side
edges 1172 and the comer portions 1170 of the overlapped sections 1146 of the formliner
 1120. As shown therein, the corner portions of the rib are formed wherealong the rib and the
cell meet.
          [0229]     Figure 26 is a partial perspective view of the fomiliner 1200, illustrating
the sub-overlapped portion 1210 thereof. As shown, the sub-overlapped portion 1210 defines
a smaller cross-sectional profile or dimension than the overlapped portion 1206. Figure 26
 also illustrated detents 1212 forced along corner portions 1214 and outer side edges 1216 of
the fonnliner 1200.
          102301     Figure 27 is a perspective view of the formliner assembly of Figure 20
 illustrating the formliners 1120, 1122, and 1124.       In this view, the ribs structure of the
 formliner 1120 comprises overlapping portions 1300, overlapped portions 1302, and a sub
 overlapped portion 1304. The formliner 1124 is first placed onto the overlapped portion
 1302 of the formliner 1120. As can be appreciated, an overlapping portion 1310 of the
 fonnliner 1124 is placed onto an overlapped portion             1302 of the formliner 1120.
 Additionally, an overlapped portion 1312 (shown as a T-connection) of the formliner 1124 is
 placed onto the sub-overlapped portion 1304 of the formliner 1120. Finally, overlapping
                                               --55--

WO 2010/036971                                                               PCT/US2009/058489
portions 1320 of the formliner 1122 are placed onto the overlapped portions 1302 of the
formliner 1120 and the overlapped portion 1312 of the fonnliner 1124.
         102311      One of the unique features of embodiments disclosed herein is the
inclusion of rib openings that allow the overlapped portions of the ribs to be nested within
overlapping portions of other ribs and to extend through the rib openings. For example, with
reference to Figure 25, rib openings 1150 can be provided in the overlapping sections 1144 of
the fonnliner 1122. Further, with regard to Figure 24, a rib opening 1322 is provided in the
overlapping portions 1320 of the formliner 1122.            This rib opening 1322 allows the
overlapping portions 1320 to be overlaid onto the overlapped portion 1312 with the
overlapped portion 1312 extending through the rib opening 1322. Similarly, a rib opening
 1324 allows the overlapped portions 1302 the past therethrough thus enabling the
overlapping portions 1320 to be overlaid onto the overlapped portions 1302. Finally, the
illustrated embodiment in Figure 8 also shows a rib opening 1326 formed in the overlapped
portion 1312, which enables the sub-overlapped portion 1304 to extend therethrough.            As
will be appreciated by one of skill in the art, the rib openings of some embodiments disclosed
herein uniquely allow overlapping formliners to minimize visible seaming by allowing the
 overlapping portions of the formliners to fit tightly and closely together.
         {02321      With regard to Figure 27, once assembled, the overlapping portions 1300,
 1310, and 1320 each define a common outer dimension or shape. Thus, when the formliner
 assembly is pressed into fresh concrete or when concrete is poured thereagainst, the
 impressions of the rib structure of the fonrliner assembly will appear seamless and uniform.
          [0233]     In addition, as will he appreciated, once the formliners 1120, 1122, and
  1124 are assembled, an edge 1330 of the overlapping portion 1310 of the formliner 1124 will
 be disposed into a corner 1332 formed between the overlapped portion 1302 and a cell 1334
 of the fonnliner 1120. As such, any seaming between the overlapping portion 1310 of the
 fonuliner 1124 and the cell 1334 of the formliner 1] 20 will be reduced and/or eliminated.
          10234]     Similarly, an edge 1340 of the overlapping portion 1320 of the forniliner
  1122 will be disposed into a corner 1342 formed by the overlapped portion 1302 and the cell
  1334. Thus, seaming between the formliner 1120 and formliner 1122 will be greatly reduced
  and/or eliminated.
                                                --56--

WO 2010/036971                                                            PCT/US2009/058489
        10235        Further, the seaming can further be reduced in some embodiments wherein
the formliners 1120, 1122, 1124 comprise detents and protrusions that facilitate engagement
between the formliners 1120, 1122, 1124. As illustrated, the formliner 1120 can comprise
detents 1350 that can be engaged by protrusions 1352 of the fonnliner 1124. Further, the
formliner 1120 can comprise detents 1354 that can be engaged by protrusions 1356 of the
formliner 1122. Finally, the formliner 1124 can comprise detents 1358 that can be engaged
by protrusions 1360 of the fonnliner 1122.
         [0236]      Figure 28 illustrates many of the above-discussed principles.       In this
figure, a first formliner 1400 is matcd with a second formliner 1402.         And overlapping
portion 1406 of the first formliner 1400 is placed onto an overlapped portion 1408 of the
second formliner 1402. As discussed above with respect to Figure 27, the mating of an edge
 1410 of the overlapping portion 1406 with 1412 of the second fornliner 1402 can create an
imperceptible seam between the first and second fornliners 1400, 1402.       Further, transition
zones or joints 1420 between the overlapping portion 1406 of the first fornliner 1400 and. an
overlapping portion 1422 of the second fornliner 1402 can be minimized so as to reduce
 and/or eliminate any visible seaming at the transition zones orjoints 1420.
         [02371      Furthennore, upon application of a curable material to the formliner
 assembly illustrated in Figures 28 and 29, protrusions 1424 of the overlapping portion 1406
 of the first formliner 1400 can be further engaged with detents 1426 of the overlapped
 portions 1408 of the second formliner 1402. This enhanced engagement further prevents
 dislodging or misalignment between the forinliners 1400, 1402.         Again, such a superior
 benefit is not disclosed or taught by prior art fonliners.
          10238]     Referring now to Figure 29, an enlarged view of a transition zone or joint
 1420 of Figure 28 is illustrated. As shown, the transition zone or joint 1420 can comprise a
 simple step 1430 from a first dimension to a second dimension, In some embodiments, this
 may be an immediate increase in the dimension along the rib of the second formliner,
 specifically from the overlapped portion 1408 to the overlapping portion 1422. However, in
 other embodiments, it is contemplated that the step 1430 can be a tapered transition between
 the overlapped portion 1408 and the overlapping portion 1422. Additionally, a side edge
                                                --57--

WO 2010/036971                                                             PCT/US2009/058489
1432 of the overlapping portion 1406 of the first formliner 1400 can be configured to
correspond to the shape and dimension of the step 1430.
         102391     Further, Figure 29 also illustrates the nesting arrangement of the
overlapping portion 1406 of the first formliner 1400 is shown with respect to the overlapped
portion 1408 of the second formliner 1402. Finally, Figure 29 also illustrates the orientation
of the edge 1410 of the overlapping portion 1406 of the formliner 1400 is shown with respect
to the cell 1412 of the second formliner 1402.
         102401      With continued reference to Figure 29, it will be appreciated that a seam
1440 fonned between the edge 1410 and the cell 1412 can be reduced as the fit between the
first fornliner 1400 and the second formliner 1402 are optimized. In this regard, the intemal
geometry of the overlapping portion 1406 can be specifically configured 10 match the
external geometry of the overlapped portion 1408, thus reducing any seam (whether along the
edge 1410 or the side edge 1432) between the overlapping portion 1406 and the overlapped
portion 1408.
         102411      As noted above, one of the advantages of embodiments disclosed herein is
that seams of overlapped portions of adjacent fonliners can be minimized and/or eliminated.
In this regard, as illustrated in Figure 29, the seam 1440 is created along a corner at or along a
bottom portion of the cell 1412 of the formliner 1402 which forms part of a prepared
fo-mliner mold cavity. In this regard, the seam 1440 is positioned such that the weight of a
curable material, such as concrete, against the first formliner 1400 causes the overlapping
portion 1406 of the first formlincr 1400 to be pressed against the overlapped portion 1408 of
 the second for-mliner 1402 with great force thereby causing the edge 1410 to be positioned as
 close as possible relative to the cell 1412 in order to minimize and/or eliminate the sean
 1440 between the adjacent forliners 1400, 1402. This innovative feature of embodiments
 disclosed herein, which allows seams to be created along the bottom faces or portions of the
 mold allows the weight of the curable material to act as a compressive agent in reducing
 and/or eliminating seams between adjacent formliners.         For example, a common curable
 material such as concrete generally weighs 150 pounds per cubic foot, and cinbodiments of
 the present inventions are able to take advantage of the significant force of such a material in
 order to create an aesthetically superior product.
                                                --58--

         [02421        Furthermore, the tolerances between the overlapping portion 1406 and
the overlapped portion 1408 can also define a seam 1442. Specifically, the distance between
the edge 1432 and the step 1430 can define the seam 1442. It is contemplated that the
overlapping portion 1406 can be toleranced with a longitudinal length such that the edge 1432
thereof abuts the step 1430; It is also contemplated that as with the seam 1440, the
compressive forces of the material against the first formliner 1400 and the second formliner
 1402 can serve to reduce the size of the seam 1442 to thereby create a superior finished
product.
         [02431        Referring now to Figures 19-29, it is noted that the above-discussed
embodiments of the formliner and formliner components provide for a distinct shelf or step
between rib sections having differing geometries or configurations. For example, as noted
above with respect to Figure 29, the step 1430 is a transition zone, shelf, or shoulder between
the overlapping portion 1422 and the overlapped portion 1408 of the second formliner 1402 as
briefly mentioned above, the step 1430 can provide a gradual transition from the overlapping
portion 1422 to the overlapped portion 1408. However, in some embodiments, it is
contemplated that the formliner can be formed with ribs or ridges that taper from a first
geometry or configuration to a second geometry or configuration. As such, the shoulder 1430
can be eliminated from such embodiments.
         [0244]        For example, referring generally to a side view similar to that of Figure
29, it is contemplated that a rib can taper from a first dimension or configuration in an
overlapping portion to a second dimension or configuration in an overlapped portion. In yet
other embodiments, it is contemplated that the rib can taper from the second dimension or
configuration to a third dimension or configuration. The tapering of the rib from one
dimension to another can comprise a generally constant taper or a variable taper.
         [02451        Further, in some embodiments, overlapping portions of the ribs of the
formliner can be configured to define a variable thickness corresponding to the tapering of the
overlapped portions onto which the overlapping portions will be overlaid. As such, the
cumulative dimension or configuration of nested or overlaid rib portions can be generally
constant. However, it is likewise contemplated that the thickness of overlapping or
interconnecting formliners can be generally constant along their respective ribs or ridges.
                                              59

WO 2010/036971                                                              PCT/US2009/058489
         10246]    Additionally, in accordance with at least one of the embodiments disclosed
herein is the realization that in fonning a pattern of interconnected formliners, the edges
along the top, bottom, left, and right sides of a pattern or casting can be carefully arranged in
order to ensure a natural appearance. Commonly, a plurality of fornliners must be used in
order to form a pattern or casting larger than a few square feet in size. Typically, in arranging
or interconnecting the formliners, an artisan may begin from a top left corner and work down
and across toward the bottom right comer. Thus, the left side and the top side of the pattern
or casting can generally be comprised of whole or entire formnliners that are interconnected
vertically and horizontally. Additionally, formliners located in the center portions of the
pattern or casting are also whole or entire formliners. However, according to at least one of
the embodiments disclosed herein is the realization that fonnliners located along the bottom
and right sides of the pattern or casting may only be partial sheets. In some embodiments,
this deficiency can be overcome by providing alternative embodiments of a fornliner that
enable the artisan to create desirable bottom and right side edges and/or that can be
interconnected with other formliners along a partial length thereof in order to form a clean
edge, whether it is a straight edge, curved edge, angled edge, or otherwise.
         102471     Accordingiy,     referring    to   Figures    30-33,  alternative    fonliner
embodiments are shown. In Figure 30, a formliner end portion 1500 is shown. The formliner
end portion 1500 can comprise many of the same features as discussed above with respect to
the other formliner embodiments. For example, the formliner end portion 1500 can comprise
the protrusions and/or detents discussed above. However, the form liner end portion 1500 can
also optionally comprise a generally straight side 1502 that is configured to mate with a
corresponding fonnliner end portion.         In this regard, it is contemplated that in use, the
formliner end portion 1500 can be used at a far side or end of the desired pattern.            For
example, the formliner end portion 1500 can be used for a left side boundary or a right side
boundary.
         102481     In some embodiments, the fonliner end portion 1500 can be configured
 to mate with another formliner to form a comer of a pattern, casting, or formwork. In such an
 embodiment, the formliner end portion 1500 can also optionally comprise a ledge recess
 1522, as described below. For example, the ledge recess 1522 can be forwarded by a length
                                                --60--

of the ribs 1504 which comprises a reduced geometry or dimension, as shown in dashed lines
in Figure 30. Accordingly, some embodiments of the formliner end portion 1500 can be
provided in which the side 1502 can mate with corresponding formliner components or
portions.
         [0249]          For example, an exemplary mating arrangement of the formliner end
portion 1500 with a formliner component or portion is illustrated in Figure 31. As shown
therein, the formliner end portion 1500 can receive a corresponding formliner end portion
1510. The formliner end portion 1500 and the corresponding formliner end portion 1510 can
be interconnected or positioned such that they form a corner in a pattern, casting, or formwork.
         [02501          In accordance with the embodiments of the fonnliner end portion 1500
and the corresponding formliner end portion 1510 illustrated in Figure 31, the corresponding
formliner end portion 1510 can define a plurality of recesses 1512 formed at the ends of rib
members 1514. The recesses 1512 can be configured to allow the rib members 1514 to fit
over the ribs 1504 of the formliner end portion 1500. Thus, the formliner end portion 1500
and the corresponding formliner end portion 1510 can be positioned relative to each other at a
right angle such that a right angle corner in the pattern or casting is produced. However, it is
contemplated that the recesses 1512 can define other shapes that allowed the corresponding
formliner end portion 1510 to be oriented at any variety of angles relative to the formliner end
portion 1500. In this regard, the side 1502 can be oriented generally perpendicularly relative
to the ribs 1504, or the side 1502 can be disposed at an angle relative to the ribs 1504, thereby
facilitating a desired angular interconnection between the formliner end portion 1500 and the
corresponding formliner end portion 1510.
         t02511          Additionally, in the embodiments illustrated in Figure 31, the
corresponding formliner end portion 1510 can also comprise a mating ledge 1520. In some
embodiments, the mating ledge 1520 can be connected to both the ribs 1514 and the planar
portions of the cells above the corresponding formliner end portion 1510. As such, the mating
ledge 1520 could be generally rigidly positioned relative to the ribs 1514.              Such an
embodiment could be advantageous in facilitating the alignment between the formliner end
portion 1500 and the corresponding formliner end portion 1510. In this regard, as mentioned
above with respect to the side 1502, the mating ledge 1520 can be oriented at a given angle
relative to the ribs 1514.       As illustrated, the mating ledge 1520 can be oriented at
approximately a right angle relative to the ribs 1514. However, it is contemplated that the
mating ledge 1520 can also be oriented at any variety of angles relative to the ribs 1514.
                                                61

In some embodiments, the mating ledge 1520 can be configured to fit into or be received in
the ledge recess 1522 formed along the formliner end portion 1500.
         [02521         However, in other embodiments, the mating ledge 1520 can be hingedly
or moveably attached to the corresponding formliner end portion 1510. For example, the
mating ledge 1520 can be attached to the corresponding formliner end portion 1510 along the
length of the cells thereof, but not connected to the ribs 1514. In other words, the mating
ledge 1520 can be separated or cut from the ribs 1514 by means of a slit 1530. Thus, the slit
 1530 can allow the mating ledge 1520 to be generally flexible or movable relative to the
corresponding formliner end portion 1510. In such embodiments, the mating ledge 1520 can
be folded under a portion of the formliner end portion 1500. Optionally, the side 1502 of the
formliner end portion 1500 can be eliminated in order to allow the mating ledge 1520 to
extend to underneath the formliner end portion 1500.
         [0253]         Nevertheless, in other embodiments, such as that illustrated in Figure
32, it is contemplated that the ledge recess can be eliminated and that the ribs define a
generally constant cross-sectional geometry. For example, the cross-sectional geometry of the
ribs can be generally constant along central portions and end portions of the ribs adjacent the
side of the formliner end portion.
         [0254]         Further, as shown in Figure 31, in some embodiments, the formliner end
portion 1510 can comprise one or more protrusions 1540 disposed at the recesses 1512 for
engaging corresponding detents 1542 formed in the ribs 1504. As such, the interconnection of
the formliner end portions 1500, 1510 can be sufficiently secure so as not to require an
adhesive.
         [0255]         Referring to Figure 32, a formliner end portion 1550 can comprise one
or more ribs 1552. Optionally, the formliner end portion can also comprise a side 1554.
However, as described above, the side 1554 can also be eliminated in some embodiments.
Additionally, the corresponding formliner end portion 1560 can be configured to mate with the
formliner end portion 1550. The embodiment of the corresponding formliner end portion
1560 does not include the mating ledge of the embodiment discussed in regard to Figure 31.
As will be appreciated with reference to Figure 32, openings 1562 in ribs 1564 of the
corresponding formliner end portion 1560 can be mated against the ribs 1522 of the formliner
end portion 1550 to create a corner of a desired angle measurement for a pattern or casting.
Further, the openings 1562 are preferably configured such that an edge 1566 of the
corresponding formliner end portion 1560 can be positioned against the top surface of the cells
                                               62

of the formliner end portion 1550. Optionally, the openings 1562 can be configured to be
manipulated in order to allow varying angles of orientation between the formliner end portion
1550 and the corresponding formliner end portion 1560. For example, a portion of the ribs
1564 can be configured as a "tear away" that allows the openings 1562 to be enlarged. The
embodiment of Figure 32 can facilitate a tight fit between the formliner end portion 1550 and
the corresponding formliner end portion 1560.
         [0256]         Further, as shown in Figure 32, in some embodiments, the formliner end
portion 1560 can comprise one or more protrusions 1572 disposed at the recesses 1562 for
engaging corresponding detents 1574 formed in the ribs 1522. As such, the interconnection of
the formliner end portions 1550, 1560 can be sufficiently secure so as not to require an
adhesive.
         [0257]         Referring to Figure 33, another embodiment of a formliner end portion
1570 can be provided which comprises one or more ribs 1572. As noted above, the formliner
end portion 1570 is an embodiment in which no side is used.              Similar to the other
embodiments disclosed herein, the formliner end portion 1570 can be configured to mate with
a corresponding formliner end portion 1580. The embodiment of the corresponding formliner
end portion 1580 does not include the mating ledge of the embodiment discussed in regard to
Figure 31. As will be appreciated with reference to Figure 33, openings 1582 in ribs 1584 of
the corresponding formliner end portion 1580 can be mated against the ribs 1572 of the
formliner end portion 1570 to create a corner of a desired angle measurement for a pattern or
casting.
         [02581         It is contemplated that the embodiment of Figures 30-32 can aid the
artisan in creating a dimensionally accurate and seamless corner of a faux brick mold. It is
contemplated also that other such features, such as three-point corners, convex arches, and
concave arches can be formed using similar principles.
         [0259]         Further, Figures 33-34 illustrate other embodiments of a formliner,
sheet, or panel having other shapes and geometries for imparting different patterns to a curable
material. As discussed above, such patterns can be of stone, wood, slate, or other materials.
Figure 33 is a representation of a formliner 1600 used to produce a stone pattern on an
exposed surface. Figure 34 is a representation of a formliner 1650 used to produce a rock
pattern on an exposed surface. As discussed herein, the formliners 1600, 1650 can also be
formed to include one or more protrusions and/or detents for enhancing engagement of
interconnected formliners so as to eliminate the need for adhesives.
                                               63

          102601         Figure 35 illustrates yet another embodiment of a formliner, sheet, or
panel 1700 having a pattern configured to provide the appearance of cut stone. As shown
therein, first rib portions 1702 of the formliner 1700 can be configured to define a first
geometry or configuration, and second rib portions 1704 can define a second geometry or
configuration that corresponds to the first geometry or configuration and enables multiple
formliners 1700 to be interconnected along the rib portions 1702, 1704.
          [0261]         In some embodiments, the formliner 1700 can comprise one or more
third rib portions 1706 that can define a third geometry or configuration that corresponds to
one of the first and second geometries or configurations. For example, the first rib portion
1702, the second rib portion 1704, and the third rib portion 1706 can allow the formliner 1700
to be overlaid with other formliners 1700 in a similar manner as to the formliner 1100
described above, and as shown in Figures 20-29.
         [0262]          As mentioned above with respect to the embodiments disclosed in
Figures 19-29, the first rib portions 1702, the second rib portions 1704, and the third rib
portions 1706, can each comprise rib portions having a generally constant geometry or
configuration, such as a cross-sectional geometry. However, it is also contemplated that the
first rib portions 1702, the second rib portions 1704, and the third rib portions 1706 of the
formliner 1700 can taper from one geometry or configuration to another. In other words, the
ribs or ridges of the formliner 1700 can taper from the first geometry or configuration to the
second geometry or configuration.        In yet other embodiments, the ribs or ridges of the
formliner 1700 can also taper from the second geometry or configuration to the third geometry
or configuration. The tapering in any such embodiment can be formed as a constant taper
from one geometry or configuration to another, from one corner to another or along lengths of
the ribs or ridges. The tapering in other embodiments can also be formed over discrete
sections of the ribs or ridges. Accordingly, in such embodiments, the ribs or bridges can be
formed without a distinct shelf or step from a given geometry or configuration to another
geometry or configuration. Further, it is contemplated that overlapping portions of adjacent
formliners can be configured to define variable thicknesses that taper along with the dimension
or configuration of that portion of the ribs or ridges.
         [0263]          Furthermore, the formliner 1700 can comprise one or more detents 1708
and one or more protrusions 1709. As discussed above with respect to the various other
embodiments disclosed herein, the protrusions and detents can enhance the interlocking
connection between formliners so as to eliminate the need for adhesives.
                                                64

        [0264]         Finally, the formliner 1700 can also comprise one or more openings
 1710 in one or more of the first, second, or third rib portions 1702, 1704, 1706 in order to
allow nesting and overlaying of the rib portions with each other, as similarly described above
with respect to the embodiments shown in Figures 19-29. In this manner, a plurality of the
formliners 1700 can be used to create a desirable cut stone pattern while eliminating any
appearance of seaming between the formliner 1700.
        [0265]         In accordance with some embodiments, any of the embodiments of the
formliner or combinations thereof can be used in a method of creating a decorative pattern in
a curable material, such as a casting, whether vertical or horizontal, a wall, etc. The method
can comprise assembling a plurality of any of the formliners disclosed herein to form an
assembly. Further, a curable material can be positioned against the assembly, such as by
pouring. In this manner, the seams between portions of adjacent formliners can be lessened
due to the weight of the material. As the material cures, the seams between the adjacent
formliners are reduced and/or eliminated compared to the prior art methods and formliners. As
such, one may obtain an aesthetically superior product. Further, any of the embodiments
herein provides the additional benefit that the artisan need not perform additional finishing
                                               65

WO 2010/036971                                                            PCT/US2009/058489
steps 10 eliminate unsightly seams, thus resulting in a tremendous cost and time savings and
efficiency.
         10266]     Figure 36 is a top view of yet another embodiment of an alternative
configuration of a fornliner 1800, according to another embodiment.              The illustrated
embodiment of the formliner 1800 differs from other embodiments, such as that shown in
Figures 1 and 19. For example, the formliner 1800 comprise a larger number of cells 1802.
Accordingly, the formlincr 1800 can be interconnected with other such formliners and be
utilized to cover large areas more efficiently than a smaller formliner, such as that shown in
Figures   I and 19.
         102671     Additionally, as discussed above, the formliner 1800 is also shown in a
nearly finished state. In other words, the formliner 1800 can still be trimmed in order to
produce a finished or prepared formliner.          In accordance with some embodiments, the
 formliner 1800 can comprise one or more rib protrusions 1804 that extend from left andlor
right sides of the formliner 1800. As discussed above, these rib protrusions 1804 can be
 removed prior to use in order to form a rib openings, which are discussed above with respect
 to other embodiments and shown, for example, in at least Figures 6, 8, 19, 23, 25, and 27.
          102681     Further, as in the other embodiments disclosed herein, the formliner 1800
 shown in Figure 36 also comprises one or more overlapping portions 1850 and one or more
 overlapped portions 1852.       Additionally, the formliner 1800 can comprise non-overlap
 portions 1854. The embodiment of Figure 36 illustrates that the overlapping portions 1850
 and the non-overlap portions 1854 can define a common outer dimension 1860. Thus, when
 a plurality of the formliners 1800 are interconnected, the overlapping portions 1850 overlap
 with the overlapped portions 1852 and the resulting rib structure of the interconnected
   borliners has a common outer dimension 1860.
          102691     In this regard, as discussed above, the overlapped portions 1852 can define
 an outer dimension 1862. The outer dimension 1862 can be less than the outer dimension
  1860. Further, an inner dimension of the overlapping portions 1850 can also be greater than
  the outer dimension 1862 of the overlapped portions 1852.
          10270]     Moreover, as discussed above, it is contemplated that in using a fornliner
  that defines a generally rectangular perimeter, there may be sections of interconnected
                                                --66--

 WO 2010/036971                                                              PCT/US2009/058489
fonaliners in which more than two formliners overlap. Accordingly, in some embodiments,
the formliner 1800 can be configured to define one or more sub-overlapped sections 1870.
Similar to the embodiments discussed above, the sub-overlapped sections 1870 can be
provided in the upper and lower right corners of the fbrmliner 1800.            Further,. the sub
overlapped sections 1870 can define an outer dimension 1872. The outer dimension 1872
can be less than the outer dimension 1862 and the outer dimension 1860. Further, an inner
dimension of the overlapped portions 1852 can also be greater than the outer dimension 1870
of the sub-overlapped portions 1870. Additionally, as described above, the fonliner 1800
 can also be configured to include a plurality of rib openings that are formed upon removal of
 the rib protrusions 1804. As similarly described above, the plurality of rib openings can be
 located and configured to correspond with corresponding ribs of adjacent interconnected
 formliners.
          102711      In accordance with some embodiments of the formliners disclosed herein.
 the sub-overlapped section (such as 210, 304, 1210, 1304, and 1870) can also be configured
 such that a length of the sub-overlapped section, as measured along the longitudinal direction
 of the rib, varies to provide optimal fit between overlapping formliners. For example, as
 shown in Figure 36, the sub-overlapped section 1870 can be disposed along a length of the
 rib, not just at the corner of the fonnliner. In particular, the sub-overlapped section 1870 can
 extend along the rib for approximately one-half of the total width of the cell 1802. In other
 embodiments, it is contemplated that the sub-overlapped section 1870 can extend along the
 rib for one-fourth or one-third of the total width of the cell 1802.             Additionally, in
 configurations where the cells 1802 are offset, the length of the sub-overlapped section can
 correspond to the length of the offset of the cell 1802 from the formliner 1800.           n other
 words, the length of the sub-overlapped section can correspond to the amount of protrusion
  of a cell from the formliner. In this manner, the fit and nesting of the ribs is optimized when
  a plurality of formliners are fitted together, such as with an overlapping section of a first
  formliner, an overlapped section of a second formliner, and a sub-overlapped section of a
  third forrnliner being overlaid onto each other.
           102721      Figure 37 is a top view of a formliner that has been modified to be a mold
  corner 1900, according to another embodiment.        The term "mold corner" or "formliner" can
                                                --67--

 WO 2010/036971                                                           PCT/US2009/058489
be used to describe such embodiments. In the illustrated embodiment, the mold corner 1900
comprises several rows of cells 1902 with only a single cell 1902 per row. Nevertheless,
embodiments can be provided that include a plurality of cells 1902 in each row of the mold
corner 1900. Additionally, invite immense can also be provided that include more or less
rows of cells 1902.
         102731     Similar to the embodiment of Figure 36 discussed above, the mold corner
1900 is also shown in a nearly finished stale. In other words, the mold corner 1900 can still
be trimmed in order to produce a finished or prepared formliner. In accordance with some
embodiments, the mold corner 1900 can comprise one or more rib protrusions 1904 that
extend from left and/or right sides of the fornliner 1900. As discussed above, these rib
protrusions 1904 can be removed prior to use in order to form a rib openings, which are
discussed above with respect to other embodiments and shown, for example, in at least
Figures 6, 8, 19, 23, 25, and 27.
         10274J     In accordance with the embodiment illustrated in Figure 37, the mold
corner 1900 can comprise a central folding zone 1910. The mold corner 1900 can be formed
such that the central folding zone 1910 comprises a folding line 1912 and such ribs 1914 of
the mold corner 1900 include recesses 1916. The mold comer 1900 can be configured to be
 folded along the central folding zone 1910 such that a rear face of the mold corner 1900 can
 be positioned against an interior corner of a forn.  In this regard, the ribs 1914 of the mold
 corner 1900 can also be formed to include overlapped portions 1920 and overlapping
portions 1922. As disclosed generally herein, the overlapped portions 1920 can be received
 within or made with overlapping portions of one or more other formliners in order to form a
 system of formliners. Further, the overlapping portions 1922 can be overlaid onto overlapped
 portions of one or more other formliners in order to form a system of fornliners.         Other
 features disclosed with respect to other embodiments can also be incorporated into
 embodiments of the mold corner 1900, such as sub-overlapped portions, interlocking
 protrusions and recesses, and other such features.
         102751      One of the unique advantages of the mold comer 1900 is that the mold
 comer 1900 helps to reduce the number of scenes and components in a system of formliners
 used to create a final molded product. In this regard, it is contemplated that the mold corner
                                              --68--

 WO 2010/036971                                                             PCT/US2009/058489
1900 can be configured to bend along the folding line 1912 to achieve one of a variety of
angular orientations between a first portion 1930 and a second portion 1932 of the mold
corner 1900. In this regard, the folding line 1912 can be configured as a thinned area of the
mold corner 1900. Further, the folding line 1912 can be configured as a perforated area of
the mold comer 1900. Furthermore, the folding line 1912 can also be configured as an
indented area of the mold corner 1900. Other variations and configurations of the folding
line 1912 can be provided in order to facilitate folding of the mold corner 1900 along the
folding line 1912.
          [02761     For example, it is contemplated that the mold corner 1900 can be
configured to provide a 90* bend between the first portion 1930 and the second portion 1932.
Figure 38A illustrates a top view of a recess 3916 formed in a rib in 1914 of the mold coiner
 1900. Further, Figure 38B is a side view of the portion of the mold corner 1900 shown in
Figure 38A.
          102771     As illustrated in the embodiment of Figures 38A-B, the recess 1916 can
comprise a generally 454 angle indentation from a lop portion of the rib 1914 downwardly
toward the folding line 1912. Accordingly, when the first portion 1930 is folded towards the
second portion 1932, interior surfaces 1940, 1942 of the recess 1916 can collapse towards
each other and contact each other to complete an interior profile of the folded mold corner
 1900.    In this regard, the interior surfaces 1940, 1942 can be oriented at first and second
angles 1950, 1952 relative to a bottom surface or section of the rib 1914. In the illustrated
 embodiment, the first and second angles 1950, 1952 are approximately 45*, However, as
necessary, other embodiments can be implemented that use greater or lesser angles, thus
 enabling the first portion 1932 form a variety of different angles relative to the second portion
 1932, such that the mold corner 1902 can be used in various applications having a variety of
 different geometries.
          [02781      In some embodiments, as illustrated in Figures 37-38B, upper surfaces of
 the first and second portions 1930, 1932 can fold inwardly toward each other. As discussed
 herein, this inward folding is facilitated in some embodiments by the formation of the recess
 in the rib. However, it is also contemplated that other implementations can be provided in
 which bottom surfaces of the first and second portions 1930, 1932 fold inwardly toward each
                                                --69--

WO 2010/036971                                                              PCT/US2009/058489
other. As such, instead of forming an interior mold corner that is inserted into a corner of a
mold (which can constitute an angle of less than 180 ), and embodiment of the mold corner
can also provide an exterior mold corner that is folded around a corner of a mold (such as
folding the bottom surfaces of the first and second portions 1930, 1932 toward each other to
accommodate an angle of greater than 180'). In such embodiments, the central folding zone
could be reversed so as to provide a continuous upper surface of the rib while providing a
recess along a lower portion of the rib and a gap in the material so as to allow the bottom
surfaces of the first and second portions 1930, 1932 fold inwardly toward each and be folded
around a corner of the mold.
         102791      Referring again to Figure 37, as noted above, the mold comer 1900 can
comprise one or more overlapping portions 1922 and one or more overlapped portions 1920.
Additionally, the mold corner 1900 can comprise non-overlap portions 1954.                   The
embodiment of Figure 37 illustrates that the overlapping portions 1922 and the non-overlap
portions 1954 can define a common outer dimension 1960. Thus, when a plurality of the
formliners 1900 are interconnected, the overlapping portions 1922 overlap with the
overlapped portions 1920 and the resulting jib structure of the interconnected formliners has
a common outer dimension 1960.
         102801      In this regard, as discussed above, the overlapped portions 1920 can define
an outer dimension 1962. The outer dimension 1962 can be less than the outer dimension
 1960. Further, an inner dimension of the overlapping portions 1922 can also be greater than
the outer dimension 1962 of the overlapped portions 1920.
         10281]      Moreover, as discussed above, it is contemplated that in interconnecting
 formliners with the mold corner and/or mold corners with mold corners and formliners, there
 are certain points where one or more fornliner(s) overlap with one or more mold corner(s).
 Accordingly, in some embodiments, the mold corner 1900 can be configured to define one or
 more sub-overlapped sections 1970. Similar to the embodiments discussed above, the sub
 overlapped sections 1970 can be provided in the upper and lower right corners of the mold
 corner 1900. Further, the sub-overlapped sections 1970 can define an outer dimension 1972.
 The outer dimension 1972 can be less than the outer dimension 1962 and the outer dimension
 1960. Further, an inner dimension of the overlapped portions 1920 can also be greater than
                                                -70--

 WO 2010/036971                                                            PCT/US2009/058489
the outer dimension 1970 of the sub-overlapped portions 1970. Additionally, as described
above, the mold corner 1900 can also be configured to include a plurality of rib openings that
are formed upon removal of the rib protrusions 1904.       As similarly described above, the
plurality of rib openings can be located and configured to correspond with corresponding ribs
of adjacent interconnected formliners.
         102821     In accordance with some embodiments of the fornliners disclosed herein,
the sub-overlapped section (such as 210, 304, 1210, 1304, 1870, 1970) can also be
configured such that a length of the sub-overlapped section, as measured along the
longitudinal direction of the rib, varies to provide optimal fit between overlapping
formliner(s)/mold comer(s). For example, as shown in Figure 37, the sub-overlapped section
1970 can be disposed along a length of the rib, not just at the corner of the mold corner. In
particular, the sub-overlapped section 1970 can extend along the rib for approximately one
hair of the total width of the cell 1902. In other embodiments, it is contemplated that the sub
overlapped section 1970 can extend along the rib for one-fourth or one-third of the total
width of the cell 1902. Additionally, in configurations where the cells 1902 are offset, the
length of the sub-overlapped section can correspond to the length of the offset of the cell
 1902 from the mold coiner 1900. In other words, the length of the sub-overlapped section
can correspond to the amount of protrusion of a cell from the mold corner. In this manner.
the fit and nesting of the ribs is optimized when a plurality of mold corner(s) and/or
fonnliner(s) are fitted together, such as with an overlapping section of a first formliner, an
overlapped section of a first mold corner, and a sub-overlapped section of a second mold
comer being overlaid onto each other.
         102831     Moreover, the formliners, mold corners, and other components can be
formed in any variety of shapes and the ribs or ridges fonied in the fonnliners can serve to
provide strength against the weight of the curable material positioned thereagainst without
requiring that the formliner be exceedingly bulky, thick, or otherwise heavy. In this regard,
embodiments of the formliner can advantageously be used, for example, in tilt-up assemblies
that require heavy materials such as rebar without contributing significantly, if even much at
all, to the overall weight of the assembly. As such, the fornliners allow for the use of less
                                               --71--

WO 2010/036971                                                           PCT/US2009/058489
rigorous machinery, such as smaller cranes, etc.          Accordingly, the light weight of
embodiments of the forinliner can allow for additional reductions in cost, time, and labor.
        102841     As discussed above, embodiments of the formliners disclosed herein
allows the artisan to eliminate and/or reduce any visible seaming between interconnected
fornliners.   Some embodiments of the formliners disclosed herein are able to effectively
eliminate such seaming by converging formliner edges into corners above an interconnected
fornliner and using tight tolerances in mating exposed surfaces of the interconnected
fornliners.
        102851      Although these inventions have been disclosed in the context of certain
preferred embodiments and examples, it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the
present inventions extend beyond the specifically disclosed embodiments to other alternative
embodiments and/or uses of the inventions and obvious modifications and equivalents
thereoF.   In addition, while several variations of the inventions have been shown and
described in detail, other modifications, which are within the scope of these inventions, will
be readily apparent to those of skili in the art based upon this disclosure.          It is also
contemplated that various combination or sub-combinations of the specific features and
aspects of the embodiments may be made and still fall within the scope of the inventions. It
should be understood that various features and aspects of the disclosed embodiments can be
combined with or substituted for one another in order to form varying modes of the disclosed
inventions.   Thus, it is intended that the scope of at least some of the present inventions
herein disclosed should not be limited by the particular disclosed embodiments described
above.
                                             --72-

C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\SAF\171261411 Idocx-3 06 2018
                                                                CLAIMS
                1.            Formliners comprising at least two formliners configured to form a corner in
curable material when the at least two formliners are assembled together, the formliners
comprising:
                              a first formliner comprising:
                                             a cell comprising a recessed portion, wherein at least a part of the
                              recessed portion is configured contact the curable material;
                                             a boundary side extending along at least a part of the cell of the first
                              formliner, the boundary side connected to the cell at a predetermined angle
                              relative to the recessed portion of the cell of the first formliner, the
                              predetermined angle corresponding to a desired angle of the comer when
                              forming the corner in the curable material; and
                                             a rib extending along at least a part of the cell of the first formliner
                              toward the boundary side, the rib of the first formliner comprising an exterior
                              surface forming an exterior cross-sectional profile, wherein at least a portion of
                              the exterior surface is configured to contact the curable material; and
                              a second formliner comprising:
                                             a cell comprising a recessed portion; and
                                             a rib extending along at least a part of the cell of the second formliner,
                              the rib of the second formliner comprising an opening having a cross-sectional
                              profile corresponding to the exterior cross-sectional profile of the rib of the
                              first formliner when the second formliner is positioned at the predetermined
                              angle relative to the first formliner,
                              wherein the first formliner is configured to be assembled with the second
               formliner at the predetermined angle to form the comer in the curable material with the
               desired angle by mating the opening of the rib of the second formliner with exterior
               surface of the rib of the first formliner with the boundary side of the first formliner
               contacting the recessed portion of the cell of the second formliner along the
               predetermined angle relative to the recessed portion of the cell of the first formliner to
               minimize visible seams in the curable material.
                                                                   -73-

C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\SAF\171261411 Idocx-3 06 2018
               2.             The formliners of Claim 1, wherein the opening comprises a recess formed in
the rib of the second formliner, the recess comprising an interior surface, wherein the exterior
surface of the rib of the first formliner is configured to nest within the recess by directly
contacting the interior surface of the recess to form a tight fit between the first and second
formliners when the first and second formliners are assembled at the predetermined angle.
               3.             The formliners of Claim 2, wherein the second formliner further comprises a
mating ledge, the mating ledge connected to the recessed portion of the cell of the second
formliner, wherein, to facilitate alignment of the first and second formliners when the first and
second formliners are being assembled, the mating ledge extends along at least a part of the
recessed portion of the cell of the first formliner when the first and second formliners are
assembled.
               4.             The formliners of Claim 3, wherein the first formliner further comprises a ledge
recess formed along at least a part of the boundary side, the ledge recess comprising a reduced
geometry in the first formliner corresponding to the mating ledge such that the mating ledge is
received into the ledge recess to facilitate alignment of the first and second formliners when
the first and second formliners are being assembled.
               5.             The formliners of Claim 3 or 4, wherein the mating ledge is connected to the
rib of the second formliner proximate to the interior surface to rigidly attach to the second
formliner at the predetermined angle relative to the recessed portion of the cell of the second
formliner.
               6.             The formliners of any one of Claims 3 to 5, wherein at least a portion of the
mating ledge is movable relative the recessed portion of the cell of the second formliner such
that an angle between the mating ledge and the recessed portion of the cell of the second
formliner is adjustable.
               7.             The formliners of Claim 6, wherein the recessed portion of the cell of the
second formliner and the mating ledge are formed from a monolithic piece of material,
wherein the monolithic piece of material comprises slits between the mating ledge and the rib
of the second formliner to allow adjustment of the angle between the mating ledge and the
recessed portion of the cell of the second formliner.
                                                           -74-

C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\SAF\171261411 Idocx-3 06 2018
               8.             The formliners of any one of Claims 1 to 7, wherein the opening of the rib of
the second formliner comprises an edge extending along the cross-sectional profile of the rib
of the second formliner, the edge extending from the recessed portion of the cell of the second
formliner.
               9.             The formliners of Claim 8, wherein the edge is adjustable to enlarge the
opening of the rib of the second formliner depending on the predetermined angle between the
boundary side and the recessed portion of the cell of the first formliner.
                10.           The formliners of Claim 9, wherein the edge comprises tear-away portions
connected to the rib of the second formliner, the tear-away portions configured to be detached
from the rib of the second formliner to enlarge the opening of the rib of the second formliner.
                11.           The formliners of any one of Claims I to 10, wherein the first formliner further
comprises a detent between the cell and the rib of the first formliner, the detent extending
away from the recessed portion of the cell of the first formliner, wherein the second formliner
further comprises a protrusion connected to the rib at the opening of the rib of the second
formliner, the protrusion extending into the opening of the rib of the second formliner, and
wherein the protrusion of the second formliner engages the detent of the first formliner to
securely assemble the first and second formliners together.
                12.           The formliners of any one of Claims I to 11, wherein the predetermined angle
is substantially a right angle corresponding to the desired angle of the corner in the curable
material being a right angle.
                13.           Formliners comprising at least two formliners configured to form a corner in
curable material when the at least two formliners are assembled together, the formliners
comprising:
                              a first formliner comprising:
                                             a cell; and
                                             a rib extending along at least a part of the cell of the first formliner, the
                              rib of the first formliner comprising an exterior surface forming an exterior
                              cross-sectional profile, wherein at least a portion of the exterior surface is
                              configured to contact the curable material; and
                                                                   -75-

C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\SAF\171261411 Idocx-3 06 2018
                              a second formliner comprising:
                                             a cell comprising a recessed side;
                                             a flange connected to the recessed side of the cell of the second
                              formliner; and
                                             a rib extending along at least a part of the cell of the second formliner,
                              the rib of the second formliner comprising an opening having a cross-sectional
                              profile corresponding to the exterior cross-sectional profile of the rib of the
                              first formliner when the second formliner is positioned at a predetermined
                              angle relative to the first formliner, the predetermined angle corresponding to a
                              desired angle of the comer when forming the corner in the curable material,
                              wherein the first formliner is configured to be assembled with the second
               formliner at the predetermined angle to form the comer in the curable material with the
               desired angle by overlaying the opening of the second formliner onto the rib of the
               first formliner to minimize visible seams in the curable material at the comer, and
                              wherein, when the first and second formliners are assembled, the flange
               extends along at least a part of the recessed side of the cell of the first formliner to
               facilitate alignment of the first and second formliners.
                14.           The formliners of Claim 13, wherein the first formliner further comprises a
ledge recess formed along at least a part of an edge of the first formliner, the ledge recess
comprising a reduced geometry in the first formliner corresponding to the flange such that the
flange is received into the ledge recess to facilitate alignment of the first and second formliners
when the first and second formliners are being assembled.
                15.            The formliners of Claim 13 or 14, wherein at least a portion of the flange is
movable relative the recessed side of the cell of the second formliner such that an angle
between the flange and the recessed side of the cell of the second formliner is adjustable.
                16.           The formliners of any one of Claims 13 to 15, wherein the opening comprises a
recess formed in the rib of the second formliner, the recess comprising an interior surface,
wherein the exterior surface of the rib of the first formliner is configured to nest within the
recess by directly contacting the interior surface of the recess to form a tight fit between the
                                                                   -76-

C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\SAF\17126141-ldocx-13 06/2018
first and second formliners when the first and second formliners are assembled at the
predetermined angle.
                17.           The formliners of any one of Claims 13 to 16, wherein the recessed side of the
second formliner and the flange are formed from a monolithic piece of material, wherein the
monolithic piece of material comprises slits between the flange and the rib of the second
formliner to allow adjustment of the predetermined angle between the flange and the recessed
side of the cell of the second formliner.
                18.           The formliners of any one of Claims 13 to 17, wherein the opening of the rib of
the second formliner comprises an edge extending about the rib of the second formliner, the
edge extending from the recessed side of the cell of the second formliner, the edge defining the
cross-sectional profile of the opening of the rib of the second formliner.
                19.           The formliners of any one of Claims 13 to 18, wherein the cell of the first
formliner comprises a first surface and a second surface opposite the first surface, wherein at
least a portion of the first surface is configured to contact the curable material, and wherein the
flange extends along at least a part of the second surface and is in contact with the second
surface when the first and second formliners are assembled.
               20.            The formliners of any one of Claims 13 to 19, wherein the flange of the second
formliner is connected to the first formliner with an adhesive when the first and second
formliners are assembled.
               21.            The formliners of any one of Claims 13 to 20, wherein the first formliner
further comprises a detent between the cell and the rib of the first formliner, the detent
extending away from the cell of the first formliner, wherein the second formliner further
comprises a protrusion connected to the rib at the opening of the rib of the second formliner,
the protrusion extending into the opening of the rib of the second formliner, and wherein the
protrusion of the second formliner engages the detent of the first formliner to securely
assemble the first and second formliners together.
                                                           -77-

C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\SAF\17126141-ldocx-13 06/2018
               22.            Formliners comprising at least two formliners configured to form a corner in
curable material when the at least two formliners are interconnected, the formliners
comprising:
                              a first formliner comprising:
                                              a recess; and
                                              a rib extending along at least a part of the recess of the first formliner,
                              the rib of the first formliner comprising an exterior surface forming an exterior
                              cross-sectional profile, wherein at least a portion of the exterior surface is
                              configured to contact the curable material; and
                              a second formliner comprising:
                                              a recess; and
                                              a rib extending along at least a part of the recess of the second
                              formliner, the rib of the second formliner comprising an opening having a
                              cross-sectional profile corresponding to the exterior cross-sectional profile of
                              the rib of the first formliner when the second formliner is positioned at a
                              predetermined angle relative to the first formliner,
                              wherein the first formliner is configured to be interconnected with the second
               formliner at the predetermined angle to form the corner in the curable material by
               positioning the opening of the rib of the second formliner over the exterior surface of
               the rib of the first formliner to minimize visible seams in the curable material.
               23.            The formliners of Claim 22, wherein the first formliner further comprises a
detent between the recess and the rib of the first formliner, the detent extending away from the
recess of the first formliner; and a protrusion connected to the rib at the opening of the rib of
the second formliner, the protrusion extending into the opening of the rib of the second
formliner, wherein the protrusion of the second formliner engages the detent of the first
formliner to securely assemble the first and second formliners together.
               24.            A method for assembling a first formliner and a second formliner to use for
forming a corner in curable material, the method comprising:
                              interconnecting the first formliner with the second formliner to minimize
               visible seams in the curable material by overlaying an opening of a rib of the second
               formliner onto at least a portion of a rib of the first formliner at a predetermined angle
                                                                    -78-

C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\SAF\171261411 Idocx-3 06 2018
               corresponding to a desired angle of the comer when forming the comer in the curable
material,
                              wherein the rib of the first formliner extends along at least a part of a cell of the
               first formliner and comprises an exterior surface forming an exterior cross-sectional
               profile, wherein at least a portion of the exterior surface is configured to contact the
               curable material, and
                              wherein the rib of the second formliner extends along at least a part of a cell of
               the second formliner, wherein the opening of the rib of the second formliner has a
               cross-sectional profile corresponding to the exterior cross-sectional profile of the rib of
               the first formliner when the second formliner is positioned at the predetermined angle
               relative to the first formliner.
               25.            The formliners of Claim 24, wherein a flange connected to the cell of the
second formliner extends along at least a part of the cell of the first formliner to facilitate
alignment of the first and second formliners when interconnecting the first formliner with the
second formliner.
                                                              -79-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
