   ABSTRACT
           Provided are a blower, capable of suppressing noise occurring in a stator
   while significantly improving blowing efficiency, and an outdoor unit using the same.
   The present invention comprises: a bell mouth part (11)             spaced apart at a
 5 predetermined distance in the radial direction with respect to an outer circumferential
   end of a propeller fan (FN); and a diffuser part (12) installed on the downstream side
   of the bell mouth part (11), and having a flow path area which is enlarged from the
   upstream side toward the downstream side with a larger magnification rate than the
   magnification rate of the flow path area in the downstream end of the bell mouth part
10 (11); and a stator part (2F) having a plurality of stators (22), wherein the stator part
   (2F) is arranged within the diffuser part (12).

     BLOWER AND OUTDOOR UNIT OF AIR CONDITIONER COMPRISING
                                           SAME
            The present application is a divisional application from Australian Patent
 5 Application No. 2014357992, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by
   reference.
   CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
            This application is an Australian national stage application of PCT
   international application PCT/KR2014/011715        filed on December 2, 2014 and
10 claims the benefit of Japanese Patent Application Nos. JP2013-249308, filed on
   December 2, 2013, and JP2014-157177, filed on July 31, 2014, and Korean Patent
   Application No. 10-2014-0170184, filed on December 2, 2014, in the Japan Patent
   Office and the Korean Intellectual Property Office, respectively, the content of each
   of the foregoing is incorporated herein by reference.
15 BACKGROUND
   Technical Field
           The present invention relates to an outdoor unit of an air conditioner and a
   blower used for the same.
   Background Art
20         In a conventional blower, a diffuser part (a ventilation part) extends to a
   downstream from a cylindrical bell mouth part installed around a propeller fan, for
   example, as described in Japanese Unexamined Patent Application Publication No.
   2013-119816.
           However, an air current may not be uniformly introduced into all inlet ports
25 installed at an upstream side of the bell mouth part based on an apparatus in which
                                              1

   the blower is installed, therefor a suction flow rate may be distributed according to
   region.
   Because of this, blowing efficiency may not be improved more than a certain level,
   and there is also a problem in that when the number of revolutions of a propeller fan
 5 is increased for increasing the suction flow rate, power consumption is increased and
   noise is generated.    Particularly, in a configuration of Patent document 1 in which a
   noise prevention blade (a stator blade) is installed in a diffuser part, noise generated
   in the noise prevention blade is also a problem.
           Recently, high efficiency has been achieved by heat exchangers being
10 installed in a plurality of parallel rows in an outdoor unit of an air conditioner, and
   accordingly a plurality of blowers are adjacently disposed to correspond to the heat
   exchangers.     However, this arrangement has caused efficiency to deteriorate or
   noise to increase, such as air currents which flow from diffusers collide with each
   other and interfere with each other.
15         The present invention is directed to providing a blower which significantly
   improves blowing efficiency and suppresses noise and an outdoor unit of an air
   conditioner using the same.
   SUMMARY
           According to a first aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided an
20 outdoor unit for an air conditioner, comprising: a first fan having a rotation shaft; a
   second fan having a rotation shaft that is parallel to the rotation shaft of the first fan;
   a first bell mouth part and a second bell mouth part configured to guide air
   introduced into the first fan and the second fan, and spaced apart from outer
   circumferential ends of the first fan and the second fan, respectively; a first diffuser
25 part obliquely extending from a downstream end of the first bell mouth part to guide
                                                2

   air discharged from the first fan, and having an inclination angle varied along a
   circumferential direction of the first fan with respect to the rotation shaft of the first
   fan; a second diffuser part obliquely extending from a downstream end of the second
   bell mouth part to guide air discharged from the second fan, and having an
 5 inclination angle varied along a circumferential direction of the second fan with
   respect to the rotation shaft of the second fan; wherein the inclination angles of the
   first diffuser part and the second diffuser part at a first position in which the first
   diffuser part is adjacent to the second diffuser part each are smaller than the
   inclination angle of the first diffuser part at a second position arranged in a
10 circumferential direction of the first diffuser part and the inclination angle of the
   second diffuser part at a third position arranged in a circumferential direction of the
   second diffuser part.
            When an inclination angle between an inclination of the diffuser part and a
   rotation shaft of the fan is represented as a diffuser angle (0), a diffuser angle
15 positioned at a side at which an air flow rate is great may be provided to be greater
   than a diffuser angle positioned at a side in which an air flow rate is small.
            The plurality of noise prevention blades may be disposed to be spaced apart
   from each other in a radial shape around the rotation shaft of the fan, and outer
   circumferential ends of the plurality of noise prevention blades may be supported by
20 an inside of the diffuser part.
            The plurality of noise prevention blades may be formed to have an arc-shaped
   surface and provided to have convex surfaces facing the fan.
            The molded blade part may be provided so that a boundary surface of a lower
   end of the molded blade part is provided along the convex surfaces of the plurality of
25 noise prevention blades.
                                                3

           According to another aspect of the present disclosure, there may be provided
   a diffuser part for a blower assembly of an outdoor unit of an air conditioner
   including a heat exchanger configured to exchange heat with air flowing into the
   outdoor unit, the blower assembly including a bell mouth part and a fan coupled to a
 5 rotation shaft, the bell mouth part including a downstream end disposed around an
   outer circumferential end of the fan and spaced apart from the outer circumferential
   end of the fan, the diffuser part comprising:            an opening having an inner
   circumferential surface which has a first portion facing the heat exchanger and a
   second portion not facing the heat exchanger, an upstream end disposed at the
10 downstream end of the bell mouth part, and a downstream end, at which the air is
   discharged to an outside of the outdoor unit, the diffuser part configured to be
   disposed to extend from the downstream end of the bell mouth part to provide an air
   flow path of the fan through the opening, from the upstream end of the diffuser part
   toward the downstream end of the diffuser part, wherein: a diffuser angle of the inner
15 circumferential surface of the diffuser part with respect to the rotation shaft varies
   symmetrically along a circumferential direction of the inner circumferential surface
   of the diffuser part, the diffuser angle at a first point on the inner circumferential
   surface of the diffuser part with respect to the rotation shaft is equal at a second point
   located on the inner circumferential surface opposite to the first point with respect to
20 the rotation shaft, and the second portion includes a minimum point in which the
   diffuser angle is minimized.
           According to a another aspect, of the present disclosure, there may be
   provided the blower assembly configured to flow air downstream for an outdoor unit
   of an air conditioner, the blower assembly comprising: the diffuser angle at a point
25 on the inner circumferential surface of the diffuser part with respect to the rotation
                                               4

   shaft is equal at another point located on the inner circumferential surface opposite to
   the point with respect to the rotation shaft, a fan coupled to a rotation shaft of the
   outdoor unit and configured to discharge air, which has passed through a heat
   exchanger of the outdoor unit, from the outdoor unit; a bell mouth part disposed
 5 around and spaced apart from an outer circumferential end of the fan, and having an
   inner circumference of an upstream end, disposed along a first plane perpendicular to
   the rotation shaft and including a portion of the fan being furthest upstream, being
   larger than an inner circumference of a downstream end disposed along a second
   plane perpendicular to the rotation shaft and including a portion of the fan being
10 furthest downstream; and a diffuser part extended from the downstream end of the
   bell mouth part relative to a flow of the air through the outdoor unit, and including an
   opening through which the air is discharged from the outdoor unit, wherein a diffuser
   angle of an inner circumferential surface of the diffuser part surrounding the opening
   with respect to the rotation shaft varies symmetrically along a circumferential
15 direction of the inner circumferential surface of the diffuser part, so that the diffuser
   angle at a first point on the inner circumferential surface of the diffuser is equal to
   the diffuser angle at a second point on the inner circumferential surface opposite to
   the first point with respect to the rotation shaft.
            According to yet another aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided an
20 outdoor unit for an air conditioner, comprising: a pair of fans each having a rotation
   shaft provided vertically; a casing including four surfaces that extend vertically while
   covering the pair of fans; a heat exchanger disposed between the casing and the pair
   of fans and extending along at least three of the four surfaces; a pair of bell mouth
   parts configured to guide air introduced into the pair of fans and disposed while
25 spaced apart from outer circumferential ends of the pair of fans, respectively; and a
                                                 5

   pair of diffuser parts obliquely extending in air discharge directions at downstream
   ends of the pair of bell mouth parts, respectively, to guide air discharged from the
   pair of fans, wherein the pair of diffuser parts have inclination angles that are varied
   along circumferential directions of the pair of diffuser parts with respect to the
 5 rotation shafts of the pair of fans, and the inclination angles of the pair of diffuser
   parts each have minimum values at a first position in which the pair of diffuser parts
   are adjacent to each other.
           An inclination angle of the diffuser part may vary along a circumferential
   direction of the diffuser part with respect to the rotation shaft of the fan, and a
10 distance between an outer circumferential end of the hub and the inclined surface of
   the diffuser part may proportionally vary according to the varying inclination angle
   of the diffuser part.
           That is, the blower according to an embodiment of the present disclosure is a
   blower provided with the bell mouth part disposed at the outside of a propeller fan in
15 a diameter direction and having a lateral cross-section in a circular shape, and the
   diffuser part installed in series at a downstream end of the bell mouth part, an
   inclined surface facing the outside in the diameter direction as at least a part of the
   inner circumferential surface of the diffuser part faces a downstream side, and
   simultaneously an opening of a downstream end of the diffuser part has a shape
20 different from the circular shape.
           Accordingly, since a flow path enlargement rate of the diffuser part varies
   according to positions by, for instance, setting the flow path enlargement rate
   according to a flow rate of each position of non-uniform air current having a suction
   flow rate deviation (a distribution) due to the position, loss of the diffuser part is may
25 be suppressed, and a pressure restoring effect may be maximized.
                                               6

           As a result, blowing efficiency may be significantly increased and blowing
   noise may be decreased due to a flow speed decreasing effect which is an evidence of
   the pressure restoring effect.
           An opening of a downstream end of the diffuser part, which is easy to
 5 manufacture and practical may have an oval shape (a capsule shape) or polygonal
   shape of which corners are rounded.
           When an angle formed by the inclined surface and a rotation shaft line of the
   fan is represented as a diffuser angle and the diffuser angle is provided to generally
   vary in a circumferential direction, turbulence generation due to drastic increasing an
10 area of a flow path of the diffuser part is suppressed as much as possible, a pressure
   restoring effect may be obtained, and thus efficiency improvement and a noise
   decrease effect may more obviously ne obtained.
           As a specific aspect which suppresses the turbulence generation, when the
   diffuser angle is represented as 0, the diffuser angle may vary in the range of 3' : 0
15   350.
           To more obviously obtain the effect of the embodiment of the present
   disclosure, it is preferable that the diffuser angle of a portion at which an air flow rate
   which passes through the propeller fan is great be greater than that of a portion at
   which the air flow rate which passes through the propeller fan is small.
20         To obtain high efficiency and low noise while suppressing loss due to
   collision or interference of air currents discharged from the blowers at the blowers
   and other blowers disposed adjacent to the blowers, it is preferable that the diffuser
   angle 0 of a portion adjacent to the other blowers be set in the range of 30 ! 0 : 70
   when the diffuser angle is represented as 0.
                                                 7

           Meanwhile, when the bell mouth part is disposed to be spaced a
   predetermined distance from the outer circumferential end of the propeller fan, the
   diffuser part is installed at the downstream side of the bell mouth part, in which an
   area of a flow path is increased from an upstream side to a downstream side with an
 5 enlargement rate greater than an area enlargement rate of a flow path at the
   downstream end of the bell mouth part, and the stator part includes the plurality of
   noise prevention blades and disposed in the diffuser part, the diffuser part is formed
   at the downstream side of the bell mouth part, a tip clearance between the propeller
   fan and the bell mouth is kept to a necessary minimum, and the area enlargement rate
10 of the flow path required for pressure restoring at the diffuser part may be obtained.
   Meanwhile, since the stator part is disposed in the diffuser part, the dynamic pressure
   of a vortex may be collected from the propeller fan compared with a conventional
   case.   In addition, the blower according to an embodiment of the present disclosure
   may further improve blowing efficiency due to a synergistic effect.
15         In addition, since the diffuser part has an enlarged magnified flow path shape
   and the stator part is installed therein, the vortex may be introduced into the stator
   part from the propeller fan in a state in which an average speed of the vortex is
   sufficiently lowered, and thus a noise level generated from the noise prevention
   blades may be lowered.
20         In addition, since there is no need for the diffuser part to consider a tip
   clearance for the propeller fan unlike the bell mouth part, and the diffuser part is
   installed at a downstream of the bell mouth part and the stator part is disposed in the
   diffuser part, blowing efficiency may be further improved due to a synergistic effect
   with the diffuser part and the stator part.       In addition, in the above-described
25 structure, the diffuser part has an oval shape as seen from a shaft, a direction or
                                                8

   length of span of at least a part of the noise prevention blades of the stator part may
   be different, a noise level which is increased by noise generated from the noise
   prevention blades reaching a peak point and overlapping each other may be
   prevented, and thus an overall noise level may be decreased.
 5         Further specifically, it is preferable that the downstream end of the diffuser
   part be formed in an oval shape as seen from the shaft, the plurality of noise
   prevention blades be disposed in a radial shape from the center as seen from the shaft,
   and an outer circumferential end be in contact with an inner circumferential surface
   of the diffuser part.   Accordingly, the diffuser part may have a suitable shape for
10 restoring pressure, and a length or shape along a span direction of the noise
   prevention members constituting the stator part may not be the same, and thus a
   noise peak of a blade passing frequency (BPF) may be suppressed.
           To obtain a specific shape for suppressing fluid separation due to a reverse
   pressure gradient at the diffuser part and easily obtaining a static pressure raising
15 effect due to the diffuser part, it is preferable that a divergence angle a which is an
   angle formed by an upstream end of the diffuser part with respect to a virtual line
   extending from the downstream end of the diffuser part toward the shaft as seen from
   the longitudinal cross-section be in the range of 3'     a   35', however, when there is
   the noise prevention blade, the divergence angle a may be set to in the range of 0'
20  < a < 18'.       It may be more preferable that the divergence angle a be set to 90.
   In addition, the diffuser angle 0 may be an angle of any portion of the diffuser part,
   the divergence angle a may be an angle of the upstream end of the diffuser part, and
   o  and a may be the same.
           To suppress a drastic change in a curvature at the inner circumferential
25 surface of the diffuser part due to the divergence angles at a major axis and a minor
                                                9

   axis of the diffuser part being greatly different, easily rectify a flow at the diffuser
   part, and improve a static pressure raising effect, it is preferable to be set such that
   0.75 < D/W <         1 when a length of the major axis of an oval shape of the
   downstream end of the diffuser part seen from the shaft is represented as W, and a
 5 length of the minor axis is represented as D.
           To uniformly collect a dynamic pressure of a vortex from the propeller fan,
   and improve blowing efficiency, it is preferable that the central point of a circular or
   polygonal shape of the downstream end of the diffuser part or an intersection point of
   the major axis and the minor axis of an oval shape be exist on a rotation shaft line of
10 the propeller fan as seen from the shaft.
           To decrease a weight applied to the noise prevention blade and decrease
   necessary strength so that a thickness of the noise prevention blade is maintained and
   material cost is decreased, it is preferable that the stator part include the hub in a
   substantially hollow cylindrical shape in which the inner circumferential end of the
15 noise prevention blade is connected to the outer circumferential surface and the hub
   include a reinforcement rib structure in a radial shape.
           For example, to prevent breaking a rotational balance of the propeller fan due
   to snow being accumulated on a central portion of the propeller fan in the bell mouth
   part and being in contact with the inner circumferential surface of the bell mouth part
20 to be destroyed, it is preferable that a cover member which is installed to cover the
   downstream side of the hub and has a cone-shaped surface or dome-shaped curved
   surface be further provided.    Accordingly, since the cover member has the curved
   surface, snow is not accumulated on the hub, and the noise prevention blades of the
   stator part may also be prevented from being damaged due to a weight of snow.
                                               10

            It is preferable that the cover member be installed to be detachable from the
   hub in an area where it hardly snows so that a manufacturing cost is decreased by
   omitting the cover member.
            To mold the diffuser part having a lateral cross-section of the downstream
 5 side in an oval shape, dispose the stator part in the diffuser part, and efficiently mold
   an even complex shape for improving blowing efficiency using resin injection
   molding, it is preferable to provide a container-shaped molded object in which the
   bell mouth part and the diffuser part are integrally molded and a molded blade part in
   which at least the stator part are molded.
10          According to the outdoor unit of the air conditioner using the blower
   according to an embodiment of the present disclosure, blowing efficiency may be
   significantly improved and fluid noise may also be reduced to be suitable to heat
   exchangers installed in a plurality of parallel rows.
            As described above, a blower according to an embodiment of the present
15 disclosure can significantly improve blowing efficiency as well as reduce blowing
   noise.
   DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
            FIG. 1 is front and plan schematic views illustrating an inside of a blower and
   an outdoor unit for an air conditioner according to a first embodiment of the present
20 disclosure.
            FIG. 2 is side and plan schematic views illustrating the inside of the blower
   and the outdoor unit for the air conditioner according to the first embodiment of the
   present disclosure.
            FIG. 3 is plan and front schematic views illustrating the blower according to
25 the first embodiment.
                                               11

          FIG. 4 is a schematic view illustrating a modified example of the blower
   according to the first embodiment.
          FIG. 5 is a plan schematic view illustrating the modified example of the
   blower according to the first embodiment.
 5        FIG. 6 is a schematic view illustrating a blower according to a second
   embodiment of the present disclosure.
          FIG. 7 is a top schematic view illustrating the blower according to the second
   embodiment.
          FIG. 8 is a top schematic view illustrating a state in which a fan guide
10 according to the second embodiment is excluded.
          FIG. 9 is an exploded schematic view illustrating the blower according to the
   second embodiment.
          FIG. 10 is a schematic perspective view illustrating a vicinity of an outer
   circumferential end of a stator part according to the second embodiment.
15        FIG. 11 is a schematic graph which shows a relation between a divergence
   angle and a static pressure rising effect according to the second embodiment.
          FIG. 12 is a spectrum distribution of noise according to the second
   embodiment.
          FIG. 13 is a schematic view illustrating a blower according to another
20 embodiment of the present disclosure.
   DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
           One embodiment of the present disclosure will be described with reference to
   accompanying drawings.
   First Embodiment
                                               12

           A blower 7 according to the present embodiment is a type of axial fan used
   for an outdoor unit 600 (hereinafter, simply referred to as the outdoor unit 600) for
   an air conditioner.
           As illustrated in FIGS. 1 and 2, the outdoor unit 600 includes a casing 5
 5 which is formed with a bottom plate (not shown) and side perimeter plates 52 and 51
   in a substantially rectangular parallelepiped shape extending vertically, a plurality of
   heat exchangers 6 disposed at side and rear surfaces of the casing 5, and a plurality of
   (here, two) blowers 500 disposed adjacent to a top surface of the casing 5.           In
   addition, the outdoor unit 600 has , so called, a vertical upright type in which air is
10 introduced from a side surface of the casing 5 into an inside thereof by a vortex
   generated by the blower 100, comes into contact with the heat exchanger 6, and is
   discharged upward.      In addition, the casing 5 accommodates various electric units
   (not shown) besides the heat exchanger 6.
           Hereinafter, the blower 7 will be specifically described.
15         As illustrated in FIG. 3 and the like, the blower 7 includes a propeller fan 71,
   a motor 72 which drives and rotates the propeller fan 71, and a container-shaped
   molded object 73 which is disposed around the propeller fan 71 and has a container
   shape.
           The container-shaped molded object 73 has an edge having a rectangular
20 (including a square) outline as seen from an axis of rotation C of the propeller fan 71,
   and simultaneously is an integrally molded object formed by forming a through hole
   along a direction of the axis of rotation C, and a bell mouth part 8 and a diffuser part
   9 are formed on an inner circumferential surface of the through hole.       In addition,
   here, the container-shaped molded object 73 is disposed at an upper portion in the
25 casing 5.
                                               13

            The bell mouth part 8 includes a bell mouth duct 81 which is installed having
   a tiny gap at a further outer side than an outer circumferential end of the propeller fan
   71 in an inner circumferential surface of the container-shaped molded object 73 and
   has a perfectly circular container-like shape, and an opening (a bell mouth) 82, which
 5 is installed to be connected to an upstream side of the bell mouth duct 81, and has a
   horn shape.
            The diffuser part 9 is formed at the inner circumferential surface which
   continues from a downstream end of the bell mouth part 8 toward a side in which a
   upstream is generated in the inner circumferential surface of the container-shaped
10 molded object 73, and, here, is an inclined surface 91 which is inclined toward the
   outside in a direction of a diameter such that a front surface of the inner
   circumferential surface faces a downstream side thereof.
            In addition, when an angle formed between the inclined surface 91 and the
   axis of rotation C is defined as a diffuser angle 0, as the diffuser angle 0 is provided
15 to be smoothly changed in a circumference direction, the downstream end opening 9a
   in the diffuser part 9 has a shape different from a perfect circle, for instance, an oval
   shape, so that a width of the downstream end opening 9a through which air flows
   from an outlet of the bell mouth duct 81 as seen from the axis of rotation C changes
   according to location.
20          Accordingly, the inclined surface 91 in which the width is minimized, that is,
   the diffuser angle 0 is minimized, is the inclined surface 91 positioned on a minor
   axis C1 of the downstream end opening 9a having an oval shape as seen from the
   axis of rotation C.    Here, the diffuser angle 0 is set to 3'. In addition, a direction
   of the minor axis Cl matches along a shorter side at an outer edge outline of the
25 container-shaped     molded     object 73    which has     a rectangular     shape,   and
                                               14

   simultaneously a plurality of (two) blowers 7 are installed along the minor axis C1
   direction, in other words, longer side surfaces of the container-shaped molded objects
   73 are adjacently disposed with each other.
           Meanwhile, an inclined surface in which the diffuser angle 0 is maximized,
 5 is the inclined surface 91 positioned on a major axis C2 of the downstream end
   opening 9a as seen from the axis of rotation C.      Here the diffuser angle 0 is set to
   350.
           In addition, an inner diameter value of a downstream end of the bell mouth
   duct 81 is defined as Db, a height value of the diffuser part 9 along the direction of
10 the axis of rotation C is defined as L, an edge value of the container-shaped molded
   object (a width or a length as seen from the axis of rotation) is defined as S, and Db,
   L, and S are set to satisfy the following equation (1).
           S/2=C(Lxtan(O) + Db/2) ...... (1)
           Here, C is a coefficient in the range of 1.03 C 1.5, and more preferably in
15 the range of 1.06 C 1.12.
           According to equation (1), the strength of the container-shaped molded object
   73 is secured, an installation space may be maximally used, influence of an adjacent
   blower 7 is significantly reduced, noise due to maximizing a diameter of the
   propeller fan may be reduced, etc.
20         Meanwhile, as illustrated in FIG. 3 which is an enlarged view of FIGS. 1 and
   2, a top plate 51 (Hereinafter, referred to as a top panel 51) of the casing 5 is
   disposed at a top surface (a cross-section of a side of the diffuser part) of the
   container-shaped molded object 73 to be in contact therewith.      The top panel 51 is a
   metal plate member provided with a surface plate part 511 having an opening
                                               15

   approximately matching an outlet opening of the diffuser part 9 and a bent part 512
   bent downward from an edge of the surface plate part 511, and the bent part 512 is
   screwed to a side perimeter plate 52 of the casing 5.
            In addition, as illustrated in FIG. 3, in the present embodiment, a virtual line
 5 is drawn from the center of rotation of the propeller fan 71 to a corner of the top
   panel 51 as seen from the axis of rotation C, when the length of the virtual line (that
   is, a distance from the center of rotation of the propeller fan 71 to the comer of the
   top panel 51) is defined as LI + L2, and a distance from the center of the propeller
   fan 71 to an outer edge of the outlet of the diffuser part 9 on the virtual line is defined
10 as L2, and also when Dratio =L2/ (LI + L2), equation (2) below is satisfied.
            0.60 Dratio0.95 ...... (2)
            Hereinafter, an operation and an effect of the outdoor unit 600 configured as
   described above will be described.
            As illustrated in FIGS. 1 and 2, although the heat exchanger 6 is not disposed
15 in the front of the casing 5, the heat exchanger 6 is disposed at a side of the casing 5,
   and thus more air is suctioned when the blower 7 is operated.           In addition, since
   electric elements and the like disposed inside the casing 5 also have air resistance, in
   the present embodiment, a larger amount of air is introduced through an inlet (the
   bell mouth 82) of the blower 7 from front and rear portions of the bell mouth 82
20 where the number of elements which can serve as air resistance are few.         As a result,
   in the diffuser part 9, an air flow rate is maximized in the front and rear portions and
   the air flow rate is minimized in both side portions.
            As described above, since a diffuser angle 0 at the front and rear portions of
   the diffuser part 9 is set to as large a value as possible in the range in which a
                                                16

   turbulent current does not occur (here, a maximum of 350) even though an air flow
   rate increases in the front and rear portions of the diffuser part 9, a viscosity loss due
   to the turbulent current is suppressed and thus a pressure restoring effect at this
   portion may be maximized.
 5          In addition, when the diffuser angles 0 at the front and rear portions are the
   same while the air flow rate at both side portions of the diffuser part 9 is decreased,
   because the diffuser angle 0 enlarges such that the air flow becomes unstable and a
   loss occurs.
            In contrast, according to the present embodiment, since the diffuser angle 0
10 at this portion is set to a small value (a minimum of 30), the above-described unstable
   air flow may be suppressed and a pressure restoring effect due to the diffuser part 9
   at this portion may also be maximized.
            That is, in the diffuser part 9 according to the present embodiment, since a
   loss due to an unstable air current such as a dispersion of the suction flow rate is
15 suppressed as much as possible, a pressure restoring effect is maximized, and a
   blowing efficiency may be dramatically increased.
            In addition, since the maximizing of the pressure restoring effect denotes that
   a flow rate in the diffuser part 9 is decreased, a blowing noise reduction may also be
   obtained.
20          In addition, in the present embodiment, since the blowers 7 are installed in
   series and the diffuser angles 0 at adjacent portions are set to be small values, an
   angle of an air current discharged therefrom becomes approximately vertical,
   Interference of the air currents exhausted from both of the blower 7 may be
   suppressed, and thus low noise blowing at high efficiency may be possible.
                                                17

           Because the above-described Dratio is set to 0.9 or less, a bending process of
   the top panel 51 is certainly possible at a position at which the outlet opening of the
   diffuser part 9 is closest to an edge of a top panel surface plate part 511, and thus the
   bent part 512 may be formed.          Meanwhile, since Dratio is set to 0.6 or more, an
 5 equalization of a change ratio of the outlet opening of the diffuser part outlet (a
   change ratio of the diffuser angle 0 along a circumferential direction) of the diffuser
   part defined by Dratio, an equalization of a flow change by reducing the change and
   improvement of noise performance may be obtained.            In addition, a configuration
   related to this may also be applied to the top panel 51 having a rectangular shape as
10 seen from the axis of rotation C.
           Next, a modified example of the first embodiment will be described.
           First, it is preferable that a diffuser angle be changed and an additional shape
   different from a circle be formed according to a shape of a downstream end opening
   of the diffuser part or, for example, a distribution of a suction flow rate.     Since the
15 distribution of the suction flow rate depends on at least an arrangement of internal
   apparatuses, it is preferable that, for example, a diffuser angle of the inclined surface
   positioned at a position at which the bell mouth parts are not vertically overlapped be
   set to be greater than the diffuser angle of the inclined surface positioned at a portion
   at which the internal apparatuses and the bell mouth part are vertically overlapped.
20 Specifically, as illustrated in FIG. 4, a downstream end opening 9a of the diffuser
   part may have a shape such as a rectangular shape with rounded corners (see FIG.
   4A), an oval shape (see FIG. 4B) or the like.         In addition, for instance, when the
   downstream end opening 9a has the rectangular shape with rounded corners, a case
   in which the diffuser angle 0 is maximized at the corners may occur.         As described
                                                 18

   above, the air flow rate does not need to be a maximum at a position at which the
   diffuser angle 0 is the maximum.
           In the embodiment, although the diffuser angle 0 smoothly and continuously
   varies along the circumferential direction so as to suppress an occurrence of
 5 turbulence and the like as much as possible, the diffuser angle 0 may also vary
   discontinuously.    In this case, as illustrated in FIG. 4C, the downstream end opening
   9a has a shape with angles at discontinuous positions.
           Although, the diffuser angle 0 is set to 350 as a maximum and 3' as a
   minimum in the embodiment, it is not limited thereto.         For example, the maximum
10 value may also be less than 35', and the minimum value may also be more than 3'.
   Particularly, the diffuser angle 0 of a side of an adjacent blower is preferably in the
   range of 30   0  7.
           The diffuser angle 0 may be formed to be smoothly changed step-by-step or
   continuously toward a downstream side as seen from a cross-section parallel to an
15 axis of rotation.   In this case, an enlargement rate of the flow path of the diffuser
   part increases toward the downstream side.
           In the embodiment, although a height of the downstream end of the propeller
   fan 71 and a height of an upstream end of the diffuser part 9 are matched when seen
   from a direction perpendicular to the axis of rotation C as illustrated in FIG. 3, this
20 may also be changed.      Specifically, as illustrated in FIG. 5, when H denotes a value
   of an outer circumferential end of the propeller fan 71 along a shaft, and Z denotes a
   distance between the upstream end of the diffuser part 9 and the downstream end of
   the propeller fan 71 along the shaft, it is preferable that Z be in the range of H ± 20%.
   When set as described above, since a vortex discharged from the propeller fan
                                                 19

   smoothly decreases in speed and spreads along the inclined surface 91 of the diffuser
   part 9, a larger pressure restoring effect may be obtained.
           A shape of the bell mouth duct is not limited to a cylindrical shape, and when
   the outer circumferential end of the propeller fan does not have a vertical shape, for
 5 example, the shape may be a partial cone shape corresponding thereto, or a noise
   prevention blade may be installed at the diffuser part.      Such an example will be
   described in detail in a second embodiment.
            The blower may not be limited to the outdoor unit, and may be used for
   various uses.     For example, the blower may also be used for a blower having a
10 ventilation fan or a blower connected to a duct for ventilation.
           In addition, the blower is not limited to air and may obtain the same effect by
   being applied to a gas.
   Second Embodiment
           Next, a second embodiment of the present disclosure will be described.
15         A blower 100 according to the present embodiment is formed by a resin
   injection mold, as illustrated in FIGS. 6 and 9, and includes a container-shaped
   molded object 1 formed in a substantially cylindrical shape and a molded blade part
   2 in which a stator part 2F provided with a plurality of noise prevention blades 22
   having a substantially flat rectangular parallelepiped shape is formed at a central
20 circular portion.   As illustrated in FIG. 6, the molded blade part 2 is assembled in
   the container-shaped molded object 1, and then the stator part 2F may be disposed at
   a predetermined position in the container-shaped molded object 1. In addition, a
   fan guide FG is installed at a downstream side of the molded blade part 2 to cover the
   stator part 2F.
                                               20

           As illustrated in FIGS. 6 and 9, the container-shaped molded object 1 is
   integrally formed with a bell mouth part 11 which is disposed to be spaced a
   predetermined distance from an outer circumferential end of the propeller fan FN in a
   radius direction, and a diffuser part 12 which is installed at a downstream side of the
 5 bell mouth part 11 and wherein a flow path extends from an upstream side toward a
   downstream side.
           As illustrated in FIG. 6, the bell mouth part 11 has portions having a circular
   lateral cross-section, and includes a bell mouth provided to have an open upstream
   side in a cone shape, and a bell mouth duct installed so that its diameter is increased
10 from a portion facing an uppermost stream portion of the propeller fan FN.            In
   addition, an inner circumferential surface of the bell mouth part 11 and an outer
   circumferential end of the propeller fan FN maintain constant tip clearance when
   seen from any radius directions.
           As illustrated in FIG. 6, the diffuser part 12 is formed so that an upstream end
15 connected to the bell mouth part 11 is formed to have a perfectly circular lateral
   cross-section, and as illustrated FIGS. 7 and 8, is formed so that an opening end of a
   downstream side has an oval lateral cross-section.          The diffuser part 12 is also
   formed to have a lateral cross-section between an upstream end and a downstream
   end, in which a lateral cross-sectional area increases from an upstream side toward a
20 downstream side, and simultaneously, the upstream end and the downstream end are
   smoothly and continuously connected.        In addition, in the container-shaped molded
   object 1, when seen from a shaft direction from the upstream side to the downstream
   side, an area enlargement rate of a flow path at an upstream side end of the diffuser
   part 12 is greater than that of a lower downstream side end of the bell mouth part 11,
                                               21

   and as illustrated in FIG. 6, the diffuser part 12 is connected to the bell mouth part 11
   in a bent state.
            As illustrated in FIG. 7, a length of a downstream end of the diffuser part 12
   along a major axis direction is defined as W and a length along a minor axis direction
 5 is defined as D, each length is set to satisfy 0.75<D/W<1 in the present embodiment.
   According to the above-described setting, a large change in a curvature of an inner
   circumferential surface of the diffuser part 12 due to a difference between a
   divergence angle a of a major axis side of the diffuser part 12 and that of a
   divergence angle a of a minor axis side of the diffuser part 12 does not occur, and
10 thus it is easy to rectify a fluid flow.
            In addition, an intersection point of the major and minor axes of the diffuser
   part 12 and center of the stator part 2F is disposed on an axis of rotation of the
   propeller fan FN.
            In addition, as illustrated in FIGS. 9 and 10, a downstream side end of the
15 diffuser part 12 is formed to be in contact with an outer circumferential end 2E of the
   stator part 2F when the molded blade part 2 is assembled at the container-shaped
   molded object 1, and the stator part 2F is disposed and fixed to a flow path in the
   diffuser part 12 after assembly.      In addition, a large seating part 13, which has a flat
   plate shape widened in a flat surface perpendicular to a shaft, is formed at the
20 downstream end of the diffuser part 12, and the downstream end of the diffuser part
    12 is provided to be in contact with an installation flat plate part 25 which is formed
   at the molded blade part 2 and which will be described later.
            As illustrated in FIGS. 9 and 10, the above-described structure is formed so
   that a plurality of concave parts lB having a shape substantially the same as that of
25 each connection part 23 of the stator part 2F, which will be described later, are
                                                 22

   formed to be parallel to each other along a circumferential direction.        The concave
   part 1B causes an internal surface of the diffuser part 12 to be concave along a radius
   direction, and at the same time, a bottom surface thereof to be parallel to the shaft
   direction.    Accordingly, a depth of the concave part lB becomes deeper from a
 5 downstream side to an upstream side.
            Here, in the bell mouth part 11 and the diffuser part 12, when a radius
   increase rate at a position from the upstream side to the downstream side along the
   shaft direction (a major axis radius and a minor axis radius) is compared, the radial
   increase rate of the diffuser part 12 is set to be bigger.        That is, when seen in a
10 longitudinal cross-section in FIG. 6, a surface forming the upstream side end of the
   diffuser part 12 is inclined with respect to a surface forming a downstream side end
   of the bell mouth part 11 to form a predetermined angle.               In other words, as
   illustrated in FIG. 6, when seen in the longitudinal cross-section, a divergence angle
   a at a corner formed by the inner circumferential surface of the diffuser part 12 with
15 respect to a virtual line extending from a downstream end of the bell mouth part 11
   in the shaft direction is set to be in the range of 00< a <180, which is slightly
   different from that of the first embodiment.       As illustrated in a simulation result in
   FIG. 11, as the divergence angle a is set to the above-described angle, fluid
   separation due to a reverse pressure gradient is suppressed at an inner peripheral
20 surface of the diffuser part 12, and thus a static pressure rising effect may be easily
   obtained.    It is also preferable that the angle a be in the range of 30 ca 350.
            In addition, from the viewpoint of functions of the bell mouth part 11 and the
   diffuser part 12, the bell mouth part 11 is for improving a fluid pressure near the
   propeller fan FN, and the diffuser part 12 is for increasing a pressure of a vortex from
25 the propeller fan FN.
                                                 23

           As illustrated in an outer peripheral surface of the container-shaped molded
   object 1 in FIG. 9, vertical ribs 15 extending along the shaft direction and lateral ribs
    14 extending in the circumferential direction are formed to increase strength of the
   container-shaped molded object.       A protrusion direction of the vertical rib 15 does
 5 not face a radius direction with respect to the shaft, and the protrusion direction is the
   same for each half thereof.        That is, the container-shaped molded object 1 is
   provided to be molded by a mold that is divided in two as a front and a rear in a
   radius direction thereof, and thus the vertical rib 15 is formed in a dividing direction
   of the mold for each half thereof.
10         Next, the molded blade part 2 will be described.
           As illustrated in FIGS. 7 and 9, the molded blade part 2 includes a hub 21
   formed at a central portion in a substantially flat cylindrical shape, a plurality of
   noise prevention blades 22 disposed at an outer peripheral surface of the hub 21 in an
   outer radial shape, the connection parts 23 extending from the outer circumferential
15 end 2E of the noise prevention blade 22 to a downstream side in the shaft direction,
   link parts 24 which connect the connection parts 23 along the circumferential
   direction, and the installation flat plate part 25 in contact with the large seating part
    13 having a flat plate shape.   In addition, in FIG. 8, the noise prevention blade 22 is
   hatched to be seen easily even though it is not a cross-section.
20         As illustrated in FIGS. 8 and 9, the hub 21 includes three coaxial ring-shaped
   members each having a different diameter and a reinforcement rib structure which
   connects ring state members along a radial direction.       That is, the hub 21 is formed
   in a hollow through which a fluid can pass, as well as formed to be capable of
   maintaining a predetermined strength.      In addition, since the hub 21 is formed in the
25 hollow, loads on inner circumferential ends of the plurality of noise prevention
                                               24

   blades 22 is decreased, strength needed by the noise prevention blade 22 is decreased,
   and thus the thickness thereof may be formed as thinly as possible.
           As illustrated in FIG. 8, the plurality of noise prevention blades 22 include
   the stator part 2F, an inner circumferential end 21 of the noise prevention blade 22 is
 5 connected to the outer peripheral surface of the hub 21, and the outer circumferential
   end 2E is formed to be in contact with an inner surface of the diffuser part 12.
   However, because the diffuser part 12, except for a connection part with the bell
   mouth part 11, is formed to have a lateral cross-section in an oval shape,, shapes of
   the noise prevention blades 22 and lengths of strings of noise prevention blades are
10 different from each other in a quarter of the oval.     Accordingly, the connection part
   23 also has a shape corresponding to a shape of the noise prevention blade 22.
           As described above, since a length in a span direction or a shape of the noise
   prevention blade 22 is repeatedly changed every quarter when the noise prevention
   blades 22 are seen in turn from the circumferential direction in the stator part 2F,
15 noise may be prevented from being generated in the noise prevention blade 22 with
   the same specific frequency.      That is, by alternating frequencies having the highest
   peak in the noise prevention blades 22, a Blade Passage Frequency (BPF) noise level
   may be decreased.     More specifically, as illustrated in a graph in FIG. 12, a blower
    100 according to the present embodiment may decrease a noise level at each
20 frequency, particularly low frequencies, when compared with a conventional
   technology.
           In addition, as illustrated in FIG. 9, the noise prevention blade 22 is installed
   so that a convex surface 2C thereof faces an upstream side where the bell mouth part
    11 and a fan motor exist, as well as a concave pressure surface 2P faces a
25 downstream side where the downstream end of the diffuser part 12 exists.               In
                                               25

   addition, as illustrated in the top view of FIG. 8, predetermined gaps are defined
   between the adjacent noise prevention blades 22 so that leading edges 2L and
   following edges 2T do not overlap each other when seen from the shaft.
           As illustrated in an enlarged perspective view of FIG. 10A, the connection
 5 part 23 includes a plate-shaped part 231 extending from an outer end of the noise
   prevention blade 22 toward the shaft, and an outer edge rib 232 protruding from an
   outer edge of the plate-shaped part 231 in the radius direction.      The plate-shaped
   part 231 has an inner circumferential surface having a shape so that the inner
   circumferential surface of the plate-shaped part 231 matches an inner surface of the
10 diffuser part 12 when the connection part 23 is engaged with the concave part 1B.
   In addition, the outer edge rib 232 is formed to have a height which increases from a
   downstream side to an upstream side.
           As illustrated in FIG. 10A, the link part 24 has a partial ring state extending
   along a circumferential direction, and is formed to connect upstream side ends of the
15 connection parts 23.     That is, the upstream side end of the connection part 23 and
   the link part 24 are alternatively disposed along the circumferential direction and
   formed in a ring state as a whole.
           Next, division lines L between the container-shaped molded object 1 and the
   molded blade part 2 of the blower 100 provided as described above will be described.
20         As illustrated with bold lines in FIG. 1OA, each division line L of elements is
   formed to include at least a convex surface forming line LI forming a convex surface
   2C at the outer circumferential end 2E of the noise prevention blade 22.          In the
   present embodiment, the division line L is defined by the convex surface forming
   line LI, a circumferential direction line L2 which defines a downstream end of the
25 link part 24, and a shaft direction line L3 which is a downstream side of the outer
                                               26

   edge rib 232 of the connection part 23 and extends from the convex surface forming
   line LI to the circumferential direction line L2 along the shaft direction.     In another
   words, as illustrated in FIG. 10B, the division line L between the container-shaped
   molded object 1 and the molded blade part 2 is formed in approximately a saw
 5 toothed shape, and includes the convex surface forming line LI forming the convex
   surface 2C at the outer circumferential end 2E of the noise prevention blade 22.
            As described above, since the blower            100 according to the present
   embodiment has a complex structure in which the diffuser part 12 is formed at the
   downstream side of the bell mouth part 11 and the stator part 2F in which the shape
10 of the noise prevention blade 22 is formed at an inner surface of the bell mouth part
    11 is disposed in the diffuser part, a restoring pressure of fluid increases compared to
   a conventional technology, and thus the blowing efficiency may be significantly
   improved.
            In addition, because the diffuser part 12 is installed at the downstream side of
15 the bell mouth part 11, the downstream end of the diffuser part 12 is formed in the
   oval shape, and the noise prevention blade 22 is installed in the radial shape therein,
   first, speed of fluid which flows from the downstream end of the diffuser part 12 is
   decreased, and thus an entire noise level may be decreased.           In addition, because
   lengths along the span direction or the shapes of the noise prevention blades are not
20 the same and have a tiny difference between them and the vortex coming out from
   the propeller fan FN and the interference state of the noise prevention blade 22 are
   different from each other, noise intensively generated at a specific frequency may
   also be prevented.     From that, blowing performance may be significantly improved
   and a noise level may also be decreased.
                                                27

            In addition, since the container-shaped molded object 1 is divided by the
   division line L, and the blower 100 includes the molded blade part 2, the noise
   prevention blades 22 of the diffuser part 12 and the stator part 2F are formed
   separately.    Accordingly, the diffuser part 12 which has the complex shape for
 5 improving the blowing efficiency described above, has an enlarged flow path varying
   from the circular shape to the oval shape and a form in which the noise prevention
   blade 22 of the stator part 2F is formed up to the outer circumferential end 2E, and
   thus priority is given to such a complex structure while preventing manufacturability
   from being decreased.
10          More specifically, for example, when the outer circumferential end 2E of the
   noise prevention blade 22 is integrally injection-molded with the other members,
   only the outer circumferential end 2E is perpendicularly molded with respect to the
   shaft to be easily separated from the mold, and thus priority has been given to the
   manufacturability while blowing efficiency is sacrificed.         In contrast to the above
15 description, in the present embodiment, since each element is divided by the division
   line L, consideration of mold separation in the conventional technology may not be
   needed, and blowing efficiency may be improved by installing the convex surface 2C
   and the pressure surface 2P formed to be inclined toward the outer circumferential
   end 2E.     In addition, since as illustrated in a top view illustrating the blower 100 in
20 FIG. 9, the noise prevention blades 22 do not overlap when seen from the shaft, and
   as illustrated in FIG. 10A, the outer edge rib 232 is only formed at the outer edge part
   of the connection part 23, and because the upstream side is formed to be open, the
   molded blade part 2 may be easily molded by a mold divided along the shaft
   direction.
                                                 28

            As described above, because molding property of the noise prevention blade
   22 for the container-shaped molded object 1 is not needed, the shape of the bell
   mouth part 11 which expands from the perfectly circular shape to the oval shape may
   also be molded by a simple mold.        In addition, since a direction of the vertical rib
 5  15 may be arranged by a half surface, the container-shaped molded object 1 may be
   molded by a mold divided into two along a radius direction, and thus
   manufacturability may be improved.
            In addition, since the bell mouth part 11 and the diffuser part 12 are not
   separately formed, but are integrally formed as the container-shaped molded object 1,
10 the blower 100 includes only two elements of the container-shaped molded object 1
   and the molded blade part 2, and thus blowing efficiency is improved as well as the
   number of elements may also be decreased.
            In addition, the other embodiments will be described.
            As illustrated in FIG. 13, a cover member 25 having a top surface in a dome
15 shaped curved surface to cover a downstream side (a top surface side) of a hub 21
   may be installed to prevent a blower 100 from being damaged by being in contact
   with a bell mouth part 11 when snow is accumulated on a central portion of a
   propeller fan FN and a rotation shaft is shaken.      In addition, the cover member 25
   may be provided to be separable from the hub 21 so that cost is easily decreased by
20 omitting the present structure in areas snow does not fall.
            In the above-described embodiment, although the stator part 2F is formed by
   installing the noise prevention blade 22 into the diffuser part 12 in a radial shape, for
   instance, the plurality of noise prevention blades 22 having a shape expanding
   straight along a long or minor axis may be installed.     Such a structure may improve
25 blowing efficiency and also suppress a noise from being intensively increased at a
                                               29

  specific frequency by varying lengths of the noise prevention blades 22.     Although
  the downstream end of the diffuser part 12 has an oval shape, for instance, the
  downstream end may have a polygonal shape close to a circle or oval.      In this case,
  it is preferable that a central point of the downstream end of the diffuser part 12 be
5 disposed on the rotation shaft line of the propeller fan FN.
  Various modifications or embodiments except for the above-described embodiments
  may be combined without departing from the purposes of the present.
                                              30

   CLAIMS
    1.       An outdoor unit for an air conditioner, comprising:
              a first fan having a rotation shaft;
 5            a second fan having a rotation shaft that is parallel to the rotation shaft of the
   first fan;
              a first bell mouth part and a second bell mouth part configured to guide air
   introduced into the first fan and the second fan, and spaced apart from outer
   circumferential ends of the first fan and the second fan, respectively;
10            a first diffuser part obliquely extending from a downstream end of the first
   bell mouth part to guide air discharged from the first fan, and having an inclination
   angle varied along a circumferential direction of the first fan with respect to the
   rotation shaft of the first fan;
              a second diffuser part obliquely extending from a downstream end of the
15 second bell mouth part to guide air discharged from the second fan, and having an
   inclination angle varied along a circumferential direction of the second fan with
   respect to the rotation shaft of the second fan;
             wherein the inclination angles of the first diffuser part and the second
   diffuser part at a first position in which the first diffuser part is adjacent to the second
20 diffuser part each are smaller than the inclination angle of the first diffuser part at a
   second position arranged in a circumferential direction of the first diffuser part and
   the inclination angle of the second diffuser part at a third position arranged in a
   circumferential direction of the second diffuser part.
25 2.         The outdoor unit according to claim 1, wherein:
                                                   31

            the first diffuser part includes a first inner circumferential surface varied
   along the circumferential direction of the first diffuser part and a first opening
   formed at a downstream end of the first inner circumferential surface;
            the second diffuser part includes a second inner circumferential surface
 5 varied along the circumferential direction of the second diffuser part and a second
   opening formed at a downstream end of the second inner circumferential surfaces;
   and
            the first opening and the second opening are formed to be opposite to each
   other.
10
   3.       The outdoor unit according to claim 1, wherein:
            the first diffuser part includes a first inner circumferential surface varied
   along the circumferential direction of the first diffuser part and a first opening
   formed at a downstream end of the first inner circumferential surface; and
15          the first opening is provided in an oval shape.
   4.       The outdoor unit according to claim 1, wherein:
            the first diffuser part includes a first inner circumferential surface varied
   along the circumferential direction of the first diffuser part and a first opening
20 formed at a downstream end of the first inner circumferential surface; and
            the first opening is provided in a polygonal shape having at least three
   corners.
                                               32

   5.        The outdoor unit according to claim 2, wherein the inclination angle of the
   first diffuser part at the second position and the inclination angle of the second
   diffuser part at the third position each are provided in a range of 3' : 0 5 35'.
 5 6.        The outdoor unit according to claim 1, wherein at the first position, the
   inclination angle of the first diffuser part and the inclination angle of the second
   diffuser part each are provided in a range of 3' : a      7'.
   7.        The outdoor unit according to claim 1, further comprising:
10           a casing including a first surface extending in a direction the first and second
   fans are disposed and configured to cover one side of the first fan and one side of the
   second fan, a second surface configured to cover the other side of the first fan and the
   other side of the second fan while disposed parallel to the first surface, a third surface
   configured to cover the first fan      while disposed between the first surface and the
15 second surface, and a fourth surface configured to cover the second fan while
   disposed parallel to the third surface; and
             a heat exchanger disposed between the cabinet and the first and second fans
   and formed along the      third surface, the first surface and the fourth surface.
20 8.        The outdoor unit according to claim 7, wherein heat exchanger formed along
   the third surface, the first surface, the fourth surface and at least a portion of the
   second surface.
   9.        The outdoor unit according to claim 7, wherein the inclination angles of the
25 first and second diffuser parts each have maximum values when each of the first
                                                33

   diffuser part and the second diffuser part faces the first surface and the second
   surface.
   10.       The outdoor unit according to claim 7, wherein the inclination angles of the
 5 first and second diffuser parts each have minimum values when each of the first
   diffuser part and the second diffuser part faces the third surface and the fourth
   surface.
   11.       The outdoor unit according to claim 2, wherein:
10           a length of the first inner circumferential surface of the first diffuser part
   defined as a length between an upstream end and the downstream end of the first
   diffuser part is increased when the inclination angle of the first diffuser part is larger;
   and
             a length of the second inner circumferential surface of the second diffuser
15 part defined as a length between an upstream end and the downstream end of the
   second diffuser part is increased when the inclination angle of the second diffuser
   part is larger
   12.       The outdoor unit according to claim 2, wherein:
20           the rotation shaft of the first fan is disposed at a center of the first opening;
   and
             the rotation shaft of the second fan is disposed at a center of the second
   opening.
                                                 34

    13.       The outdoor unit according to claim 2, wherein when a length of the first
   opening is W and a length of the first opening is D, the lengths of the first and second
   openings are set to satisfy 0.75 < D/W < 1.
 5  14.      An outdoor unit for an air conditioner, comprising:
              a pair of fans each having a rotation shaft provided vertically;
              a casing including four surfaces that extend vertically while covering the pair
   of fans;
              a heat exchanger disposed between the casing and the pair of fans and
10 extending along at least three of the four surfaces;
              a pair of bell mouth parts configured to guide air introduced into the pair of
   fans and disposed while spaced apart from outer circumferential ends of the pair of
   fans, respectively; and
              a pair of diffuser parts obliquely extending in air discharge directions at
15 downstream ends of the pair of bell mouth parts, respectively, to guide air discharged
   from the pair of fans,
             wherein the pair of diffuser parts have inclination angles that are varied
   along circumferential directions of the pair of diffuser parts with respect to the
   rotation shafts of the pair of fans, and
20           the inclination angles of the pair of diffuser parts each have minimum values
   at a first position in which the pair of diffuser parts are adjacent to each other.
                                                 35

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/13

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/13

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/13

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/13

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/13

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/13

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           7/13

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           8/13

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           9/13

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           10/13

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           11/13

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           12/13

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           13/13

