   ABSTRACT
   The invention relates to a device (1) for tolling or telematics systems provided with a
   pixel based image sensor (2). The image sensor (2) is adapted to be arranged above a
 5 surveillance zone (14) provided on a road (4), wherein the surveillance zone (14) has an
   extension along the direction of the road (4). The image sensor (2) is adapted to be
   arranged in between a first and a second end zone (6, 7) of said surveillance zone (14).
   The image sensor (2) is provided with a wide-angle optical system (9, 29) having a
   diffraction and which is arranged such, relative said image sensor (2) that an image (32,
10 33) captured by said image sensor (2) comprises both said first and said second end
   zone (6, 26, 7, 27).

                                                    1
   TITEL
   Device for tolling or telematics systems
   Technical Field
 5 The present invention relates to the field of devices for tolling or telematics systems. In
   particular, the invention relates to a device which is provided with a pixel based image sensor
   wherein the image sensor is adapted to be arranged above a surveillance zone provided on
   a road. The surveillance zone has an extension along the direction of the road, and the
   image sensor is adapted to be arranged in between a first and a second end zone of the
10 surveillance zone.
   Background
   Road tolling systems are used to detect and register vehicles that are utilizing a road that is
   subjected to toll fees, sometimes in terms of tax. The most commonly used road tolling
15 systems comprises a gantry with several devices, including a transceiver and sensors,
   arranged onto it. The transceiver is used for automatic registration of passing vehicles with
   transponders. Vehicles with transponders are automatically tolled each time they pass a road
   toll station. The sensors, preferably cameras, are used to capture images of the license
   plates of passing vehicles without transponders. Depending on the system concept the
20 images can be used to perform tolling based on the licence plate number or serve as an
   evidence of non-compliance in the case transponders are required.
   Commonly, two cameras are arranged as a pair on the gantry and positioned to capture one
   lane of the surveillance zone. The first of the two cameras is directed towards a first end
25 zone wherein vehicles are entering the surveillance zone and the second of the two cameras
   is directed towards a second end zone wherein the vehicles are exiting the surveillance
   zone. The cameras are focused at a preset height above the road corresponding to the
   height of the license plate of the passing vehicles. The height is preset based on the most
   common height of license plates on a standard vehicle. The images that are captured by the
30 cameras are normally processed in an ANPR (automatic number plate recognition) system.
   As described in US6959869B the cameras capture the front and rear license plate numbers
   and the numbers are automatically matched to each other by a control device such as a
   computer. With this system, at least two cameras are needed to capture both the front
35 license plate and the rear license plate.A transceiver is also needed for the automatic
   reading and tracking of transponders. Hence, several separate devices are used for vehicle

                                                   2
   detection, tracking and registration which increase the cost of the road tolling systems and
   increase the visual impact of the gantry with several devices mounted thereon.
   With systems as described above, a tracking system utilized between the capturing zones
 5 must is needed ensure that the images captured by the two cameras can be linked to the
   same vehicle.
   Devices are often also needed for vehicle classification based on physical chracteristics such
   as size or volume of the vehicle.
10
   There is hence a need for an improved device for use in road toll stations removing the
   above mentioned disadvantages.
   Summary of Invention
15 An object among others of the present invention is to provide a device for tolling or telematics
   systems that eliminates the problems of a system needing more than one device e.g. several
   cameras or sensors for vehicle detection, tracking and classification. This object is achieved
   by a device provided with an image sensor arranged above a surveillance zone and provided
   with a wide-angle optical system. The invention also describes a method to control a device
20 for tolling or telematics systems.
   The present invention relates to a device for tolling or telematics systems provided with an
   image sensor. The image sensor is adapted to be arranged above a surveillance zone in a
   plane at a predetermined distance from the device. The predetermined distance is adapted
25 to be the distance the device is mounted above a road it is provided to monitor. The
   surveillance zone has an elongonated extension, which when the device is in use is adapted
   to be aligned with the direction of the road. The image sensor is adapted to be arranged in
   between a first and a second end zone of said surveillance zone in order to capture both a
   front and a rear view of a vehicle driving through the surveillance zone.
30
   The image sensor is provided with a wide-angle optical system having a diffraction and which
   is arranged such relative said image sensor, that an image captured by said image sensor
   comprises both said first and said second end zone. The effect of this is that only one image
   sensor is needed for identification of vehicles passing the surveillance zone since the image
35 sensor can capture the front of vehicles entering the first end zone as well as the rear of
   vehicles exiting the second end zone. The images comprise the characteristics of the

                                                     3
   vehicles that can be used for identification, such as license plates or other individual marks,
   i.e. a "finger print" of the vehicle.
   The image captured by the image sensor also comprises the zone in between the first and
 5 the second end zone, i.e. the middle of the surveillance zone hence the entire surveillance
   zone is captured in the image. In the middle of the surveillance zone the image sensor
   captures the vehicles essentially from above.
   According to one aspect of the present invention a resolution of the image captured by the
10 image sensor varies and the optical system is arranged such relative said image sensor that
   the resolution is higher in a part of the image capturing a high prioritized area, specifically
   said first and second end zone, and lower in a part of the image capturing a low prioritized
   area, specifically a zone between said first and second end zone. The high prioritized area is
   preferably the first and second end zone. Which area of the surveillance zone is chosen as
15 high priority depends on the intended use of the device. The first and second end zones are
   areas in which a vehicle may be captured by the image sensor in an angle such that the front
   and the rear of the vehicle are captured respectively. Therefore, the first and second end
   zones are often preferred as the high prioritized areas in tolling systems because then the
   front of a vehicle as it enters the first end zone and the rear of a vehicle as it exits the second
20 end zone are captured in the image with the highest resolution.
   In tolling systems the middle zone is often considered the low prioritized area. In the middle
   zone the vehicles are captured by the image sensor from above at a low resolution, this
   because a high resolution image of the top of the vehicle is not needed in order to track the
25 vehicle through the low prioritized area or to classify the vehicle. However, because the
   image sensor is also capturing the vehicle in the middle zone, the vehicle may be tracked in
   the entire surveillance zone. Depending on application of the device the high and low
   prioritized areas can be provided differently within the surveillance zone.
30 The first and second end zones will be considered equivalent to the high prioritized areas in
   the description of the invention that follows. The zone in between the first and the second
   end zone, the middle zone, will be equivalent to the low prioritized area in the description that
   follows. The high and low prioritized areas can be provided elsewhere in the surveillance
   zone and/or be of a larger or smaller number without departing from the scope of the
35 invention.

                                                     4
   One advantageous feature of the device is that the image sensor is a pixel base image
   sensor and that the variation in resolution is excelled with a varied pixel density of said image
   sensor. The pixel density is higher in the part of the image sensor that captures the first and
   second end zone and the pixel density is lower in the part of the image sensor capturing the
 5 middle of the surveillance zone. The image sensor can thereby comprise fewer pixels
   compared to if the image sensor has a constant pixel density across the entire image sensor.
   The lowering in pixel density is achieved with maintained high resolution in the high
   prioritized area. A high resolution facilitates the identification of the vehicle by license plates
   or other identifiers on the front and rear of the vehicle and it is hence preferred to capture the
10 high prioritized areas in high resolution by the image sensor.
   Another advantageous feature of the device is that the variation in resolution is due to a
   diffraction of said optical system, whereby said optical system projects one area unit of said
   surveillance zone upon a different number of pixels depending on where in said surveillance
15 zone said one area unit is located. The diffraction of the optical system may vary with the cut,
   grind or polish of the lens of the image sensor. The first and second end zones are diffracted
   by the optical system to project on a large number of pixels in the image sensor relative the
   end zones area. The middle of the surveillance zone is diffracted to project on a smaller
   number of pixels relative the area of the middle of the surveillance zone. Hence, the
20 resolution in the image of the first and second end zone, i.e. the high prioritized areas, is
   higher than the resolution of the rest of the surveillance zone in the captured image. This
   enables that the entire surveillance zone can be captured with an image sensor with a lower
   number of pixels than if the both the end zones and the middle zone of the surveillance zone
   were projected upon the same number of pixels relative the area of the respective zone.
25 Accordingly, the resolution of the first and second end zone is higher than it would be using a
   device which does not enable a variation of the diffraction of the optical system. Thereby,
   fewer pixels can be used to achieve a resolution of the first and second end zone, and still
   capture the entire surveillance zone in one image. Fewer pixels lead to lower costs for the
   image sensor and to images with fewer pixels. Thereby less data memory and less data
30 processing are needed and the processing speed of the whole system using the device is
   increased and the cost thereof is lowered.
   A combination of variation in pixel density of the image sensor and the diffraction of the
   optical system may also be possible. A combination will increase the difference in resolution
35 between the part of the image capturing the first and a second end zone and the part
   capturing the rest of the surveillance zone. The first and second end zone may be projected
   by the optical system onto a larger part of the image sensor relative their actual area,

                                                    5
   determined by the diffraction of the optical system, and wherein this large part of the sensor
   comprising a high pixel density. Analogously the middle zone of the surveillance area is
   projected by the optical system onto a smaller part of the image sensor relative its actual
   area, wherein this smaller area comprises a low pixel density. Thereby the characteristics of
 5 the vehicles in the first and second end zones are clear and easily read in an image provided
   from the image sensor, which facilitates a reliable identification of the vehicles.
    In one embodiment of the present invention the optical system comprises a mirror and/or a
   lens arranged in front of said image sensor and causing said diffraction. Thereby, the optical
10 system may be arranged adjacent but not in front of the image sensor. This allows for
   flexibility in manufacturing of the device, as well as in the positioning of the image sensor and
   optical system in the device and onto the gantry.
   The width and length of the surveillance zone captured by the image sensor is determined by
15 the wide angle optical system characteristics. One advantageous feature of the optical
   system is that it is provided with a shape enabling a rectangular surveillance zone. Hence,
   an optical system may capture the width of only one single lane or the width of several lanes.
   The characteristics of the optical system are also determining the length of the surveillance
   zone, hence where the first and second end zones are located along the road. Independent
20 of the shape of the optical system the diffraction of the optical system may vary as described
   above.
   Alternatively the shape of the optical system may be of fish-eye type, and cover a
   surveillance area having an extension along the direction of the road as well as the width of
25 several lanes of the road.
   One advantageous feature of the present invention is that the device may be a part of, or can
   be combined with sensors providing stereoscopic and/or multidimensional images in which
   vehicle types and/or heights of vehicles can be detected. The effect of this is that the type of
30 vehicle can be identified. By determining for example the height of a vehicle passing through
   the surveillance zone the toll fee for that vehicle may automatically be determined e.g. if it is
   a truck or a car.
   The device may also comprise a transceiver for sending and receiving information from
35 passing vehicles transponders. By this means, vehicles with transponders are automatically
   charged with a toll fee and do not have to be identified by images captured by the image
   sensor.

                                                    6
   The scope of the present invention also encompasses a system of devices according to the
   present invention. Such a system having access to images captures by a plurality of devices.
 5 Preferably the system of devices can combine information withdrawn from the images in
   order to track a vehicle moving between surveillance zones corresponding to different image
   sensors. One image sensor may correspond to one lane of the road in the surveillance zone.
   If a vehicle enters the first end zone in one lane, and exits the second end zone in a different
   lane, i.e. change lane in the middle of the surveillance zone, then the system can combine
10 the information withdrawn from the images captured by the two corresponding sensors. The
   effect of this is that a vehicle cannot pass the surveillance zone without being registered by
   the system. The vehicle may also be captured by an image sensor in the middle of the
   surveillance zone. Hence, the vehicle can more easily be tracked through the entire
   surveillance zone, by the images sensor continuously capturing images of all plausible
15 positions in the surveillance zone.
   According to another aspect of the system it can combine information from images taken by
   different image sensors in order to estimate a height, a length and/or a volume of a vehicle.
   Thereby, the vehicle type may be determined and additional stereoscopic sensors may be
20 precluded.
   Another aspect of the invention is a method to control a device or system of the above
   described art, wherein the sensor continuously captures images of the surveillance zone. No
   vehicle can pass the surveillance zone without being captured by the sensor because
25 images are constantly captured. Thereby, the method is trustworthy in respect to making
   sure all vehicles are registered and that toll is applied to all passing vehicles that should pay
   toll.
   According to another aspect of the method the device or system of the above described art is
30 adapted to be controlled to save an output from the sensor, wherein the output comprises at
   least a first and a second image wherein the first image comprise characteristics of a front of
   a vehicle in the first end zone and a second image comprise the characteristics of a rear of
   the vehicle in the second end zone. The first and second images saved as an output from the
   sensor are paired and can be used to identify the passing vehicle. Pairing is preferably done
35 by identification of the license plate number read in the image. The image pair may also be
   used to control that the vehicle does not carry false license plates, i.e. a license plate number
   identified in the first end zone should be identified in an image of the second end zone within

                                                    7
   reasonable time. If not, the vehicle might be carrying a fake license plate. The image pair
   may also be saved as a proof that the vehicle did indeed pass the tolling zone, in case of a
   dispute over the toll applied.
 5  Images comprising characteristics of a front of a vehicle or rear or a vehicle carrying a
   transponder may not be saved as an output. These vehicles are preferably tolled
   automatically; thereby the images are not needed for identification. However, the images
   could be saved for other purposes.
10 Another advantageous aspect of the method is that the output comprises a third image
   wherein the third image comprises the vehicle in between the first and the second end zone.
   The vehicle is seen from above in between the first and the second end zone. Thereby, the
   vehicle may be tracked all the way through the surveillance zone, and proof in the form of
   images is kept of the passing. This is made possible by continuous capturing by the sensor.
15
   According to the method the device may also be combined with other technology for vehicle
   identification, such as radio frequency identification.
   Brief Description of Drawings
20 The present invention will now be described in detail with reference to the figures, wherein:
   Figure 1       shows a schematic view of one embodiment of the present invention.
   Figure 2       shows a schematic view of another embodiment of the present invention.
   Figure 3       shows a schematic view of the present invention seen from above.
25 Figure 4       shows a schematic view of an image sensor according to the invention.
   Detailed Description of Drawings
    In the following, embodiments of the present invention are described. The invention is
   however not limited thereto. All the figures are schematic.
30
   Figure 1 shows a first embodiment of the device 1 for tolling or telematics systems provided
   with a pixel based image sensor 2 .. Figure 1 further shows a surveillance zone 14 provided
   on a road 4. The device 1 is adapted upon a gantry (not shown) a predetermined distance
   above the road, such that the plane of the surveillance zone 14 becomes level with the
35 surface of the road 4. The elongonated surveillance zone 14 has an extension along the
   direction of the road 4. The image sensor 2 is provided with a wide-angle optical system 9.
   The optical system 9 have a diffraction which is arranged such, relative the image sensor 2

                                                     8
   that an image captured by the image sensor 2 comprises the first and the second 6, 7 end
   zone. The diffraction and reflection by the optical system 9 upon the image sensor 2 is
   shown schematically in figure 1 and figure 2. The cut and grind of the optical system 9
   determining the diffraction is not shown in the figure.
 5
   In figure 1 a first vehicle 8 is entering the first end zone 6. The front of the first vehicle 8 is
   captured in an image by the image sensor 2, as the diffraction of the wide-angle optical
   system 9 covers the entire surveillance zone 14. If a second vehicle (not shown) were to exit
   the surveillance zone 14 in the second end zone 7 at the same time, the rear of the second
10 vehicle would be captured by the image sensor 2 in the same image. The first and second
   end zones 6, 7 are high prioritized areas in the embodiment shown in figure 1.
   Figure 1 further shows the optical system 9 arranged relative the image sensor 2 such that
   the resolution is higher in the part of the image capturing said first 6 and second 7 end zone
15 and lower in the part of the image capturing a zone between said first 6 and second 7 end
   zone. The resolution is set by the pixel density of the image sensor 2 as well as by the
   diffraction of the optical system 9. In figure 1 the optical system 9 projects an area unit
   representing 1/4 of the surveillance zone 14, represented by the first and second end zone 6,
   7, upon 2/3 of the pixel area of the image sensor 2 in the device 1, i.e. each end zone 6, 7 is
20 projected upon 1/3 of the image sensor each. The first end zone 6 is projected upon the pixel
   area 6s of the image sensor 2 and the second end zone 7 is projected upon the pixel area 7s
   of the image sensor 2. The low prioritized area 3 is in between the first and the second end
   zone 6, 7 in the embodiment shown in figure 1. Hence, for the low prioritized area 3, an area
   unit representing of 3/4 of the surveillance zone 14 is being projected upon 1/3 of the pixel
25 area, shown as area 3s, of the image sensor 2. Therefore, the high prioritized areas which
   are smaller than the low prioritized areas are projected on a larger pixel area comparably,
   and hence the number of pixels representing the high priority areas compared to number of
   pixels representing the low priority areas is larger. The resolution of the high priority areas,
   the first and second end zones 6, 7, is thus high. The density of the pixels in the pixel area of
30 the image sensor 2 whereon the high priority area is projected may also be higher, hence
   increasing the resolution further.
   The surveillance zone 14 may be divided differently, such that the ratio between the high
   prioritized area and the low prioritized area is greater or smaller, and that the ratio between
35 the projections of the high and low prioritized area upon the image sensor 2 is different as
   well. The high prioritized area does not have to correspond to the end zones of the
   surveillance zone 14. Just as before, the first and second end zones 6, 7 will be considered

                                                    9
   equivalent to general high prioritized areas, and the zone in between the first and the second
   end zone, the middle zone 3, will be equivalent to a general low prioritized area. The high
   and low prioritized areas can be provided elsewhere in the surveillance zone and/or be of a
   larger or smaller number without departing from the scope of the invention.
 5
    In another embodiment, shown in figure 2, the optical system 9 comprises a mirror 10
   arranged in front of the image sensor 2 causing diffraction such that the surveillance zone 14
   is captured on the image sensor 2. The embodiment in figure 2 differs only in that the optical
10 system 9 is of a different kind, the function thereof and the device as such is the same as the
   embodiment in figure 1. Hence, similar as in figure 1, the ration between the areas of the first
   end zone 6 and second end zone 7 versus the surveillance zone 14 is smaller than the ratio
   of the two projected on the image sensor 2. Thereby, the first and second end zone 6, 7 is
   captured by the image sensor 2 with a larger number of pixels and thus at a higher resolution
15 than the middle zone 3 of the surveillance zone 14. The mirror also allows for other ratios
   than the one exemplified in figure 2.
   Figure 3 shows a system 11 of devices 1 according to the invention provided with a pixel
   based image sensor 2, not shown in figure 3. The system 11 of devices 1 has access to
20 images captures by a plurality of devices 1, 21. Thereby, the system 11 of devices 1, 21
   covers the surveillance zones 14 of lanes 12a, 12b provided on a road 4 in the embodiment
   shown in figure 3. The system 11 combines information withdrawn from the images captured
   by the image sensors 2, corresponding to the devices 1, 21, in order to track the first vehicle
   8 in case it moves between surveillance zones 14 corresponding to different devices 1, 21
25 and image sensors (not shown in figure 3). In figure 3 each image sensor 2, not shown in the
   figure, is provided with an individual optical system 9, and that is capturing the surveillance
   zone 14 of one individual lane 12a, 12b each. The surveillance zones 14 captured by the
   individual devices 1, 21 positioned next to each other could also overlap depending on the
   characteristics of the individual optical systems 9. In the embodiment shown in figure 3, the
30 surveillance zones 14 are of rectangular shape, and may overlap between the lanes 12a,
    12b in order to handle vehicles that passes between the lanes.
   The system 11 of devices 1, 21 combines information from images taken by different image
   sensors in order to estimate a height, a length and/or a volume of the vehicle 8. Thereby, the
35 vehicle 8 is classified and appropriate toll fees are charged based on the vehicle type, in
   figure 3 a passenger car. The license plate 13 at the front of the vehicle 8 is also captured by
   the image sensor 2 as the vehicle enters the first end zone 26 of lane 12a. Thereby, the

                                                    10
   vehicle 8 can be identified by the license plate 13. Alternatively, fingerprint detection could be
   used to identify the car. In such a method the vehicle is identified based on dents, specific
   bolts or other characteristics different from the license plate 13.
 5 Figure 4 shows the projections by the optical systems 9 on the image sensors (not shown in
   the figure) from the system 11 of devices 1, 21 shown in figure 3. The two images 32, 33 in
   figure 4 represent the output of the image sensors, wherein the projections of the first end
   zones 6, 26 is captured in the areas 6s, 26s of the images 32, 33, the low prioritized middle
   zones 3, 23 is captured in the areas 3s, 23s and the second end zone 7, 27 is captured in
10 the areas 7s, 27s. As exemplified in figure 4, the middle zone 3s, 23s, even though the
   largest area of the surveillance zone, is represented upon 1/3 of the image 32, 33. The first
   vehicle 8 is captured at high resolution in the pixel area 26s of the image sensor. Thereby,
   the license plate 13 is also captured at high resolution and can be used to identify the first
   vehicle 8. An overlap between the two surveillance zones captured by the two image sensors
15 is shown in figure 4. Thereby, the first vehicle 8 can easily be tracked even if is moves
   between the two lanes 12a, 12b during its passing through the surveillance zone.
   The invention is not limited to the specific embodiments presented, but includes all variations
   within the scope of the present claims.
20
   Reference signs mentioned in the claims should not be seen as limiting the extent of the
   matter protected by the claims, and their sole function is to make claims easier to
   understand.
25 As will be realised, the invention is capable of modification in various obvious respects, all
   without departing from the scope of the appended claims. Accordingly, the drawings and the
   description thereto are to be regarded as illustrative in nature, and not restrictive.

                                                   11
   CLAIMS
    1) Device (1, 21), for tolling or telematics systems, said device (1, 21) is provided with an
   image sensor (2), said image sensor (2) is adapted to be arranged above a road (4),
 5 whereby said image sensor (2) defines a surveillance zone (14) in a plane at a
   predetermined distance from said device (1, 21), wherein said surveillance zone (14) having
   an elongonated extensionin said plane , wherein
   said image sensor (2) is provided with an optical system (9, 29) having a diffraction such and
   is arranged such relative said image sensor (2) that an image (32, 33) captured by said
10 image sensor (2) comprises said first and said second end zone (6, 26; 7, 27) and an middle
   zone (6, 26; 7, 27; 3, 23) located in between said first and said second end zone (6, 26; 7,
   27) characterized in that
   a resolution of said image (32, 33) captured by said image sensor (2) varies and the optical
   system (9, 29) is adapted to and arranged such relative said image sensor (2) that said
15 resolution is higher in a part of the image capturing a at least one of said first and second
   end zone (6, 26, 7, 27), and lower in a part of the image capturing said middle zone (3, 23)
   wherein said variation in resolution is due to a diffraction of said optical system (9, 29),
   whereby said optical system (9, 29) projects one area unit of said surveillance zone (14)
   upon a different number of pixels depending on where in said surveillance zone (14) said
20 area unit is located.
   2) Device (1, 21) according to any one of the claims 1, wherein said image sensor (2) is pixel
   based and variation in resolution is exccelled with a varied pixel density of said image sensor
   (2).
25
    3) Device (1, 21) according to any one of the claims 1 or2, wherein said optical system (9,
   29) comprises at least one mirror and/or lens arranged in front of said image sensor (2) and
   causing said diffraction.
30 4) Device (1, 21) according to any one of the claims 1-3, wherein said optical system (9, 29)
   is provided with a shape enabling a rectangular surveillance zone (14).
   5) Device (1, 21) according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein said device (1, 21) is
   part of, or combined with, sensors providing stereoscopic and/or multidimensional images in
35 which vehicle types and/or heights of vehicles can be detected.

                                                   12
   6) System (11) of devices (1, 21) according to any of the preceding claims, wherein said
   system (11) having access to images captures by a plurality of devices (1, 21).
   7) System (11) according to claim 6, wherein said system (11) can combine information
 5 withdrawn from said images in order to track a vehicle (8) moving between surveillance
   zones (14) corresponding to different image sensors (2).
   8) System (11) according to claim 6 or 7, wherein said system (11) can combine information
   from images taken by different image sensors (2) in order to estimate a height, a length
10 and/or a volume of a vehicle (8).
   9) Method to control a device (1,21) or system (11) according to any of the claims 1-8,
   wherein said image sensor (2) continuously capture images of said surveillance zone (14).
15 10) Method according to claim 11, wherein said device (1, 21) or system (11) is adapted to
   be controlled to save an output from said image sensor (2), wherein said output comprises at
   least a first and a second image (32, 33) wherein said first image (32, 33) comprise
   characteristics of a front of a vehicle (8) in said first end zone (6, 26) and a second image
   (32, 33) comprise the characteristics of a rear of said vehicle (8) in said second end zone (7,
20 27).
   11) Method according to the preceding claim 10, wherein said output comprises a third
   image (32, 33) wherein the third image comprises said vehicle (8) in between said first and
   said second end zone (6, 26, 7, 27).
25
   12) Method according to any of the preceding claims 9 - 11, wherein said ouput consists of
   one compound image of said surveillance zone (14), wherein said compound image is put
   together of at least first and a second image captured at different moments such that said
   compound image discloses said survailance zone (14) and comprises at least a front view
30 and a rear view of said vehicle (8) in said first and second end zone (6, 26; 7, 27)
   respectively.
   13) Method according to the preceding claim 12, wherein said compound image further
   comprises a third image captured at a third moment such that a view of said vehicle from
35 essentially above and in said middle zone (3, 23) also is comprised in said compound image.

                                           13
14) Method according to any of the preceding claims 1-13, wherein said device (1, 21) or
system (11)  is combined with other technology for vehicle identification, such as radio
frequency identification.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
