                                        Abstract
   A gaming machine (100) that provides a wagering game, the gaming machine
   (100) including a user interface (107) in communication with a game controller
 5 (101), through the operation of which a player selects one of a plurality of wager
   options that determine a number of symbols to be active and inactive in the
   wagering game. The user interface (107) and game controller (101) are
   adapted to allow the player to select another wager option, which includes at
   least one of: a) selection of the number of outcomes purchased, wherein an
10 award is paid if a winning combination occurs in the purchased outcomes but
   not the outcomes that have not been purchased; and b) selection of an amount
   to wager on each outcome; which is made independently of the selection of the
   number of inactive symbols.
   103509311 (GHMatters) P88283.AU.10

                                                  -1
                              Gaming system and method with wager variability
    Field of the Invention
  5 The present invention generally relates to gaming apparatus and methods of
    gaming. A particular embodiment of the present invention relates to gaming
    machines on which a player may selectively place wagers on one or more
    game outcomes.
10  Background of the Invention
    With the increase of gambling at gaming venues has come increased
    competition between gaming venues to obtain a larger share of the total
    gambling spend. Gaming venue operators have therefore continuously looked
15  for new variations and types of games in order to attract both new and return
    customers to their venues.
    In response to this need, suppliers of gaming devices and systems have
    attempted to provide the sought after variety, while still developing games that
20  comply with the relevant regulations in the jurisdiction of the gaming venue
    operator. Suppliers of gaming devices therefore are faced with restrictions on
    the types of games and gaming apparatus that are allowable, both in terms of
    the prevailing regulations and in terms of providing a return on investment to
    the gaming venue operators.
25
    In some jurisdictions at present the regulations impose limits on the number or
    value of bets that can be placed on a game. This raises a problem of how to
    provide entertainment to players in a similar manner to the entertainment
    achieved through play of games that do not comply with the regulations. Even
30  where the regulations do not have such a limitation, there is an ongoing need
    for alternative methods for players to place wagers in a wagering game on a
    gaming machine.
    In addition, it is important that a player be able to understand the operation of a
35  game quickly so that the player can start to quickly play the game and therefore
    extract maximum entertainment from the game.
    103509311 (GHMatters) P88283.AU.10

   Summary of the Invention
   A gaming system is provided that includes or consists of a gaming machine that
   provides a wagering game in which a plurality of symbols are presented on a
   display to represent one or more outcomes, play of the wagering game being
 5 controlled by a game controller in communication with the display, the gaming
   machine including a user interface in communication with the game controller,
   through the operation of which a player selects one of a plurality of wager
   options that determine a number of symbols to be active and inactive in the
   wagering game, wherein for at least one said wager option at least one, but not
io all of the plurality of symbols that define a possible said winning combination
   are rendered inactive for forming the winning combination and wherein for at
   least one said wager option the symbols presented on the display to represent
   one or more outcomes always includes at least one inactive symbol wherein the
   user interface and game controller are adapted to allow the player to select
is another wager option, which includes at least one of: a) selection of the number
   of outcomes purchased, wherein an award is paid if a winning combination
   occurs in the purchased outcomes but not the outcomes that have not been
   purchased; and b) selection of an amount to wager on each outcome; which is
   made independently of the selection of the number of inactive symbols.
20 For a said wager option in which the symbols presented on the display to
   represent one or more outcomes always include at least one inactive symbol, at
   least one symbol from substantially every possible winning combination may be
   inactive and the number of inactive symbols may decrease as wager options
   having higher values are selected.
25 The wagering game may be a spinning reel game including a plurality of reels
   each including a plurality of reel positions that carry a said symbol and wherein
   the game controller randomly selects the stopping position of the reel to display
   the symbols in a portion of the reel positions so as to display an array of
   symbols, across which a plurality of pay lines are defined that indicate the
30 plurality of possible outcomes, wherein the symbols that are rendered inactive
   are defined by their position on the reels. On at least one reel the inactive
   symbols may be distributed along the reel so that the ratio of active and inactive
   symbols that are displayed randomly varies as a result of the random selection
   of the stopping position of that reel.
   103509311 (GHMatters) P88283.AU.10

                                                -.3
   Sufficient active symbols to form a winning combination may always be
   presented on the display for every game play regardless of which wager option
   is selected.
   A method of providing a wagering game on a gaming machine is also provided,
 5 the wagering game including a plurality of symbols that are presented on a
   display to represent one or more outcomes of the game, the method including:
               determining which of a plurality of wager options has been made;
               dependent on the determination of which wager option has been made,
   determining a number of symbols to be active and a number of symbols to be
io inactive in the wagering game, wherein at least one, but not all of the plurality of
   symbols that would otherwise define a possible winning combination are
   determined to be inactive;
               rendering inactive for forming a winning combination the symbols
   determined to be inactive;
15             wherein for at least one said wager option the symbols presented on the
   display to represent one or more outcomes always includes at least one
   inactive symbol, and wherein the method further includes for another said
   wager option:
               a) allowing a player of the gaming machine to select the number of
20 outcomes purchased, wherein an award is paid if a winning combination occurs
   in the purchased outcomes but not the outcomes that have not been
   purchased, the selection being made independently of the selection of the
   number of inactive symbols; and/or
               b) allowing a player of the gaming machine to select an amount to wager
25 on each outcome, the selection being made independently of the selection of
   the number of inactive symbols.
   For a said wager option in which the symbols that are presented on the display
   to represent one or more outcomes always include at least one inactive symbol,
   at least one symbol from substantially every possible winning combination may
30 be inactive and the number of inactive symbols may decrease as wager options
   having higher values are selected.
   The wagering game may be a spinning reel game including a plurality of reels
   each including a plurality of reel positions that carry a said symbol and wherein
   the method further includes selecting a stopping position of the reel to display
35 the symbols in a portion of the reel positions so as to display an array of
   103509311 (GHMatters) P88283.AU.10

                                            -4
   symbols, across which a plurality of pay lines are defined that indicate the
   plurality of possible outcomes, wherein the symbols that are rendered inactive
   are defined by their position on the reels. On at least one reel the inactive
   symbols may be distributed along the reel so that the ratio of active and inactive
 5 symbols that are presented randomly varies as a result of the random selection
   of the stopping position of that reel.
   Sufficient active symbols to form a winning combination may always be
   presented on the display for every game play regardless of which wager option
   has been selected.
10 In accordance with a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
   method of providing a wagering game on a gaming machine, the wagering
   game including a plurality of symbols that are displayed on a display to
   represent at least one outcome of the game, the plurality of symbols including a
   plurality of symbol classes, wherein a winning combination in the wagering
15 game is represented as an occurrence of a combination of a plurality of
   symbols in the same class, the wagering game including a plurality of different
   winning combinations within two or more of the symbol classes, the method
   including: determining which one of a plurality of available wager options has
   been placed in a game play of the wagering game; forming at least one
20 outcome from the plurality of symbols by displaying a symbol in each of a
   plurality of symbol display positions; awarding an award according to a pay
   table of the gaming machine if a winning combination occurs; and defining, for
   at least one wager option, at least one, but less than all of the symbols in at
   least two different symbol classes as inactive for forming a winning
25 combinations.
   At least one said winning combination may be available for each and every one
   of the plurality of symbol classes irrespective of the wager option that is placed.
   For at least one of the wager options all or substantially all of the symbol
   classes may have at least one symbol that is defined as inactive for forming a
30 said winning combination.
   The wagering game may be a spinning reel game having a plurality of reels,
   each reel having a plurality of symbols that are each located in a symbol
   position on the reel, wherein forming at least one outcome includes determining
   the stopping position of the reels to display symbols on the reels in the symbol
   103509311 (GHMatters) P88283.AU.10

                                           -5
   display positions, and wherein on at least one of the reels symbols from at least
   two different symbol classes are defined as inactive.
   In an embodiment, a plurality of said winning combinations are defined from left
   to right across the spinning reels and of those winning combinations at least
 5 one consists of r symbols, wherein r is less than the number of spinning reels,
   and for at least one of the wager options, between one third and one half of the
   symbol positions on a reel within the r leftmost reels are rendered inactive.
   Also provided is a method of providing a wagering game on a gaming machine,
10 the wagering game including presenting symbols on a display according to a
   random selection process, the method including: determining which one of a
   plurality of wager options has been placed in a game play of the wagering
   game; rendering at least one symbol that is available to be selected for
   presentation on the display inactive, the number of symbols rendered inactive
is depending on the wager option that has been placed; forming at least one
   outcome from a plurality of symbols, the number of outcomes formed being
   fixed regardless of the said wager option that is placed; and awarding an award
   if a winning combination of symbols occurs in a said outcome formed by active
   symbols in the formed at least one outcome and not awarding an award for the
20 combination if one or more the symbols are inactive.
   The wagering game may be a spinning reel game and wherein the outcomes
   are defined across an array of symbols presented by the spinning reels, and
   wherein the number of outcomes is equal to n', wherein n is the number of
25 rows in the array and m is the number of columns in the array. In this
   embodiment, for at least one wager option, the number of inactive symbols is
   selected so that the effective number of outcomes for every game play played
   at that wager option, the number of outcomes is effectively less than n'.
30 Also provided is a method of providing a wagering game on a gaming machine,
   the wagering game including presenting a plurality of symbols on a display to
   form one or more outcomes, which are evaluated for a winning outcome, the
   method including:
35 determining which one of a plurality of wager options has been placed in a
   game play of the wagering game; selecting at least one symbol dependent on
   103509311 (GHMatters) P88283.AU.10

                                             -6
    the wager option that has been placed and rendering each selected symbol
    inactive for forming a winning outcome, wherein at least two different classes or
    types of symbol are rendered inactive for a single wager option; selecting in a
    random selection process symbols for display in symbol display positions to
  5 form the one or more outcomes, the selection made from a combined set
    including both active and the inactive symbols, whereby whether a symbol
    display position displays an active or inactive symbol is randomly determined;
    paying an award for winning outcomes that occur which are defined by symbols
    that are active and not any symbols that have been rendered inactive.
10
    The selection of symbols to be rendered inactive may be random or include a
    random component.
    The process of selecting at least one symbol may include selecting a different
is  number symbols for different wager options placed in the wagering game.
    The process of selecting at least one symbol may be constrained so that every
    possible winning outcome remains achievable in the wagering game for every
    possible selection of symbols to be rendered inactive.
20
    The process of selecting symbols for display may include randomly determining
    the stopping position of a reel including a plurality of symbol positions, with at
    least one symbol position indicating an active symbol position and at least one
    other symbol position indicating an inactive symbol position.
25
    Also provided is a method of providing a spinning reel wagering game on a
    gaming machine, the wagering game including presenting on a display of the
    gaming machine a plurality of symbol positions on reels on a display to
    represent as symbols one or more outcomes of the game method including:
30  determining which one of a plurality of wager options has been placed in a
    game play of the wagering game; rendering the symbols in a variable number
    of symbol positions inactive for forming a winning outcome, the number of
    symbol positions in which a symbol is made inactive being dependent on the
    wager option that was placed; during game play presenting the reels so that the
35  inactive and active symbols are distinguishable to the eye of a player of the
    gaming machine; playing the wagering game and not paying an award for
    winning outcomes that occur which are defined by one or more symbols that
    103509311 (GHMatters) P88283.AU.10

                                                -7
   have been rendered inactive, wherein at least one of the symbols that are
   rendered inactive is an ordinary game symbol, not a bonus symbol or special
   symbol.
 5 The plurality of symbol positions presented on the display may form an array
   having m rows and n columns, and wherein the number of outcomes of the
   game is nm. In this embodiment, the number of outcomes of the game may be
   fixed at n'm.
io A plurality of the symbols that are rendered inactive may be ordinary game
   symbols, not a bonus symbol or special symbol.
   In accordance with a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided
   a gaming system comprising a gaming machine for providing a wagering game,
is the wagering game including a plurality of symbols that are displayed on a
   display to represent at least one outcome of the game, the plurality of symbols
   including a plurality of symbol classes, wherein a winning combination in the
   wagering game is represented as an occurrence of a combination of a plurality
   of symbols in the same class, the wagering game including a plurality of
20 different winning combinations within two or more of the symbol classes, the
   gaming machine having a game controller configured to:
               determine which one of a plurality of available wager options has been
   placed in a game play of the wagering game;
               form at least one outcome from the plurality of symbols by displaying a
25 symbol in each of a plurality of symbol display positions; and
               award an award according to a pay table of the gaming machine if a
   winning combination occurs; and
               define, for at least one wager option, at least one but less than all of the
   symbols in at least two different symbol classes as inactive for forming a
30 winning combination.
   In accordance with a third aspect of the present invention there is provided a
   gaming machine for providing a wagering game, the wagering game including a
   plurality of symbols that are displayed on a display to represent at least one
35 outcome of the game, the plurality of symbols including a plurality of symbol
   classes, wherein a winning combination in the wagering game is represented
   as an occurrence of a combination of a plurality of symbols in the same class,
   103509311 (GHMatters) P88283.AU.10

                                                -8
   the wagering game including a plurality of different winning combinations within
   two or more of the symbol classes, the gaming machine having a game
   controller configured to:
               determine which one of a plurality of available wager options has been
 5 placed in a game play of the wagering game;
               form at least one outcome from the plurality of symbols by displaying a
   symbol in each of a plurality of symbol display positions; and
               award an award according to a pay table of the gaming machine if a
   winning combination occurs; and
10             define, for at least one wager option, at least one but less than all of the
   symbols in at least two different symbol classes as inactive for forming a
   winning combination.
   Further aspects of the present invention and further embodiments of the
is aspects described in the preceding paragraphs will become apparent from the
   following description, given by way of example only and with reference to the
   accompanying drawings.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
20 Figure 1: shows diagrammatically, a view of a gaming machine suitable for
   implementing the present invention.
   Figure 2: shows a block diagram of gaming apparatus suitable for implementing
   the present invention.
   Figure 3: shows a block diagram of components of the memory of the gaming
25 apparatus represented in Figure 2.
   Figure 4: shows diagrammatically, a network gaming system suitable for
   implementing the present invention.
   Figure 5: shows a flow diagram of a process performed in accordance with an
   embodiment of the present invention.
30
   Detailed Description
   In Figure 1 of the accompanying drawings, one example of a gaming machine
   suitable for implementing the present invention is generally referenced by arrow
   103509311 (GHMatters) P88283.AU.10

                                            -9
   10.
   The gaming machine 10 includes a console 12 having a display 14 on which is
   displayed representations of a game 16, that can be played by a player. A mid
 5 trim 20 of the gaming machine 10 houses a bank of buttons 22 for enabling a
   player to play the game 16. The mid-trim 20 also houses a credit input
   mechanism 24 including a coin input chute 24A and a bill collector 24B. A top
   box 26 may carry artwork 28, including for example, pay tables and details of
   bonus awards and other information or images relating to the game. Further
io artwork and/or information may be provided on the front panel 29 of the console
   12. A coin tray 30 is mounted beneath the console 12 for cash payouts from the
   gaming machine 10.
   The display 14 shown in Figure 1 is in the form of a video display unit,
15 particularly a cathode ray tube screen device. Alternatively, the display 14 may
   be a liquid crystal display, plasma screen, any other suitable video display unit,
   or the visible portion of an electromechanical device. The top box 26 may also
   include a display, for example a video display unit, which may be of the same
   type as the display 14, or a different type of display.
20
   Figure 2 shows a block diagram of a gaming apparatus, generally referenced
   by arrow 100, suitable for implementing the present invention. The gaming
   apparatus 100 may, for example, operate as a standalone gaming machine of
   the type shown in Figure 1. However, the gaming apparatus 100 may
25 alternatively operate as a networked gaming machine, communicating with
   other network devices, such as one or more servers or other gaming machines.
   The gaming apparatus 100 may also have distributed hardware and software
   components that communicate with each other directly or through a network.
   Accordingly, different reference numerals have been used in Figure 2 from
30 Figure 1 for components that may be equivalent.
   The gaming apparatus 100 includes a game controller 101, which in the
   illustrated example includes a computational device 102, which may be a
   microprocessor, microcontroller, programmable logic device or other suitable
35 device. Instructions and data to control operation of the computational device
   102 are stored in a memory 103, which is in data communication with or forms
   a part of the computational device 102. Typically, the gaming apparatus 100 will
   103509311 (GHMatters) P88283.AU.10

                                           - 10
   include both volatile and non-volatile memory and more than one of each type
   of memory, with such memories being collectively represented by the memory
   103. The instructions to cause the game controller 101 to implement the
   present invention will be stored in the memory 103.
 5
   The gaming apparatus may include hardware meters 104 for the purposes of
   regulatory compliance and also include an input/output (1/O) interface 105 for
   communicating with the peripheral devices of the gaming apparatus 100. The
   input/output interface 105 and/or the peripheral devices may be intelligent
10 devices with their own memory for instructions and data.
   In the example shown in Figure 2, the peripheral devices that communicate with
   the controller are one or more displays 106, user input devices 107, a card
   and/or ticket reader 108, a printer 109, a bill acceptor and/or coin input
15 mechanism 110 and a coin output mechanism 111. One or more of the displays
   106 may include a touch screen 106A, forming part of the user input devices
   107. Additional devices may be included as part of the gaming machine 100, or
   devices omitted as required for the specific implementation.
20 In addition, the gaming machine 100 may include a communications interface,
   for example a network card 112. The network card, may for example, send
   status information, accounting information or other information to a central
   controller, server or database and receive data or commands from a central
   controller, server or database. One or more of the peripheral devices, for
25 example the card/ticket reader 108 may be able to communicate directly with
   the network card 112.
   The game controller 101 may also include a random number generator 113,
   which generates a series of random numbers that determine the outcome of a
30 series of random game events played as part of a game on the gaming
   apparatus 100. As explained in more detail in relation to Figure 4, the
   computational device 102 may include two or more controllers or processors,
   which may be local or remote from each other and the displays 106.
35 Figure 3 shows an exemplary block diagram of the main components of the
   memory 103. The RAM 103A typically temporarily holds program files for
   execution by the computational controller 102 and related data. The EPROM
   103509311 (GHMatters) P88283.AU.10

                                           - 11
   103B may be a boot ROM device and/or may contain some system or game
   related code. The mass storage device 103C is typically used to store game
   programs, the integrity of which may be verified and/or authenticated by the
   computational controller 102 using protected code from the EPROM 103B or
 5 elsewhere.
   Figure 4 shows a gaming system 200. The gaming system 200 includes a
   network 201, which for example may be an Ethernet network. Gaming devices
   202, shown arranged in three banks 203 of two gaming devices 202 in Figure 4,
10 are connected to the network 201. The gaming devices 202 may be gaming
   machines 10, as shown in Figure 1 or form part or all of another gaming
   apparatus 100. Single gaming devices 202 and banks 203 containing three or
   more gaming devices 202 may also be connected to the
   network 201.
15
   Servers may also be connected to the network 201. For example, a game
   server 205 may generate game outcomes for games played on the gaming
   devices 202, a database management server 206 may manage the storage of
   game programs and associated data for downloading or access by the gaming
20 devices 202 in a database 206A, and a jackpot server 207 may control one or
   more jackpots associated with the gaming devices 202.
   Further servers may be provided to assist in the administration of the gaming
   system 200, including for example a gaming floor management server 208, and
25 a licensing server 209 to monitor the use of licenses to particular games. An
   administrator terminal 210 is provided to allow an administrator to run the
   network 201 and the devices connected to the network.
   Figure 5 shows a simple process flow diagram of a process performed in
30 accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The process may be
   performed within the network gaming system 200, in which the gaming devices
   202 may each include part or all of a gaming apparatus 100 and the following
   description assumes this implementation. However, those skilled in the relevant
   arts will appreciate that the process will also be able to be implemented by
35 other gaming systems.
   In step 50, the game controller 101 monitors operation of the user interface 107
   103509311 (GHMatters) P88283.AU.10

                                           - 12
   for the selection of a wager option. This may occur in the usual manner, for
   example in a spinning reel game by a player selecting a number of pay lines
   and the wager per pay line and in a card game by a player selecting a number
   of hands to play.
 5
   Once the game controller 101 has determined which wager option has been
   placed, it then sets a number of symbols to be inactive (step 51). In a spinning
   reel game, for the leftmost reel, the number of inactive symbols for a particular
   wager option may be anywhere from zero up to all but one of the symbols.
10 However, it is anticipated that in many practical implementations of a spinning
   reel game that displays three symbol positions for forming game outcomes, a
   maximum percentage of inactive symbols for a wager option would be between
   about 50% to 75% so that all or at least most spins of the real result in the
   formation of at least one outcome. The number of wager symbols rendered
15 inactive may be dependent on the number of outcomes purchased and/or the
   size of the wager placed disregarding the bet per outcome.
   Taking as an example a spinning reel game that has five reels and presents 3
   symbols for each reel. In this game the maximum number of outcomes is
20 typically 243, representing every combination of presented symbols when one
   presented symbol is taken from each reel. This mode of operation is sometimes
   called "243 Ways". If for regulatory or other reasons, the number of outcomes
   playable in a game was required to be limited, but the game designer wanted to
   provide the entertainment appeal of "243 Ways" as a bet option, then the game
25 designer could design the game so that when this option is played, a proportion
   of the symbols on the reels are inactive.
   For example, in the previously described spinning reel game that pays left to
   right, then if every symbol in every second symbol position on the left-most reel
30 is rendered inactive, then the number of outcomes formed by active symbols is
   immediately halved on average, assuming equal probability of stopping
   positions. This occurs because, depending on where the inactive position stops
   in the window, there are either 81 possible pay lines defined by the active
   positions and 162 possible pay lines defined by the inactive positions, or vice
35 versa.
   Other average numbers of outcomes can be achieved by varying proportion of
   103509311 (GHMatters) P88283.AU.10

                                           - 13
   inactive symbol positions on the first reel and on the other reels. If required a
   constant number of outcomes can be achieved for example, by rendering every
   third symbol on one or more of the reels inactive, so that one inactive symbol is
   always one and only one of the presented symbols for each reel that has
 5 inactive symbols.
   Therefore, in this example, although the player may get a similar entertainment
   value to playing a full "243 Ways" game, the number of active outcomes can be
   limited. This can also keep the maximum wager size per game play lower than
io if full "243 Ways" was available. However, the player may still be able to specify
   a bet per outcome that acts to multiply the winnings that are paid on the
   occurrence of a winning outcome and/or place an ante-bet to result in eligibility
   for an additional game feature, maintaining a large number of options for the
   game designer to design varying games.
15
   Taking again the 3 by 5 spinning reel game, instead of limiting the number of
   outcomes in a maximum bet, the game designer may require that a fully
   functional "243 Ways" option is available. However, the game designer may not
   want ordinary pay line play for lesser bet options. Therefore, the game designer
20 may create a game in which the game controller 101 causes the number of
   inactive symbol positions to decrease with an increase in wager size.
   In this second example, the game designer may still allow the player to
   purchase a number of outcomes and purchase a wager per outcome as is
25 usual for many spinning reel games. A third bet option may then be provided
   that varies the number of inactive symbols. The bet options may be multiplied
   together to form the total wager for the game play, or otherwise combined
   depending on the particular game rules and the payout tables that are used.
   Alternatively, the number of outcomes and/or the wager per outcome may be
30 fixed, reducing the number of wager options available to the player.
   The game designer may also include an ante-bet option if required, which
   operates independently of the number of inactive symbols.
   Following the determination of the inactive symbols, the outcomes are then
35 formed (step 52), which in a spinning reel game involves showing
   representations of the reels spinning and randomly selecting the stopping
   position of each reel. The outcomes are then defined by the symbols in each
   103509311 (GHMatters) P88283.AU.10

                                                       - 14
    pay line that has been purchased. Each outcome is then evaluated for a
    winning outcome (step 53) and the award applicable to any occurring winning
    outcomes paid. The process then returns to step 50.
  5 A description of an illustrative embodiment of the second example described
    above, in the form of a spinning reel game having 5 reels with 3 presented
    symbols per reel is provided below. For the purposes of clarity of explanation, in
    the game all prizes are paid for symbols aligned on the centre line only and no
    option of providing multiplier bets (i.e. multiple bets per pay line) is provided.
10  Those skilled in the relevant arts will appreciate how to modify the game to
    accommodate multiple pay lines and multiple bets per outcome.
    A player is able to place bets of 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 credits, where each credit bet
    purchases some of each reel strip. 5 credits is the maximum purchase of the
is  reel strips, so 5 credits purchases all positions on all the reel strips. The reel
    strips for credit bets of 1 to 5 credits are shown in Tables 1 to 5 respectively,
    the inactive symbol positions shown within angle brackets.
                                              Table 1 - 1 credit bet
20
                 POSITION              REEL 1 REEL 2      REEL 3    REEL 4 REEL 5
                            1            <A>     A           A        <A>     A
                            2             K      Q           K         Q     <K>
                            3            <Q>     K           Q         K      Q
                            4             A      A          <A>        A      A
                            5            <K>     Q           K         Q      K
                            6             Q     <K>         <Q>        K      Q
                            7            <A>     A          <A>        A      A
                            8             K.     Q           K         Q      K
                            9            <Q>     K           Q         K     <Q>
                           10             A      A           A        <A>     A
                           11            <K>     Q           K        <Q>     K
                           12             Q     <K>          Q         K      Q
    103509311 (GHMatters) P88283.AU.10

                                                         - 15
                                              Table 2 - 2 credits bet
                 POSITION            REEL 1      REEL 2       REEL3   REEL4  REEL 5
                          1             A            A           A        A     <A>
                          2              K           Q          <K>      Q       K
                          3            <Q>            K          Q        K      Q
                         4             <A>            A          A      <A>      A
                          5              K           Q           K       Q       K
                         6              Q           <K>          Q        K    <Q>
                          7             A             A        <A>       A       A
                          8            <K>           Q           K       Q       K
                          9             Q             K         Q       <K>      Q
                         10              A            A          A       A      <A>
                         11              K          <Q>          K       Q       K
                         12                           K         Q         K      Q
 5                                            Table 3 - 3 credits bet
                       POSITION         REEL 1     REEL2      REEL3   REEL4 REEL5
                               1           A          A          A      A     A
                               2           K           Q        <K>     Q    <K>
                               3           Q           K         Q      K     Q
                              4           <A>          A         A      A     A
                               5           K           Q         K      Q     K
                              6            Q           K         Q      K    <Q>
                               7           A           A         A      A     A
                               8          <K>          Q         K      Q     K
                               9           Q           K         Q     <K>    Q
                              10           A           A         A      A    <A>
                              11           K         <Q>         K      Q     K
                              12           Q           K         Q      K     Q
10
   103509311 (GHMatters)P88283.AU.10

                                                     - 16
                                           Table 4 - 4 credits bet
                       POSITION      REEL 1     REEL 2    REEL3    REEL4 REEL 5
                               1        A         A          A       A      A
                              2         K         Q          K       Q      K
                              3         Q         K          Q      <K>     Q
                              4         A         A          A       A      A
                              5         K         Q          K       Q      K
                              6        <Q>        K          Q       K      Q
                              7         A         A          A       A      A
                               8         K        Q           K     <Q>     K
                              9         Q         K          Q       K      Q
                              10        A         A          A       A      A
                              11         K        Q         <K>      Q      K
                              12        Q         K          Q       K      Q
                                           Table 5 - 5 credits bet
 5
                       POSITION       REEL 1    REEL2      REEL 3  REEL4 REEL 5
                               1         A        A           A       A    A
                               2         K         Q           K      Q    K
                               3         Q         K          Q       K    Q
                              4          A        A           A       A    A
                               5         K        Q            K      Q    K
                               6         Q         K          Q       K    Q
                               7         A        A           A      A     A
                               8         K        Q            K     Q     K
                              9          Q         K          Q      K     Q
                           .10           A        A           A      A     A
                              11         K        Q            K     Q      K
                              12         Q         K          Q      K     Q
   As is apparent in the example shown in Tables 1 to 5, the symbols that are
io rendered inactive are ordinary symbols in the game, as opposed to bonus
   symbols that trigger a bonus game or other special symbols. Different wagers
   may result in bonus symbols or other special symbols such as scatter symbols
   103509311 (GHMatters)P88283.AU.10

                                                      - 17
   that are provided on the reels becoming active or inactive in addition to the
   ordinary symbols of the game.
   The prize schedule pays only for symbol combinations left to right and the prize
 5 schedule is as shown in Table 6.
                                      Table 6 - exemplary prize schedule
                      5* Aces pays                               250
                      4* Aces pays                               100
                      3* Aces pays                               15
                      5* Kings pays                              200
                      4* Kings pays                              50
                      3* Kings pays                              10
                      5* Queens pays                             125
                      4* Queens pays                             25
                      3* Queens pays                             5
10
   The reel strips described with reference to Tables 1 to 5 were designed to
   provide player returns that are approximately the same regardless of the bet
   and to ensure that prizes for all symbols are available for each bet. It is
   anticipated that both of these characteristics may be desirable in some
15 embodiments, although they are not essential for all embodiments. The
   percentage returns for this example are shown in Table 7.
                                          Table 7 - percentage returns
                                     1 credit bet          90.471%
                                     2 credits bet         90.495%
                                     3 credits bet         90.615%
                                     4 credits bet         90.856%
                                     5 credits bet         90.947%
20
   Referring to Table 1 and Table 6, even though the minimum wager has been
   made that has the maximum number of inactive symbols, all winning symbol
   103509311 (GHMatters)P88283.AU.10

                                             - 18
    combinations are still possible. This is a result of, for each reel, selectively
    making some, but not all of any one type of symbol in a class of symbol within
    which a winning combination can be formed inactive. However, as all positions
    have not been purchased the chances of winning are reduced. For other styles
  5 of games, for example card games for which the presented symbols are all
    drawn from a common deck, the classes could be defined without reference to
    the location where the symbol could be presented. However, where the
    symbols are drawn from different decks for presentation in particular symbol
    positions, then the classes are defined for each deck.
10
    In alternative embodiments, all the symbols of a class may be made inactive on
    a reel for certain wager sizes. For example, if the minimum wager is placed, all
    the "A" symbols may be made inactive in REEL 5, which would mean that the
    player could not win the prize associated with the spinning up of five "A"
is  symbols (250 according to Table 6) if the minimum wager is placed. The "A"
    symbols are made active for one or more wager options other than the
    minimum wager option. In a particular embodiment, a symbol class may be
    inactive only for the minimum wager and/or the same or a different symbol
    class may be active only for the maximum wager.
20
    The game could provide the option to play multiple pay lines, with the player
    placing a higher wager per game play to purchase the additional pay lines. The
    active and inactive symbols could remain the same, depending on a separate
    wager of 1 to 5 credits, which is multiplied by the wager required to play the
25  purchased pay lines to determine the total wager. If multiplier bets (ie bets that
    multiply any prize payable) are available, then these could be added as a factor
    to determine the total wager required. Combination buttons may be provided
    on the user interface 107, for example allowing three pay lines to be played, at
    1 credit per pay line and with a 5 credit active symbol bet (15 credit wager)
30  using a single button press.
    In operation, the inactive symbols may be determined prior to spinning the reels
    or following the spinning of the reels. If the inactive symbols are determined
    prior to spinning the reels, then each symbol on a reel is designated as active
35  or inactive and the reel is then spun. Alternatively, the reels could be spun to
    select which symbols are to be displayed and then the symbols that are to be
    inactive determined according to a quasi random process, bounded within the
    103509311 (GHMatters) P88283.AU.10

                                             - 19
   required restraints to ensure the correct number of active and inactive symbols
   are displayed.
   If symbols which pay in a scattered position are required in a game, the game
 5 designer may select two alternatives. The first alternative is to always make
   available for all bets all the positions where scatter symbols are located. If this
   occurs, then scatter prizes are multiplied by total credits bet. The second
   alternative is to grey out some of the positions where scatter symbols occur,
   thus reducing the chance of winning scatter prizes. In this case, since the
10 chance of obtaining a winning pattern is varying, the prize for the scatter could
   be multiplied by only the multiplier bet.
   In an alternative embodiment, the game may be a card game, for example a
   poker style card game. In this embodiment the different wager options would
15 result in a different number of symbols being made inactive. For example, one
   bet may result in all but one of the Aces in one or more of the decks of cards
   used in the game to be inactive for forming a winning hand, whereas another
   bet may result in every Ace in every deck being active.
20 In another alternative embodiment, a particular wager option may require that
   half of the symbols on a spinning reel be rendered inactive, and the game
   controller 101 uses one or more numbers from the RNG 113 to determine
   which symbols to render inactive. Every symbol may be individually determined
   as active or inactive according to a 50% probability of each, or alternatively
25 where the inactive symbols are required to form a pattern a single
   determination could be made as to the location of the pattern in the set of
   symbols.
   An example of random determination is now provided for a spinning reel game
30 with left to right pays, and in which the inactive symbols only appear on reel 1
   (the leftmost reel) and the wager options available to the player are 1, 2, or 3
   credits. Three positions on the reels are presented for forming three horizontal
   pay lines. There are five distinct symbols on the reel, each of which can form a
   winning outcome. Each symbol occurs three times on the reel, corresponding to
35 the maximum value wager option relative to the minimum value wager option.
   When the player bets 3 credits, all positions on reel 1 are available. When the
   103509311 (GHMatters) P88283.AU.10

                                                        - 20
   player bets 1 credit, the game controller 101 uses outputs from the RNG 113 to
   render inactive symbols in random locations covering two-thirds of all positions.
   This process may be constrained so that at least one of each of the five distinct
   symbols remains active on the reel so as to ensure that every winning outcome
 5 is still possible in the game. Further constraints may also be introduced
   depending on the particular implementation. For example in games with long
   reel strips, a minimum distance between active symbols may be defined to
   avoid all or an unacceptably disproportionate number the active symbols being
   clustered on one region of the reel.
10
   Similarly, if the player bets 2 credits, the game controller 101 renders inactive
   symbols in random locations covering one-third of all positions on the reel.
   Therefore, an exemplary five symbols for this example may include the set {A,
15 K, Q, J, 10}. The reel strip may then be this sequence repeated 3 times to form
   15 symbol positions as shown in table 8.
                                     Table 8 - exemplary reel, random selection
20
                                       POSITION                         REEL1
                                            1                              A
                                            2                              K
                                           3*                              Q
                                          4*                               J
                                            5                              10
                                           6*                             A
                                            7                              K
                                            8                              Q
                                            9                              J
                                           10*                             10
                                           11                             A
                                           12*                             K
                                           13                              Q
                                           14                              1
                                           15                              10
   103509311 (GHMatters)P88283.AU.10

                                            -21
   When 3 credits are paid, all symbol positions are active for forming a winning
   combination.
   When 1 credit is paid, two-thirds of all symbol positions are rendered inactive
 5 according to a random process constrained so that at least one of each of the
   symbols remain. One example is shown in table 8 with the resulting selected
   active symbol positions indicated in the left column by an asterisk next to the
   position number.
10 Alternatively, instead of determining whether each symbol on a reel is active or
   inactive, the game controller 101 could make a determination for only the
   symbols that have been already selected to be presented. For example in a
   spinning reel game that presents 3 symbols from each reel to form outcomes, if
   in the left most reel two-thirds of the symbols are to be rendered inactive for the
15 wager option that has been placed, then the game controller could randomly
   select two of the three symbols for rendering inactive. In a second version of
   this alternative each presented symbol could be 21 independently determined
   to be inactive with a 66% probability of being rendered inactive, which would
   result in varying numbers of active symbols for each game play. The second
20 version may be able to be used for a wider range of games with different
   configurations of pay lines. According to this alternative, steps 51 and 52 in
   Figure 5 are reversed. This reversal may be made apparent to the player or
   may be determined in the background with the player presented with images
   that appear to show the symbols having been selected as inactive before the
25 stopping position of the reel was determined.
   In another alternative embodiment, the game may be a dice game or other
   game that has multi-dimensional playing elements. In this embodiment different
   wager options may lead to different faces on a dice being made inactive. The
30 game may be designed so that every winning outcome or at least most winning
   outcomes are still achievable in the game. The present invention may also have
   application to poker style card games, in which case certain cards in a deck
   used in the game or across multiple decks used in the game may be rendered
   inactive depending on the wager placed. Those skilled in the relevant arts will
35 appreciate that the present invention may have application to still further types
   of games that currently exist and may be applied games yet to be developed
   that involve the presentation of symbols to a player to form one or more
   103509311 (GHMatters) P88283.AU.10

                                            - 22
   outcomes that are evaluated for the occurrence of a winning outcome.
   While the foregoing description has been provided by way of example of the
   preferred embodiments of the present invention as presently contemplated,
 5 which utilise gaming apparatus and machines, those skilled in the relevant arts
   will appreciate that the present invention also may have application to internet
   gaming and/or have application to gaming over a telecommunications network,
   where handsets are used to display game outcomes and receive player inputs.
10 Where in the foregoing description reference has been made to integers having
   known equivalents, then those equivalents are hereby incorporated herein as if
   individually set forth.
   Those skilled in the relevant arts will appreciate that modifications and additions
is to the embodiments of the present invention may be made without departing
   from the scope of the present invention.
   It will be understood that the invention disclosed and defined in this
   specification extends to all alternative combinations of two or more of the
20 individual features mentioned or evident from the text or drawings. All of these
   different combinations constitute various alternative aspects of the invention.
25
   103509311 (GHMatters) P88283.AU.10

                                                - 23
   Claims
   1.          A method of providing a wagering game on a gaming machine, the
   wagering game including a plurality of symbols that are displayed on a display
 5 to represent at least one outcome of the game, the plurality of symbols
   including a plurality of symbol classes, wherein a winning combination in the
   wagering game is represented as an occurrence of a combination of a plurality
   of symbols in the same class, the wagering game including a plurality of
   different winning combinations within two or more of the symbol classes, the
io method including:
               determining which one of a plurality of available wager options has been
   placed in a game play of the wagering game;
               forming at least one outcome from the plurality of symbols by displaying
   a symbol in each of a plurality of symbol display positions;
15             awarding an award according to a pay table of the gaming machine if a
   winning combination occurs; and
               defining, for at least one wager option, at least one but less than all of
   the symbols in at least two different symbol classes as inactive for forming a
   winning combination.
20 2.          The method of claim 1, wherein at least one said winning combination is
   available for each and every one of the plurality of symbol classes irrespective
   of the wager option that is placed.
   3.          The method of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein for at least one wager option,
   the symbols that are rendered inactive have the effect of approximately at least
25 one third of the symbols being defined as inactive for forming said winning
   combination.
   4.          The method of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the wagering game is a
   spinning reel game having a plurality of reels, each reel having a plurality of
   symbols that are each located in a symbol position on the reel, wherein forming
30 at least one outcome includes determining the stopping position of the reels to
   display symbols on the reels in the symbol display positions, and wherein on at
   least one of the reels symbols from at least two different symbol classes are
   defined as inactive.
   5.          The method of claim 4, wherein a plurality of said winning combinations
   103509311 (GHMatters) P88283.AU.10

                                               - 24
   are defined from left to right across the spinning reels and of those winning
   combinations at least one consists of r symbols, wherein r is less than the
   number of spinning reels, and for at least one of the wager options, between
   one third and one half of the symbol positions on a reel within the r leftmost
 5 reels are rendered inactive.
   6.          A gaming system comprising a gaming machine for providing a wagering
   game, the wagering game including a plurality of symbols that are displayed on
   a display to represent at least one outcome of the game, the plurality of
   symbols including a plurality of symbol classes, wherein a winning combination
10 in the wagering game is represented as an occurrence of a combination of a
   plurality of symbols in the same class, the wagering game including a plurality
   of different winning combinations within two or more of the symbol classes, the
   gaming machine having a game controller configured to:
               determine which one of a plurality of available wager options has been
15 placed in a game play of the wagering game;
               form at least one outcome from the plurality of symbols by displaying a
   symbol in each of a plurality of symbol display positions; and
               award an award according to a pay table of the gaming machine if a
   winning combination occurs; and
20             define, for at least one wager option, at least one but less than all of the
   symbols in at least two different symbol classes as inactive for forming a
   winning combination.
   7.          The gaming system of claim 6, wherein at least one said winning
   combination is available for each and every one of the plurality of symbol
25 classes irrespective of the wager option that is placed.
   8.          The gaming system of claim 6 or claim 7, wherein for at least one wager
   option, the symbols that are rendered inactive have the effect of approximately
   at least one third of the symbols being defined as inactive for forming said
   winning combination.
30 9.          The gaming system of any one of claims 6 to 8, wherein the wagering
   game is a spinning reel game having a plurality of reels, each reel having a
   plurality of symbols that are each located in a symbol position on the reel,
   wherein forming at least one outcome includes determining the stopping
   position of the reels to display symbols on the reels in the symbol display
   103509311 (GHMatters) P88283.AU.10

                                               - 25
   positions, and wherein on at least one of the reels symbols from at least two
   different symbol classes are defined as inactive.
   10.         The gaming system of claim 9, wherein a plurality of said winning
   combinations are defined from left to right across the spinning reels and of
 5 those winning combinations at least one consists of r symbols, wherein r is less
   than the number of spinning reels, and for at least one of the wager options,
   between one third and one half of the symbol positions on a reel within the r
   leftmost reels are rendered inactive.
   11.         A gaming machine for providing a wagering game, the wagering game
io including a plurality of symbols that are displayed on a display to represent at
   least one outcome of the game, the plurality of symbols including a plurality of
   symbol classes, wherein a winning combination in the wagering game is
   represented as an occurrence of a combination of a plurality of symbols in the
   same class, the wagering game including a plurality of different winning
15 combinations within two or more of the symbol classes, the gaming machine
   having a game controller configured to:
               determine which one of a plurality of available wager options has been
   placed in a game play of the wagering game;
               form at least one outcome from the plurality of symbols by displaying a
20 symbol in each of a plurality of symbol display positions; and
               award an award according to a pay table of the gaming machine if a
   winning combination occurs; and
               define, for at least one wager option, at least one but less than all of the
   symbols in at least two different symbol classes as inactive for forming a
25 winning combination.
   12.         The gaming machine of claim 11, wherein at least one said winning
   combination is available for each and every one of the plurality of symbol
   classes irrespective of the wager option that is placed.
   13.         The gaming machine of claim 11 or claim 12, wherein for at least one
30 wager option, the symbols that are rendered inactive have the effect of
   approximately at least one third of the symbols being defined as inactive for
   forming said winning combination.
   14.         The gaming machine of any one of claims 11 to 13, wherein the
   wagering game is a spinning reel game having a plurality of reels, each reel
   103509311 (GHMatters) P88283.AU.10

                                            - 26
   having a plurality of symbols that are each located in a symbol position on the
   reel, wherein forming at least one outcome includes determining the stopping
   position of the reels to display symbols on the reels in the symbol display
   positions, and wherein on at least one of the reels symbols from at least two
 5 different symbol classes are defined as inactive.
   15.         The gaming machine of claim 14, wherein a plurality of said winning
   combinations are defined from left to right across the spinning reels and of
   those winning combinations at least one consists of r symbols, wherein r is less
   than the number of spinning reels, and for at least one of the wager options,
io between one third and one half of the symbol positions on a reel within the r
   leftmost reels are rendered inactive.
   103509311 (GHMatters) P88283.AU.10

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
