HIGH AMBIENT TEMPERATURE LED LUMINAIRE WITH THERMAL
COMPENSATION CIRCUITRY
ABSTRACT
A method for powering a light fixture (100) to provide a constant light output, comprising:
providing one or more light emitting diodes (LEDs) having a maximum light output that is
higher than a required light output for a particular application; providing a current to the one or
more LEDs, wherein the current to the one or more LEDs is less than a maximum current, such
that the current powers the one or more LEDs at a light output less than the maximum light
output; monitoring an external ambient temperature, wherein the monitoring is performed by a
temperature sensor (102) that is located external to a housing (110) of the light fixture (100), and
on an exterior side of the housing along a perimeter of the housing (110) of the light fixture
(100) via a spacer, wherein the housing (110) comprises a plurality of heat sink fins (108) that
dissipate heat away from the housing (110) in a vertical direction; calculating an amount of
makeup current based upon a linear relationship between the current and the external ambient
temperature that is stored in a computer readable storage medium; and increasing the current to
the one or more LEDs by the amount of makeup current that is calculated as the external ambient
temperature rises to maintain the constant light output.

                                                   1
HIGH AMBIENT TEMPERATURE LED LUMINAIRE WITH THERMAL
COMPENSATION CIRCUITRY
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001] This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application
No. 2013292641, which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61/672,977,
filed on 18 July 2012 and US Patent Application No. 13/939,385 filed on 11 July 2013, the
content of each is incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
BACKGROUND
[0002] Reliability of electronic parts decreases with increased temperature. Light emitting diode
(LED) lights often incorporate schemes whereby LED current is reduced at high operating
temperatures in order to reduce internal temperatures at higher ambient temperatures and,
thereby, improving reliability. But such schemes result in reduced light output at high operating
temperatures. In addition, LED light output reduces as die temperature increases, which results
in further reducing light output.
[0003] In addition, at ambient temperatures that are low, the brightness of an LED increases.
Thus a cold LED light can produce excessive light output. The forward voltage of an LED rises
at low temperatures, which causes the power consumption to increase significantly under cold
conditions.
OBJECT OF THE INVENTION
[0003a] It is an object of the present invention to overcome or at least ameliorate one or more of
the above disadvantages.

                                                   2
SUMMARY
[0004] In a first aspect, the present invention provides a method for powering a light fixture to
provide a constant light output, comprising:
        providing one or more light emitting diodes (LEDs) having a maximum light output that
is higher than a required light output for a particular application;
        providing a current to the one or more LEDs, wherein the current to the one or more
LEDs is less than a maximum current, such that the current powers the one or more LEDs at a
light output less than the maximum light output;
        monitoring an external ambient temperature, wherein the monitoring is performed by a
temperature sensor that is located external to a housing of the light fixture, and on an exterior
side of the housing along a perimeter of the housing of the light fixture via a spacer, wherein the
housing comprises a plurality of heat sink fins that dissipate heat away from the housing in a
vertical direction;
        calculating an amount of makeup current based upon a linear relationship between the
current and the external ambient temperature that is stored in a computer readable storage
medium; and
        increasing the current to the one or more LEDs by the amount of makeup current that is
calculated as the external ambient temperature rises to maintain the constant light output.
[0005] In a second aspect, the present invention provides a light emitting diode (LED)
luminaire, comprising:
        one or more LEDs having a maximum light output that is higher than a required light
output for a particular application;
        a housing enclosing the one or more LEDs;
        a plurality of heat sink fins coupled to the housing to dissipate heat away from the
housing in a vertical direction;
        a temperature sensor located on an exterior side of the housing along a perimeter of the
housing via a spacer; and
        an LED driver with a current control coupled to each one of the one or more LEDs and
in communication with the temperature sensor, wherein the current control:
                 provides a current to the one or more LEDs that is less than a maximum current
        such that the current powers the one or more LEDs at a light output less than the
        maximum light output;

                                                    2a
                  calculates an amount of makeup current based upon a linear relationship between
         the current and an external ambient temperature that is stored in a computer readable
         storage medium; and
                  increases the current to the one or more LEDs by the amount of makeup current
         that is calculated as the external ambient temperature rises to maintain a constant light
         output.
[0006] In a third aspect, the present invention provides a circuit for maintaining a constant light
output of a light emitting diode (LED) having a maximum light output that is higher than a
required light output for a particular application, the circuit comprising:
         an LED driver with a current control coupled to the LED, wherein the current control
provides a current to the LED that is less than a maximum current such that the current powers
the LED at a light output less than the maximum light output, calculates an amount of makeup
current based upon a linear relationship between the current and an external ambient
temperature that is stored in a computer readable storage medium, and increases the current to
the LED by the amount of makeup current that is calculated as the external ambient temperature
rises to maintain a constant light output; and
         a temperature sensing device coupled to the LED driver and the LED, wherein the
temperature sensing device is located on an exterior side of a housing of the LED and along a
perimeter of the housing via a spacer.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0007] So that the manner in which the above recited features of the present invention can be
understood in detail, a more particular description of the invention may be had by reference to
embodiments, some of which are illustrated in the appended drawings. It is to be noted,
however, that the appended drawings illustrate only typical embodiments of this invention and
are therefore not to be considered limiting of its scope, for the invention may admit to other
equally effective embodiments.
[0008] FIG. 1 depicts a complete fixture;
[0009] FIG. 2 depicts a close-up of an ambient temperature sensor assembled;
[0010] FIG. 3 depicts an exploded view of the ambient temperature sensor;

                                                   3
[0011] FIG. 4 depicts an exploded view of an adapter;
[0012] FIG. 5 depicts a high level block circuit diagram of a thermal compensation circuit; and
[0013] FIG. 6 depicts an example flow diagram of one embodiment of a method for powering a
light fixture to provide a constant light output.
[0014] To facilitate understanding, identical reference numerals have been used, where possible,
to designate identical elements that are common to the figures.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0015] The present invention overcomes the conflicting trade-off between low light output and
reliability at high temperatures, as well as excessive light output and high power consumption at
low temperatures. As discussed above, reliability of electronic parts decreases with increased
temperature. Light emitting diode (LED) lights often incorporate schemes whereby LED current
is reduced at high operating temperatures in order to reduce internal temperatures at higher
ambient temperatures and, thereby, improving reliability. But such schemes result in reduced
light output at high operating temperatures. In addition, LED light output reduces as die
temperature increases, which results in further reducing light output.
[0016] In addition, at ambient temperatures that are low, the brightness of an LED increases.
Thus, a cold LED light can produce excessive light output. The forward voltage of an LED rises
at low temperatures, which causes the power consumption to increase significantly under cold
conditions.
[0017] In one embodiment, the present disclosure provides a solution that is counter intuitive to
the traditional operation of LED lights in a high ambient temperature. For example, a constant
light output is maintained by raising the LED current level as the external ambient temperature
rises, rather than reducing it as is normal industry practice. Reliability is maintained by a
ruggedized design, which only rolls off LED current at extreme temperatures way beyond those
ever likely to be encountered. At the same time, by reducing power consumption at lower
temperatures, a long term reliability gain is achieved and less energy is consumed.

                                                  4
[0018] It is important to monitor and respond to ambient temperature rather than LED or power
supply temperature to avoid positive feedback, which would otherwise result in the light quickly
heating itself to a high temperature irrespective of ambient temperature.
[0019] FIG. 1 illustrates one embodiment of an LED light fixture 100. In one embodiment, the
LED light fixture 100 may include one or more LEDs that are located inside of a housing 110.
In one embodiment, the housing 110 may include one or more heat sink fins 108 coupled to an
exterior side of the housing 110. In one embodiment, the placement of the heat sink fins 108 and
the design and shape of the heat sink fins 108 may be such that the heat is dissipated away from
the housing 110 in a vertical direction in a shape of a plume. In other words, the design of the
heat sink fins 108 should be such that heat is concentrated away from the housing 110 and
dissipate minimal heat towards a temperature sensor 102. This is to prevent the heat dissipating
from the LED light fixture 100 from interfering with external ambient temperature
measurements as will be discussed below.
[0020] In one embodiment, the LED light fixture 100 may be configured with the temperature
sensor 102. The temperature sensor 102 is coupled to an adapter 106 comprising wire and shrink
tubing. The temperature sensor 102 may be in communication with a driver or controller
(illustrated in FIG. 5 and discussed below) within the LED light fixture 100.
[0021] FIG. 2 illustrates a close up of the temperature sensor 102 that is fully assembled. In one
embodiment, the temperature sensor 102 may be coupled to the housing 110 by a spacer 104 and
a fastener 112. In one embodiment, the fastener may be a screw, bolt, and the like.
[0022] FIG. 3 illustrates an exploded view of the temperature sensor 102. In one embodiment,
the spacer 104 may be long enough to ensure that the temperature sensor 102 is placed
sufficiently away from the LED light fixture 100 and the housing 110 such that the temperature
sensor reads the ambient air temperature surrounding the LED light fixture 100 and not the
temperature of the LED light fixture 100 itself. In other words, the temperature sensor 102 may
be coupled indirectly to the housing 110 and away from the housing 110. In other words, the
temperature sensor 102 may be considered to be indirectly coupled to the housing 110 because
the temperature sensor 102 does not contact the housing 110. In one embodiment, the spacer 104
may be made from any non-conductive material, for example, a polymer or plastic. In one

                                                   5
embodiment the spacer 104 may have a length ranging from approximately a few centimeters to
a few inches.
[0023] In one embodiment, the temperature sensor 102 is also strategically located on a side of
the LED light fixture 100. Typically, heat emitted from the LED light fixture 100 will rise
vertically upwards directly above the LED light fixture 100. As discussed above, the heat sink
fins 108 and the housing 110 are usually designed to dissipate heat vertically upwards. As a
result, placing the temperature sensor 102 on a perimeter or side of the LED light fixture 100
also helps to ensure the temperature sensor 102 properly reads the external ambient air
temperature and not the temperature of the LED light fixture 100.
[0024] FIG. 4 illustrates an exploded view of the adapter 106. The adapter 106 includes a wire
and shrink tubing that allow the temperature sensor 102 to be communicatively coupled to a
driver or controller (illustrated in FIG. 5 and discussed below). In one embodiment, the adapter
106 may have a threaded portion 116 and a locking nut 118 that is used to couple the adapter
106 to an opening 114 in the housing 110. The adapter 106 may be communicatively coupled to
the driver or controller inside the housing 110 of the LED light fixture 100.
[0025] As noted above, in one embodiment, to achieve the ability to increase current at higher
temperatures to maintain a constant light output, a high powered LED may be implemented in
the light fixture but initially powered at a lower current. For example, if an application requires
100 lumens of light output, an LED having the ability to output 200 lumens of light may be used
but driven to initially output 100 lumens at an initial temperature.
[0026] Using the above example, unlike previous applications that would drive an LED at the
full 200 lumens, by driving the LED at only 100 lumens, provides the ability to increase current
as the ambient temperature rises to maintain a constant light output. In previous techniques, by
driving the LED at the full 200 lumens, as the ambient temperature rises, the current must be
reduced to reduce the heat output of the LED to avoid failure. As a result, the light output would
be reduced as the ambient temperature rises.
[0027] In addition, as noted above, using a high powered LED and initially powering it at a
lower current provides additional advantages. For example, lower power is consumed, the LED
may have a longer life, reliability of the LED is increased, and the like.

                                                  6
[0028] FIG. 5 illustrates one embodiment of a high level block circuit diagram of a thermal
compensation circuit 500 located inside of the LED light fixture 100. It should be noted that
FIG. 5 has been simplified to illustrate one or more components of the thermal compensation
circuit 500 to adjust current based upon the external ambient temperature. In other words, the
circuit 500 may include other components (e.g., diodes, switches, transistors, resistors,
inductors, capacitors, and the like) for operation of the overall lighting fixture.
[0029] In one embodiment, the circuit 500 includes an LED driver 502 having a current control,
one or more LEDs 506 coupled to the LED driver 502 and one or more temperature sensing
devices 504 coupled to the LED driver 502 and the LEDs 506. The temperature sensing device
504 may be, for example, a positive temperature coefficient (PTC) thermistor, a negative
temperature coefficient (NTC) thermistor, and the like.
[0030] In one embodiment, the external ambient temperature reading is fed to the LED driver
502 as in an input 508. In addition, power inputs 510 are provided to the LED driver 502.
[0031] In one embodiment, the LED driver 502 may include a processor and a computer
readable storage medium for storing information to control the current delivered to the LEDs
506. For example, data relating to a relationship between the current and external ambient
temperature may be stored in the computer readable storage medium such that the LED driver
may know how to adjust the current based upon the external ambient temperature received at
input 508. In one embodiment, the relationship between the current and the external ambient
temperature may be linear, exponential, a step function, and the like.
[0032] In one embodiment, the LED driver 502 may have a resistor programming feature that
allows the current delivered to the LED 506 to be set by means of the temperature sensing
device 504, e.g., a PTC thermistor. Higher resistor values give higher LED current. In one
embodiment, the current may be set in accordance with a function or a predefined relationship
of makeup current required to maintain a constant LED light output versus various external
ambient temperatures. For example, the relationship may be linear in one embodiment. In
another embodiment, the relationship may be logarithmic or may be a step function. Thus, at a
given ambient temperature, the LED driver may know exactly how much current to provide to
maintain a constant light output for the LED 506.

                                                    7
[0033] In other words, as the external ambient temperature rises, the light output of the LED
506 will decrease. Thus, the function will define how much the light output will decrease based
upon the higher external ambient temperature. The additional current that is required may then
be calculated based upon the predicted light output in accordance with the function or
relationship between the light output versus the external ambient temperatures.
[0034] In operation that uses a PTC thermistor as the temperature sensing device 504, as
ambient temperature rises the resistance of the PTC thermistor increases, thereby, causing the
LED driver 502 to deliver more current to the LED 506. In one embodiment, the PTC thermistor
may be several in series and may be combined with one or more additional PTC thermistors or
other types of resistors to create the desired LED current/LED light output versus temperature
characteristic.
[0035] In one embodiment, the circuit 500 may be used to allow the light fixture 100 to
automatically adjust the current to the LEDs based upon the external ambient temperature that is
measured. It should also be noted that FIG. 5 illustrates one embodiment of a way to implement
the present invention. Other configurations are possible and the example provided herein should
not be considered limiting. Other configurations may include use of different temperature sensor
types, inclusion of a microcontroller between the sensor and LED driver to control the LED
current, and the like.
[0036] FIG. 6 illustrates a flowchart of a method 600 for powering a light fixture to provide a
constant light output. In one embodiment, one or more steps or operations of the method 600
may be performed by the LED light fixture 100 or the circuit 500.
[0037] The method 600 begins at step 602. At step 604, the method 600 provides a current to
one or more LEDs. In one embodiment, the LEDs have a higher maximum light output than the
light output required for a particular application. For example, if the application requires 100
lumens of light, the LEDs that are used may be LEDs with a maximum light output of 200
lumens.
[0038] As a result, the initial current that is provided to the LEDs may be reduced or lower than
the maximum required current (e.g., half of the maximum current) to power the LEDs to
produce 100 lumens of light. As a result, the LEDs would consume less power, the LEDs would
have a longer life and the reliability of the LEDs would be increased.

                                                   8
[0039] At step 606, the method 600 monitors an external ambient temperature. For example, a
temperature sensor on an external side of a housing of the light fixture may continuously
measure the external ambient temperature. In one embodiment, the temperature sensor may be
located on a side or a perimeter of the housing. This may be to avoid the heat that rises like a
plume vertically above the light fixture from affecting the external ambient temperature
measurement. In addition, the temperature sensor may be located away from the external side of
the housing via a non-conductive spacer to avoid the housing from affecting the external
ambient temperature measurement.
[0040] At step 608, the method 600 determines if the external ambient temperature is
increasing. If the external ambient temperature is not increasing, the method 600 returns to step
606 to continue monitoring the external ambient temperature. However, if the external ambient
temperature is increasing at step 608, the method 600 proceeds to step 610.
[0041] At step 610, the method 600 increases the current to the one or more LEDs as the
external ambient temperature rises to maintain a constant light output. For example, an LED
driver with a current control inside of the light fixture may adjust the current delivered to the
LEDs based upon the external ambient temperature. Counter intuitively, the method 600 may
increase the current as the external ambient temperature rises to maintain a constant light output,
rather than decrease the current as traditionally done in previous methods.
[0042] In one embodiment, the current may be controlled by a resistor, for example a PTC
thermistor, that is coupled to the LEDs and the LED driver. As the external ambient temperature
rises, the resistance of the PTC thermistor increases. As a result, the LED driver delivers more
current to the LEDs as the resistance of the PTC thermistor increases.
[0043] In one embodiment, the makeup amount of current required to maintain a constant light
output of the LED as the external ambient temperature rises may be a function of a relationship
between a makeup current required to maintain the constant light output versus the external
ambient temperature. In one embodiment, the relationship may be linear. At step 612, the
method 600 ends.
[0044] In one embodiment, the method 600 may continue to monitor the external ambient
temperature to continually adjust the current delivered to the LEDs based upon any changes to
the external ambient temperature (e.g., additional increases or decreases in the external ambient

                                                  9
temperature). Thus, in one embodiment, the method 600 may not end but continually loop
between steps 606, 608 and 610 and adjust the current (e.g., increase or decrease the current) in
accordance with any increase or decrease in the external ambient temperature.
[0045] It should be noted that although not explicitly specified, one or more steps, functions, or
operations of the method 600 described above may include a storing, displaying and/or
outputting step as required for a particular application. In other words, any data, records, fields,
and/or intermediate results discussed in the methods can be stored, displayed, and/or outputted
to another device as required for a particular application. Furthermore, steps, functions, or
operations in FIG. 6 that recite a determining operation, or involve a decision, do not necessarily
require that both branches of the determining operation be practiced. In other words, one of the
branches of the determining operation can be deemed as an optional step.
[0046] While various embodiments have been described above, it should be understood that
they have been presented by way of example only, and not limitation. Thus, the breadth and
scope of a preferred embodiment should not be limited by any of the above-described exemplary
embodiments, but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their
equivalents.

                                                   10
CLAIMS
1.     A method for powering a light fixture to provide a constant light output, comprising:
       providing one or more light emitting diodes (LEDs) having a maximum light output that is
higher than a required light output for a particular application;
       providing a current to the one or more LEDs, wherein the current to the one or more LEDs
is less than a maximum current, such that the current powers the one or more LEDs at a light
output less than the maximum light output;
       monitoring an external ambient temperature, wherein the monitoring is performed by a
temperature sensor that is located external to a housing of the light fixture, and on an exterior
side of the housing along a perimeter of the housing of the light fixture via a spacer, wherein the
housing comprises a plurality of heat sink fins that dissipate heat away from the housing in a
vertical direction;
       calculating an amount of makeup current based upon a linear relationship between the
current and the external ambient temperature that is stored in a computer readable storage
medium; and
       increasing the current to the one or more LEDs by the amount of makeup current that is
calculated as the external ambient temperature rises to maintain the constant light output.
2.     The method of claim 1, wherein increasing the current is a function of the linear
relationship between the amount of makeup current required to maintain the constant light output
versus the external ambient temperature.
3.     The method of claim 1, wherein increasing the current is controlled by a positive
temperature coefficient thermistor.
4.     The method of claim 1, wherein the increasing is controlled by an LED driver having a
current controller in a thermal compensation circuit of the light fixture.
5.     A light emitting diode (LED) luminaire, comprising:
       one or more LEDs having a maximum light output that is higher than a required light
output for a particular application;
       a housing enclosing the one or more LEDs;
       a plurality of heat sink fins coupled to the housing to dissipate heat away from the housing
in a vertical direction;

                                                   11
       a temperature sensor located on an exterior side of the housing along a perimeter of the
housing via a spacer; and
       an LED driver with a current control coupled to each one of the one or more LEDs and in
communication with the temperature sensor, wherein the current control:
                 provides a current to the one or more LEDs that is less than a maximum current
         such that the current powers the one or more LEDs at a light output less than the
         maximum light output;
                 calculates an amount of makeup current based upon a linear relationship between
         the current and an external ambient temperature that is stored in a computer readable
         storage medium; and
              increases the current to the one or more LEDs by the amount of makeup current that
       is calculated as the external ambient temperature rises to maintain a constant light output.
6.     The LED luminaire of claim 5, wherein the spacer comprises a non-conductive material.
7.     The LED luminaire of claim 5, further comprising:
       a positive temperature coefficient thermistor coupled to the LED driver and the each one of
the one or more LEDs.
8.     A circuit for maintaining a constant light output of a light emitting diode (LED) having a
maximum light output that is higher than a required light output for a particular application, the
circuit comprising:
       an LED driver with a current control coupled to the LED, wherein the current control
provides a current to the LED that is less than a maximum current such that the current powers
the LED at a light output less than the maximum light output, calculates an amount of makeup
current based upon a linear relationship between the current and an external ambient temperature
that is stored in a computer readable storage medium, and increases the current to the LED by
the amount of makeup current that is calculated as the external ambient temperature rises to
maintain a constant light output ; and
       a temperature sensing device coupled to the LED driver and the LED, wherein the
temperature sensing device is located on an exterior side of a housing of the LED and along a
perimeter of the housing via a spacer.
                                         Dialight Corporation
                      Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                      SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701> <U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701> <U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2702> <U+2701> <U+2702>

