ABSTRACT
A device includes a first end portion, a second end portion, an intermediate portion, and a graft
material. The first end portion has a first end diameter. The second end portion has a second
end diameter smaller than the first end diameter. The first end portion comprises a first material.
The second end portion comprises a second material different than the first material. The
intermediate portion is between the first end portion and the second end portion. The
intermediate portion tapers between the first end portion and the second end portion. The graft
material is coupled to at least the intermediate portion.

   WO 2014/137830                  PCT/US2014/019607
                           12/23
150
                              106              104
                 102
       152           154
                         Figure 12

WO 2014/137830                                                             PCT/US2014/019607
 METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR PROVIDING OR MAINTAINING FLUID FLOW
                              THROUGH BODY PASSAGES
                            INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
         [0001]     U.S. Patent App. No. 13/791,185, filed on March 8, 2013, U.S. Provisional
Patent App. No. 61/901,753, filed on November 8, 2013, U.S. Patent Application No.
11/662,128, filed on January 3, 2008, U.S. Patent Application No. 14/141,913, filed on
December 27, 2013, and U.S. Patent App. No. 12/297,498, filed on February 25, 2009 as a
national phase of PCT/GB2007/001430, filed April 20, 2007, and issued as U.S. Patent App.
No. 8,439,963 on May 14, 2013, are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.
                                        BACKGROUND
Field
         [0002]     The present application relates to methods and systems for use in
percutaneous interventional surgery. In particular, the present application relates to methods
and systems for providing or maintaining fluid flow through body passages such as heart
cavities and blood vessels.
Description of the Related Art
         [0003]     Minimally invasive percutaneous surgery, or "key-hole" surgery, is a
surgical technique in which surgical devices are inserted into a patient's body cavity through a
small aperture cut in the skin. This form of surgery has become increasingly popular as it
allows patients to endure less surgical discomfort while retaining the benefits of conventional
surgery. Patients treated by such techniques are exposed to lower levels of discomfort, need
for general anesthesia, trauma, and risk of infection, and their recovery times can be
significantly reduced compared to conventional surgical procedures.
         [0004]     Key-hole surgery can be used, for example, for laparoscopic surgery and to
treat cardiovascular diseases.    In treating cardiovascular diseases, balloon angioplasty, in
which a balloon catheter is inserted into an artery usually near the patient's groin and guided
to the patient's heart where a balloon at a distal portion of the catheter is inflated to widen or
dilate an occluded vessel to help restore blood flow to the cardiac tissue, may be used to treat
                                               -I1-

WO 2014/137830                                                            PCT/US2014/019607
a partially occluded coronary artery as an alternative to open heart surgery.         A tubular
supporting device (e.g., stent) may be deployed at the site of the blockage to prevent future
occlusion (restenosis) or collapse of the blood vessel. The stent may, for example, be an
expandable metal mesh tube carried on the balloon of the balloon catheter, or be self
expanding.    The balloon-expandable stent expands when the balloon is inflated, so that the
stent pushes against the wall of the blood vessel. The stent is arranged to retain its expanded
shape when it reaches its expanded position, for example by plastic deformation or by means
of a mechanical locking mechanism, so as to form a resilient scaffold or support in the blood
vessel. The support structure (e.g., stent) supports and dilates the wall of the blood vessel to
maintain a pathway for blood to flow through the vessel.         Self-expanding stents are also
available, which are held in a collapsed state by a suitably adapted catheter for transport
through the artery and which adopt an expanded state when deployed at the site of the
blockage. The catheter may, for example, include a retaining sleeve which retains the stent in
a compressed or unexpanded state. Upon removal or withdrawal of the sleeve from the stent,
the stent expands to support and dilate the wall of the blood vessel.
         [0005]     Balloon angioplasty is not always a suitable measure, for example in acute
cases and in cases where a coronary artery is completely occluded.       In these instances, the
typical treatment is to employ coronary bypass. Coronary bypass surgery is an open-chest or
open-heart procedure, and typically involves grafting a piece of healthy blood vessel onto the
coronary artery so as to bypass the blockage and restore blood flow to the coronary tissue.
The healthy blood vessel is usually a vein harvested from the patient's leg or arm during the
course of the bypass operation.       To perform the procedure, the patient's heart must be
exposed by opening the chest, separating the breastbone, and cutting the pericardium
surrounding the heart, resulting in significant surgical trauma.
         [0006]     Conventional coronary bypass surgery is not always an option.        Certain
patients are unsuitable as candidates for conventional coronary bypass surgery due low
expectation of recovery or high risk from the significant trauma due to surgery, high risk of
infection, absence of healthy vessels to use as bypass grafts, significant co-morbidities, and
expected long and complicated recovery time associated with open-chest surgery.              For
                                                -2-

WO 2014/137830                                                            PCT/US2014/019607
example, factors such as diabetes, age, obesity, and smoking may exclude a proportion of
candidate patients who are in genuine need of such treatment.
                                          SUMMARY
        [0007]      The present application provides methods and systems for overcoming
certain deficiencies and/or improving percutaneous methods and systems.           For example,
according to several embodiments, the methods and systems described herein can improve
targeting and localization of therapy administration, which may advantageously provide
treatment via percutaneous techniques to patients unsuitable for more invasive surgery.
Certain embodiments described herein can provide fluid flow in passages such as coronary
and/or peripheral blood vessels by creating a bypass using minimally invasive percutaneous
surgical techniques.
        [0008]      In some implementations, a method of diverting fluid flow from a first
passage to a second passage comprises deploying a device in a third passage between the first
passage and the second passage. The device comprises a first end portion, a second portion,
an intermediate portion, and a graft material. The first end portion has a first end diameter.
The second end portion has a second end diameter larger than the first end diameter. The
intermediate portion is between the first end portion and the second end portion.           The
intermediate portion tapers between the first end portion and the second end portion. The
graft material is coupled to at least the intermediate portion. The method further comprises
expanding the first end portion against sidewalls of the first passage and expanding the second
end portion against sidewalls of the second passage.
        [0009]      The first passage may be an artery and the second passage may be a vein.
The first passage may be a coronary artery and the second passage may be a coronary vein.
The method may further comprise dilating the third passage.         The first passage may be a
peripheral artery and the second passage may be a peripheral vein. The method may further
comprise dilating the third passage. Dilating the third passage may comprise expanding the
intermediate portion. The first passage may be substantially parallel to the second passage.
The intermediate portion may be conformable to an "S" shape.            Expanding the first end
portion and the second end portion may comprise allowing self-expansion of the first end

WO 2014/137830                                                             PCT/US2014/019607
portion and the second end portion.        Expanding the first end portion and the second end
portion may comprise balloon expanding at least one of the first end portion and the second
end portion. Expanding one of the first end portion and the second end portion may comprise
allowing self-expansion of the one of the first end portion and the second end portion and
expanding the other of the first end portion and the second end portion may comprise balloon
expanding the other of the first end portion and the second end portion. The method may
further comprise expanding the intermediate portion.
         [0010]     In some implementations, a device comprises a first end portion, a second
end portion, an intermediate portion, and a graft material. The first end portion has a first end
diameter.    The second end portion has a second end diameter smaller than the first end
diameter.    The intermediate portion is between the first end portion and the second end
portion. The intermediate portion tapers between the first end portion and the second end
portion. The graft material is coupled to at least the intermediate portion.
         [0011]     At least one of the first end portion and the second end portion may be
substantially cylindrical. The first end portion may be substantially cylindrical and the second
end portion may be substantially cylindrical. The first end portion may taper between the first
end diameter and the intermediate portion or the second end portion may taper between the
second end diameter and the intermediate portion. The first end portion may taper between
the first end diameter and the intermediate portion and the second end portion may taper
between the second end diameter and the intermediate portion. The first end portion may
comprise a first type of material, the second end portion may comprise a second type of
material, and the intermediate portion may comprise a third type of material. The first type of
material may comprise a first cut material, the second type of material may comprise a second
cut material, and the third type of material may comprise filaments. The first cut material may
comprise a chromium cobalt alloy, the second cut material may comprise nitinol, and the
filaments may comprise nitinol. The first type of material may comprise a cut material, the
second type of material may comprise the cut material, and the third type of material may
comprise filaments.    The cut material may comprise nitinol and the filaments may comprise
nitinol. At least one of the first end portion, the second end portion, the intermediate portion,
and the graft material may comprise a bioabsorbable material.        At least some of the graft
                                                 -4-

WO 2014/137830                                                            PCT/US2014/019607
material may be outside the intermediate portion. At least some of the graft material may be
inside the intermediate portion. At least some of the graft material may be embedded within
the intermediate portion.      The device may be capable of maintaining, or configured to
maintain, fluid flow between a first passage in which the first end portion is anchored and a
second passage in which the second end portion is anchored.           The first passage may be
substantially parallel to the second passage. The intermediate portion may be conformable to
an "S" shape.
         [0012]      In some implementations, a device comprises a first end portion, a second
end portion, an intermediate portion, and a graft material. The first end portion comprises a
first material.  The second end portion comprises a second material different than the first
material.    The intermediate portion is between the first end portion and the second end
portion. The graft material is coupled to at least the intermediate portion.
         [0013]      The first material may comprise nitinol and the second material may
comprise chromium cobalt. The first material may comprise nitinol and the second material
may comprise stainless steel. The first end portion may comprise cut struts and the second
end portion may comprise filaments. The first end portion may comprise cut struts and the
second end portion may comprise cut struts. The first material may comprise an alloy and the
first end portion may comprise struts or filaments having a first thickness, and the second
material may comprise the alloy and the second end potion may comprise struts or filaments
having a second thickness different than the first thickness. The intermediate portion may
comprise a third material. The third material may comprise nitinol. The intermediate portion
may comprise filaments. The intermediate portion may comprise cut struts. At least one of
the first end portion and the second end portion may be substantially cylindrical. At least one
of the first end portion, the second end portion, the intermediate portion, and the graft
material may comprise a bioabsorbable material. At least some of the graft material may be
outside the intermediate portion.      At least some of the graft material may be inside the
intermediate portion.      At least some of the graft material may be embedded within the
intermediate portion. The graft material may be coupled to at least one of the first end portion
and the second end portion.       The device may be capable of maintaining, or configured to
maintain, fluid flow between a first passage in which the first end portion is anchored and a
                                                -5-

WO 2014/137830                                                            PCT/US2014/019607
second passage in which the second end portion is anchored.          The first passage may be
substantially parallel to the second passage. The intermediate portion may be conformable to
an "S" shape.
         [0014]      In some implementations, a device comprises a support structure and a
graft material. The support structure comprises a first end portion, a second end portion, and
an intermediate portion between the first end portion and the second end portion. At least one
of the first end portion, the second end portion, and the intermediate portion comprise cut
struts and at least one of the first end portion, the second end portion, and the intermediate
portion comprise filaments. The graft material is coupled to at least the intermediate portion.
         [0015]      The first end portion and the second end portion comprise cut struts and
the intermediate portion may comprise filaments. At least some of the graft material may be
outside the intermediate portion.      At least some of the graft material may be inside the
intermediate portion.      At least some of the graft material may be embedded within the
intermediate portion. The graft material may be coupled to at least one of the first end portion
and the second end portion.       The device may be capable of maintaining, or configured to
maintain, fluid flow between a first passage in which the first end portion is anchored and a
second passage in which the second end portion is anchored.          The first passage may be
substantially parallel to the second passage. The intermediate portion may be conformable to
an "S" shape.
         [0016]      The device may have a diameter between about 1 mm and about 12 mm
(e.g., between 2 mm and 6 mm). The device may have a diameter between about 1 mm and
about 10 mm (e.g., between 4 mm and 8 mm).           The device may have a diameter between
about 6 mm and about 25 mm (e.g., between 12 mm and 15 mm). The device may have a
diameter between about 20 mm and about 50 mm (e.g., between 35 mm and 40 mm). The
device may have a length between about 25 mm and about 150 mm (e.g., between 70 mm and
110 mm). The device may include filaments having a diameter between about 0.00 1 inches
and about 0.01 inches (e.g., between 0.003 inches and 0.006 inches). The device may include
struts having a diameter between about 0.001 inches and about 0.01 inches (e.g., between
0.003 inches and 0.006 inches).
                                                -6-

WO 2014/137830                                                             PCT/US2014/019607
         [0017]     In some embodiments, a device for providing or maintaining fluid flow
through at least one passage in a human or animal body includes two end portions for
anchoring the device in position and an intermediate portion that allows movement of the end
portions relative to each another.      The end portions and the intermediate portion together
define a pathway for fluid flow through the device.
         [00181     By allowing the two end portions to move relative to each other, the device
can respond to movement of the passage or passages in which the device is used.              The
intermediate portion may be flexible to allow relative movement of the end portions. In some
embodiments, the device has varying or differential flexibility along the length of the device or
along a length of a portion of the device. Device flexibility can reduce the likelihood of device
failure due to fatigue, for example because the magnitude of stresses within the intermediate
portion may be relatively low in comparison to stresses on a support structure (e.g., stent)
with uniform flexibility along its entire length.
         [0019]     The device may be configured to provide or maintain fluid flow through a
single passageway, for example an occluded blood vessel. The intermediate portion may be
capable of maintaining, or configured to maintain, fluid flow between proximal and distal
portions of the occluded blood vessel. The intermediate portion can pass through a further
passage, for example outside the blood vessel, extending between the proximal and distal
portions of the blood vessel. The device may be configured for use as a bypass between
proximal and distal portions of a single blood vessel, for example an artery or a vein.
         [0020]     The device may be configured to provide fluid flow from an occluded
blood passage to another passage. The passages can be interconnected by the intermediate
portion passing through a further passage extending between the two passages. The device
may be configured for use as a shunt between two passages, for example between an artery
and a vein.
         [0021]     In embodiments in which the end portions can move relative to one another
by virtue of the intermediate portion, the device may be suitable for use in applications where
the end portions are anchored in separate passages that move relative to one another.           A
pathway for fluid communication to be maintained through the device irrespective of the
relative movement of the end portions, and the likelihood of fatigue failure of the device due
                                                  -7-

WO 2014/137830                                                            PCT/US2014/019607
to cyclic movement of the end portions may be low in comparison to a support structure (e.g.,
stent) lacking such an intermediate portion.
         [0022]     One or both of the end portions may be diametrically expandable to anchor
the device in position. An expanded end portion may, for example, be expandable to meet
with and press against the inner sidewalls of a passage to inhibit or prevent substantial sliding
or rotation of the end portion within the passage, and/or to dilate the passage.             The
intermediate portion may be diametrically expandable, for example to dilate the fluid flow
pathway.
         [0023]     The device may be in the form of a tube defining a lumen configured to act
as a fluid flow pathway. In some embodiments, the tube may be fluid-tight, so as to confine
the fluid flow within the lumen of the tube. The tube may include, but is not limited to, a
polymeric material, for example a biocompatible polymer such as polytetrafluoroethylene
(PTFE)     or   polyurethane   such   as  polycarbonate   aromatic    biodurable  thermoplastic
polyurethane elastomer (e.g., ChronoFlex C* 80A and 55D medical grade, available from
AdvanSource Biomaterials of Wilmington, Massachusetts).
         [0024]     The device may include a supporting structure that supports the end
portions. The supporting structure may support the intermediate portion, in which case the
supporting structure may be flexible within the intermediate portion to allow movement of the
end portions relative to each other.
         [0025]     When a supporting structure is provided, the supporting structure or a
portion thereof may be embedded within a wall of the tube. Alternatively or in addition, the
structure or a portion of the structure may be located on the outside of the tube or within the
lumen of the tube.
         [0026]     The supporting structure may include at least one mesh. For example, a
single mesh may extend along the entire length of the device. In another example, each end of
the device includes a mesh, in which case the meshes may stop short of the intermediate
portion or may extend into the intermediate portion.         When a mesh is present in the
intermediate portion, the mesh may have a higher density or smaller window size (e.g., a
smaller spacing between filaments and/or struts of the mesh) in the end portions than in the
intermediate portion so that the device is relatively more flexible in the intermediate portion
                                               -8-

WO 2014/137830                                                             PCT/US2014/019607
than in the end portions.      The device may be relatively more flexible in the intermediate
portion than in the end portions by way of absence of a mesh, or even when including a mesh
with substantially uniform or uniform density or window size (e.g., due to factors other than
mesh density or window size), or by including a mesh having a non-uniform density.
         [0027]     At least one mesh may include biocompatible metal wire. For example, the
metal wire may be stainless steel. Alternatively, or in addition, at least one mesh may include
a shape memory material, for example nitinol and/or chromium cobalt. When a shape memory
material is used, at least a portion of the device may be self-expanding.
         [0028]     One or both end portions may include anchoring protuberances or barbs
capable of and/or configured to dig into or grasp the inside sidewalls of a passage, for
example to prevent or reduce slippage or other movement of the or each end portion relative
to the passage.
         [0029]     The two end portions may have different diameters, so that the device can
be made to fit securely within a passage having variable diameter, or with one end portion in a
first passage and the other end portion in a second passage, when the passages have different
diameters. The device can be configured for a particular application and/or for a particular
patient.
         [0030]     In some embodiments, a method of diverting fluid flow from a first passage
to a second passage (e.g., adjacent to the first passage) includes forming a third passage
between the first and second passages, providing a device having two end portions and an
intermediate portion, deforming the intermediate portion of the device to permit insertion of
the device in the passages, and expanding the end portions against the walls of the first and
second passages so as to anchor the device in the passages. The intermediate portion of the
device may be flexed to permit insertion of the device in the passages. The two end portions
and the intermediate portion may be configured to maintain or provide fluid flow through the
device.
         [00311     One or more end portions of the device may be expanded by a balloon
catheter.   Alternatively, or in addition, at least one end portion may be self-expanding, in
which case the method may include providing the device in a retaining sleeve, and removing
the retaining sleeve to enable the at least one end portion to expand.
                                                 -9-

WO 2014/137830                                                              PCT/US2014/019607
         [0032]     The method may further include expanding the intermediate portion to
dilate the third passage, thereby forming a larger pathway for fluid flow from the first passage
to the second passage.
         [0033]     The methods described herein may be used in many surgical procedures,
and can be performed by minimally invasive (key-hole) techniques.           The methods may be
particularly suitable for the treatment of coronary heart disease, for example by providing a
shunt or bypass to divert arterial blood from an occluded coronary artery to a coronary vein
(e.g., adjacent to the coronary artery) and/or by traversing an occlusion in a coronary artery
by exiting the artery proximal to the occlusion, extending through subintimal tissue, external
tissue, and/or a portion of a proximate vessel, and reentering the coronary artery distal to the
occlusion, for peripheral vascular disease such as critical limb ischemia, for example by
providing a shunt or bypass to divert arterial blood from an occluded peripheral artery to a
peripheral vein and/or by traversing an occlusion in a peripheral vessel by exiting the vessel
proximal to the occlusion, extending through subintimal tissue, external tissue, and/or a
portion of a proximate vessel, and reentering the vessel distal to the occlusion, and/or for non
occluded vessels, for example by creating a shunt between a healthy artery and a healthy vein
that can be used for dialysis access.
         [0034]     In some embodiments, a method of treating coronary heart disease includes
diverting arterial blood from a coronary artery to a coronary vein by the methods described
herein. In some embodiments, a method of treating critical limb ischemia includes diverting
arterial blood from a peripheral artery to a peripheral vein by the methods described herein.
         [0035]     In some embodiments, a method of accessing a target vein comprises
inserting a needle into the target vein and inserting a guidewire into the target vein through the
needle.
         [0036]     The target vein may be the proximal tibial vein. The method may further
comprise advancing a catheter over the second guidewire. The guidewire may comprise an
ultrasound receiving transducer. The method may further comprise advancing the guidewire
in a direction of flow of blood in the target vein. The method may further comprise inserting
an introducer sheath into a second vein upstream of the target vein. The method may further
comprise inserting a second guidewire into the second vein.          The second guidewire may
                                                -10-

WO 2014/137830                                                             PCT/US2014/019607
comprise an ultrasound receiving transducer. The method may further comprise at least one
of snaring the guidewire with the second guidewire or a snare and snaring the second
guidewire with the guidewire, and pulling the second guidewire in a direction opposite of
blood flow into the target vein. Snaring the guidewire may comprise injecting contrast and
visualizing using fluoroscopy. The method may further comprise advancing a catheter over
the second guidewire. The catheter may comprise an ultrasound receiving transducer.
         [0037]     In some embodiments, a device for making valves of a vessel incompetent
comprises a proximal portion, a distal portion and a longitudinal axis between the proximal
portion and the distal portion. The distal portion may comprise at least one blade. The at
least one blade may have a retracted position in which the at least one blade is substantially
parallel to the longitudinal axis and an expanded position in which the at least one blade is
substantially non-parallel to the longitudinal axis. The at least one blade may comprise a sharp
surface facing distally and configured to at least partially ablate a valve during distal
advancement of the device.
         [0038]     The at least one blade may comprise a plurality of blades. The plurality of
blades may comprise three blades. The three blades may be circumferentially spaced by about
120 degrees. The proximal portion may comprise a handle configured to operate the at least
one blade between the retracted position and the expanded position. The at least one blade
may comprise shape memory material. The handle may be configured to allow the at least one
blade to self-expand from the retracted position to the expanded position. The handle may be
configured to longitudinally compress and radially expand the at least one blade from the
retracted position to the expanded position. A kit may comprise the device and a vessel
expansion device. The vessel expansion device may comprise at least one of a tourniquet, a
balloon, and a LeMaitre device.
         [00391     In some embodiments, a method of making valves of a vessel incompetent
comprises advancing a reverse valvulotome in a direction opposite native fluid flow in the
vessel.    During advancing the reverse valvulotome, at least one blade of the reverse
valvulotome at least partially ablates the valves.
         [0040]     The reverse valvulotome may comprise at least one blade. The at least one
blade may have a retracted position in which the at least one blade is substantially parallel to
                                                -11-

WO 2014/137830                                                             PCT/US2014/019607
the longitudinal axis and an expanded position in which the at least one blade is substantially
non-parallel to the longitudinal axis. The at least one blade may comprise a sharp surface
facing distally and configured to at least partially ablate a valve during distal advancement of
the device. The at least one blade may comprise a plurality of blades. The plurality of blades
may comprise three blades. The three blades may be circumferentially spaced by about 120
degrees. The method may further comprise expanding the vessel and the valves in the vessel.
Expanding the vessel and the valves in the vessel may comprise applying a tourniquet to a
body part comprising the vessel.       Expanding the vessel and the valves in the vessel may
comprise expanding a balloon in the vessel. Expanding the vessel and the valves in the vessel
may comprise expanding a LeMaitre device in the vessel.
         [0041]      In some embodiments, a method of effecting retroperfusion in a first vessel
comprises forming a fistula between the first vessel and a second vessel and making valves in
the first vessel incompetent.
         [0042]      The first vessel may comprise a vein and the second vessel may comprise
an artery. Making the valves in the first vessel incompetent may comprise inflating a balloon
to a pressure greater than about 10 atmospheres (atm) (approx. 1,013 kilopascals (kPa))
across the valves. Making the valves in the first vessel incomepetent may comprise deploying
at least one stent across the valves. Making the valves in the first vessel incompetent may
comprise inflating a cutting balloon. Making the valves in the first vessel incompetent may
comprise atherectomy.       Making the valves in the first vessel incompetent may comprise
ablating the valves with ultrasound. Making the valves in the first vessel incompetent may
comprise ablating the valves with a laser. Making the valves in the first vessel incompetent
may comprise ablating the valves with radio frequency. Making the valves in the first vessel
incompetent may comprise heating the valves.            Making the valves in the first vessel
incompetent may comprise at least one of advancing and retracting a catheter comprising a
traumatic tip. Making the valves in the first vessel incompetent may comprise expanding the
vessel and the valves in the vessel. Expanding the vessel and the valves in the vessel may
comprise applying a tourniquet to a body part comprising the vessel. Expanding the vessel
and the valves in the vessel may comprise expanding a balloon in the vessel. Expanding the
vessel and the valves in the vessel may comprise expanding a LeMaitre device in the vessel.
                                               -12-

WO 2014/137830                                                            PCT/US2014/019607
Making the valves in the first vessel incompetent may comprise expanding the first vessel and
the valves in the first vessel, advancing a guidewire through the vessel, and tracking a device
over the guidewire. Expanding the first vessel and the valves in the first vessel may comprise
applying a tourniquet to a body part comprising the first vessel. Expanding the first vessel and
the valves in the first vessel may comprise expanding a balloon in the first vessel. Expanding
the first vessel and the valves in the first vessel may comprise expanding a LeMaitre device in
the vessel. Forming the fistula between the artery and the vein may comprise accessing the
vein.    Accessing the vein may comprise inserting a needle into the vein and inserting a
guidewire into the vein through the needle. The vein may be the proximal tibial vein. The
method may further comprise advancing a catheter over the second guidewire. The guidewire
may comprise an ultrasound receiving transducer.           The method may further comprise
advancing the guidewire in a direction of flow of blood in the vein. The method may further
comprise inserting an introducer sheath into a second vein upstream of the vein. The method
may further comprise inserting a second guidewire into the second vein.             The second
guidewire may comprise an ultrasound receiving transducer.           The method may further
comprise at least one of snaring the guidewire with the second guidewire or a snare and
snaring the second guidewire with the guidewire, and pulling the second guidewire in a
direction opposite of blood flow into the vein. Snaring the guidewire may comprise injecting
contrast and visualizing using fluoroscopy. The method may further comprise advancing a
catheter over the second guidewire.         The catheter may comprise an ultrasound receiving
transducer. Forming the fistula between the first vessel and the second vessel may comprise
inserting a launching catheter into the second vessel, inserting a target catheter into the first
vessel, emitting an ultrasound signal from the ultrasound emitting transducer, during emitting
the ultrasound signal and until the ultrasound signal is received by the ultrasound receiving
transducer, at least one of rotating the launching catheter and longitudinally moving the
launching catheter, and after the ultrasound signal is received by the ultrasound receiving
transducer, extending the needle from the launching catheter.       The launching catheter may
comprise an ultrasound emitting transducer and a needle configured to radially extend from
the launching catheter. The target catheter may comprise an ultrasound receiving transducer.
Extending the needle may comprise exiting the second vessel, traversing interstitial tissue
                                                 -13-

WO 2014/137830                                                              PCT/US2014/019607
between the second vessel and the first vessel, and entering the first vessel. The ultrasound
emitting transducer may comprise a directional transducer. The needle may be configured to
radially extend from the launching catheter along a path aligned with a path of the directional
transducer. The ultrasound receiving transducer may comprise an omnidirectional transducer.
Forming the fistula between the first vessel and the second vessel may comprise identifying
signal alignment peaks on a display device.        Identifying the signal alignment peaks on the
display device may comprise identifying a color indicative that the signal alignment peaks are
greater than a threshold value. Forming the fistula between the first vessel and the second
vessel may comprise identifying an audible signal indicative that signal alignment is greater
than a threshold value. Forming the fistula between the first vessel and the second vessel may
comprise inserting a launching catheter into the second vessel.            The launching catheter
comprises a needle configured to radially extend from the launching catheter. Forming the
fistula between the first vessel and the second vessel may further comprise inserting a target
catheter comprising a target device into the first vessel, expanding the target device, and
extending the needle from the launching catheter. Extending the needle may comprise exiting
the second vessel, traversing interstitial tissue between the second vessel and the first vessel,
and entering the first vessel, wherein, during entering the first vessel, the needle punctures the
target device.    The target device may comprise a balloon.         The balloon may comprise a
polymer and a mesh at least partially embedded in the polymer. Expanding the target device
may comprise inflating the balloon. The target device may comprise a mesh. Expanding the
target device may comprise distally advancing a proximal portion of the mesh. Expanding the
target device may comprise proximally retracting a distal portion of the mesh. Expanding the
target device may comprise allowing the mesh to self-expand. Forming the fistula between the
first vessel and the second vessel may comprise inserting a crossing guidewire through the
fistula.  Forming the fistula between the first vessel and the second vessel may comprise
dilating the fistula. Dilating the fistula may comprise inflating a balloon. Forming the fistula
between the first vessel and the second vessel may comprise deploying a prosthesis. After
deploying the prosthesis, at least a first portion of the prosthesis may be in the first vessel and
at least a second portion of the prosthesis may be in the second vessel.            Deploying the
prosthesis may comprise actuating a trigger handle.         The prosthesis may comprise a stent
                                                -14-

WO 2014/137830                                                           PCT/US2014/019607
graft. The stent graft may comprise a longitudinal portion having a frustoconical longitudinal
cross-section. Deploying the prosthesis may comprise allowing the prosthesis to self-expand.
The method may further comprise expanding the prosthesis with a balloon. The method may
further comprise applying a radiopaque clip to skin outside the skin proximate to a position of
the fistula. The method may further comprise determining a distance between the first vessel
and the second vessel.
         [0043]     In some embodiments, a target catheter for forming a fistula comprises a
proximal portion and a distal portion. The distal portion may comprise an expandable member
and an ultrasound receiving transducer proximate to the expandable member.
         [0044]     The expandable member may comprise a balloon. The expandable member
may comprise a mesh. The ultrasound receiving transducer may comprise an omnidirectional
transducer. The ultrasound receiving transducer may be radially inward of the expandable
member. The catheter may further comprise an inflation lumen in fluid communication with
the expandable member and the proximal portion.         The catheter may further comprise a
pressure sensor configured to detect puncturing of the expandable member.
         [0045]     In some embodiments, a kit for effecting retroperfusion in a vein comprises
a valve disabling device and at least one of the group consisting of a launching catheter, a
target catheter, a prosthesis delivery system.
         [0046]     The valve disabling device may comprise at least one of a reverse
valvulotome, a balloon, and a stent. The launching catheter may comprise a needle configured
to radially extend from the launching catheter.     The launching catheter may comprise an
ultrasound emitting transducer. The kit may further comprise a guidewire. The launching
catheter may be configured to be tracked over the guidewire. The kit may further comprise an
artery introducer sheath.     The kit may further comprise a second guidewire.       The target
catheter may be configured to be tracked over the second guidewire. The target catheter may
comprise an ultrasound receiving transducer.        The ultrasound emitting transducer may
comprise an omnidirectional transducer. The target catheter may comprise a balloon. The kit
may further comprise a third guidewire. The second guidewire may be configured to snare the
third guidewire. The third guidewire may be configured to snare the second guidewire. The
kit may further comprise a vein introducer sheath. The kit may further comprise a vein access
                                               -15-

WO 2014/137830                                                              PCT/US2014/019607
needle. The kit may further comprise an access guidewire. The kit may further comprise at
least one balloon. The at least one balloon may be configured to pre-dilate a fistula. The at
least one balloon may be configured to expand a vessel diameter. The at least one balloon
may be configured to make a valve incompetent. The at least one balloon may be configured
to apply a pressure greater than about 10 atm (approx. 1,013 kPa).            The kit may further
comprise a prosthesis delivery system. The kit may further comprise a device configured to
stretch a vessel. The device configured to stretch the vessel may comprise at least one of a
tourniquet, a balloon, and a LeMaitre device.       The kit may further comprise a computing
device configured to be communicatively coupled to at least one of the launching catheter and
the target catheter. The computing device may comprise a laptop computer. The computing
device may comprise a tablet computer. The computing device may comprise a smartphone.
The computing device may comprise a display device configured to display information about
relative positions of the launching catheter and the target catheter. The computing device may
comprise a speaker configured to emit information about relative positions of the launching
catheter and the target catheter.
         [0047]      In some embodiments, a method of marking a fistula point comprises
applying a marker to skin proximate to a location of the fistula. The marker may be visible
under fluoroscopy.
         [0048]      The marker may comprise a clip. The marker may comprise radiopaque
material. The fistula may be between a first vessel and a second vessel. Applying the marker
may be before deploying a prosthesis in the fistula.
         [0049]      In some embodiments, a method of making valves of a vessel incompetent
comprises providing a reverse valvulotome.       Upon advancing the reverse valvulotome in a
direction opposite native fluid flow in the vessel, at least one blade of the reverse valvulotome
at least partially ablates the valves.
         [0050]      In some embodiments, a method of effecting retroperfusion in a first vessel
comprises providing a first system configured to create a fistula between the first vessel and a
second vessel and providing a second device configured to make valves in the first vessel
incompetent.
                                               -16-

WO 2014/137830                                                             PCT/US2014/019607
         [0051]      In some embodiments, a method of forming a fistula in a first vessel
comprises inserting a launching catheter into a second vessel.           The launching catheter
comprises an ultrasound emitting transducer and a needle configured to radially extend from
the launching catheter.       The method may further comprise inserting a target catheter
comprising an ultrasound receiving transducer into the first vessel, emitting an ultrasound
signal from the ultrasound emitting transducer, and during emitting the ultrasound signal and
until the ultrasound signal may be received by the ultrasound receiving transducer, at least one
of rotating the launching catheter and longitudinally moving the launching catheter.         The
method may further comprise, after the ultrasound signal may be received by the ultrasound
receiving transducer, extending the needle from the launching catheter. Extending the needle
may comprise exiting the second vessel traversing interstitial tissue between the second vessel
and the first vessel, and entering the first vessel.
         [0052]      The ultrasound emitting transducer may comprise a directional transducer.
The needle may be configured to radially extend from the launching catheter along a path
aligned with a path of the directional transducer. The ultrasound receiving transducer may
comprise an omnidirectional transducer.
         [0053]      In some embodiments, a kit for effecting retroperfusion in a vein comprises
a launching catheter, a target catheter, and a prosthesis delivery system.
         [0054]      The launching catheter may comprise a needle configured to radially extend
from the launching catheter.      The launching catheter may comprise an ultrasound emitting
transducer.     The target catheter may comprise an ultrasound receiving transducer.         The
ultrasound emitting transducer may comprise an omnidirectional transducer.
         [0055]      The methods summarized above and set forth in further detail below
describe certain actions taken by a practitioner; however, it should be understood that they
can also include the instruction of those actions by another party.        Thus, actions such as
"making valves in the first vessel incompetent" include "instructing making valves in the first
vessel incompetent."
         [0056]      For purposes of summarizing the invention and the advantages that may be
achieved, certain objects and advantages are described herein. Not necessarily all such objects
or advantages need to be achieved in accordance with any particular embodiment. In some
                                                 -17-

WO 2014/137830                                                              PCT/US2014/019607
embodiments, the invention may be embodied or carried out in a manner that can achieve or
optimize one advantage or a group of advantages without necessarily achieving other objects
or advantages.
         [0057]     All of these embodiments are intended to be within the scope of the
invention herein disclosed. These and other embodiments will be apparent from the following
detailed description having reference to the attached figures, the invention not being limited to
any particular disclosed embodiment(s).      Optional and/or preferred features described with
reference to some embodiments may be combined with and incorporated into other
embodiments.      All references cited herein, including patents and patent applications, are
incorporated by reference in their entirety.
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
         [0058]     These and other features, aspects, and advantages of the present disclosure
are described with reference to the drawings of certain embodiments, which are intended to
illustrate certain embodiments and not to limit the invention, in which like reference numerals
are used for like features, and in which:
         [0059]     Figure 1 schematically illustrates an example embodiment of a launching
device directing a signal from a first body cavity to a target device in a second body cavity.
         [0060]     Figure 2 is a cross-sectional representation along the dotted line B-B of
Figure 1.
         [0061]     Figure 3 schematically illustrates an example embodiment of a launching
device.
         [0062]     Figure 4 schematically illustrates an example embodiment of a target
device.
         [0063]     Figure 5 schematically illustrates another example embodiment of a
launching device.
         [0064]     Figure 6 schematically illustrates an example embodiment of centering
devices for launching and/or target devices.
         [0065]     Figure 7 schematically illustrates a prosthesis in place following a
procedure such as arterial-venous arterialization.
                                               -18-

WO 2014/137830                                                             PCT/US2014/019607
         [0066]     Figure 8 is a side perspective view of an example embodiment of a device
for providing fluid flow.
         [0067]     Figure 9 shows the device of Figure 8 in use as a shunt between two blood
vessels.
         [0068]     Figure 10 is a side perspective view of another example embodiment of a
device for providing fluid flow.
         [0069]     Figure 11 is a side perspective view of still another example embodiment of
a device for providing fluid flow.
         [0070]     Figure 12 is a side perspective view of yet another example embodiment of
a device for providing fluid flow.
         [0071]     Figure 13 is a side perspective view of yet still another example
embodiment of a device for providing fluid flow.
         [0072]     Figure 14A is a schematic side cross-sectional view of an example
embodiment of an ultrasound launching catheter.
         [0073]     Figure 14B is an expanded schematic side cross-sectional view of a distal
portion of the ultrasound launching catheter of Figure 14A within the circle 14B.
         [0074]     Figure 15A is a schematic side elevational view of an example embodiment
of an ultrasound target catheter.
         [0075]     Figure 15B is an expanded schematic side cross-sectional view of the
ultrasound target catheter of Figure 15A within the circle 15B.
         [0076]     Figure 15C is an expanded schematic side cross-sectional view of the
ultrasound target catheter of Figure 15A within the circle 15C.
         [0077]     Figure 16 is an example embodiment of a graph for detecting catheter
alignment.
         [0078]     Figure 17 is a schematic side elevational view of an example embodiment
of a prosthesis delivery system.
         [0079]     Figure 18 is a schematic side elevational view of an example embodiment
of a prosthesis.
         [0080]     Figure 19 is a schematic side elevational view of another example
embodiment of a prosthesis.
                                               -19-

WO 2014/137830                                                          PCT/US2014/019607
        [0081]      Figures 20A-20H schematically illustrate an example embodiment of a
method for effecting retroperfusion.
        [0082]      Figure 21 is a schematic perspective view of an example embodiment of an
ultrasound receiving transducer.
        [0083]      Figure 22 is a schematic cross-sectional view of another example
embodiment of an ultrasound receiving transducer.
        [0084]      Figure 23A is a schematic perspective view of an example embodiment of a
valvulotome.
        [0085]      Figure 23B is a schematic perspective view of an example embodiment of a
reverse valvulotome.
        [0086]      Figure 24 is a schematic perspective view of an example embodiment of a
LeMaitre device.
                                  DETAILED DESCRIPTION
        [0087]      Although certain embodiments and examples are described below, the
invention extends beyond the specifically disclosed embodiments and/or uses and obvious
modifications and equivalents thereof The scope of the invention herein disclosed should not
be limited by any particular embodiment(s) described below.
        [0088]      Minimally invasive surgery could provide a means for treating a broader
range of patients, including those currently excluded from standard surgical techniques. One
such procedure is percutaneous in situ coronary venous arterialization (PICVA), which is a
catheter-based coronary bypass procedure in which the occlusion in the diseased artery is
"bypassed" by creation of a channel between the coronary artery and the adjacent coronary
vein. In this way, the arterial blood is diverted into the venous system and can perfuse the
cardiac tissue in a retrograde manner (retroperfusion) and restores blood supply to ischemic
tissue.   Some example devices and methods for performing procedures like PICVA are
described in PCT Pub. No. WO 99/049793 and U.S. Patent Pub. No. 2004/0133225, which
are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.
        [0089]      Successfully performing a minimally invasive procedure of diverting blood
flow from the coronary artery to the adjacent vein heretofore has had a low success rate, most
                                              -20-

WO 2014/137830                                                            PCT/US2014/019607
often due to inability to properly target the vein from the artery. Without the proper systems
and methods, such procedures (e.g., attempting to target the vein by combination of X-ray
fluoroscopy and an imaging ultrasound probe located on the distal tip of the catheter e.g., as
described in U.S. Patent Pub. No. 2004/0133225) are often doomed to failure before even
starting.   Indeed, such an arrangement can be difficult to navigate, and localization of the
adjacent vein can require considerable skill on the part of the clinician. Improvements in the
systems and methods for targeting, such as those using the catheters described herein, can
enable procedures such as PICVA and transvascular surgery in general.             Without such
improvements, such percutaneous techniques will remain peripheral to conventional surgical
open-heart and other types of bypass operations.
         [0090]     The present application, according to several embodiments, describes
methods and systems usable in minimally invasive surgical procedures, which can reduce
performance of conventional surgery to treat conditions such as coronary heart disease and
critical limb ischemia.    For example, patients who might otherwise be unable to receive
surgery such as coronary bypass surgery or peripheral arterial bypass surgery can be treated,
and the amount of surgical trauma, the risk of infection, and/or the time to recovery may be
reduced or significantly reduced in comparison to conventional surgery.
         [0091]     Figure 1 schematically illustrates an example embodiment of a launching
device 10 directing a signal from a first body cavity 30 to a target device 20 in a second body
cavity 35. The launching device 10 comprises a signal transmitter 12. The launching device
10 may comprise, for example, a catheter including an elongate flexible rod-like portion and a
tip portion, and may provides a conduit for administering therapy within the body of a patient.
The launching device 10 may be suitable for location and movement through a first cavity or
vessel 30 (e.g., heart chamber, coronary artery, coronary vein, peripheral artery, peripheral
vein) within a patient's body. The elongate portion of the launching device 10 comprises an
outer sheath 11 that encloses a space, defining a lumen 13. The space within the lumen 13
may be suitably partitioned or subdivided as necessary so as to define channels for
administering therapy, controlling the positioning of the launching device 10, etc.        Such
subdivision may, for example, be achieved either longitudinally or concentrically in an axial
fashion.
                                               -21-

WO 2014/137830                                                              PCT/US2014/019607
         [0092]     The launching device 10 comprises a signal transducer 12.           The signal
transducer 12 is configured to provide or emit a signal 40 that is directed outwards from the
launching device 10. In the embodiment shown in Figure 1, the signal 40 is directed radially
outward from the launching device 10 in a direction that is perpendicular to the longitudinal
axis of the launching device 10. As mentioned in greater detail below, in some embodiments,
the direction of the signal 40 need not be perpendicular and can be directed at an angle to the
longitudinal axis of the launching device 10. The signal transducer 12 may thereby form at
least a portion of a signal generating means.
         [0093]     The signal transducer 12 is connected to signal transmitter 50. The signal
transmitter 50 can be suitably selected from ultrasound or appropriate electromagnetic sources
such as a laser, microwave radiation, radio waves, etc. In some embodiments, as described in
further detail below, the signal transmitter 50 is configured to generate an ultrasound signal,
which is relayed to the signal transducer 12, which in turn directs the signal 40 out of the first
body cavity 30 into the surrounding tissue.
         [0094]     A target device 20 is located within an adjacent second body cavity or
vessel 32 (e.g., heart chamber, coronary artery, coronary vein, peripheral artery, peripheral
vein) within a patient's body. The first and second body cavities 30, 32 are separated by
intervening tissue 34, sometimes referred to as interstitial tissue or a septum. The first and
second body cavities 30, 32 are located next to each other in a parallel fashion for at least a
portion of their respective lengths. For example, many of the veins and arteries of the body
are known to run in parallel with each other for at least a portion of their overall length.
         [0095]     The target device 20 can assume a similar arrangement to that of the
launching device 10. For example, the target device 20 can comprise a catheter including an
elongate flexible rod-like portion and a tip portion. For another example, fine movement and
positioning of the target device 20 within the body cavity 32 can be achieved. For yet another
example, the target device 20 may comprise an outer sheath 21 that encloses a space, defining
a lumen 23.     The lumen 23 can be suitably partitioned, for example as with the launching
device 10.
         [0096]     The target device 20 comprises a receiving transducer 22 configured to
receive the signal 40 from the transducer 12 of the launching device 10.             The receiving
                                              -22-

WO 2014/137830                                                              PCT/US2014/019607
transducer 22 makes up at least a portion of a signal detection means.           In use, when the
receiving transducer 22 receives the signal 40 transmitted from the signal transducer 12, the
receiving transducer 22 transmits the received signal to a signal detector 60.          The signal
detector 60 is configured to provide an output reading to the user of the system, for example
via an output display 61.     The output display 61 may be a visual display, an audio display
(e.g., beeping or emitting some other sound upon receipt of a signal), etc.
         [0097]      In this way, the transmission and detection of the directed signal 40 can
allow for the navigation and positioning of the launching device 10 relative to the target
device 20. In use, the launching device 10 and the target device 20 can be maneuvered by the
user of the system until the output display 61 indicates that signal 40 is being received by the
target device 40.
         [00981      In some embodiments, the signal 40 comprises or is an ultrasound signal.
The signal 40 is directional and is emitted by the signal transducer 12 in the shape of a narrow
cone or arc (e.g., with the width of the signal band increasing as the distance from the signal
transducer 12 increases). As such, the precision of alignment between the launching device 10
and the target device 20 depends not only upon signal detection, but also upon the distance
between the two devices, as the signal beam width is greater at greater distances. This level
of error is referred to as "positional uncertainty."    A certain level of tolerance can exist for
positional uncertainty; however, if therapy is to be directed with precision, the amount of
uncertainty should be reduced or minimized.         For example, if the diameter d of the signal
transducer 12 is 1 mm and the frequency of the ultrasound signal is 30 1Mz, then the
positional uncertainty x (e.g., the margin of error on either side of a center line) is 1 mm at a
perpendicular separation of 5 mm between the launching device 10 and the target device 20.
For clinical applications, the positional uncertainty generally should not exceed around :5 mm
(for a total signal beam width of 10 mm at the point of reception). In some embodiments, the
positional uncertainty is between about 0.0 1 mm and about +4.50 mm or between about +0.1
mm and about +2 mm. In some embodiments, the positional uncertainty does not exceed
about +1 mm.
         [0099]      The strength of the signal 40 can be a factor in detection, and signal
strength generally diminishes as the distance between the launching device 10 and the target
                                                -23-

WO 2014/137830                                                               PCT/US2014/019607
device 20 increases. This distance is in part determined by the amount of intervening tissue 34
between the devices 10, 20. By way of example, if the signal 40 is an ultrasound signal,
significant deterioration of signal can be expected when the launching device 10 and the target
device 20 a separated by more than about 20 mm of solid tissue (e.g., the intervening tissue
34). The density of the intervening tissue 34 may also have an effect upon the deterioration of
signal 40 over distance (e.g., denser tissue deteriorating the signal more than less dense
tissue).
         [0100]      The frequency of the ultrasound signal may also affect the thickness of the
signal transducer, which for a standard ultrasound ceramic transducer (e.g., a piezoelectric
transducer (PZT)) is 0.075 mm at 30 MHz.
         [0101]      Figure 2 is a cross-sectional representation along the dotted line B-B of
Figure 1. The correct orientation of the launching device relative to the target device can be a
factor in detection, as the line of orientation 41 can determine where the therapy is to be
applied. The clinical need for precisional placing of therapy in a patient may function better if
the directional signal 40 is linked to the means for delivering therapy (e.g., being parallel and
longitudinally offset). For example, in this way the user of the system can administer therapy
to the correct location by ensuring that the launching device 10 and the target device 20 are
correctly positioned via transmission and reception of the signal 40. The orientation line 41 in
Figure 2 denotes not only the direction of signal travel but also the path along which therapy
can be administered to the patient.
         [0102]      Figure 3 schematically illustrates an example embodiment of a launching
device 10. The launching device 10 comprises a signal transducer 120 that is oriented at an
oblique angle relative to the longitudinal axis of the launching device 10.        The signal 40 is
transmitted at an angle that is in the direction of travel (e.g., forward travel, transverse travel)
of the launching device 10 as the launching device enters a body cavity 30 (Figures 1 and 2).
In some embodiments, the beam angle is about perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the
launching device 10. In some embodiments, the beam angle is between about 200 and about
60' to the perpendicular, between about 30' and about 500 to the perpendicular, or about 450
to the perpendicular, when 00 corresponds to the longitudinal axis of the launching device 10
in the direction of travel.
                                                -24-

WO 2014/137830                                                            PCT/US2014/019607
         [0103]     The launching device 10 comprises a hollow needle or cannula 17, which is
an example means for administering therapy. During travel of the launching device 10, the
hollow needle 17 is located in an undeployed or retracted state within the lumen 13 of
launching device 10. The hollow needle 17 may be deployed/extended from the launching
device 10 via an aperture 16 in the outer sheath 11 at a time deemed appropriate by the user
(e.g., upon detection of the signal 40 by the target device 20). The aperture 16 can allow fluid
communication between the lumen 13 and the body cavity 30 (Figure 1). As illustrated by the
example embodiment of Figure 3, the hollow needle 17 may travel along a path that is parallel
to the direction of the signal 40. The hollow needle 17 may be used to pierce the intervening
tissue 34 (Figure 1). In some embodiments, the hollow needle 17 makes a transit across the
entirety of the intervening tissue 34, and in doing so allows the launching device 10 to access
the second body cavity 32 (Figure 2). If desired, the pathway made by the hollow needle 17
through the intervening tissue 34 can be subsequently widened to allow fluid communication
between the first body cavity 30 and the second body cavity 32.
         [0104]     Therapeutic means suitable for use in several embodiments can comprise,
for example, devices and/or instruments selected from the group consisting of a cannula, a
laser, a radiation-emitting device, a probe, a drill, a blade, a wire, a needle, appropriate
combinations thereof, and the like.
         [0105]     In some embodiments, the hollow needle 17 comprises a sensor 19, which
may assist in further determining positional information of the tip of the hollow needle 17
relative to the launching device 10.     In some embodiments, the sensor 19 is configured to
detect changes in hydrostatic pressure. Other sensors that are suitable for use in the systems
and methods described herein can include temperature sensors, oxygenation sensors, and/or
color sensors.
         [0106]     Optionally, the hollow needle 17 can comprise an additional signal
transducer 122. In the embodiment shown in Figure 3, the signal transducer 122 is located
near the tip of the hollow needle 17 on the end of a guidewire 14. The signal transducer 122
can also or alternatively located on the hollow needle 17 if desired.        In use, the signal
transducer 122 is driven with a short transmit pulse that produces a directional signal or a
non-directional signal pulse. The signal pulse can be detected by the receiving transducer 22
                                               -25-

WO 2014/137830                                                             PCT/US2014/019607
mounted on the target device 20. The distance from the guidewire 14 or hollow needle 17 to
the receiving transducer 22 and hence the target device 20 can be at least partially determined
time based on the delay between the transmission of the signal pulse from the signal
transducer 122 and receipt of the signal pulse on the receiving transducer 22.
         [0107]     Figure 4 schematically illustrates an example embodiment of a target device
20. In the embodiment shown in Figure 4, the target device 20 is located within a body cavity
32.    As mentioned above, the target device 20 comprises a receiving transducer 22 for
receiving the signal 40. The receiving transducer 22 can be unidirectional (e.g., capable of
receiving or configured to receive a signal from one direction only) or omnidirectional (e.g.,
capable of receiving or configured to receive a signal from any direction). Arrow A shows the
reversed direction of blood flow after an arterial-venous arterialization (also called PICVA)
has been effected.     The target device 20 comprises an omnidirectional ultrasound signal
receiving transducer 60. An optional reflecting cone 601 can direct the signal 40 onto a disc
shaped receiving transducer 60. An acoustically transparent window 602 can separate the
reflecting cone 601 from the receiving transducer 60.               In some embodiments, an
omnidirectional ultrasound signal receiving transducer can be obtained by locating a cylinder
of a flexible piezoelectric material such as polyvinyldifluoride (PVDF) around the outer sheath
of the target device 20. In such a way, the cylinder can act in a similar or equivalent manner
to the receiving transducer 60.
         [0108]     In the embodiment illustrated in Figure 4, the target device 20 comprises an
optional channel 25 for administering an agent, such as a therapeutic agent, to a patient. In
some embodiments, the channel 25 functions as a conduit to allow application of a blocking
material 251 that serves to at least partially obstruct or occlude the body cavity 32. The
blocking material 251 can be suitably selected from a gel-based substance.          The blocking
material 251 can also or alternatively include embolization members (e.g., balloons, self
expanding stents, etc.).     The placement of the blocking material 251 can be directed by
movement of the target device 20. The presence of a guide member 24 within the lumen 23 of
the target device 20 can allow the user to precisely manipulate the position of the target
device 20 as desired.
                                               -26-

WO 2014/137830                                                             PCT/US2014/019607
         [0109]      Referring again to Figure 2, the launching device 10 comprises a signal
transducer 12 that may optionally be oriented so that the signal 40 is transmitted at an angle
other than perpendicular to the signal transducer 12. Figure 5 schematically illustrates another
example embodiment of a launching device 10.            In some embodiments, for example the
launching device 10 shown in Figure 5, the signal transducer is in the form of a signal
transducer array 123.        The signal transducer array 123 comprises a plurality of signal
transducer elements 124, which can be oriented collectively to at least partially define a signal
beam width and angle relative to the launching device 10. Smaller size of the elements 124
can allow the signal transducer 123 to not occupy a significant proportion the lumen 13 of the
launching device 10.
         [0110]      The embodiment shown in Figure 5 may be useful for ultrasound beam
forming signaling.      Figure 5 shows an array of signal transducer elements 124 that are
separately connected to a transmitter 50 via delays 51, which allows the signals to each
element 124 to be delayed relative to each other. The delays can provide or ensure that the
ultrasound wavefronts from each element 124 are aligned to produce a beam of ultrasound 40
at the desired angle.     In some embodiments, for example in which the signal 40 comprises
visible light, an array of LEDs can also or alternatively be used.
         [0111]      Figure 6 schematically illustrates an example embodiment of centering
devices for launching and/or target devices 10, 20.        To assist in the process of alignment
between the launching device 10 in the first body cavity 30 and the target device 20 in the
second body cavity 32, one or both of the devices 10, 20 may comprise means for centering
the respective devices within their body cavities.
         [0112]      In some embodiments, the centering means comprises an inflatable bladder
or balloon 111 that is located in the lumen 13, 23 when in an undeployed state and, when the
device 10, 20 reaches the desired location within the patient, can be inflated. The balloon 111
can be disposed on an outer surface of the outer sheath 11, 21.          The balloon 111 can be
annular in shape such that it at least partially surrounds the device 10, 20 in a toroidal or
doughnut-like fashion. The balloon 111 can be arranged such that it inflates on only one side
or only on two opposite sides of the device 10, 20. As illustrated in Figure 6, the balloon 111
is deployed on one side of the launching device 10.
                                                -27-

WO 2014/137830                                                            PCT/US2014/019607
         [0113]    In some embodiments, the centering means comprises one or more loop
structures 112 located either in the lumen 13, 23 or within recesses made in the outer sheath
11, 21 when in an undeployed or retracted state. When the device 10, 20 reaches the desired
location within the patient, the one or more loop structures 112 can be expanded radially
outwardly from the device 10, 20, thereby centering the device 10, 20 within the body cavity
30, 32.     Outward expansion of the loop structures 112 can be suitably effected by
compression of a length of wire, for example, such that it bows outwardly from the outer
sheath 11, 21. A centering device that adopts this conformation may comprise a plurality of
compressible lengths of wire or other suitable flexible material arranged in parallel at radially
spaced intervals around the periphery of the outer sheath 11, 21. Compression of the plurality
of wires can be induced by way of a sliding member (not shown) located proximally and/or
distally near to the ends of the plurality of wires.        The sliding member is capable of
translational movement along the longitudinal axis of the device 10, 20.        As illustrated in
Figure 6, the target device 20 comprises fully deployed centering means 112 that has allowed
the target device 20 to be centered within the body cavity 32.
         [0114]    Other possible means for centering the devices 10, 20 within the body
cavities 30, 32 include, but are not limited to, expandable Chinese-lantern type devices,
reversibly expandable stents, coils, helices, retractable probes or legs, combinations thereof,
and the like.
         [0115]    In some embodiments, the centering means or other means (e.g., balloons,
metal stand-offs having differing lengths, etc.) can be used to orient the devices 10, 20 within
the body cavities 30, 32 other than in the center or substantially the center of the body
cavities. For example, the device 10 may be oriented proximate to the wall of the body cavity
30 where the needle 17 will exit the body cavity 30, which can, for example, provide a shorter
ultrasound signal path and/or reduce error due to the needle 17 traversing intraluminal space.
For another example, the device 10 may be oriented proximate to the wall of the body cavity
30 opposite the wall of the body cavity 30 where the needle 17 will exit the body cavity 30,
which can, for example, provide a firm surface for the needle 17 to push against. For yet
another example, the device 20 may be oriented proximate to the wall of the body cavity 32
where the needle 17 will enter the body cavity 32, which can, for example, provide a shorter
                                               -28-

WO 2014/137830                                                             PCT/US2014/019607
ultrasound signal path. Other device orientations that are neither centered nor proximate to a
vessel wall are also possible (e.g., some fraction of the diameter away from the wall and/or the
center of the lumen, such as 1/2, 1/3, 1/4, etc.).
Example
         [0116]     The methods and systems described herein demonstrate particular utility in
cardiovascular surgery according to several embodiments.            Certain aspects are further
illustrated by the following non-limiting example, in which the system is used by a clinician to
perform the procedure of arterial-venous connection (PICVA) so as to enable retroperfusion
of cardiac tissue following occlusion of a coronary artery.
         [0117]     The launching catheter 10 is inserted into the occluded coronary artery by
standard keyhole surgical techniques (e.g., tracking over a guidewire, tracking through a
guide catheter). The target catheter 20 is inserted into the coronary vein that runs parallel to
the coronary artery by standard keyhole surgical techniques (e.g., tracking over a guidewire,
tracking through a guide catheter).       The coronary vein is not occluded and, therefore,
provides an alternative channel for blood flow to the cardiac muscle, effectively allowing the
occlusion in the coronary artery to be bypassed.
         [0118]     The launching catheter 10 comprises a PZT ultrasound transducer 12 (e.g.,
available from CTS Piezoelectric Products of Albuquerque, New Mexico) that is oriented
such that a directional ultrasound beam is transmitted in this example at a 450 angle (relative
to the longitudinal axis of the launching device), preferably in the direction of blood flow in
the artery 30, although other angles including about 900 are also possible. The ultrasound
transducer 12 is activated, and in this example a 30 Mz directional ultrasound signal 40 is
transmitted from the launching catheter 10, although other frequencies are also possible. The
target catheter 20 comprises an omnidirectional ultrasound receiving transducer 60. To assist
with localization of both the launching catheter 10 and the target catheter 20, both catheters
10, 20 comprise centering or orienting means, in this example in the form of an annular
inflatable balloon 111, although other or absence of centering or orienting means are also
possible. The centering means 111 on the launching catheter 10 is deployed by the clinician
when the launching catheter 10 is deemed to be in an appropriate location close to the site of
                                                -29-

WO 2014/137830                                                             PCT/US2014/019607
the occlusion within the coronary artery 30.            This may be determined via standard
fluoroscopic imaging techniques and/or upon physical resistance.       The target catheter 20 is
then moved within the adjacent coronary vein 32 until the directed ultrasound signal 40 is
detected by the signal receiving transducer 60. To enable more precise alignment between the
launching catheter 10 and the target catheter 20, the centering means 111 on the target
catheter 20 can be deployed either before or after the signal 40 is detected.
         [0119]     Upon reception of the transmitted signal 40, the clinician can be certain
that the launching catheter 10 and the target catheter 20 are correctly located, both
rotationally and longitudinally, within their respective blood vessels 30, 32 to allow for the
arterial-venous connection procedure to commence. The target catheter 20 may be used to
block blood flow within the coronary vein 32 via administration of a gel blocking material 251
though a channel 25 in the target catheter 20. The blocking material 251 may be administered
at a position in the coronary vein 32 that is downstream in terms of the venous blood flow
relative to the location of the receiving signal transducer 60.
         [0120]     The clinician may then initiate arterial-venous connection by deploying a
hollow needle 17 from the launching catheter 10 substantially along a path that is parallel and
close to the path taken by the ultrasound signal 40 though the intervening tissue 34 between
the coronary artery 30 and the coronary vein 32, or the hollow needle 17 may traverse a path
that intercepts the path of the ultrasound signal at a point within the coronary vein 32. The
hollow needle 17 optionally comprises a sensor 19 near its tip that is configured to detect
changes in hydrostatic pressure or Doppler flow such that the user can monitor the transition
from arterial pressure to venous pressure as the hollow needle 17 passes between the two
vessels 30, 32. The hollow needle 17 optionally comprises a guidewire 14 in a bore or lumen
of the hollow needle 17 during deployment. Once the hollow needle 17 and guidewire 14
have traversed the intervening tissue 34, the hollow needle 17 may be retracted back into the
lumen 13 of the launching catheter 10, leaving the guidewire 14 in place.              In some
embodiments, once the hollow needle 17 has traversed the intervening tissue 34, the user can
separately pass the guidewire 14 through the bore or lumen of the hollow needle 17 and then
retract the needle 17 into the launching catheter 10.
                                                -30-

WO 2014/137830                                                              PCT/US2014/019607
         [0121]     The clinician withdraws the launching catheter 10 from the patient, leaving
the guidewire 14 in place.      A further catheter device is then slid along the guidewire 14.
Figure 7 schematically illustrates a prosthesis 26 such as an expandable stent 26 in place
following a procedure such as arterial-venous arterialization. Further detail about possible
prostheses including stents and stent-grafts are provided below.            The stent 26 may be
deployed to widen the perforation in the intervening tissue 34 between the coronary artery 30
and the coronary vein 32, in which the interrupted arrow A shows the direction of blood flow
through the stent 26 between the first and second body cavities 30, 32 (e.g., arterial blood is
thereby diverted into the venous system and is enabled to retroperfuse the cardiac muscle
tissue). The stent 26 can block flow upwards in the cavity 32, forcing blood flow in the cavity
32 to be in the same direction as blood flow in the cavity 30. Graft material of the stent 26
can form a fluid-tight lumen between the cavity 30 and the cavity 32. The target catheter 20
is withdrawn from the patient, leaving the blocking material 251 in position.        Optionally, a
further block or suture may be inserted into the coronary vein to inhibit or prevent reversal of
arterial blood flow, as described in further detail herein.
         [0122]     Whilst the    specific   example     described  above is with respect       to
cardiovascular surgery, the methods and systems described herein could have far reaching
applications in other forms of surgery. For example, any surgery involving the need to direct
therapy from one body cavity (e.g., for treatment of peripheral artery disease) towards another
adjacent body cavity could be considered. As such, applications in the fields of neurosurgery,
urology, and general vascular surgery are also possible.        The type of therapy need not be
restricted to formation of channels between body cavities.         For instance, the methods and
systems described herein may also be used in directing techniques such as catheter ablation,
non-contact mapping of heart chambers, the delivery of medicaments to precise areas of the
body, and the like.
         [0123]     Certain techniques for effectively bypassing an occlusion in an artery by
percutaneous surgery are described above. These techniques include creating a channel or
passage between a first passage, such as an artery upstream of an occlusion, a vein, or a heart
chamber, and a second passage, such as an artery, vein, or heart chamber, proximate to the
                                                -31-

WO 2014/137830                                                              PCT/US2014/019607
first passage to interconnect the first and second passages by a third passage. Fluid such as
blood may be diverted from the first passage into the second passage by way of the
interconnecting third passage. In embodiments in which the first passage includes an artery
and the second passage includes a vein, the arterial blood can perfuse into tissue in a
retrograde manner (retroperfusion).
         [0124]     As described above, an interconnecting passage between first and second
body passages can be created by, for example, deploying a needle outwards from a first
catheter located within the first passage, so that the needle traverses the interstitial tissue or
septum between the first and second passages.          A second catheter may be located in the
second passage, so as to provide a target device which receives a signal, for example an
ultrasound signal, transmitted from the first catheter. By monitoring the received signal, the
position of the first catheter with respect to the second catheter can be determined so as to
ensure that the needle is deployed in the correct position and orientation to create a passage
for fluid flow between the first and second passages.
         [0125]     In order to provide or maintain the flow of blood thorough the
interconnecting passage or channel, a structure including a lumen may be inserted in the
passage to support the interstitial tissue and/or to inhibit or prevent the passage from closing.
The tube may, for example, include a stent expanded in the channel using a balloon catheter or
self-expansion, as described herein. A catheter to deliver the structure, for example a balloon
catheter or catheter that allows self-expansion, may be guided to the channel by a guidewire
deployed in the passage by the first catheter.
         [0126]     Passages such as arteries, veins, and heart chambers can pulsate as the
heart beats, for example due to movement of heart walls, peripheral limbs, and/or fluctuations
in pressure within the passages themselves.          This pulsation can cause movement of the
passages relative to each another, which can impose stress on a structure within an
interconnecting passage therebetween.         This stress may be large in comparison to stress
experienced by a structure within a single passage. Stress can lead to premature failure of the
structure, for example by fatigue failure of the stent struts. Failure of the structure may result
in injury to the interstitial tissue and/or occlusion of the interconnecting passage, which could
lead to significant complications or complete failure of the therapy.
                                                 -32-

WO 2014/137830                                                            PCT/US2014/019607
         [0127]     Figure 8 illustrates a device or implant or prosthetic 100 for providing or
maintaining fluid flow through at least one passage.       The device 100 includes a first or
proximal end portion 102, a second or distal end portion 104, and an intermediate portion 106
between the proximal end portion 102 and the distal end portion 104. The device includes a
bore or lumen 110 for passage of fluid through the device 100. The device 100, for example
at least the intermediate portion 106 of the device 100, includes a flexible polymer tube 108.
The flexible polymer tube 108 may at least partially define the lumen 110.
         [0128]     The device 100 includes a support structure (e.g., at least one stent)
including a mesh 112 and a mesh 114. In some embodiments, at least a portion of the mesh
112 is embedded in the outside wall of the tube 108 proximate to the proximal end portion
102 of the device 100. In some embodiments, at least a portion of the mesh 114, for example
a wire or a strut, is embedded in the outside wall of the tube 108 proximate to the distal end
portion 104 of the device 100. The meshes 112, 114 may include biocompatible metal such as
stainless steel and/or shape memory material such as nitinol or chromium cobalt.
         [0129]     The wire meshes 112, 114 can stiffen the end portions 102, 104,
respectively. In some embodiments in which the intermediate portion 106 does not include a
mesh, the intermediate portion 106 may be relatively flexible in comparison to the end
portions 102, 104, and/or the end portions 102, 104 may have a relatively high radial stiffness.
         [0130]     In some embodiments, the end portions 102, 104 of the device 100 are
diametrically expandable.     For example, the wire meshes 112, 114 may have a smaller
diameter after formation or manufacture than the passages, for example blood vessels, into
which the device 100 will be deployed. When the device 100 is in position in the passages, the
end portions 102, 104 can be expanded or deformed outwardly so that the respective
diameters of the end portions 102, 104 increase, for example to abut the interior sidewalls of
the passages. The end portions 102, 104 are configured to maintain the expanded diameter
indefinitely, for example by plastic deformation of the material (e.g., wires, struts) of the
meshes 112, 114 and/or by provision of a locking mechanism arranged to mechanically lock
the meshes 112, 114 in the expanded position. The intermediate portion 106 of the device
100 may be diametrically expandable, for example by way of plastic deformation of the tube
108.
                                               -33-

WO 2014/137830                                                           PCT/US2014/019607
         [0131]      Figure 9 shows the device 100 of Figure 8 deployed to provide a fluid flow
path between a first passage 116 and a second passage 118.        The passages 116, 118 may
include coronary blood vessels, for example a coronary artery 116 and a coronary vein 118, or
vice versa. The passages 116, 118 may include peripheral blood vessels (e.g., blood vessels in
limbs), for example a femoral or other peripheral artery 116 and a femoral or other peripheral
vein 118, or vice versa. The end portions 102, 104 and the intermediate portion 106 of the
device 100 have been expanded to meet with and push against the inner walls of the passages
116, 118. The distal end portion 104 of the device 100 is located within the second passage
118, and the proximal end portion 102 of the device 100 is located within the first passage
116. The intermediate portion 106 extends through an opening or interconnecting passage
130 surgically formed between the passages 116, 118.
         [01321      The expanded end portions 102, 104 of the device 100 are resilient, and
impart an outward radial force on the inner walls of the passages 116, 118. By virtue of the
radial stiffness of the end portions 102, 104 of the device 100, the end portions 102, 104 are
held or anchored in place within the respective passages 116, 118. Slippage of the device 100
within the passages 116, 118 is thereby prevented or reduced. In this way, the end portions
102, 104 of the device 100 can anchor or fix the device 100 in position, in use, while
providing or maintaining fluid flow through the lumen 110 of the tube 108 (Figure 8). In this
way, the device 100 can act as a shunt between the first passage 116 and the second passage
118.
         [0133]      The intermediate portion 106 of the device 100 may be flexible, for
example allowing the intermediate portion 106 to form an 'S' shape formed by the
combination of the first passage 116, the second passage 118, and the interconnecting passage
130 (Figure 9). The flexible intermediate portion 106 can allow the end portions 102, 104 of
the device 100 to move with respect to one another in response to relative movement of the
passages 116, 118.
         [0134]      In embodiments in which the intermediate portion 106 does not include a
wire mesh but includes the flexible polymer material of the tube 108, the intermediate portion
106 may not be susceptible to damage due to mesh fatigue, for example upon cyclic or other
stress imparted by relative movement of the passages 116, 118.
                                              -34-

WO 2014/137830                                                              PCT/US2014/019607
         [0135]     The intermediate portion 106 of the device 100 has sufficient resilience to
maintain dilatation of the interconnecting passage 130, so that the interconnecting passage
130 remains open to provide or maintain a path for blood flow from the artery 116 to the vein
118 by way of the lumen 110 of the tube 108 (Figure 8). Blood flow from the artery 116 to
the vein 118, by way of the interconnecting passage 130, may thereby be provided or
maintained through the lumen 110 of the tube 108. The device 100 at least partially supports
the artery 116, the vein 118, and the interconnecting passage 130 to provide a pathway for
fluid communication through the device 100.
         [0136]     The proximal end portion 102 and the distal end portion 104 of the device
100 are arranged so that, when the device 100 is deployed with the distal end portion 104 in a
vein 118 and the proximal end portion 102 in an artery 116, for example as shown in Figure 9,
the diameter of the expanded distal end portion 104 is sufficient to hold the distal end portion
104 within the vein 118, and the diameter of the expanded proximal end portion 102 is
sufficient to hold the proximal end portion 102 within the artery 116. The diameter of the
proximal end portion 102 may therefore differ from the diameter of the distal end portion 104.
By selecting appropriate diameters for the end portions 102, 104 and the intermediate portion
106, the device 100 can be tailored to a certain anatomy and/or the anatomy of an individual
patient.
         [0137]     An example procedure for positioning the device 100 of Figure 8 to
provide a shunt between an occluded artery 116 and a vein 118 (e.g., a coronary artery 116
and a coronary vein 118, or a peripheral artery 116 and a peripheral vein 118) to achieve
retroperfusion of arterial blood, for example as shown in Figure 9, will now be described.
         [0138]     A catheter may be inserted into the patient's arterial system by way of a
small aperture cut, usually in the patient's groin area. The catheter is fed to the artery 116 and
guided to a position upstream of the site of the occlusion, for example at a site proximate and
parallel or substantially parallel to a vein 118. A hollow needle is deployed from the catheter,
through the wall of the artery 116, through the interstitial tissue 132 that separates the artery
116 and vein 118, and through the wall of the vein 118. The path of the needle creates an
interconnecting passage or opening 130, which allows blood to flow between the artery 116
and the vein 118. Deployment of the needle may be guided by a transmitter (e.g., a directional
                                                -35-

WO 2014/137830                                                                PCT/US2014/019607
ultrasound transmitter) coupled to a catheter in the artery 116 and a receiver (e.g., an
omnidirectional ultrasound receiver) coupled to a catheter in the vein 118, or vice versa, for
example as described herein and in U.S. Patent App. No. 11/662,128.              Other methods of
forming the opening 130 are also possible (e.g., with or without directional ultrasound
guidance, with other types of guidance such as described herein, from vein to artery, etc.).
         [0139]     Before the needle is withdrawn from the passage 130, a guidewire (e.g., as
described with respect to the guidewire 14 of Figure 3) is inserted through the hollow needle
and into the vein 118. The needle is then retracted, leaving the guidewire in place in the artery
116, the passage 130, and the vein 118.          The catheter carrying the needle can then be
withdrawn from the patient's body. The guidewire can be used to guide further catheters to
the interconnecting passage 130 between the artery 116 and the vein 118.
         [01401     A catheter carrying the device 100 in a non-expanded state is advanced
towards the interconnecting passage 130, guided by the guidewire, for example by a rapid
exchange lumen or through the lumen 110. The catheter may include, for example, a balloon
catheter configured to expand at least a portion of the device 100 and/or a catheter configured
to allow self-expansion of at least a portion of the device 100. The distal end portion 104 of
the device 100 is passed through the interconnecting passage 130 and into the vein 118,
leaving the proximal end portion 102 in the artery 116. The intermediate portion 106 of the
device 100 is at least partially in the passage 130, and is at least partially within the artery 116
and the vein 118.     The intermediate portion 106 flexes to adopt a curved or "S"-shaped
formation, depending on the anatomy of the site. Adoption of such curvature may conform
the shape of an intermediate portion 106 extending through the interconnecting passage 130,
and optionally into at least one of the passages 116, 118, to the shape of at least the
interconnecting passage 130.
         [01411     The distal end portion 104 of the device 100 is expanded, for example
upon inflation of a balloon or by self-expansion, so as to increase the diameter of the distal
end portion 104 and anchor the distal end portion 104 against the inner wall of the vein 118.
The catheter may be adapted to expand the intermediate portion 106 of the device 100, for
example by inflation of a balloon, so that the interconnecting passage 130 can be widened or
dilated to obtain blood flow (e.g., sufficient blood flow) from the artery 116 to the vein 118.
                                                -36-

WO 2014/137830                                                             PCT/US2014/019607
The proximal end portion 102 of the device 100 is expanded, for example upon inflation of a
balloon or by self-expansion, so as to increase the diameter of the proximal end portion 102
and anchor the proximal end portion 102 against the inner wall of the artery 116.
         [0142]     After the end portions 102, 104 of the device 100 are expanded, for
example due to self-expansion and/or balloon expansion, and with or without improving
expansion after deployment, the catheter and the guidewire are withdrawn from the patient's
body. In this way, the device 100 is anchored or fixed in position within the vein 118, the
artery 116, and the interconnecting passage 130 as shown in Figure 9. In embodiments in
which the device 100 comprises a stent-graft, the graft, which can form a fluid-tight passage
between the artery 116 and the vein 118, can inhibit or prevent blood from flowing antegrade
in the vein 118 because such passageway is blocked, which can be in addition to or instead of
a blocking agent in the vein 118.
         [0143]     The catheter may be adapted to selectively expand the proximal end
portion 102, the distal end portion 104, and/or the intermediate portion 106 of the device 100
individually or in combination, for example by the provision of two or more separately
inflatable balloons or balloon portions, a single balloon configured to expand all of the
portions of the device 100 simultaneously, or a single balloon configured to expand one or
more selected portions of the device 100. For example, the end portions 102, 104 may be
self-expanding, and the intermediate portion 106 may be expanded by a balloon to dilate the
passage 130. In some embodiments including balloon expansion, all or selected parts of the
device 100 may be expanded, for example, simultaneously by a balloon across the entire
length of the device 100 or by a plurality of balloons longitudinally spaced to selectively inflate
selected parts of the device 100, and/or sequentially by a balloon or plurality of balloons. In
some embodiments including at least partial self-expansion, all or selected parts of the device
100 may be expanded, for example, by proximal retraction of a sheath over or around the
device 100, which can lead to deployment of the device 100 from distal to proximal as the
sheath is proximally retracted.     Deployment of the device 100 proximal to distal and
deployment of the device 100 intermediate first then the ends are also possible. In some
embodiments, for example embodiments in which the device 100 is at least partially conical or
tapered, a conical or tapered balloon may be used to at least partially expand the device 100.
                                               -37-

WO 2014/137830                                                            PCT/US2014/019607
In certain such embodiments, a portion of the balloon proximate to the vein 118 may have a
larger diameter than a portion of the balloon proximate to the artery 116, for example such
that the device 100 can adapt to changing vein diameters due to any increase in pressure or
blood flow in the vein 118.
         [0144]     Other steps may be included in the procedure. For example, before the
device 100 is deployed, a balloon catheter may be guided to the interconnecting passage 130
and positioned so that an inflatable balloon portion of the catheter lies in the interconnecting
passage 130.      Upon inflation of the balloon, the balloon pushes against the walls of the
interconnecting passage 130 to widen or dilate the interconnecting passage 130 to ease
subsequent insertion of the device 100.
         [0145]     Figure 10 illustrates another device 134 for providing fluid flow through at
least one passage. The device 134 includes a mesh 136 and a polymer tube 108. The mesh
136 is shown as being on the outside of the polymer tube 108, but as described herein could
also or alternatively be on an inside of the polymer tube and/or within the polymer tube 108.
As described with respect to the device 100, the device 134 includes a proximal end portion
102, a distal end portion 104, and an intermediate portion 106. In the embodiment illustrated
in Figure 10, the mesh 136 extends along the entire length of the device 134, including along
the intermediate portion 106.
         [0146]     In some embodiments, the spacing of filaments or struts of the mesh 136
varies along the length of the device 134. For example, winding density of a woven or layered
filamentary mesh may be varied and/or a window size pattern of a cut mesh may be varied.
         [0147]     In some embodiments, the spacing may be relatively small in the proximal
end portion 102 and the distal end portions 104, and the spacing may be relatively large in the
intermediate portion 106. In other words, the density or window size of the mesh 136 may be
relatively low in the intermediate portion 106, and the density or window size of the mesh 136
may be relatively high in the end portions 102, 104.         In certain such embodiments, the
intermediate portion 106 may be flexible in comparison to the end portions 102, 104. The
relatively rigid end portions 102, 104 may engage and anchor in passages. Although the mesh
136 in the intermediate portion 106 may be subject to stress such as cyclic stress, in use, the
relatively high flexibility of the intermediate portion 106 due to the low density or window
                                               -38-

WO 2014/137830                                                            PCT/US2014/019607
size allows the impact of the stress to be low because the intermediate portion 106 can flex in
response to the stress.     The risk of fatigue failure of the device 134, and particularly the
filaments or struts 138 of the mesh 136, may therefore be reduced in comparison to a device
having uniform flexibility along its entire length.
         [0148]     In some embodiments, the spacing may be relatively large in the proximal
end portion 102 and the distal end portions 104, and the spacing may be relatively small in the
intermediate portion 106. In other words, the density of the mesh 136 may be relatively high
(or the window size of the mesh 136 may be relatively low) in the intermediate portion 106,
and the density of the mesh 136 may be relatively low (or the window size of the mesh 136
may be relatively high) in the end portions 102, 104.        In certain such embodiments, the
intermediate portion 106 may have radial strength sufficient to inhibit or prevent collapse of
the passage 130, yet still, flexible enough to flex in response to stress such as cyclic stress.
The end portions 102, 104 may engage and anchor in passages.
         [0149]     Figure 11 illustrates another device or implant or prosthetic 140 for
providing fluid flow through at least one passage. As described with respect to the device
100, the device 140 includes a proximal end portion 102, a distal end portion 104, and an
intermediate portion 106.      The device 140 includes a polymer tube 108 and a support
structure including a first mesh 142 and a second mesh 144. The first mesh 142 extends from
the proximal end portion 102 toward (e.g., into) the intermediate portion 106 and optionally
into the distal end portion 104. The second mesh 144 extends from the distal end portion 104
toward (e.g., into) the intermediate portion 106 and optionally into the proximal end portion
102. The meshes 142, 144 thereby overlap each other at least in the intermediate portion 106.
Both meshes 142, 144 may be on the outside of the tube 108, on the inside of the tube 108, or
embedded within the tube 108, or one mesh may be on the outside of the tube 108, on the
inside of the tube 108, or embedded within the tube 108 while the other mesh is differently on
the outside of the tube 108, on the inside of the tube 108, or embedded within the tube 108
(e.g., one mesh inside the tube 108 and one mesh outside the tube 108). The meshes 142, 144
may be formed, for example, by winding wire in a lattice configuration around or inside the
polymer tube 108, by placing a cut tube around or inside the polymer tube 108, by being
embedded in the polymer tube 108, combinations thereof, and the like.
                                                -39-

WO 2014/137830                                                             PCT/US2014/019607
         [0150]     In some embodiments, the density of the meshes 142, 144 is relatively high
(or the window size of the meshes 142, 144 is relatively low) in their respective end portions
102, 104 and decreases in density (or increases in window size) towards the intermediate
portion 106. The total winding density (e.g., the winding density of both meshes 142, 144,
taken together) may be lower in the intermediate portion 106 than in the end portions 102,
104, or the total window size (e.g., the window size of both meshes 142, 144, taken together)
may be higher in the intermediate portion 106 than in the end portions 102, 104. In certain
such embodiments, the intermediate portion 106 is relatively flexible in comparison to the end
portions 102, 104.      In some embodiments, the meshes 142, 144 do not extend into the
intermediate portion, and absence of a mesh could cause the intermediate portion 106 to be
relatively flexible in comparison to the end portions 102, 104.        In some embodiments, as
window size increases (e.g., longitudinally along a tapered portion of the device 140), the
density decreases, the mesh coverage decreases, and/or the porosity increases because the
width of the struts and/or filaments remains substantially constant or constant or does not
increase in the same proportion as the window size, which could provide a change in flexibility
along a longitudinal length.
         [0151]     The first and second meshes 142, 144 may include different materials,
which can allow optimization of the properties of each of the respective distal and proximal
end portions 102, 104 of the device 140 for a particular application of the device 140. For
example, the second mesh 144 at the distal end portion 104 of the device 140 may include a
relatively flexible metallic alloy for ease of insertion through an interconnecting passage
between two blood vessels, while the first mesh 142 at the proximal end portion 102 of the
device 140 may include a relatively inelastic metallic alloy to provide a high degree of
resilience at the proximal end portion 104 to anchor the device 140 firmly in position. The
first and second meshes 142, 144 could include the same material composition (e.g., both
including nitinol) but different wire diameters (gauge) or strut thicknesses.
         [0152]     Figure 12 illustrates another device or implant or prosthetic 150 for
providing fluid flow through at least one passage.         The device 150 includes a support
structure (e.g., stent) 152 and a graft 154. As described with respect to the device 100, the
device 150 includes a proximal end portion 102, a distal end portion 104, and an intermediate
                                               -40-

WO 2014/137830                                                           PCT/US2014/019607
portion 106. The proximal end portion 102 includes a cylindrical or substantially cylindrical
portion and the distal end portion 104 includes a cylindrical or substantially cylindrical
portion. The diameter of the proximal end portion 102 is smaller than the diameter of the
distal end portion 104. In some embodiments, the diameter of the proximal end portion 102 is
larger than the diameter of the distal end portion 104. The intermediate portion 106 has a
tapered or frustoconical shape between the proximal end portion 102 and the distal end
portion 104. The stent 152 may include filaments (e.g., woven, layered), a cut tube or sheet,
and/or combinations thereof
         [0153]     Parameters of the stent 152 may be uniform or substantially uniform across
a portion and/or across multiple portions, or may vary within a portion and/or across multiple
portions. For example, the stent 152 at the proximal end portion 102 may include a cut tube
or sheet, the stent 152 at the distal end portion 102 may include a cut tube or sheet, and the
stent 152 at the intermediate portion 106 may include filaments (e.g., woven or layered).
Certain such embodiments may provide good anchoring by the proximal end portion 102 and
the distal end portion 104 and good flexibility (e.g., adaptability to third passage sizes and
dynamic stresses) of the intermediate portion 106.
         [0154]     The stent 152 may include different materials in different portions. For
example, the stent 152 at the proximal end portion 102 may include chromium cobalt and/or
tantalum, the stent 152 at the distal end portion 104 may include nitinol, and the stent 152 at
the intermediate portion 106 may include nitinol. Certain such embodiments may provide
good anchoring and/or wall apposition by the device 150 in each deployment areas (e.g., the
proximal end portion 102 engaging sidewalls of an artery, the distal end portion 104 engaging
sidewalls of a vein, and the intermediate portion 106 engaging sidewalls of the passage
between the artery and the vein). In some embodiments in which the distal end portion 104 is
self-expanding, the distal end portion 104 can adapt due to changing vessel diameter (e.g., if
vein diameter increases due to an increase in pressure or blood flow), for example by further
self-expanding.
         [0155]     Combinations of support structure materials and types are also possible.
For example, the stent 152 at the proximal portion may include a cut tube or sheet including
chromium cobalt and/or tantalum, the stent 152 at the distal end portion 104 may include a cut
                                               -41-

WO 2014/137830                                                              PCT/US2014/019607
tube or sheet including nitinol, and the stent 152 at the intermediate portion 106 may include
filaments including nitinol.
         [0156]     In embodiments in which the stent 152 includes at least one portion
including a cut tube or sheet, the cut pattern may be the same. For example, the cut pattern
may be the same in the proximal end portion 102 and the distal end portion 104, but
proportional to the change in diameter.         In some embodiments, the window size or strut
density is uniform or substantially uniform within a portion 102, 104, 106, within two or more
of the portions 102, 104, 106, and/or from one end of the stent 152 to the other end of the
stent 152.    In embodiments in which the stent 152 includes at least one portion including
filaments, the winding may be the same. For example, the winding may be the same in the
proximal end portion 102 and the distal end portion 104, but changed due to the change in
diameter. In some embodiments, the winding density or porosity is uniform or substantially
uniform within a portion 102, 104, 106, within two or more of the portions 102, 104, 106,
and/or from one end of the stent 152 to the other end of the stent 152. In embodiments in
which the stent 152 includes at least one portion including a cut tube or sheet and at least one
portion including filaments, the cut pattern and winding may be configured to result in a
uniform or substantially uniform density.        Non-uniformity is also possible, for example as
described herein.
         [0157]     The graft 154 may include materials and attachment to the stent 152 as
described with respect to the tube 108. The graft 154 generally forms a fluid-tight passage for
at least a portion of the device 150.            Although illustrated as only being around the
intermediate portion 106, the graft 154 may extend the entire length of the device 150, or may
partially overlap into at least one of the cylindrical end portions 102, 104.
         [0158]     Figure 13 illustrates another device 160 for providing fluid flow through at
least one passage. The device 160 includes a support structure (e.g., stent) and a graft 164.
As described with respect to the device 100, the device 160 includes a proximal end portion
102, a distal end portion 104, and an intermediate portion 106. The proximal end portion 102
includes a tapered or frustoconical portion and the distal end portion 104 includes a tapered or
frustoconical portion. The diameter of the proximal end of the proximal end portion 102 is
smaller than the diameter of the distal end of the distal end portion 104.              In some
                                                 -42-

WO 2014/137830                                                           PCT/US2014/019607
embodiments, the diameter of the proximal end of the proximal end portion 102 is larger than
the diameter of the distal end of the distal end portion 104. The intermediate portion 106 has
a tapered or frustoconical shape between the proximal end portion 102 and the distal end
portion 104. In some embodiments, the angle of inclination of the portions 102, 104, 106 is
the same or substantially the same (e.g., as illustrated in Figure 13). In some embodiments,
the angle of inclination of at least one portion is sharper or narrower than at least one other
portion. The frustoconical proximal end portion 102 and distal end portion 104 may allow
better anchoring in a body passage, for example because arteries tend to taper with distance
from the heart and veins tend to taper with distance towards the heart, and the end portions
102, 104 can be configured to at least partially correspond to such anatomical taper.
         [0159]     Figure 12 illustrates a device 150 comprising a first cylindrical or straight
portion, a conical or tapered portion, and second cylindrical or straight portion. Figure 13
illustrates a device 160 comprising one or more conical or tapered sections (e.g., the entire
device 160 being conical or tapered or comprising a plurality of conical or tapered sections).
In some embodiments, combinations of the devices 150, 160 are possible. For example, a
device may comprise a cylindrical or straight portion and a conical or tapered portion for the
remainder of the device. In certain such embodiments, the device may have a length between
about 1 cm and about 10 cm (e.g., about 5 cm), which includes a cylindrical or straight
portion having a diameter between about 1 mm and about 5 mm (e.g., about 3 mm) and a
length between about 0.5 cm and about 4 cm (e.g., about 2 cm) and a conical or tapered
portion having a diameter that increases from the diameter of the cylindrical or straight
portion to a diameter between about 3 mm and about 10 mm (e.g., about 5 mm) and a length
between about 1 cm and about 6 cm (e.g., about 3 cm). Such a device may be devoid of
another cylindrical or conical portion thereafter.
         [0160]     As described above with respect to the support structure 152, the support
structure 162 may include filaments (e.g., woven, layered), a cut tube or sheet, the same
materials, different materials, and combinations thereof
         [0161]     The graft 164 may include materials and attachment to the stent 162 as
described with respect to the tube 108. The graft 164 generally forms a fluid-tight passage for
at least a portion of the device 160.         Although illustrated as only being around the
                                               -43-

WO 2014/137830                                                              PCT/US2014/019607
intermediate portion 106, the graft 164 may extend the entire length of the device 160, or may
partially overlap into at least one of the frustoconical end portions 102, 104.
         [0162]     In some embodiments, a combination of the device 150 and the device 160
are possible. For example, the proximal end portion 102 can be cylindrical or substantially
cylindrical (e.g., as in the device 150), the distal end portion 104 can be tapered or
frustoconical (e.g., as in the device 160), with the proximal end portion 102 having a larger
diameter than the distal end of the distal end portion 104. For another example, the proximal
end portion 102 can be tapered or frustoconical (e.g., as in the device 160), the distal end
portion 104 can be cylindrical or substantially cylindrical (e.g., as in the device 150), with the
proximal end of the proximal end portion 102 having a larger diameter than the distal end
portion 104.      In each example, the intermediate portion 106 can have a tapered or
frustoconical shape between the proximal end portion 102 and the distal end portion 104.
         [0163]     An example deployment device for the implantable devices described herein
is described in U.S. Patent App. No. 12/545,982, filed August 24, 2009, and U.S. Patent App.
No. 13/486,249, filed June 1, 2012, the entire contents of each of which is hereby
incorporated by reference. The device generally includes a handle at the proximal end with a
trigger actuatable by a user and a combination of tubular member at the distal end configured
to be pushed and/or pulled upon actuation of the trigger to release the device. Other delivery
devices are also possible. The delivery device may include a portion slidable over a guidewire
(e.g., a guidewire that has been navigated between the artery and the vein via a tissue
traversing needle) and/or may be trackable through a lumen of a catheter.
         [0164]     Although certain embodiments and examples are shown or described herein
in detail, various combinations, sub-combinations, modifications, variations, substitutions, and
omissions of the specific features and aspects of those embodiments are possible, some of
which will now be described by way of example only.
         [0165]     The device, for example a stent of the device, a mesh of the device, a
support structure of the device, etc., may be self-expanding. For example, a mesh may include
a shape-memory material, such as nitinol, which is capable of returning or configured to return
to a pre-set shape after undergoing deformation.         In some embodiments, the stent may be
manufactured to a shape that is desired in the expanded configuration, and is compressible to
                                                 -44-

WO 2014/137830                                                             PCT/US2014/019607
fit inside a sleeve for transport on a catheter to a vascular site. To deploy and expand the
stent, the sleeve is drawn back from the stent to allow the shape memory material to return to
the pre-set shape, which can anchor the stent in the passages, and which may dilate the
passages if the stent has sufficient radial strength. The use of a balloon catheter is not
required to expand a fully self-expanding stent, but may be used, for example, to improve or
optimize the deployment.
         [0166]      A device may include one or more self-expanding portions, and one or
more portions which are expandable by deformation, for example using a balloon catheter.
For example, in the embodiment shown in Figure 11, the first mesh 142 may include stainless
steel expandable by a balloon catheter, and the second mesh 144 may include nitinol for self
expansion upon deployment.
         [01671      With respect to any of the embodiments described herein, the polymer tube
108, including the grafts 154, 164, may include any suitable compliant or flexible polymer,
such as PTFE, silicone, polyethylene terephthalate (PET), polyurethane such as polycarbonate
aromatic biodurable thermoplastic polyurethane elastomer (e.g., ChronoFlex C* 80A and 55D
medical grade, available from AdvanSource Biomaterials of Wilmington, Massachusetts),
combinations thereof, and the like.       The polymer tube 108 may include biodegradable,
bioabsorbable, or biocompatible polymer (e.g., polylactic acid (PLA), polyglycolic acid
(PGA),     polyglycolic-lactic   acid  (PLGA),      polycaprolactone   (PCL),   polyorthoesters,
polyanhydrides, combinations thereof, etc.        The polymer may be in tube form before
interaction with a support structure (e.g., stent), or may be formed on, in, and/or around a
support structure (e.g., stent). For example, the polymer may include spun fibers, a dip
coating, combinations thereof, and the like. In some embodiments, for example when the
device is to be deployed within a single blood vessel, the device may omit the tube. In certain
such embodiments, the intermediate portion of the stent may include a mesh with a low
winding density or high window size, while the end portions of the stent include a mesh with a
higher winding density or lower window size, the mesh being generally tubular to define a
pathway for fluid flow through the center of the mesh. In some embodiments, the polymer
tube 108 includes a lip (e.g., comprising the same or different material), which can help form a
fluid-tight seal between the polymer tube 108 and the body passages. The seal may be angled,
                                               -45-

WO 2014/137830                                                            PCT/US2014/019607
for example to account for angled positioning of the polymer tube 108 between body
passages. In some embodiments, the polymer tube 108 may extend longitudinally beyond the
support structure in at least one direction, and the part extending beyond is not supported by
the support structure.
        [0168]      The mesh may include any suitable material, such as nickel, titanium,
chromium, cobalt, tantalum, platinum, tungsten, iron, manganese, molybdenum, combinations
thereof (e.g., nitinol, chromium cobalt, stainless steel), and the like. The mesh may include
biodegradable, bioabsorbable, or biocompatible polymer (e.g.,           polylactic acid (PLA),
polyglycolic   acid    (PGA),  polyglycolic-lactic   acid  (PLGA),    polycaprolactone  (PCL),
polyorthoesters, polyanhydrides, combinations thereof, etc.) and/or glass, and may lack metal.
Different materials may be used for portions of the mesh or within the same mesh, for example
as previously described with reference to Figure 11. For example, the mesh 114 at the distal
end portion 104 and the mesh 112 at the proximal end portion 102 of the device 100 may
include different materials. For another example, the mesh 112, and/or the mesh 114, may
include a metallic alloy (e.g., comprising cobalt, chromium, nickel, titanium, combinations
thereof, and the like) in combination with a different type of metallic alloy (e.g., a shape
memory alloy in combination with a non-shape memory alloy, a first shape memory alloy in
combination with a second shape memory alloy different than the first shape memory alloy, a
clad material (e.g., comprising a core including a radiopaque material such as titanium,
tantalum, rhenium, bismuth, silver, gold, platinum, iridium, tungsten, etc.)) and/or a non
metallic material such as a polymer (e.g., polyester fiber), carbon, and/or bioabsorbable glass
fiber. In some embodiments, at least one mesh 112, 114 comprises nitinol and stainless steel.
The nitinol may allow some self-expansion (e.g., partial and/or full self-expansion), and the
mesh could then be further expanded, for example using a balloon.
        [0169]      Although generally illustrated in Figures 8, 10, and 11 as a woven filament
mesh, any other structure that can provide the desired degree of resilience may be used. For
example, layers of filaments wound in opposite directions may be fused at the filament ends to
provide an expandable structure. For another example, a metal sheet may be cut (e.g., laser
cut, chemically etched, plasma cut, etc.) to form perforations and then heat set in a tubular
formation or a metal tube (e.g., hypotube) may be cut (e.g., laser cut, chemically etched,
                                               -46-

WO 2014/137830                                                           PCT/US2014/019607
plasma cut, etc.) to form perforations. A cut tube (including a cut sheet rolled into a tube)
may be heat set to impart an expanded configuration.
         [0170]     Filaments or wires or ribbons that may be woven or braided, or layered or
otherwise arranged, are generally elongate and have a circular, oval, square, rectangular, etc.
transverse cross-section. Example non-woven filaments can include a first layer of filaments
wound in a first direction and a second layer of filaments wound in a second direction, at least
some of the filament ends being coupled together (e.g., by being coupled to an expandable
ring). Example braid patterns include one-over-one-under-one, a one-over-two-under-two, a
two-over-two-under-two, and/or combinations thereof, although other braid patterns are also
possible. At filament crossings, filaments may be helically wrapped, cross in sliding relation,
and/or combinations thereof        Filaments may be loose (e.g., held together by the weave)
and/or include welds, coupling elements such as sleeves, and/or combinations thereof Ends
of filaments can be bent back, crimped (e.g., end crimp with a radiopaque material such as
titanium, tantalum, rhenium, bismuth, silver, gold, platinum, iridium, tungsten, etc. that can
also act as a radiopaque marker), twisted, ball welded, coupled to a ring, combinations
thereof, and the like. Weave ends may include filament ends and/or bent-back filaments, and
may include open cells, fixed or unfixed filaments, welds, adhesives, or other means of fusion,
radiopaque markers, combinations thereof, and the like. Parameters of the filaments may be
uniform or substantially uniform across a portion and/or across multiple portions, or may vary
within a portion and/or across multiple portions. For example, the proximal end portion 102
may include a first parameter and the distal end portion 104 may include a second parameter
different than the first braid pattern. For another example, the proximal end portion 102 and
the distal end portion 104 may each include a first parameter and the intermediate portion 106
may include a second parameter different than the parameter. For yet another example, at
least one of the proximal end portion 102, the distal end portion 104, and the intermediate
portion 106 may include both a first parameter and a second parameter different than the first
parameter. Filament parameters may include, for example, filament type, filament thickness,
filament material, quantity of filaments, weave pattern, layering, wind direction, pitch, angle,
crossing type, filament coupling or lack thereof, filament end treatment, weave end treatment,
                                              -47-

WO 2014/137830                                                               PCT/US2014/019607
layering end treatment, quantity of layers, presence or absence of welds, radiopacity, braid
pattern, density, porosity, filament angle, braid diameter, winding diameter, and shape setting.
         [0171]     Tubes or sheets may be cut to form strut or cell patterns, struts being the
parts of the tube or sheet left after cutting and cells or perforations or windows being the parts
cut away. A tube (e.g., hypotube) may be cut directly, or a sheet may be cut and then rolled
into a tube. The tube or sheet may be shape set before or after cutting. The tube or sheet
may be welded or otherwise coupled to itself, to another tube or sheet, to filaments, to a graft
material, etc. Cutting may be by laser, chemical etchant, plasma, combinations thereof, and
the like.    Example cut patterns include helical spiral, weave-like, coil, individual rings,
sequential rings, open cell, closed cell, combinations thereof, and the like. In embodiments
including sequential rings, the rings may be coupled using flex connectors, non-flex
connectors, and/or combinations thereof In embodiments including sequential rings, the rings
connectors (e.g., flex, non-flex, and/or combinations thereof) may intersect ring peaks, ring
valleys, intermediate portions of struts, and/or combinations thereof (e.g., peak-peak, valley
valley, mid-mid, peak-valley, peak-mid, valley-mid, valley-peak, mid-peak, mid-valley). The
tube or sheet or sections thereof may be ground and/or polished before or after cutting.
Interior ridges may be formed, for example to assist with fluid flow. Parameters of the cut
tube or sheet may be uniform or substantially uniform across a portion and/or across multiple
portions, or may vary within a portion and/or across multiple portions. For example, the
proximal end portion 102 may include a first parameter and the distal end portion 104 may
include a second parameter different than the first parameter.          For another example, the
proximal end portion 102 and the distal end portion 104 may each include a first parameter
and the intermediate portion 106 may include a second parameter different than the parameter.
For yet another example, at least one of the proximal end portion 102, the distal end portion
104, and the intermediate portion 106 may include both a first parameter and a second
parameter different than the first parameter.     Cut tube or sheet parameters may include, for
example, radial strut thickness, circumferential strut width, strut shape, cell shape, cut pattern,
cut type, material, density, porosity, tube diameter, and shape setting.
                                                -48-

WO 2014/137830                                                              PCT/US2014/019607
         [0172]     In some embodiments, the perforations may provide the mesh with a
relatively flexible intermediate portion and relatively stiff end portions.       The supporting
structure may instead be an open-cell foam disposed within the tube.
         [0173]     Filaments of a stent, stent-graft, or a portion thereof, and/or struts of a cut
stent, stent-graft, or a portion thereof, may be surface modified, for example to carry
medications such as thrombosis modifiers, fluid flow modifiers, antibiotics, etc. Filaments of a
stent, stent-graft, or a portion thereof, and/or struts of a cut stent, stent-graft, or a portion
thereof, may be at least partially covered with a coating including medications such as
thrombosis modifiers, fluid flow modifiers, antibiotics, etc., for example embedded within a
polymer layer or a series of polymer layers, which may be the same as or different than the
polymer tube 108.
         [01741     Thickness (e.g., diameter) of filaments of a stent, stent-graft, or a portion
thereof, and/or struts of a cut stent, stent-graft, or a portion thereof, may be between about
0.0005 inches and about 0.02 inches, between about 0.0005 inches and about 0.015 inches,
between about 0.0005 inches and about 0.01 inches, between about 0.0005 inches and about
0.008 inches, between about 0.0005 inches and about 0.007 inches, between about 0.0005
inches and about 0.006 inches, between about 0.0005 inches and about 0.005 inches, between
about 0.0005 inches and about 0.004 inches, between about 0.0005 inches and about 0.003
inches, between about 0.0005 inches and about 0.002 inches, between about 0.0005 inches
and about 0.001 inches, between about 0.001 inches and about 0.02 inches, between about
0.001 inches and about 0.015 inches, between about 0.001 inches and about 0.01 inches,
between about 0.001 inches and about 0.008 inches, between about 0.001 inches and about
0.007 inches, between about 0.001 inches and about 0.006 inches, between about 0.001
inches and about 0.005 inches, between about 0.001 inches and about 0.004 inches, between
about 0.001 inches and about 0.003 inches, between about 0.001 inches and about 0.002
inches, between about 0.002 inches and about 0.02 inches, between about 0.002 inches and
about 0.015 inches, between about 0.002 inches and about 0.01 inches, between about 0.002
inches and about 0.008 inches, between about 0.002 inches and about 0.007 inches, between
about 0.002 inches and about 0.006 inches, between about 0.002 inches and about 0.005
inches, between about 0.002 inches and about 0.004 inches, between about 0.002 inches and
                                               -49-

WO 2014/137830                                                              PCT/US2014/019607
about 0.003 inches, between about 0.003 inches and about 0.02 inches, between about 0.003
inches and about 0.015 inches, between about 0.003 inches and about 0.01 inches, between
about 0.003 inches and about 0.008 inches, between about 0.003 inches and about 0.007
inches, between about 0.003 inches and about 0.006 inches, between about 0.003 inches and
about 0.005 inches, between about 0.003 inches and about 0.004 inches, between about 0.004
inches and about 0.02 inches, between about 0.004 inches and about 0.015 inches, between
about 0.004 inches and about 0.01 inches, between about 0.004 inches and about 0.008
inches, between about 0.004 inches and about 0.007 inches, between about 0.004 inches and
about 0.006 inches, between about 0.004 inches and about 0.005 inches, between about 0.005
inches and about 0.02 inches, between about 0.005 inches and about 0.015 inches, between
about 0.005 inches and about 0.01 inches, between about 0.005 inches and about 0.008
inches, between about 0.005 inches and about 0.007 inches, between about 0.005 inches and
about 0.006 inches, between about 0.006 inches and about 0.02 inches, between about 0.006
inches and about 0.015 inches, between about 0.006 inches and about 0.01 inches, between
about 0.006 inches and about 0.008 inches, between about 0.006 inches and about 0.007
inches, between about 0.007 inches and about 0.02 inches, between about 0.007 inches and
about 0.015 inches, between about 0.007 inches and about 0.01 inches, between about 0.007
inches and about 0.008 inches, between about 0.008 inches and about 0.02 inches, between
about 0.008 inches and about 0.015 inches, between about 0.008 inches and about 0.01
inches, between about 0.01 inches and about 0.02 inches, between about 0.01 inches and
about 0.015 inches, or between about 0.015 inches and about 0.02 inches. Other thicknesses
are also possible, including thicknesses greater than or less than the identified thicknesses.
Filaments and/or struts comprising certain materials (e.g., biodegradable material, materials
with less restoring force, etc.) may be thicker than the identified thicknesses.
        [0175]      Thicknesses of filaments and/or struts may be based, for example, on at
least one of device or device portion size (e.g., diameter and/or length), porosity, radial
strength, material, quantity of filaments and/or struts, cut pattern, weave pattern, layering
pattern, and the like. For example, larger filament and/or strut thicknesses (e.g., greater than
about 0.006 inches) may be useful for large devices or device portions used to treat large
vessels such as coronary vessels, mid-sized filament and/or strut thicknesses (e.g., between
                                               -50-

WO 2014/137830                                                            PCT/US2014/019607
about 0.003 inches and about 0.006 inches) may be useful for mid-sized used to treat mid
sized vessels such as peripheral vessels, and small filament and/or strut thicknesses (e.g., less
than about 0.003 inches) may be useful for small devices or device portions used to treat small
vessels such as veins and neurological vessels.
         [0176]     The internal or external diameter of a stent, a stent-graft, or a first end
portion, second end portion, intermediate portion, or subportion thereof, for example taking
into account filament or strut thickness, may be between about 1 mm and about 12 mm,
between about 1 mm and about 10 mm, between about 1 mm and about 8 mm, between about
1 mm and about 6 mm, between about 1 mm and about 4 mm, between about 1 mm and about
2 mm, between about 2 mm and about 12 mm, between about 2 mm and about 10 mm,
between about 2 mm and about 8 mm, between about 2 mm and about 6 mm, between about
2 mm and about 4 mm, between about 4 mm and about 12 mm, between about 4 mm and
about 10 mm, between about 4 mm and about 8 mm, between about 4 mm and about 6 mm,
between about 6 mm and about 12 mm, between about 6 mm and about 10 mm, between
about 6 mm and about 8 mm, between about 8 mm and about 12 mm, between about 8 mm
and about 10 mm, or between about 10 mm and about 12 mm. Certain such diameters may be
suitable for treating, for example, coronary vessels. The internal or external diameter of a
stent, a stent-graft, or a portion thereof, for example taking into account filament or strut
thickness, may be between about 1 mm and about 10 mm, between about 1 mm and about 8
mm, between about 1 mm and about 6 mm, between about 1 mm and about 4 mm, between
about 1 mm and about 2 mm, between about 2 mm and about 10 mm, between about 2 mm
and about 8 mm, between about 2 mm and about 6 mm, between about 2 mm and about 4
mm, between about 4 mm and about 10 mm, between about 4 mm and about 8 mm, between
about 4 mm and about 6 mm, between about 6 mm and about 10 mm, between about 6 mm
and about 8 mm, or between about 8 mm and about 10 mm. Certain such diameters may be
suitable for treating, for example, veins. The internal or external diameter of a stent, a stent
graft, or a portion thereof, for example taking into account filament or strut thickness, may be
between about 6 mm and about 25 mm, between about 6 mm and about 20 mm, between
about 6 mm and about 15 mm, between about 6 mm and about 12 mm, between about 6 mm
and about 9 mm, between about 9 mm and about 25 mm, between about 9 mm and about 20
                                               -51-

WO 2014/137830                                                          PCT/US2014/019607
mm, between about 9 mm and about 15 mm, between about 9 mm and about 12 mm, between
about 12 mm and about 25 mm, between about 12 mm and about 20 mm, between about 12
mm and about 15 mm, between about 15 mm and about 25 mm, between about 15 mm and
about 20 mm, or between about 20 mm and about 25 mm. Certain such diameters may be
suitable for treating, for example, peripheral vessels. The internal or external diameter of a
stent, a stent-graft, or a portion thereof, for example taking into account filament or strut
thickness, may be between about 20 mm and about 50 mm, between about 20 mm and about
40 mm, between about 20 mm and about 35 mm, between about 20 mm and about 30 mm,
between about 30 mm and about 50 mm, between about 30 mm and about 40 mm, between
about 30 mm and about 35 mm, between about 35 mm and about 50 mm, between about 35
mm and about 40 mm, or between about 40 mm and about 50 mm. Certain such diameters
may be suitable for treating, for example, aortic vessels. Other diameters are also possible,
including diameters greater than or less than the identified diameters.   The diameter of the
device may refer to the diameter of the first end portion, the second end portion, or the
intermediate portion, each of which may be in expanded or unexpanded form. The diameter
of the device may refer to the average diameter of the device when all of the portions of the
device are in either expanded or unexpanded form.
        [0177]      The length of a stent, a stent-graft, or a first end portion, second end
portion, intermediate portion, or subportion thereof may be between about 5 mm and about
150 mm, between about 5 mm and about 110 mm, between about 5 mm and about 70 mm,
between about 5 mm and about 50 mm, between about 5 mm and about 25 mm, between
about 5 mm and about 20 mm, between about 5 mm and about 10 mm, between about 10 mm
and about 150 mm, between about 10 mm and about 110 mm, between about 10 mm and
about 70 mm, between about 10 mm and about 50 mm, between about 10 mm and about 25
mm, between about 10 mm and about 20 mm, between about 20 mm and about 150 mm,
between about 20 mm and about 110 mm, between about 20 mm and about 70 mm, between
about 20 mm and about 50 mm, between about 20 mm and about 25 mm, between about 25
mm and about 150 mm, between about 25 mm and about 110 mm, between about 25 mm and
about 70 mm, between about 25 mm and about 50 mm, between about 50 mm and about 150
mm, between about 50 mm and about 110 mm, between about 50 mm and about 70 mm,
                                              -52-

WO 2014/137830                                                             PCT/US2014/019607
between about 70 mm and about 150 mm, between about 70 mm and about 110 mm, or
between about 110 mm and about 150 mm. Other lengths are also possible, including lengths
greater than or less than the identified lengths.
        [0178]       The porosity of a stent, a stent-graft, or a first end portion, second end
portion, intermediate portion, or subportion thereof may be between about 5% and about
95%, between about 5% and about 50%, between about 5% and about 25%, between about
5% and about 10%, between about 10% and about 50%, between about 10% and about 2 5%,
between about 25% and about 50%, between about 50% and about 95%, between about 50%
and about 75%, between about 50% and about 60%, between about 60% and about 95%,
between about 75% and about 90%, between about 60% and about 75%, and combinations
thereof The density of a stent may be inverse to the porosity of that stent. The porosity of a
portion of a stent covered by a graft may be about 0%. The porosity may vary by objectives
for certain portions of the stent.     For example, the intermediate portion may have a low
porosity to increase fluid flow through the device, while end portions may have lower porosity
to increase flexibility and wall apposition.
        [0179]       The radial strength or compression resistance of a stent, a stent-graft, or a
first end portion, second end portion, intermediate portion, or subportion thereof may be
between about 0.1 N/mm and about 0.5 N/mm, between about 0.2 N/mm and about 0.5
N/mm, between about 0.3 N/mm and about 0.5 N/mm, between about 0.1 N/mm and about
0.3 N/mm, between about 0.1 N/mm and about 0.2 N/mm, between about 0.2 N/mm and
about 0.5 N/mm, between about 0.2 N/mm and about 0.3 N/mm, or between about 0.3 N/mm
and about 0.5 N/mm.
        [0180]       The values of certain parameters of a stent, a stent-graft, or a first end
portion, second end portion, intermediate portion, or subportion thereof may be linked (e.g.,
proportional). For example, a ratio of a thickness of a strut or filament to a diameter of a
device portion comprising that strut or filament may be between about 1:10 and about 1:250,
between about 1:25 and about 1:175, or between about 1:50 and about 1:100. For another
example, a ratio of a length of a device or portion thereof to a diameter of a device or a
portion thereof may be between about 1:1 and about 50:1, between about 5:1 and about 25:1,
or between about 10:1 and about 20:1.
                                                -53-

WO 2014/137830                                                              PCT/US2014/019607
         [0181]     Portions of the device may include radiopaque material.         For example,
filaments and/or struts a stent, a stent-graft, or a first end portion, second end portion,
intermediate portion, or subportion thereof may comprise (e.g., be at least partially made
from) titanium, tantalum, rhenium, bismuth, silver, gold, platinum, iridium, tungsten,
combinations thereof, and the like. For another example, filaments and/or struts of a stent,
stent-graft, or a portion thereof may comprise (e.g., be at least partially made from) a material
having a density greater than about 9 grams per cubic centimeter.            Separate radiopaque
markers may be attached to certain parts of the device. For example, radiopaque markers can
be added to the proximal end of the device or parts thereof (e.g., a proximal part of the
intermediate portion, a proximal part of the distal portion), the distal end of the device or
parts thereof (e.g., a distal part of the intermediate portion, a distal part of the proximal
portion), and/or other parts. A radiopaque marker between ends of a device may be useful,
for example, to demarcate transitions between materials, portions, etc. Radiopacity may vary
across the length of the device.       For example, the proximal portion could have a first
radiopacity (e.g., due to distal portion material and/or separate markers) and the distal portion
could have a second radiopacity (e.g., due to distal portion material and/or separate markers)
different than the first radiopacity.
         [0182]     In some embodiments, the device includes a polymer tube, and no
supporting structure is provided. The intermediate portion of such a device may be relatively
more flexible than the end portions by, for example, decreasing the wall thickness of the
polymer tube within the intermediate portion.
         [0183]     When a mesh or other supporting structure is provided in combination with
a polymer tube, the supporting structure may be located around the outside of the tube, in the
inner bore of the tube, or embedded within a wall of the tube. More than one supporting
structure may be provided, in which case each supporting structure may have a different
location with respect to the tube.
         [0184]     One or both of the end portions of the device may include anchoring
elements such as hooks, protuberances, or barbs configured to grasp or grip inner sidewalls of
a blood vessel. The radial force of the end portions after expansion may be sufficient to grasp
or grip inner sidewalls of a blood vessel without anchoring elements.
                                               -54-

WO 2014/137830                                                            PCT/US2014/019607
         [0185]     There need not be a well-defined transition between the intermediate and
end portions. For example, mesh type, material, wall thickness, flexibility, etc. may gradually
change from an end portion toward an intermediate portion or from an intermediate portion
toward an end portion.
         [0186]     The flexibility of the device may increase gradually when moving from an
end portion towards the intermediate portion, for example as described with respect to the
devices 134, 140.     The change in flexibility may be due to change in mesh density (e.g.,
winding density, window size), tube thickness, or other factors. The flexibility of the device
may be uniform or substantially uniform along the entire length of the support structure (e.g.,
stent), or along certain portions of the support structure (e.g., along an entire end portion,
along the entire intermediate portion, along one end portion and the intermediate portion but
not the other end portion, etc.).
         [0187]     While the devices described herein may be particularly suitable for use as a
transvascular shunt in percutaneous surgery, the devices could be used in many other medical
applications.   For example, the devices could be used in angioplasty for the treatment of
occluded blood vessels with tortuous or kinked paths, or where the vessels may be subject to
deflection or deformation at or near the position of the stent. The stent could also be used for
the repair of damaged blood vessels, for example in aortic grafting procedures or after
perforation during a percutaneous procedure. In certain such cases, the intermediate portion
of the device can allow the device to conform to the shape of the blood vessel and to deform
in response to movement of the vessel with reduced risk of fatigue failure while remaining
fixed or anchored in position by the end portions. For another example, the devices could be
used to form a shunt between a healthy artery and a healthy vein for dialysis access and/or
access for administration of medications (e.g., intermittent injection of cancer therapy, which
can damage vessels).
         [0188]     Referring again to Figures 4 and 7, blocking material 251 may be used to
help inhibit or prevent reversal of arterial blood flow. As will now be described in further
detail, additional or other methods and systems can be used to inhibit or prevent reversal of
arterial blood flow, or, stated another way, to inhibit or prevent flow of arterial blood now
                                               -55-

WO 2014/137830                                                             PCT/US2014/019607
flowing into the vein from flowing in the normal, pre-procedure direction of blood flow in the
vein such that oxygenated blood bypasses downstream tissue such as the foot.
        [0189]      In the absence of treatment, Peripheral Vascular Disease (PVD) may
progress to critical limb ischemia (CLI), which is characterized by profound chronic pain and
extensive tissue loss that restricts revascularization options and frequently leads to
amputation. CLI is estimated to have an incidence of approximately 50 to 100 per 100,000
per year, and is associated with mortality rates as high as 20% at 6 months after onset.
        [0190]      Interventional radiologists have been aggressively trying to treat CLI by
attempting to open up chronic total occlusions (CTOs) or bypassing CTOs in the sub-intimal
space using such products as the Medtronic Pioneer catheter, which tunnels a wire into the
sub-intimal space proximal to the CTO and then attempts to re-enter the vessel distal to the
occlusion. Once a wire is in place, a user can optionally create a wider channel and then place
a stent to provide a bypass conduit past the occlusion. Conventional approaches such as
percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA), stenting, and drug eluting balloons (DEB) to
treat PAD can also or alternatively be used in CLI treatment if a wire is able to traverse the
occlusion.
        [0191]      From the amputee-coalition.org website, the following are some statistics
regarding the CLI problem:
    *   There are nearly 2 million people living with limb loss in the United States.
    *   Among those living with limb loss, the main causes are:
            o vascular disease (54%) (including diabetes and peripheral artery disease
                (PAD)),
            o trauma (45%), and
            o   cancer (less than 2%).
    *   Approximately 185,000 amputations occur in the United States each year.
    *   Hospital costs associated with having a limb amputated totaled more than $6.5 billion
        in 2007.
    *   Survival rates after an amputation vary based on a variety of factors. Those who have
        amputations due to vascular disease (including PAD and diabetes) face a 30-day
                                               -56-

WO 2014/137830                                                              PCT/US2014/019607
         mortality rate reported to be between 9% and 15% and a long-term survival rate of
         6 0 % at  1 year, 42% at 3 years, and 35%-45% at 5 years.
     " Nearly half of the people who lose a limb to dysvascular disease will die within 5
         years.    This is higher than the 5-year mortality rate experienced by people with
         colorectal, breast, and prostate cancer.
     *   Of people with diabetes who have a lower-limb amputation, up to 55% will require
         amputation of the second leg within 2 to 3 years.
         [0192]       CLI has been surgically treated by open-leg venous arterialization since the
early 1900's. Numerous small series of clinical trials have been published over the years using
such an open-leg surgical approach, as summarized by a 2006 meta-analysis article by Lu et
al. in the European Journal of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery, vol. 31, pp. 493-499, titled
"Meta-analysis of the clinical effectiveness of venous arterialization for salvage of critically
ischemic limbs." The article had the following results and conclusions:
     *   Results:
              o   A total of 56 studies were selected for comprehensive review. No randomized
                  control trial (RCT) was identified.      Seven patient series, comprising 228
                  patients, matched the selection criteria. Overall 1-year foot preservation was
                  71% (95% CI: 64%-77%) and 1-year secondary patency was 46% (95% CI:
                  39%- 5 3 %). The large majority of patients in whom major amputation was
                  avoided experienced successful wound healing, disappearance of rest pain, and
                  absence of serious complications.
     *   Conclusions:
              o   On the basis of limited evidence, venous arterialization may be considered as a
                  viable alternative before major amputation is undertaken in patients with
                  "inoperable" chronic critical leg ischemia.
         [0193]       Among other maladies as described herein, the methods and systems
described herein may be used to create an aterio-venous (AV) fistula in the below-the-knee
(BTK) vascular system using an endovascular, minimally invasive approach. Such methods
may be appropriate for patients that (i) have a clinical diagnosis of symptomatic critical limb
ischemia as defined by Rutherford 5 or 6 (severe ischemic ulcers or frank gangrene); (ii) have
                                                  -57-

WO 2014/137830                                                              PCT/US2014/019607
been assessed by a vascular surgeon and interventionist and it was determined that no surgical
or endovascular treatment is possible; and/or (iii) are clearly indicated for major amputation.
        [0194]      In some embodiments, a system or kit optionally comprises one or more of
the following components: a first ultrasound catheter (e.g., an arterial catheter, a launching
catheter including a needle, etc.); a second ultrasound catheter (e.g., a venous catheter, a
target catheter, etc.); and a prosthesis (e.g., a covered nitinol stent graft in a delivery system
(e.g., a 7 Fr (approx. 2.3 mm) delivery system)).          The system or kit optionally further
comprises an ultrasound system, a control system (e.g., computer). Some users may already
have an appropriate ultrasound system that can be connected to the ultrasound catheter(s).
The catheters and prostheses described above may be used in the system or kit, and details of
other, additional, and/or modified possible components are described below.
        [01951      Figure 14A is a schematic side cross-sectional view of an example
embodiment of an ultrasound launching catheter 170 comprising a needle 172 (e.g., a first
ultrasound catheter, an arterial catheter (e.g., if extending a needle from artery into vein), a
venous catheter (e.g., if extending a needle from vein into artery)). The catheter 170 is placed
into an artery with the needle 172 in a retracted state inside a lumen of the catheter 170. The
catheter 170 can be tracked over a guidewire (e.g., a 0.014 inch (approx. 0.36 mm)
guidewire) and/or placed through a sheath in the artery (e.g., a femoral artery), and advanced
up to the point of the total occlusion of the artery (in the tibial artery). The catheter 170
includes a handle 174 that includes a pusher ring 176. Longitudinal or distal advancement of
the pusher ring 176 can advance the needle 172 from out of a lumen of the catheter 170, out
of the artery and into a vein, as described herein.     Other advancement mechanisms for the
needle 172 are also possible (e.g., rotational, motorized, etc.). Before, after, and/or during
after advancing the needle 172, a guidewire (e.g., a 0.014 inch (approx. 0.36 mm) guidewire)
can be placed through the needle 172 (e.g., as described with respect to the guidewire 14 of
Figure 3), and this guidewire can be referred to as a crossing wire.
        [0196]      Figure 14B is an expanded schematic side cross-sectional view of a distal
portion of the ultrasound launching catheter 170 of Figure 14A within the circle 14B. Upon
advancing or launching, the needle 172 extends radially outwardly from a lumen 173 of the
catheter 170.     In some embodiments, the lumen 173 ends proximal to the ultrasound
                                                -58-

WO 2014/137830                                                              PCT/US2014/019607
transmitting device 178. The needle 172 may extend along a path that is aligned with (e.g.,
parallel to) the path of the directional ultrasound signal emitted by the ultrasound transmitting
device 178. Figure 14B also shows the lumen 175, which can be used to house a guidewire
for tracking the catheter 170 to the desired position.
          [0197]    Figure 15A is a schematic side elevational view of an example embodiment
of an ultrasound target catheter 180 (e.g., a second ultrasound catheter, an arterial catheter
(e.g., if extending a needle from vein into artery), a venous catheter (e.g., if extending a needle
from artery into vein)). Figure 15B is an expanded schematic side cross-sectional view of the
ultrasound target catheter 180 of Figure 15A within the circle 15B.              Figure 15C is an
expanded schematic side cross-sectional view of the ultrasound target catheter 180 of Figure
15A within the circle 15C. The catheter 180 can be tracked over a guidewire (e.g., a 0.014
inch (approx. 0.36 mm) guidewire) and/or placed through a sheath in the vein (e.g., a femoral
vein), and advanced up to a point (e.g., in the tibial vein) proximate and/or parallel to the
distal end of the catheter 170 and/or the occlusion in the artery. The catheter 180 includes an
ultrasound receiving transducer 182 (e.g., an omnidirectional ultrasound receiving transducer)
that can act as a target in the vein for aligning the needle 172 of the catheter 170.          The
catheter 180 may be left in place or remain stationary or substantially stationary while the
catheter 170 is rotated and moved longitudinally to obtain a good or optimal ultrasound signal
indicating that the needle 172 is aligned with and in the direction of the catheter 180.
          [0198]    The catheters 170, 180 may be connected to an ultrasound transceiver that
is connected to and controlled by a computer running transceiver software. As described in
further detail herein, the catheter 170 includes a flat or directional ultrasound transmitter 178
configured to transmit an ultrasound signal having a low angular spread or tight beam (e.g.,
small beam width) in the direction of the path of the needle 172 upon advancement from the
lumen 173 of the catheter 170. The catheter 180 includes an omnidirectional (360 degrees)
ultrasound receiver 182 configured to act as a target for the ultrasound signal emitted by the
directional transmitter 178 of the catheter 170.      The catheter 170 is rotated until the peak
ultrasound signal is displayed, indicating that the needle 172 is aligned to the catheter 180
such that, upon extension of the needle 172 (e.g., by longitudinally advancing the ring 176 of
                                                -59-

WO 2014/137830                                                              PCT/US2014/019607
the handle 174), the needle 172 can pass out of the artery in which the catheter 170 resides,
through interstitial tissue, and into the vein in which the catheter 180 resides.
         [0199]      Figure 16 is an example embodiment of a graph for detecting catheter
alignment, as may be displayed on display device of an ultrasound system (e.g., the screen of a
laptop, tablet computer, smartphone, combinations thereof, and the like). The graph in Figure
16 shows that the signal originating from the transmitting catheter in the artery has been
received by the receiving catheter in the vein. The second frequency envelope from the right
is the received signal. The distance from the left side of the illustrated screen to the leading
edge of the second frequency envelope may indicate the distance between the catheters. The
operator can move the catheter in the artery both rotationally and longitudinally, for example
until the second envelope is maximal, which indicates the catheters are correctly orientated.
         [02001      Figure 17 is a schematic side elevational view of an example embodiment
of a prosthesis (e.g., stent, stent-graft) delivery system 190.       In some embodiments, the
delivery system 190 is a 7 Fr (approx. 2.3 mm) delivery system. Figure 18 is a schematic side
elevational view of an example embodiment of a prosthesis (e.g., stent, stent-graft) 200. In
Figure 17, a prosthesis (e.g., the prosthesis 200, other prostheses described herein, etc.) is in a
compressed or crimped state proximate to the distal end 192 of the delivery system 190. In
some embodiments, the prosthesis 200 comprises a shape-memory stent covered with a graft
material, for example as described above. Once the crossing wire extends from the artery to
the vein, for example as a result of being advanced through the needle 172 as described herein,
the delivery system 190 can be advanced over the crossing wire. The prosthesis 200 may be
deployed from the delivery system 190, for example by squeezing the trigger handle 194 of
the delivery system 190, causing the outer cover sheath to proximally retract and/or distally
advance the prosthesis 200. The prosthesis 200 can create a flow path between the artery and
the vein and through the interstitial tissue. Other types of delivery systems and prostheses are
also possible.
         [0201]      Referring again to Figure 17, some non-limiting example dimensions of the
delivery system 190 are provided. The distance 196 of travel of the trigger handle 194 may
be, for example, between about 0.4 inches (approx. 1 cm) and about 12 inches (approx. 30
cm), between about 1 inch (approx. 2.5 cm) and about 8 inches (approx. 20 mm), or between
                                                 -60-

WO 2014/137830                                                             PCT/US2014/019607
about 2 inches (approx. 5 cm) and about 6 inches (approx. 15 mm) (e.g., about 2 inches
(approx. 5 cm)). In some embodiments, the distance 196 of travel of the trigger handle 194 is
at least as long as the length of the prosthesis 200 to be deployed (e.g., in the radially
expanded state). In some embodiments, gearing or other mechanisms may be employed to
reduce the distance 196 of travel of the trigger handle 194 be less than the length of the
prosthesis 200 to be deployed (e.g., in the radially expanded state). The distance 196 may be
adjusted for example, based on at least one of. the length of the prosthesis 200 to be deployed,
the degree of foreshortening of the prosthesis 200 to be deployed, the mechanism of
deployment (e.g., whether the outer sheath is proximally retracted, the prosthesis 200 is
pushed distally forward, or both, whether the delivery system 190 includes gearing
mechanism, etc.), combinations thereof, and the like. The length 197 of the outer sheath or
catheter portion may be, for example, between about 40 inches (approx. 1,020 mm) and about
50 inches (approx. 1,270 mm), between about 46 inches (approx. 1,170 mm) and about 47
inches (approx. 1,190 mm), or between about 46.48 inches (approx. 1,180 mm) and about
46.7 inches (approx. 1,186 mm).       The total length 198 of the delivery system 190 from
proximal tip to distal tip may be, for example, between about 40 inches (approx. 1,000 mm)
and about 60 inches (approx. 1,500 mm). The lengths 197, 198 may be adjusted, for example
based on at least one of. length of the prosthesis 200 to be deployed, the degree of
foreshortening of the prosthesis 200 to be deployed, the height of the patient, the location of
the occlusion being treated, combinations thereof, and the like.         In some embodiments,
spacing the trigger handle 194 from the vascular access point, for example by between about
10 cm and about 30 cm (e.g., at least about 20 cm) may advantageously provide easier
handling or management by the user. In certain such embodiments, the length 197 may be
between about 120 cm and about 130 cm (e.g., for an antegrade approach) or between about
150 cm and about 180 cm (e.g., for a contralateral approach).
        [0202]     Referring again to Figure 18, some non-limiting example dimensions of the
prosthesis 200 are provided, depending on context at least in the compressed state.          The
thickness 201 of a structural strut may be, for example, between about 0.05 mm and about 0.5
mm or between about 0.1 mm and about 0.2 mm (e.g., about 0.143 mm). The spacing 202
between struts of a structural strut may be, for example, between about 0.005 mm and about
                                              -61-

WO 2014/137830                                                             PCT/US2014/019607
0.05 mm or between about 0.01 mm and about 0.03 mm (e.g., about 0.025 mm).                    The
thickness 203 of a linking strut may be, for example, between about 0.05 mm and about 0.5
mm or between about 0.1 mm and about 0.2 mm (e.g., about 0.133 mm). The longitudinal
length 204 of the structural components may be, for example, between about 1 mm and about
5 mm or between about 2.5 mm and about 3 mm (e.g., about 2.8 mm).               The longitudinal
length 205 between structural components may be, for example, between about 0.25 mm and
about 1 mm or between about 0.5 mm and about 0.6 mm (e.g., about 0.565 mm). The length
206 of a strut within a structural component, including all portions winding back and forth,
may be, for example, between about 25 mm and about 100 mm or between about 65 mm and
about 70 mm (e.g., about 67.62 mm). The total longitudinal length of the prosthesis 200 may
be, for example, between about 25 mm and about 150 mm or between about 50 mm and about
70 mm (e.g., about 62 mm). As described herein, a wide variety of laser-cut stents, woven
stents, and combinations thereof, including various dimensions, are possible.         The struts
described herein may comprise wires or filaments or potions not cut from a hypotube or sheet.
         [0203]     The proximal and/or distal ends of the prosthesis 200 may optionally
comprise rings 210. The rings 210 may, for example, help to anchor the prosthesis 200 in the
artery and/or the vein. The circumferential width 211 of a ring 210 may be, for example,
between about 0.25 mm and about 1 mm or between about 0.5 mm and about 0.75 mm (e.g.,
about 0.63 mm). The longitudinal length 212 of a ring 210 may be, for example, between
about 0.25 mm and about 2 mm or between about 0.5 mm and about 1 mm (e.g., about 0.785
mm).     In some embodiments, a ratio of the total length of the prosthesis 200 to the
longitudinal length 212 of a ring 210 may be between about 50:1 and about 100:1 (e.g., about
79:1). The dimensions 211, 212 of the rings 210 may be adjusted, for example based on at
least one of: strut thickness, diameter of the prosthesis (e.g., relative to the vessel), total
length of the prosthesis, material, shape setting properties, combinations thereof, and the like.
         [0204]     Figure 19 is a schematic side elevational view of another example
embodiment of a prosthesis 220. The prosthesis 200 may have the shape of the prosthesis
220, for example in a radially expanded state (e.g., upon being deployed from the delivery
system 190). Figure 19 illustrates an example shape of the prosthesis 220 comprising a first
portion 221 and a second portion 225. The first portion 221 has a substantially cylindrical or
                                                -62-

WO 2014/137830                                                             PCT/US2014/019607
cylindrical shape having a length 222 between about 15 mm and about 25 mm (e.g., about 21
mm) and a diameter 223 between about 2.5 mm and about 5 mm (e.g., about 3.5 mm). The
second portion 225 has a substantially frustoconical or frustoconical shape having a length
226 between about 30 mm and about 50 mm (e.g., about 41 mm) and a widest diameter 227
between about 4 mm and about 10 mm, between about 4 mm and about 7 mm (e.g., about 5.5
mm), etc.. The angle of taper of the second portion 225 away from the first portion 221 may
be between about 0.02 degrees and about 0.03 degrees (e.g., about 0.024 degrees).
         [0205]      Further details regarding prostheses that can be used in accordance with
the methods and systems described herein are described in U.S. Patent App. No. 13/791,185,
filed March 8, 2013, which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.
         [0206]      Figures 20A-20H schematically illustrate an example embodiment of a
method for effecting retroperfusion.       The procedure will be described with respect to a
peripheral vascular system such as the lower leg, but can also be adapted as appropriate for
other body lumens (e.g., cardiac, other peripheral, etc.). Certain steps such as anesthesia,
incision specifics, suturing, and the like may be omitted for clarity. In some embodiments, the
procedure can be performed from vein to artery (e.g., with the venous catheter coming from
below).
         [0207]      Access to a femoral artery and a femoral vein is obtained. An introducer
sheath (e.g., 7 Fr (approx. 2.3 mm)) is inserted into the femoral artery and an introducer
sheath (e.g., 6 Fr (approx. 2 mm)) is inserted into the femoral vein, for example using the
Seldinger technique. A guidewire (e.g., 0.014 inch (approx. 0.36 mm), 0.035 inch (approx.
0.89 mm), 0.038 inch (approx. 0.97 mm)) is inserted through the introducer sheath in the
femoral artery and guided into the distal portion of the posterior or anterior tibial diseased
artery 300. A second guidewire (e.g., 0.014 inch (approx. 0.36 mm), 0.035 inch (approx.
0.89 mm), 0.038 inch (approx. 0.97 mm)) or a snare is inserted through the introducer sheath
in the femoral vein. In embodiments in which a snare is used, the described third guidewire,
fourth guidewire, etc. described herein are accurate even though the numbering may not be
sequential.
         [0208]      A venous access needle is percutaneously inserted into a target vein, for
example a tibial vein (e.g., the proximal tibial vein (PTV)). In some embodiments, the venous
                                                -63-

WO 2014/137830                                                            PCT/US2014/019607
access needle may be guided under ultrasound.         In some embodiments, contrast may be
injected into the saphenous vein towards the foot (retrograde), and then the contrast will flow
into the PTV. This flow path can be captured using fluoroscopy such that the venous access
needle can be guided by fluoroscopy rather than or in addition to ultrasound.
         [0209]     The target vein may be accessed proximate to and distal to (e.g., a few
inches or centimeters) below where the launching catheter 310 will likely reside. In some
embodiments, the target vein may be in the ankle. Once the venous access needle is in the
vein, a third guidewire (or "second" guidewire in the case that a snare is used instead of a
second guidewire) is inserted into the venous access needle and advanced antegrade in the
target vein up to the femoral vein. This access method can advantageously reduce issues due
to advancing wires retrograde across venous valves, which are described in further detail
below. The third guidewire is snared, for example using fluoroscopic guidance, and pulled
through the femoral vein sheath.    The target catheter 320 is inserted into the femoral vein
sheath over the third guidewire, which has been snared. The target catheter 320 is advanced
over the third guidewire into the venous system until the target catheter is proximate to and/or
parallel with the guidewire in the distal portion of the posterior or anterior tibial diseased
artery and/or proximate to the occlusion 304, as shown in Figure 20A.
         [0210]     In some embodiments, the third guidewire may include an ultrasound
receiving transducer (e.g., omnidirectional) mounted to provide the target for the signal
emitted by the launching catheter 310 or the target catheter 320 could be tracked over the
third guidewire, either of which may allow omission of certain techniques (e.g., femoral vein
access, introducing vein introducer sheath, inserting second guidewire, antegrade advancing of
the third guidewire up to the femoral vein, snaring the third guidewire, advancing the target
catheter 320 over the third guidewire).
         [02111     In some embodiments, the PTV may be accessed directly, for example
using ultrasound, which can allow placement of the target catheter 320 directly into the PTV,
for example using a small sheath. which may allow omission of certain techniques (e.g.,
femoral vein access, introducing vein introducer sheath, inserting second guidewire, antegrade
advancing of the third guidewire up to the femoral vein).
                                              -64-

WO 2014/137830                                                             PCT/US2014/019607
         [0212]     In some embodiments, the catheter 320 is not an over-the-wire catheter,
but comprises a guidewire and an ultrasound receiving transducer (e.g., omnidirectional). The
catheter 320 may be inserted as the third guidewire, as discussed above, as the second
guidewire, or as a guidewire through a small sheath when directly accessing the PTV.
         [0213]     Ultrasound transducers generally include two electrodes including surfaces
spaced by a ceramic that can vibrate. An incoming or received ultrasound signal wave can
couple into a length extensional mode, as shown in Figure 21.          Figure 21 is a schematic
perspective view of an example embodiment of an ultrasound receiving transducer 350. If the
proximal or top end 352 of the transducer 350 and the distal or bottom end 354 of the
transducer are conductive and electrically connected to wires, the transducer can receive
ultrasound signals. In some embodiments, the transducer 350 has a length 356 between about
0.1 mm and about 0.4 mm (e.g., about 0.25 mm). In some embodiments, the transducer 350
has an overlap length 358 between about 0.1 mm and about 0.3 mm (e.g., about 0.2 mm). In
some embodiments, the transducer 350 has a diameter that is similar to, substantially similar
to, or the same as the guidewire on which it is mounted. In some embodiments, an array or
series of laminates may enhance the signal-receiving ability of the transducer 350.
         [0214]     In some embodiments, a guidewire comprising an ultrasound receiving
transducer may comprise a piezoelectric film (e.g., comprising plastic), which could enhance
the signal-receiving ability of the transducer. Figure 22 is a schematic cross-sectional view of
another example embodiment of an ultrasound receiving transducer 360.            The ultrasound
receiving transducer 360 shown in Figure 22 includes an optional lumen 368. The ultrasound
receiving transducer 360 includes a series of layers 362, 364, 366.          The layer 362 may
comprise a polymer (e.g., polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF)) layer. The layer 364 may comprise
an inorganic compound (e.g., tungsten carbide) layer. The layer 366 may comprise a polymer
(e.g., polyimide) layer. The layer 366 may have a thickness between about 25 micrometers
(pm or microns) and about 250 ptm (e.g., at least about 50 pm).
         [0215]     The launching catheter 310 is tracked over the guidewire in the femoral
and tibial arteries proximate to and proximal to the occlusion 304, as shown in Figure 20B.
The catheter 310 may be more proximal to the occlusion 304 depending on suitability at that
portion of the anatomy for the retroperfusion process. In some embodiments, the catheter
                                               -65-

WO 2014/137830                                                              PCT/US2014/019607
310 may be positioned in the distal portion of the posterior or anterior tibial artery, for
example proximate to the catheter 320.         In some embodiments, the catheter 310 may be
positioned within a few inches or centimeters of the ankle.
         [0216]     The launching catheter 310 emits a directional ultrasound signal. As shown
by the arrow 311, 312 in Figure 20C, the launching catheter 310 is rotated and moved
longitudinally until the signal is received by the target catheter 320.         Once the signal is
received, which indicates alignment such that extension of the needle form the launching
catheter 310 will result in successful access of the vein, a crossing needle 314 is advance out
of the catheter 310, out of the tibial artery 300 and into the tibial vein 302, as shown in Figure
20D. Accuracy of the placement of the crossing needle 314 to form a fistula between the
artery 300 and the vein 302 may be confirmed, for example, using contrast and fluoroscopy.
         [02171     In some embodiments, the ultrasound signal can be used to determine the
distance between the artery 300 and the vein 302. Referring again to Figure 16, the distance
from the left side of the illustrated screen to the leading edge of the second frequency
envelope can be used as an indicator of distance between the catheters.
         [0218]     Referring again to Figure 16, a display device may graphically show signal
alignment peaks to allow the user to determine the alignment position. In some embodiments,
the signal alignment may change color above or below a threshold value, for example from red
to green.    In some embodiments, an audio signal may be emitted, for example when an
alignment signal crosses over a threshold value, which can allow a user to maintain focus on
the patient rather than substantially continuously monitoring a screen.
         [0219]     In some embodiments, a horizontal line on the screen may move up to
indicate the maximum signal value or peak achieved to that point during the procedure. This
line may be called "peak hold." If a greater signal value is achieved, the horizontal line moves
to match that higher value. If no manipulation is able to raise the peak above the horizontal
line, that can indicate maximum alignment. If the signal peak falls a certain amount below the
horizontal line, the catheters may have moved and no longer be properly aligned. Since the
level of alignment indicated by the horizontal line has previously been achieved during the
procedure, the user knows that such a level of alignment can be achieved by further rotational
and/or longitudinal manipulation.
                                                -66-

WO 2014/137830                                                           PCT/US2014/019607
         [0220]      A fourth guidewire 316 (e.g., 0.014 inch (approx. 0.36 mm)) (or "third"
guidewire in the case that a snare is used instead of a second guidewire) is placed through the
lumen of the crossing needle 314 of the catheter 310 and into the tibial vein 302 in a
retrograde direction (of the vein 302) towards the foot, as shown in Figure 20E. External cuff
pressure may be applied above the needle crossing point to reduce flow in the artery 300 to
inhibit or prevent formation of a hematoma, and/or to engorge the vein to facilitate valve
crossing.    The catheters 310, 320 may be removed, leaving the guidewire 316 in place,
extending from the introducer sheath in the femoral artery, through the arterial tree, and into
the tibial vein 302.
         [0221]      Certain techniques for crossing a guidewire 316 from an artery 300 to a
vein 302 may be used instead of or in addition to the directional ultrasound techniques
described herein.
         [0222]      In some embodiments, a tourniquet can be applied to the leg, which can
increase vein diameters.     In some embodiments, a blocking agent (e.g., as discussed with
respect to Figures 4 and 7, a blocking balloon, etc.) may be used to increase vein diameter.
For example, venous flow could back up, causing dilation of the vein. A larger vein diameter
can produce a larger target for the crossing needle 314, making the vein 300 easier to access
with the crossing needle 314.
         [0223]      In some embodiments, a PTA balloon can be used in the target vein, and a
needle catheter (e.g., Outback, available from Cordis) can target the PTA balloon under
fluoroscopy. The crossing needle 314 can puncture the PTA balloon, and the reduction in
pressure of the PTA balloon can confirm proper alignment of the crossing needle 314. The
PTA balloon can increase vein diameter, producing a larger target for the crossing needle 314,
making the vein 300 easier to access with the crossing needle 314. The guidewire 316 may be
advanced through the crossing needle 314 and into the PTA balloon.
         [0224]      In some embodiments, the PTA balloon comprises a mesh (e.g., a woven
mesh), for example embedded in the polymer of the balloon. When a balloon without such a
mesh is punctured, the balloon material could rupture and cause emboli (e.g., pieces of the
balloon floating downstream).      The mesh can help to limit tearing of the balloon material,
which can inhibit or prevent balloon material from causing emboli.
                                               -67-

WO 2014/137830                                                             PCT/US2014/019607
         [0225]     In some embodiments, two PTA balloons spaced longitudinally along the
axis of the catheter can be used in the target vein, and a needle catheter can target the one of
the PTA balloons. Upon puncturing of one of the PTA balloons by the crossing needle 314,
contrast in a well between the PTA balloons can be released because the punctured balloon no
longer acts as a dam for the contrast.        The release of contrast can be monitored using
fluoroscopy. The PTA balloons can be on the same catheter or on different catheters.
         [0226]     In some embodiments, two PTA balloons spaced longitudinally along the
axis of the catheter can be used in the target vein, and a needle catheter can target the space or
well between the PTA balloons. Upon puncturing of the well by the crossing needle 314,
contrast in the well can be disturbed. The disturbance of contrast can be monitored using
fluoroscopy. The PTA balloons can be on the same catheter or on different catheters.
         [02271     In some embodiments in which a PTA balloon may be used in combination
with an ultrasound target in the target vein, a PTA balloon catheter includes a PTA balloon
and an ultrasound receiving transducer (e.g., omnidirectional). In certain such embodiments,
the launching catheter 310 can target the PTA balloon under fluoroscopy and/or can target the
ultrasound receiving transducer as described herein. The crossing needle 314 can puncture
the PTA balloon, and the reduction in pressure of the PTA balloon can confirm proper
alignment of the crossing needle 314. The PTA balloon can increase vein diameter, producing
a larger target for the crossing needle 314, making the vein 300 easier to access with the
crossing needle 314. The guidewire 316 may be advanced through the crossing needle 314
and into the PTA balloon.
         [0228]     In some embodiments, a LeMaitre device (e.g., the UnBalloonTM Non
Occlusive     Modeling    Catheter,   available    from   LeMaitre    Vascular    of Burlington,
Massachusetts) can be used in the target vein. In some embodiments, a LeMaitre device can
increase vein diameters. A larger vein diameter can produce a larger target for the crossing
needle 314, making the vein 300 easier to access with the crossing needle 314.            In some
embodiments, the needle 314 can penetrate into the LeMaitre device.               In certain such
embodiments, the LeMaitre device can act as a mesh target (e.g., comprising radiopaque
material visible under fluoroscopy) for the crossing needle 3 14. The mesh of the LeMaitre
device can be radially expanded by distally advancing a proximal portion of the mesh and/or
                                                -68-

WO 2014/137830                                                             PCT/US2014/019607
proximally retracting a distal portion of the mesh (e.g., pushing the ends together like an
umbrella) and/or by allowing the mesh to self-expand (e.g., in embodiments in which at least
some parts of the mesh comprise shape-memory material). In some embodiments, a LeMaitre
device can grip a crossing wire to hold the crossing wire in the target vein as the LeMaitre
device closes.
          [0229]    In some embodiments, the launching catheter 310 may comprise a first
magnet having a first polarity and the target catheter 320 may comprise a second magnet
having a second polarity. When the magnets are close enough for magnetic forces to move
one or both of the catheters 310, 320, the crossing needle 314 may be advanced to create the
fistula between the artery 300 and the vein 302.         In some embodiments, the first magnet
maybe circumferentially aligned with the crossing needle 314 and/or the launching catheter
310 may be magnetically shielded to provide rotational alignment. In some embodiments, the
second magnet may be longitudinally relatively thin to provide longitudinal alignment.       In
some embodiments, the crossing needle 314 and/or the guidewire 316 may be magnetically
pulled from the artery 300 to the vein 302, or vice versa. Some systems may include both
ultrasound guidance and magnetic guidance. For example, ultrasound guidance could be used
for initial alignment and magnetic guidance could be used for refined alignment.
          [0230]    Referring again to Figures 20A-20H, a prosthesis delivery system 330
carrying a prosthesis 340 is tracked over the guidewire 316 through the interstitial space
between the artery 300 and the vein 300 and then into the vein 300, as shown in Figure 20F.
In some embodiments, a separate PTA balloon catheter (e.g., about 2 mm) can be tracked
over the guidewire 316 to pre-dilate the fistula between the artery 300 and the vein 302 prior
to introduction of the prosthesis delivery system 330.       Use of a PTA balloon catheter may
depend, for example, on the radial strength of the prosthesis 340.
          [02311    The prosthesis 340 is deployed from the prosthesis delivery system 330, for
example by operating a trigger handle 194 (Figure 17). In some embodiments, for example if
the prosthesis 340 is not able to expand and/or advance, the prosthesis delivery system 330
may be removed and a PTA catheter (e.g., about 2 mm) advanced over the guidewire 316 to
attempt to dilate or further dilate the fistula the artery 300 and the vein 302. Deployment of
the prosthesis 340 may then be reattempted (e.g., by self-expansion, balloon expansion, etc.).
                                                -69-

WO 2014/137830                                                               PCT/US2014/019607
In some embodiments, deployment of the prosthesis 340 may remodel a vessel, for example
expanding the diameter of the vessel by at least about 10%, by at least about 20%, by at least
about 30%, or more, by between about 0% and about 10%, by between about 0% and about
20%, by between about 0% and about 30%, or more. In embodiments in which the prosthesis
340 is self-expanding, the degree of remodeling may change over time, for example the
prosthesis 340 expanding as the vessel expands or contracting when the vessel contracts.
         [0232]     Once the prosthesis 340 is deployed, as shown in Figure 20G, the fistula
may be dilated with a PTA catheter. The diameter of the PTA catheter (e.g., about 3 mm to
about 6 mm) may be selected based at least in part on: the diameter of the artery 300, the
diameter of the vein 302, the composition of the interstitial tissue, the characteristics of the
prosthesis 340, combinations thereof, and the like.       In some embodiments, the prosthesis
delivery system 330 may comprise a PTA balloon catheter (e.g., proximal or distal to the
prosthesis 340) usable for one, several, or all of the optional PTA balloon catheter techniques
described herein.    In embodiments in which the prosthesis comprises a conical portion, the
PTA balloon may comprise a conical portion.          Once the prosthesis 340 is in place, the
prosthesis delivery system 330 may be removed, as shown in Figure 20H. An AV fistula is
thereby formed between the artery 300 and the vein 302.            Confirmation of placement of
various catheters 310, 320, 330 and the prosthesis 340 may be confirmed throughout parts or
the entire procedure under fluoroscopy using contrast injections.
         [0233]     In some embodiments, a marker (e.g., a clip a lancet, scissors, a pencil,
etc.) may be applied (e.g., adhered, placed on top of, etc.) to the skin to approximately mark
the location of the fistula formed between the artery 300 and the vein 302 by the crossing
needle 314 prior to deployment of the prosthesis 340. In embodiments in which the user uses
a sphygmomanometer inflated above the fistula to avoid bleeding, the lack of blood flow can
render visualization or even estimation of the fistula site difficult, and the marker can provide
such identification.   In embodiments in which the transmitting and receiving catheters are
removed after fistula formation, the cross-over point may be difficult for the user to feel or
determine, and the marker can provide such identification. If the fistula is to be dilated, a
midpoint of the dilation balloon may be preferably aligned with the midpoint of the fistula
(e.g., to increase or maximize the hole-through interstitial space). In some embodiments, the
                                               -70-

WO 2014/137830                                                              PCT/US2014/019607
marker may be visualized under fluoroscopy (e.g., comprising radiopaque material) to allow
the user to see and remember the location of the fistula under fluoroscopy prior to deployment
of the prosthesis 340.
         [0234]      Once the prosthesis 340 is in place, an obstacle to blood flowing through
the vein 302 and into the foot are the valves in the veins. Steering a guidewire across venous
valves can be a challenge, for example because pressure from the artery may be insufficient to
extend the veins and make the valves incompetent. The Applicant has discovered that venous
valves distal to the AV fistula can be disabled or made incompetent using one or more of a
variety of techniques such as PTA catheters, stents, and a valvulotome, as described in further
detail below. Disabling venous valves can allow blood to flow via retroperfusion from the
femoral artery, retrograde in the vein 302, and retrograde in the vein to the venuoles and
capillaries to the distal part of the venous circulation of the foot to provide oxygenated blood
to the foot in CLI patients.
         [0235]      In some embodiments, a high-pressure PTA balloon catheter may be used
to make venous valves incompetent (e.g., when inflated to greater than about 10 atm (approx.
1,013 kPa)).
         [0236]      In some embodiments, one or more stents can be placed across one or
more venous valves to render those valves incompetent. For example, such stents should have
sufficient radial force that the valves stay open.
         [0237]      In some in situ bypass procedures, a saphenous vein is attached to an
artery in the upper leg and another artery in the lower leg, bypassing all blockages in the
artery.    In certain such procedures, the vein is not stripped out of the patient, flipped
lengthwise, and used as a prosthesis, but rather is left in place so that blood flow is retrograde
(against the valves of the vein). A standard valvulotome may be placed into the saphenous
vein from below and advanced to the top in a collapsed state, opened, and then pulled
backwards in an open state, cutting venous valves along the way. Cutting surfaces of such
valvulotomes face backwards so as to cut during retraction during these procedures. Figure
23A is a schematic perspective view of an example embodiment of a valvulotome 400 that
may be used with such procedures, including blades 402 facing proximally.
                                                -71-

WO 2014/137830                                                               PCT/US2014/019607
         [0238]     In some embodiments of the methods described herein, access distal to the
vein valves is not available such that pulling a valvulotome backwards is not possible, but
pushing a reverse valvulotome as described herein forward is possible.             Figure 23B is a
schematic perspective view of an example embodiment of a valvulotome 410 that may be used
with such procedures. The reverse valvulotome 410 includes one or a plurality of blades 412
(e.g., two to five blades (e.g., three blades)) facing forward or distal such that valves can be
cut as the reverse valvulotome 410 is advanced distally. At least because retrograde access to
veins to be disabled has not previously been recognized as an issue, there has been no prior
motivation to reverse the direction of the blades of a valvulotome to create a reverse
vavlulotome 410 such as described herein. The reverse valvulotome 410 may be tracked over
a guidewire 414, which can be steered into the veins, for making the venous valves
incompetent. After forming a fistula between an artery and a vein as described herein, the
flow of fluid in the vein is in the direction opposite the native or normal or pre-procedure
direction of fluid flow in the vein such that pushing the reverse valvulotome 410 is in a
direction opposite native fluid flow but in the direction of post-fistula fluid flow.
         [0239]     Other systems and methods are also possible for making the valves in the
vein incompetent (e.g., cutting balloons, atherectomy, laser ablation, ultrasonic ablation,
heating, radio frequency (RF) ablation, a catheter with a tip that is traumatic or not atraumatic
(e.g., an introducer sheath) being advanced and/or retracted, combinations thereof, and the
like).
         [0240]     Crossing vein valves in a retrograde manner before such valves are made
incompetent can also be challenging. Figure 24 is a schematic perspective view of an example
embodiment of a LeMaitre device 420 that may be used to radially expand the veins, and thus
their valves. The LeMaitre device 420 includes an expandable oval or oblong leaf shape 422,
for example a self-expanding nitinol mesh.      In some embodiments, a PTA balloon catheter
may be used to radially expand the veins, and thus their valves.           In some embodiments,
application of a tourniquet to the leg can radially expand the veins, and thus their valves.
Upon radial expansion, a guidewire can be advanced through the stretched valve(s) (e.g.,
through an expansion device such as the LeMaitre device) and catheters (e.g., PTA, stent
                                               -72-

WO 2014/137830                                                            PCT/US2014/019607
delivery, atherectomy, etc.) or other over-the-wire devices can be advanced over the
guidewire.
         [0241]     Although some example embodiments have been disclosed herein in detail,
this has been done by way of example and for the purposes of illustration only.             The
aforementioned embodiments are not intended to be limiting with respect to the scope of the
appended claims, which follow. It is contemplated by the inventors that various substitutions,
alterations, and modifications may be made to the invention without departing from the spirit
and scope of the invention as defined by the claims.
         [0242]     While the devices described herein may be used in applications in which the
fluid that flows through the device is a liquid such as blood, the devices could also or
alternatively be used in applications such as tracheal or bronchial surgery where the fluid is a
gas, such as air. In some embodiments, the fluid may contain solid matter, for example emboli
or, in gastric surgery where the fluid includes food particles.
         [0243]     While the invention is susceptible to various modifications, and alternative
forms, specific examples thereof have been shown in the drawings and are herein described in
detail.   It should be understood, however, that the invention is not to be limited to the
particular forms or methods disclosed, but, to the contrary, the invention is to cover all
modifications, equivalents, and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the various
embodiments described and the appended claims. Any methods disclosed herein need not be
performed in the order recited. The methods disclosed herein include certain actions taken by
a practitioner; however, they can also include any third-party instruction of those actions,
either expressly or by implication. For example, actions such as "making valves in the first
vessel incompetent" include "instructing making valves in the first vessel incompetent."    The
ranges disclosed herein also encompass any and all overlap, sub-ranges, and combinations
thereof Language such as "up to," "at least," "greater than," "less than," "between," and the
like includes the number recited.        Numbers preceded by a term such as "about" or
"approximately" include the recited numbers.        For example, "about 10 mm" includes "10
mm." Terms or phrases preceded by a term such as "substantially" include the recited term or
phrase. For example, "substantially parallel" includes "parallel."
                                               -73-

[0244] The following claims set forth several embodiments of the invention(s). These non
limiting claims identify certain permutations of combinations of features disclosed herein,
although other permutations of combinations of features are also encompassed within the scope
of the invention(s).
[02451 Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context requires
otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and "comprising", will be
understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but
not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
[0246] The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as, an
acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of the common general
knowledge in Australia.
                                               - 74 -

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
         1.      A device for making valves of a vessel incompetent, the device including:
                 a proximal portion;
                 a distal portion; and
                 a longitudinal axis between the proximal portion and the distal portion,
                 wherein the distal portion includes:
                          at least one blade, the at least one blade having a retracted position and an
                 expanded position, the at least one blade including a sharp surface facing distally
                 and configured to at least partially ablate a valve in a vessel during distal
                 advancement of the device through the vessel, thereby facilitating the device to
                 ablate the valve while the device is advanced in a direction opposite native flow
                 of the vessel.
        2.       The device of Claim 1, wherein the at least one blade when in the retracted
position is substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis, and wherein the at least one blade when
in expanded position is substantially non-parallel to the longitudinal axis.
        3.       The device of Claim 1 or 2, wherein the device is configured to be pushed through
the vessel in a direction opposite native fluid flow of the vessel from a fistula between the vessel
and an artery to at least partially ablate the valve in the vessel without retrograde access.
        4.       The device of Claim 1 or 2, wherein the device is configured to be pushed through
the vessel in a direction of fluid flow of the vessel after forming a fistula between the vessel and
an artery to at least partially ablate the valve in the vessel without retrograde access.
        5.       The device of any one of Claims 1 to 4, wherein the at least one blade includes a
plurality of blades.
        6.       The device of Claim 5, wherein the plurality of blades includes between two and
five blades.
        7.       The device of Claim 6, wherein the plurality of blades includes three blades.
        8.       The device of Claim 7, wherein the three blades are circumferentially spaced by
120 degrees.
        9.       The device of any one of Claims 1 to 8, wherein the proximal portion includes a
handle configured to operate the at least one blade between the retracted position and the
expanded position.
                                                   - 75 -

         10.    The device of Claim 9, wherein the at least one blade includes shape memory
material and wherein the handle is configured to allow the at least one blade to self-expand from
the retracted position to the expanded position.
         11.    The device of Claim 9 or 10, wherein the handle is configured to longitudinally
compress and radially expand the at least one blade from the retracted position to the expanded
position.
         12.    A kit including:
                the device of any one of Claims 1 to 11; and
                a vessel expansion device.
         13.    The kit of Claim 12, wherein the vessel expansion device includes at least one of:
a tourniquet, a balloon, and a LeMaitre device.
         14.    The kit of Claim 12 or 13, wherein the device is configured to ablate the at least
one valve when the at least one valve is expanded by the vessel expansion device.
         15.    A method of diverting fluid flow from a first passage to a second passage to effect
retroperfusion in the second passage, the method including:
                forming a fistula between the first passage and a second passage; and
                making a valve in the second passage incompetent to reduce inhibition of
        retroperfusion through the second passage by the valve, wherein making the valve in the
        second passage incompetent includes advancing a reverse valvulotome in a direction
        opposite native fluid flow in the second passage, wherein, during advancing the reverse
        valvulotome, a blade of the reverse valvulotome disables the valve.
         16.    The method of Claim 15, wherein the reverse valvulotome includes:
                a proximal portion;
                a distal portion; and
                a longitudinal axis between the proximal portion and the distal portion,
                wherein the distal portion includes:
                         a blade, the blade having a retracted position and an expanded position,
                the blade including a sharp surface facing distally and configured to at least
                partially disable the valve during distal advancement of the reverse valvulotome
                through the second passage.
                                                - 76 -

         17.     The method of Claim 15 or 16, wherein forming the fistula between the first
passage and the second passage includes:
                 inserting a launching catheter into the first passage, the launching catheter
         including:
                         an ultrasound emitting transducer, and
                         a needle configured to radially extend from the launching catheter;
                 inserting a target catheter into the second passage, the target catheter including an
         ultrasound receiving transducer;
                 emitting an ultrasound signal from the ultrasound emitting transducer;
                 after the ultrasound signal is received by the ultrasound receiving transducer,
         extending the needle from the launching catheter, wherein extending the needle includes:
                         exiting the first passage,
                         traversing interstitial tissue between the first passage and the second
                 passage, and
                         entering the second passage.
         18.     The method of any one of Claims 15 to 17, wherein the target catheter includes a
target device, wherein forming the fistula between the first passage and the second passage
includes expanding the target device, and wherein extending the needle includes puncturing the
target device.
         19.     The method of any one of Claims 15 to 18, wherein forming the fistula between
the first passage and the second passage includes deploying a prosthesis, wherein after deploying
the prosthesis at least a first portion of the prosthesis is in the first passage and at least a second
portion of the prosthesis is in the second passage.
         20.     The method of Claim 19, wherein the prosthesis includes a stent graft.
  wherein forming the fistula between the first passage and the second passage includes dilating
the fistula
                 deploying a stent across the valve,
27562477
                                                  - 77 -

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
