          IgG STIMULATED REMYELINATION OF PERIPHERAL NERVES
                             ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
[00225] The present invention is based on the discovery of polyclonal IgG's ability to
promote Schwann cell maturation, differentiation, and myelin production.      Methods for
treating non-idiopathic, demyelinating peripheral neuropathies in mammals, where the
neuropathy is not immune-mediated or infection-mediated, through the administration of
polyclonal IgG are provided. Types of demyelinating peripheral neuropathies treatable with
the present invention include peripheral nerve trauma and toxin-induced peripheral
neuropathies. Alternatively, a composition of polyclonal IgGs can be applied directly to a
peripheral nerve cell to induce maturation, differentiation into a myelinating state, and myelin
expression or promote cell survival.

         IgG STIMULATED REMYELINATION OF PERIPHERAL NERVES
                          CROSS REFERENCES TO APPLICATIONS
[0001]    This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No.
61/605,117 filed February 29, 2012, the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by
reference in its entirety for all purposes.
                             BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]     Peripheral neuropathy is a manifestation of disorders that inflict damage to the
peripheral nervous system (PNS), a network of ganglia and neurons that transmit signals
between the central nervous system (CNS), i.e. brain and spinal cord, and every other part of
the body. Neurons of the PNS rely on Schwann cells for, e.g. myelination, accelerated nerve
conduction, nerve development and regeneration, trophic support, production of nerve
extracellular matrix, and modulation of neuromuscular synaptic activity. These Schwann
cells provide electric insulation by wrapping a protein and lipid-rich myelin sheath around
axons of motor and sensory neurons. Given myelin's critical role, it is not surprising that
demyelination of peripheral axons is a hallmark of acute and chronic peripheral neuropathies
such as Guillain-Barr6 syndrome (GBS), chronic demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP) and
multifocal motor neuropathy (MMIN) as well as other peripheral nerve pathologies induced
by toxins, drugs or systemic diseases, e.g. diabetes.
[0003]    Peripheral neuropathies can distort signal transmission, causing symptoms that vary
with the origin of the neuropathy and type or number of nerves affected.     For example,
symptoms may depend on whether the disorder affects sensory nerve fibers, which transmit
sensory information from the affected area to the CNS, or motor nerve fibers, which transmit
impulses and coordinate motor activity from the CNS to a muscle, or both. Peripheral
neuropathies can be classified as mononeuropathies, involving damage to one nerve, or
polyneuropathies, involving damage of multiple nerves; acute, where symptoms appear
suddenly, progress rapidly, and resolve slowly, or chronic, where symptoms begin subtly, and
progress slowly. Over 100 different types of peripheral neuropathy have been identified to
date. Clinical diagnoses of peripheral neuropathy can be made based on the clinical history
of the subject, a physical examination, the use of electromyography (EMG) and nerve
conduction studies (NCS), autonomic testing, and nerve biopsies, etc.
[0004]    Current treatments for peripheral neuropathies are directed at the underlying
condition, where possible, and often used in conjunction with symptomatic treatments, such
                                                 1

as anti-inflammatory agents, pain management, mechanical aids, and/or surgical intervention,
etc. The body also possesses its own regenerative capacity in response to injury or damage of
the PNS. After injury to the PNS, Wallerian degeneration of distal nerve stumps occur,
followed by Schwann cell degradation of myelin, phagocytosis of extracellular myelin, and
recruitment of macrophages for further myelin clearance. Schwann cells can further adapt to
pathological situations by its ability to dedifferentiate, proliferate, promote axonal
regeneration and redifferentiate, and produce myelin. See Bhatheja et al. (2006) Int. J.
Biochem. Cell Biol. 38(12):1995-9. In the course of repair, Schwann cells stimulate, guide
axonal regeneration, and target reinnervation, forming a regeneration tube of the axon, known
as Bunger's band, by proliferating rapidly and providing the axon with a path to grow along.
See Burstyn-Cohen et al. (1998) J. Neurosci 18(21): 8875-8885. While functional nerve
regeneration in the PNS can generally be observed (in contrast to CNS which lacks a
regenerative mechanism for myelin clearance and axon regeneration), it is often limited or
chronically impaired. Novel repair promoting approaches for the PNS are therefore needed.
[0005]    Recent studies on the CNS have yielded evidence of IgM's direct effect on
oligodendrocytes, the myelinating glial cells of the central nervous system. For instance,
targeting of oligodendrocyte-reactive IgMK antibodies to oligodendrocytes was found to
promote CNS remyelination (Asakura et al., 1998). Other studies showed that treatment of a
non-immune, toxin-induced model of demyelinating disease with pooled human IgM
molecules results in a significantly enhanced oligodendrocyte differentiation in the CNS
(Bieber et al., 2000; Bieber et al., 2002; Warrington et al., 2007). The discovery of Fc
receptors for IgM on oligodendrocytes, their precursor cells, and myelin in the CNS, offers
further clues of a possible ligand-receptor interaction (Nakahara et al., 2003).
[0006]    Knowledge gained from these oligodendrocyte -IgM studies, though meaningful for
CNS repair, fails to harness the regenerative capacity of the PNS (which contains no
oligodendrocytes). In more relevant studies, administration of human IVIG was found to
reduce disease duration in an EAN (autoimmune neuritis) rat model, simulating the PNS
specific, demyelinating Guillain-Barr6 syndrome (GBS) (Lin et al., 2007). The effects were
postulated as being attributable to IVIG's immunomodulatory role and possible anti
inflammatory and secondary bystander axonal loss reduction capability. In a separate study
of the humoral immune system, B-cell knockout JHD mice exhibited significant delay in
macrophage influx, myelin clearance, and axon regeneration after PNS injury. Rapid myelin
debris clearance was restored through passive transfer of antibodies from naive WT mice or
anti-PNS myelin antibody, thereby confirming the role of endogenous antibodies in
                                                  2

promoting macrophage entrance and phagocytic activity (Vargas et al., 2010). Clinical trials
with administration of intravenous immunoglobulins (IVIG) have shown positive effects for
GBS, chronic demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP) and multifocal motor neuropathy
(MMN), with the assumption that treatment in each of these autoimmune or immune
mediated neuropathies was accomplished through IVIG's immunomodulatory role.
[0007]    The effect of polyclonal IgG on Schwann cells, if any, was heretofore unknown.
A question, therefore, remained as to how the regenerative function of Schwann cells could
be harnessed for therapeutic purposes in demyelinating, peripheral neuropathies. The
present discovery of exogenous polyclonal IgG's ability to induce Schwann cell maturation,
differentiation, and myelin production, is an important clarification of mechanism that
provides novel approaches to the treatment of all demyelinating peripheral neuropathies.
                             SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0008]    In one aspect of the invention, there is provided methods of treating a demyelinating
peripheral neuropathy in mammals, wherein the neuropathy is not immune-mediated or
infection-mediated, by administering a therapeutically effective amount of polyclonal IgG to
a mammal diagnosed with said neuropathy. In some embodiments of the invention, the
demyelinating peripheral neuropathy being treated is not Guillain-Barr6 syndrome, chronic
demyelinating polyneuropathy, or multifocal motor neuropathy. In other embodiments of the
invention, the demyelinating peripheral neuropathy is a non-idiopathic neuropathy. The
demyelinating peripheral neuropathy treatable by the present invention may be selected from
a trauma-induced neuropathy, a toxin-induced neuropathy, an inherited neuropathy, and a
neuropathy induced by a metabolic disease, e.g. diabetic neuropathy.
[0009]    In another aspect of the invention, there is provided methods of treating peripheral
nerve trauma by administering a therapeutically effective amount of polyclonal IgG to a
mammal with peripheral nerve trauma.
[0010]    In yet another aspect of the invention, there is provided methods of treating toxin
induced peripheral neuropathy, wherein the neuropathy is not infection-mediated, by
administering a therapeutically effective amount of polyclonal IgG to a mammal diagnosed
with said neuropathy.
[0011]    For treatment of a demyelinating peripheral neuropathy described herein, polyclonal
IgG of the invention may be administered locally or systemically. Local administration of
the polyclonal IgG can occur intramuscularly or intradermally. Systemic administration of
                                                 3

the polyclonal IgG can occur intranasally, subcutaneously, orally, intra-arterially or
intravenously. In some embodiments of the invention, an anti-inflammatory agent is co
administered with the polyclonal IgG to the mammal. The anti-inflammatory agent may be
selected from an adrenocorticotropic hormone, a corticosteroid, an interferon, glatiramer
acetate, or a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug.
[0012]    The polyclonal IgG of the invention may be administered weekly, biweekly, or
monthly at a dose of about 0.05 to 5 g per kg of patient body weight or about 0.5 to 2 g per kg
of patient body weight.
[0013]    In a further aspect of the invention, there is provided methods of promoting
myelination of a peripheral nerve cell by a Schwann cell by contacting the Schwann cell with
an amount of polyclonal IgG sufficient to promote myelination of said peripheral nerve cell
by the Schwann cell.
[0014]    In another aspect of the invention, there is provided methods of promoting the
differentiation of an immature Schwann cell into a myelinating state by contacting said
Schwann cell with polyclonal IgG in an amount sufficient to induce the Schwann cell
differentiation.
[0015]    In yet another aspect, there is provided methods of promoting myelin production by
a Schwann cell comprising contacting said Schwann cell with an amount of polyclonal IgG
sufficient to upregulate MBP gene.
[0016]    In a further aspect of the invention, there is provided methods of culturing
mammalian nervous tissue which comprises axons by contacting the tissue in culture with an
effective amount of Schwann cells and an effective amount of polyclonal IgG, whereby the
contacting of Schwann cells with polyclonal IgG induces upregulation of MBP gene.
[0017]    In yet another aspect of the invention, there is provided methods of treating a
peripheral nerve injury in a mammal by: transplanting nerve cells to a site of the peripheral
nerve injury; and contacting the nerve cells with a composition comprising Schwann cells
and polyclonal IgG.
[0018]    In the methods described herein, the polyclonal IgG can be given through one or
more routes of administration, such as intramuscularly, intradermally, subcutaneously,
buccally, orally, intranasally, or intra-arterially or intravenously to an individual in need of
such therapy. The individual may be a human or domesticated animal. In some
embodiments, the polyclonal IgG is derived from pooled human serum.
[0019]     In some embodiments, the polyclonal IgG Is co-administered with an anti
inflammatory agent to mammal in need of such therapy. The anti-inflammatory agent may
                                                   4

be selected from an adrenocorticotropic hormone, a corticosteroid, an interferon, glatiramer
acetate, or a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug.
[0020]      In yet another aspect of the invention, there is provided pharmaceutical
compositions comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and an effective amount of
polyclonal IgG for treating a non-idiopathic, demyelinating peripheral neuropathy.
                       BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0021]    More particular descriptions of the invention are made by reference to certain
exemplary embodiments thereof which are illustrated in the appended Figures. These Figures
form a part of the specification. It is to be noted, however, that the appended Figures illustrate
exemplary embodiments of the invention and therefore are not to be considered limiting in
their scope.
[0022]    FIG. 1 shows the relative proliferation rates of immature Schwann cells that were
exposed to nondialysed (FIG. 1A) and dialysed (FIG. 1B) IVIG/buffer formulations after 2
days as measured by BrdU incorporation assays. These relative proliferation rates were
generated based on the number of cells positive for of 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU)
incorporated into cellular DNA during cell proliferation.
[0023]    FIG. 2 shows the relative proliferative rates of immature Schwann cells that were
exposed to nondialysed (FIG. 2A) and dialysed (FIG. 2B) IVIG/buffer formulations after 2
days as measured using Ki-67 assays. These relative proliferation rates were generated based
on the number of cells positive for Ki-67 expression during cell proliferation.
[0024]    FIG. 3 shows the levels of PO (FIG. 3A) and MBP (FIG. 3B) gene expression in
immature Schwann cells that were exposed to dialysed IVIG/buffer formulations at 1 day and
3 day time-points.
[0025]    FIG. 4 shows the levels of PO (FIG. 4A) and MBP (FIG. 4B) gene expression in
p57kip2 suppressed Schwann cells that were exposed to dialysed IVIG/buffer formulations
at the 7 day time-point (9 days suppression).
[0026]    FIG. 5 shows the expression levels of CD64 Fc receptor in p57kip2 suppressed
Schwann cells as compared to control transfected Schwann cells (without p57kip2
suppression). Neither group of Schwann cells were exposed to IVIG/buffer formulations.
[0027]    FIG. 6 shows fluorescent images of p57kip2 suppressed Schwann cells (FIG. 6B)
and control transfected cells (FIG. 6A) after stimulation with 20 mg dialyzed IVIG/buffer
formulations. The location and length of cellular processes are indicated by the arrows
superimposed onto the fluorescent images.
                                                  5

[0028]     FIG. 7 shows a graph of the cell outgrowth length for p57kip2 suppressed Schwann
cells and control transfected cells (FIG. 7A) after 3 days of stimulation with dialysed
IVIG/buffer formulations (5 days suppression) along with the respective fluorescent images
of the p57kip2 suppressed Schwann cells stimulated with 20 mg of IVIG (FIG. 7B), p57kip2
suppressed Schwann cells stimulated with buffer (FIG. 7C), control transfected cells treated
with 20 mg IVIG (FIG. 7D), and control transfected cells treated with buffer (FIG. 7E).
[0029]     FIG. 8 shows a graph of the cell outgrowth length for p57kip2 suppressed Schwann
cells and control transfected cells (FIG. 8A) after 7 days of stimulation with dialysed
IVIG/buffer formulations (9 days suppression) along with the respective fluorescent images
of the p57kip2 suppressed Schwann cells stimulated with 20 mg of IVIG (FIG. 8B), p57kip2
suppressed Schwann cells stimulated with buffer (FIG. 8C), control transfected cells treated
with 20 mg IVIG (FIG. 8D), and control transfected cells treated with buffer (FIG. 8E).
[0030]     FIG. 9 is a flow diagram of the process for establishing a cocultue of PNS neurons
(rat dorsal root ganglion) and myelinating Schwann cells.
                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0031]     The discovery of polyclonal IgG's ability to promote Schwann cell homeostasis,
maturation, differentiation, and myelin production can be applied for treatment of
demyelinating peripheral neuropathies of varying origins, e.g. toxin-induced neuropathies,
diabetic neuropathy, trauma-induced neuropathy, by promoting the regenerative capacity of
native Schwann cells. Contemplated is the administration of polyclonal IgG as an adjunct or
replacement of existing therapeutic regimes or symptomatic treatments for demyelinating
peripheral neuropathies. Furthermore, the present invention can be used in the laboratory
setting for effecting peripheral nerve remyelination. Based on the findings described herein,
polyclonal IgGs can be applied in nerve transplant, cell culture, e.g. induction of Schwann
cell differentiation, determination of precursor cell fate, myelin gene regulation or protein
expression, and as a pretreatment to or post-operative care regimen for surgical techniques
threatening or involving peripheral nerves.
I. DEFINITIONS
[0032]     The term "non-idiopathic" refers to a disorder where the underlying cause is known.
[0033]     The term "peripheral neuropathy," as used herein, refers to a disorder affecting the
peripheral nervous system, which excludes ganglion and nerves of the brain and the spinal
cord. "Peripheral neuropathy" can manifest as one or a combination of motor, sensory,
                                                6

sensorimotor, or autonomic neural dysfunction. The variety of morphologies exhibited by
peripheral neuropathies can be attributed to a number of different causes. For example,
peripheral neuropathies can be genetically acquired, can result from a systemic disease, or
can be induced by a toxic agent. Examples include but are not limited to diabetic peripheral
neuropathy, distal sensorimotor neuropathy, or autonomic neuropathies such as reduced
motility of the gastrointestinal tract or atony of the urinary bladder. Examples of peripheral
neuropathies associated with systemic disease include post-polio syndrome or AIDS
associated neuropathy; examples of hereditary peripheral neuropathies include Charcot
Marie-Tooth disease, Abetalipoproteinemia, Tangier disease, Metachromatic leukodystrophy,
Fabry's disease, and Dejerine-Sottas syndrome; and examples of peripheral neuropathies
caused by a toxic agent include those caused by treatment with a chemotherapeutic agent
such as vincristine, cisplatin, methotrexate, or 3'-azido-3'-deoxythymidine.
[0034]    One variety of peripheral neuropathy is "demyelinating peripheral neuropathy." As
used herein, a "demyelinating peripheral neuropathy" describes a broad class of peripheral
neuropathies that are associated with the destruction or removal of myelin, the lipid-rich
sheath surrounding and insulating nerve fibers, from nerves. Non-limiting examples of
demyelinating peripheral neuropathy diseases include diabetic peripheral neuropathy, distal
sensorimotor neuropathy, or autonomic neuropathies such as reduced motility of the
gastrointestinal tract or atony of the urinary bladder. Further examples and descriptions of
demyelinating peripheral neuropathy can be found in Section II of the Detailed Description.
[0035]    An "immune-mediated" disorder, as used herein, refers to a condition which results
from abnormal activity of the body's immune system. Subsets of "immune-mediated"
disorder include, without limitation, autoimmune disease, wherein the immune system attacks
the body, immune-complex disorders, disorders involving post-transplant rejection,
inflammatory disease, and allergies.
[0036]    An "infection-mediated" peripheral neuropathy refers to a dysfunction of the
peripheral nervous system sustained as a result of viral, bacterial, or fungal infections.
[0037]    A "trauma-induced peripheral neuropathy" or "traumatic peripheral neuropathy"
refers to dysfunction of the peripheral nervous system caused by bodily shock, injury, or
"physical trauma." Physical trauma, e.g. from combat, vehicular accidents, falls, and sports
related activities, can cause nerves to be partially or completely severed, crushed,
compressed, or stretched, sometimes so forcefully that they are partially or completely
detached from ganglia or the spinal cord and result in demyelination. Traum-induced
                                                  7

peripheral neuropathies can also be sustained as a result of, e.g. electric shock, hypothermia,
etc.
[0038]    A "toxin" or "chemical induced" peripheral neuropathy refers to dysfunction of the
peripheral nervous system caused by toxins (e.g., chemical agents). Toxins that produce
peripheral neuropathy can generally be divided into three groups: drugs and medications;
industrial chemicals; and environmental toxins. Non-limiting examples of toxins that can
cause peripheral neuropathy are described below in Section II of the Detailed Description.
[0039]    An "anti-inflammatory agent" as used herein includes any agent that reduces
inflammation of an affected blood vessel and/or adjacent tissue. Non-limiting examples of
anti-inflammatory agents are steroids (e.g., glucocorticoids and corticosteroids), immune
selective anti-inflammatory derivatives (ImSAIDs), cooling agents, herbal supplements (e.g.,
devil's claw, hyssop, ginger, turmeric, arnica Montana, and willow bark (containing alicylilc
acid), and foods with anti-inflammatory effects (e.g., pomegranate, green tea, vegetables,
foods that contain omega-3 fatty acids), nuts, seeds, and extra-virgin olive oil). Specifically,
prostaglandin 2 (PGE2) is a pro-inflammatory compound and PGE 1 and PGE3 are anti
inflammatory compounds. Accordingly, agents that decrease PGE2 or increase PGE1 and
PGE3 can also act as anti-inflammatory agents. Additional non-limiting examples of anti
inflammatory agents can be found in Section VI, "Combination Therapy," below.
[0040]     An "immature Schwann cell," as used herein, refers to a specific stage in the
Schwann cell lineage. The first step along the Schwann cell lineage gives the Schwann cell
precursor, a proliferative cell that becomes associated with many axons and expresses the
nerve growth factor receptor (NGF-R), growth-associated protein 43 (GAP-32), and the
neural cell adhesion molecules N-CAM and LI. The subsequent "committed" Schwann cell
is known as an immature Schwann cell; it becomes associated with progressively fewer axons
and expresses, in addition to the previously noted markers, S-100 protein (from this stage
onward, all Schwann cells express S-100). Committed Schwann cells develop into either
nonmyelinating Schwann cells, which remain associated with several axons and express
galactocerebroside (GalC) in addition to the previous markers, or into myelinating Schwann
cells. Myelinating Schwann cells progress through a proliferative "premyelinating" stage,
characterized by transient expression of suppressed cAMP-inducible Pou-domain
transcription factor (SCIP), followed by a "promyelinating" GalC-positive stage, becoming
associated with a single axon in the progress. The final differentiation into a mature
myelinating Schwann cell involves downregulation of NGF-R, GAP-43, N-CAM, and LI
                                                8

expression, with upregulation of expression of GaIC and myelin proteins, and in vivo, the
synthesis and elaboration of myelin.
[0041]     The term "IgG," as used herein, refers to a composition of IgG immunoglobulins.
The IgG class of immunoglobulins, as the name suggests, is characterized by the presence of
a y (gamma) heavy chain. An exemplary whole IgG immunoglobulin structure comprises a
tetramer. Each tetramer is composed of two identical pairs of polypeptide chains, each pair
having one "light" (about 25 kDa) and one "heavy" chain (about 50-70 kDa). The N-terminus
of each chain defines a variable region of about 100 to 110 or more amino acids primarily
responsible for antigen recognition. The terms variable light chain (VL) and variable heavy
chain (VH) refer to these light and heavy chains respectively.
[0042]     An "immunoglobulin" or "antibody" is a polypeptide that is immunologically
reactive with a particular antigen. The term "immunoglobulin," as used herein, encompasses
intact molecules of various isotypes as well as fragments with antigen-binding capability,
e.g., Fab', F(ab') 2, Fab, Fv and rIgG. See, e.g., Pierce Catalog and Handbook, 1994-1995
(Pierce Chemical Co., Rockford, Ill.); Kuby, J., Immunology, 3.sup.rd Ed., W.H. Freeman &
Co., New York (1998). The term also encompasses recombinant single chain Fv fragments
(scFv). The term further encompasses bivalent or bispecific molecules, diabodies, triabodies,
and tetrabodies. Bivalent and bispecific molecules are described in, e.g., Kostelny et al.
(1992) J. Immunol. 148:1547, Pack and Pluckthun (1992) Biochemistry 31:1579, Hollinger et
al., 1993, supra, Gruber et al. (1994) J. Immunol. :5368, Zhu et al. (1997) Protein Sci 6:781,
Hu et al. (1996) Cancer Res. 56:3055, Adams et al. (1993) Cancer Res. 53:4026, and
McCartney, et al. (1995) Protein Eng. 8:301.
[0043]     The term "polyclonal IgG," as used herein, refers to a heterogeneous collection of
IgG immunoglobulins derived from multiple B-cells and having different specificities and
epitope affinities. Methods of preparing polyclonal antibodies are known to the skilled
artisan (e.g., Harlow & Lane, 1988, Antibodies: A Laboratory Manual. (Cold Spring Harbor
Press)). The polyclonal IgGs of the invention can be extracted from plasma pooled from
different mammalian individuals who have been prescreened for pathogenic disorders. In
some embodiments, the polyclonal IgGs of the present invention are representative of over
100 individuals, over 200 individuals, over 300 individuals, over 400 individuals, over 500
individuals, over 600 individuals, over 700 individuals, over 800 individuals, over 900
individuals, over 1000 individuals, over 1100 individuals, over 1200 individuals, over 1300
individuals, over 1400 individuals, over 1500 individuals, over 1600 individuals, over 1700
individuals, over 1800 individuals, over 1900 individuals, or over 2000 individuals.
                                                   9

[0044]     The phrase "specifically (or selectively) binds" to an antibody or "specifically (or
selectively) immunoreactive with," when referring to a protein or peptide, refers to a binding
reaction that is determinative of the presence of the protein, in a heterogeneous population of
proteins and other biologics. Thus, under designated immunoassay conditions, the specified
antibodies bind to a particular protein sequences at least two times the background and more
typically more than 10 to 100 times background. A ligand (e.g., an antibody) that specifically
binds to a protein generally has an association constant of at least 103 M- 1 or 10' M- ,
sometimes 105 M- or 106 M-1, in other instances 106 M- or 10' M-1 , preferably 108 M- to 109
M-1 , and more preferably, about 1010 M-1 to 1011 M-1 or higher. A variety of immunoassay
formats can be used to select antibodies specifically immunoreactive with a particular
protein. For example, solid-phase ELISA immunoassays are routinely used to select
monoclonal antibodies specifically immunoreactive with a protein. See, e.g., Harlow and
Lane (1988) Antibodies, A Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring Harbor Publications, New York,
for a description of immunoassay formats and conditions that can be used to determine
specific immunoreactivity.
[0045]     The terms "polypeptide," "peptide" and "protein" are used interchangeably herein to
refer to a polymer of amino acid residues. The terms apply to amino acid polymers in which
one or more amino acid residue is an artificial chemical mimetic of a corresponding naturally
occurring amino acid, as well as to naturally occurring amino acid polymers and non
naturally occurring amino acid polymer.
[0046]     The term "amino acid" refers to naturally occurring and synthetic amino acids, as
well as amino acid analogs and amino acid mimetics that function in a manner similar to the
naturally occurring amino acids. Naturally occurring amino acids are those encoded by the
genetic code, as well as those amino acids that are later modified, e.g., hydroxyproline, I
carboxyglutamate, and O-phosphoserine. Amino acid analogs refers to compounds that have
the same basic chemical structure as a naturally occurring amino acid, i.e., an a carbon that is
bound to a hydrogen, a carboxyl group, an amino group, and an R group, e.g., homoserine,
norleucine, methionine sulfoxide, methionine methyl sulfonium. Such analogs have modified
R groups (e.g., norleucine) or modified peptide backbones, but retain the same basic chemical
structure as a naturally occurring amino acid. Amino acid mimetics refers to chemical
compounds that have a structure that is different from the general chemical structure of an
amino acid, but that functions in a manner similar to a naturally occurring amino acid.
[0047]     Amino acids may be referred to herein by either their commonly known three letter
symbols or by the one-letter symbols recommended by the IUPAC-IUB Biochemical
                                                 10

Nomenclature Commission. Nucleotides, likewise, may be referred to by their commonly
accepted single-letter codes.
[0048]    "Myelin basic protein" (MBP), as used herein, refers to the gene as well as the
protein encoded thereby, which is a major protein component of myelin, comprising
approximately 30% of the total protein content of the myelin sheath. MBP has been shown to
be a major target autoantigen in MS, and T cells reactive with MBP play a key role in its
pathogenesis (see, for example, Schwartz, R S, "Autoimmunity and Autoimmune Diseases"
in Paul, Fundamental Immunology, 3rd Ed. Raven Press, New York, 1993, pp. 1033 1097;
Brown and McFarlin 1981. Lab Invest 45, pp. 278 284; Lehmann et al. 1992. Nature 358, pp.
155 157; Martin et al. 1992. Ann Rev Immunol 10, pp. 153 187; Sprent 1994. Cell 76, pp.
315 322; Su and Sriram. 1991. J of Neuroimmunol 34, pp. 181 190; and Weimbs and Stoffel.
1992. Biochemistry 31, pp. 12289 12296).
[0049]    The term "axon" refers to an elongated fiber of a nerve cell responsible for
conducting signals in the body.
[0050]    The terms "individual," "subject," and "patient," used interchangeably herein, refer
to a mammal, including, but not limited to, murines, simians, humans, mammalian farm
animals, mammalian sport animals, and mammalian pets. In preferred embodiments, the
individual is a human.
[0051]    The terms "dose" and "dosage" are used interchangeably herein. A dose refers to
the amount of active ingredient given to an individual at each administration. The dose will
vary depending on a number of factors, including frequency of administration; size and
tolerance of the individual; severity of the condition; risk of side effects; and the route of
administration. One of skill in the art will recognize that the dose can be modified depending
on the above factors or based on therapeutic progress. The term "dosage form" refers to the
particular format of the pharmaceutical, and depends on the route of administration. For
example, a dosage form can be in a liquid, e.g., a saline solution for injection.
[0052]    A "therapeutically effective" amount or dose or "sufficient/effective" amount or
dose, is a dose that produces effects for which it is administered. The exact dose will depend
on the purpose of the treatment, and will be ascertainable by one skilled in the art using
known techniques (see, e.g., Lieberman, PharmaceuticalDosage Forms (vols. 1-3, 1992);
Lloyd, The Art, Science and Technology of PharmaceuticalCompounding (1999); Pickar,
Dosage Calculations(1999); and Remington: The Science and PracticeofPharmacy, 20th
Edition, 2003, Gennaro, Ed., Lippincott, Williams & Wilkins).
                                                11

[0053]    The term "treatment" or "therapy" generally means obtaining a desired physiologic
effect. The effect may be prophylactic in terms of completely or partially preventing a disease
or condition or symptom thereof and/or may be therapeutic in terms of a partial or complete
cure for an injury, disease or condition and/or amelioration of an adverse effect attributable to
the injury, disease or condition and includes arresting the development or causing regression
of a disease or condition. Treatment can also include prophylactic use to mitigate the effects
of injury, should it occur. For example, in one aspect, the present invention includes pre
administration to mitigate damage prior to surgery involving the peripheral nervous system.
Treatment can also refer to any delay in onset, amelioration of symptoms, improvement in
patient survival, increase in survival time or rate, etc. The effect of treatment can be
compared to an individual or pool of individuals not receiving the treatment.
[0054]    A "control" is used herein, refers to a reference, usually a known reference, for
comparison to an experimental group. One of skill in the art will understand which controls
are valuable in a given situation and be able to analyze data based on comparisons to control
values. Controls are also valuable for determining the significance of data. For example, if
values for a given parameter vary widely in controls, variation in test samples will not be
considered as significant.
[0055]    Before the present invention is described in greater detail, it is to be understood that
this invention is not limited to particular embodiments described, as such may, of course,
vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of
describing particular embodiments only, and is not intended to be limiting, since the scope of
the present invention will be limited only by the appended claims.
[0056]    Where a range of values is provided, it is understood that each intervening value, to
the tenth of the unit of the lower limit unless the context clearly dictates otherwise, between
the upper and lower limit of that range and any other stated or intervening value in that stated
range, is encompassed within the invention. The upper and lower limits of these smaller
ranges may independently be included in the smaller ranges and are also encompassed within
the invention, subject to any specifically excluded limit in the stated range. Where the stated
range includes one or both of the limits, ranges excluding either or both of those included
limits are also included in the invention.
[0057]    Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the
same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this
invention belongs. Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those
                                                 12

described herein can also be used in the practice or testing of the present invention,
representative illustrative methods and materials are now described.
[0058]    All publications and patents cited in this specification are herein incorporated by
reference as if each individual publication or patent were specifically and individually
indicated to be incorporated by reference and are incorporated herein by reference to disclose
and describe the methods and/or materials in connection with which the publications are
cited. The citation of any publication is for its disclosure prior to the filing date and should
not be construed as an admission that the present invention is not entitled to antedate such
publication by virtue of prior invention. Further, the dates of publication provided may be
different from the actual publication dates which may need to be independently confirmed.
[0059]    It is noted that, as used herein and in the appended claims, the singular forms "a",
"an", and "the" include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. It is
further noted that the claims may be drafted to exclude any optional element. As such, this
statement is intended to serve as antecedent basis for use of such exclusive terminology as
"solely," "only" and the like in connection with the recitation of claim elements, or use of a
"negative" limitation.
[0060]    As will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading this disclosure, each of
the individual embodiments described and illustrated herein has discrete components and
features which may be readily separated from or combined with the features of any of the
other several embodiments without departing from the scope or spirit of the present
invention. Any recited method can be carried out in the order of events recited or in any other
order which is logically possible.
II. DEMYELINATING PERIPHERAL NEUROPATHIES
[0061]    The present invention is based on the discovery that polyclonal IgG can harness
Schwann cells' regenerative capacity through stimulation of Schwann cell maturation,
differentiation, and myelin production. In this manner, the invention targets a unifying
mechanism of demyelinating peripheral neuropathies so as to provide a broad-spectrum
treatment for such disorders. For example, this invention targets demyelinating peripheral
neuropathies caused by physical trauma, toxic agents, and diabetes.
[0062]    Demyelinating disorders treatable by the polyclonal IgG composition described
herein include, for example, peripheral neuropathies that are genetically acquired, result from
a systemic disease, or induced by a toxin or by trauma.
                                                 13

[0063]    Genetic demyelinating neuropathies (also known as hereditary neuropathies) are one
of the most common inherited neurological diseases. Genetic demyelinating neuropathies
are divided into four major subcategories: 1) motor and sensory neuropathy, 2) sensory
neuropathy, 3) motor neuropathy, and 4) sensory and autonomic neuropathy. Specifically,
the demyelinating hereditary neuropathies are often progressive neuropathies with markedly
decreased nerve conduction and velocity and chronic segmental demyelination of the
peripheral nerve. Gabreels-Festen et al., "Hereditary demyelinating motor and sensory
neuropathy," Brain Pathol. 3(2):135-146 (1993).      Examples of general classes of genetic
deyelinating neuropathies include but are not limited to diabetic peripheral neuropathy, distal
sensorimotor neuropathy, or autonomic neuropathies such as reduced motility of the
gastrointestinal tract or atony of the urinary bladder. Examples of hereditary peripheral
neuropathies include Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, Abetalipoproteinemia, Tangier disease,
Metachromatic leukodystrophy, Fabry's disease, and Dejerine-Sottas syndrome.
[0064]    Systemic demyelinating peripheral neuropathies arise as side effects of a systemic
illness. Non-limiting examples of peripheral neuropathies associated with systemic disease
include post-polio syndrome and AIDS-associated neuropathy. Furthermore, the following
non-limiting systemic diseases can have peripheral neuropathy symptoms: cancer,
malnutrition, alcoholism, diabetes, AIDS, Lyme disease, Rheumatoid arthritis, chronic
kidney failure, autoimmune disorders, hypothyroidism, and viral infections (e.g., hepatitis).
[0065]    Toxin induced demyelinating peripheral neuropathies are caused by exposure to
neurotoxic agents such as pharmaceutical agents, biological agents, and chemical exposure.
Examples of toxins that cause peripheral neuropathies include, but are not limited to,
chemotherapeutic agents (e.g., vincristine, paclitaxel, cisplatin, methotrexate, or 3'-azido-3'
deoxythymidine), lead, mercury, thallium, organic solvents, pesticides, carbon disulfide,
arsenic, acrylamide, diphtheria toxin, alcohol, anti-HIV medications (e.g., didanosine and
zalcitabine), anti-tuberculosis medications (e.g., isoniazid and ethamubtol), antimicrobial
drugs (e.g., dapsone, metronidazole, chloroquine, and chloamphenicol), psychiatric
medications (e.g., lithium), radiation, and medications such as amiodarone, aurothioglucose,
phenytoin, thalidomide, colchicine, cimetidine, disulfiram, hydralazine, and high levels of
vitamin B6. Additional toxic agents that may cause peripheral neuropathy are listed below.
[0066]    Trauma induced demyelinating peripheral neuropathies, as described above, are
caused by bodily shock, injury, or physical trauma.
[0067]    Accordingly, causes of peripheral neuropathy range widely, e.g. from diabetic
complications; trauma; toxins including, without limitation, drugs and medications, industrial
                                                 14

chemicals, and environmental toxins; autoimmune response; nutritional deficiencies; to
vascular and metabolic disorders. For example, demyelinating peripheral neuropathies may
occur as a result of osteosclerotic myeloma, monoclonal protein-associated peripheral
neuropathy, hereditary motor and sensory peripheral neuropathies types 1 and 3, and
hereditary susceptibility to pressure palsies.
[0068]     Similarly, symptoms of a demyelinating peripheral neuropathy also vary, e.g. with
the type of nerves affected. For example, a human patient having a demyelinating disorder
can have one or more symptoms of a demyelinating disorder such as, but not limited to,
impaired vision, numbness, weakness in extremities, tremors or spasticity, heat intolerance,
speech impairment, incontinence, dizziness, or impaired proprioception (e.g., balance,
coordination, sense of limb position). A human (e.g., a human patient) with a family history
of a demyelinating disorder (e.g., a genetic predisposition for a demyelinating disorder), or
who exhibits mild or infrequent symptoms of a demyelinating disorder described above can
be, for the purposes of the method, considered at risk of developing a demyelinating disorder.
[0069]     Specificially, sensory nerve damage caused by a demyelinating peripheral
neuropathy can cause a more complex range of symptoms because sensory nerves have a
wider, more highly specialized range of functions. Larger sensory fibers enclosed in myelin
(lipid-rich membrane folds that are spirally wrapped and insulate many nerves) register
vibration, light touch, and position sense. Damage to large sensory fibers lessens the ability to
feel vibrations and touch, resulting in a general sense of numbness, especially in the hands
and feet. Many patients cannot recognize by touch alone the shapes of small objects or
distinguish between different shapes. This damage to sensory fibers may contribute to the
loss of reflexes (as can motor nerve damage). Loss of position sense often makes individuals
unable to coordinate complex movements like walking or fastening buttons, or to maintain
their balance when their eyes are shut. Neuropathic pain is difficult to control and can
seriously affect emotional well-being and overall quality of life.
[0070]     Smaller sensory fibers without myelin sheaths transmit pain and temperature
sensations. Damage to these fibers can interfere with the ability to feel pain or changes in
temperature. Individuals may fail to sense that they have been injured from a cut or that a
wound is becoming infected. Others may not detect pains that warn of impending heart attack
or other acute conditions. (Loss of pain sensation is a particularly serious problem for
individuals with diabetes, contributing to the high rate of lower limb amputations among this
population.) Pain receptors in the skin can also become oversensitized, so that severe pain is
felt (allodynia) from stimuli that are normally painless.
                                                15

[0071]     Symptoms of autonomic nerve damage are diverse and depend upon which organs
or glands are affected. Autonomic nerve dysfunction can become life threatening and may
require emergency medical care in cases when breathing becomes impaired or when the heart
begins beating irregularly. Common symptoms of autonomic nerve damage include an
inability to sweat normally, which may lead to heat intolerance; a loss of bladder control,
which may cause infection or incontinence; and an inability to control muscles that expand or
contract blood vessels to maintain safe blood pressure levels. A loss of control over blood
pressure can cause dizziness, lightheadedness, or even fainting when an individual moves
suddenly from a seated to a standing position (a condition known as postural or orthostatic
hypotension).
[0072]     Gastrointestinal symptoms frequently accompany autonomic neuropathy. Nerves
controlling intestinal muscle contractions often malfunction, leading to diarrhea, constipation,
or incontinence. Individuals may also experience difficulty eating or swallowing if certain
autonomic nerves are affected.
[0073]     The polyclonal IgG composition of the invention may also be used to treat
demyelinating peripheral neuropathy which developed as a complication of diabetes, i.e.
Type I, Type II. Peripheral neuropathy is one of the major complications of diabetes. Both a
decrease in nerve conduction velocity and increased resistance to conduction failure caused
by ischemia are among the earliest changes detected in diabetic patients and animal models of
the disease. Ultrastructural studies have demonstrated changes in both axons and Schwann
Cells (SC) (e.g., decrease in axon caliber and segmental demyelination) as well as in the
microvasculature, all of which appear to develop independently. Some studies concluded that
the progressive loss of fibers in peripheral nerves observed in human diabetic neuropathy
may be due, at least in part, to delayed nerve degeneration and impaired nerve regeneration.
Metabolic and microvascular abnormalities, as well as a deficiency in neurotrophins, have
been considered responsible for the pathogenesis of diabetic neuropathy. The vascular
alterations in diabetes consists mainly of ischemia and endoneurial hypoxia. The mechanisms
underlying these vascular abnormalities include degenerative changes in the sympathetic
nerve endings of vasa nervorum, with the consequent impairment in neural control of nerve
blood flow and reduced production of prostacyclin and nitric oxide in nerves.
[0074]     Two distinct clinical manifestations of diabetic neuropathy are those represented by
patients suffering from painful symmetrical polyneuropathy, and by patients with insensitive,
painless feet. The painless neuropathy is the prevalent disorder and, according to several
studies, is likely to reflect the degree of nerve degeneration. The painful syndrome, on the
                                                  16

other hand, is associated with fewer morphological abnormalities. While it has also been
proposed that the painful syndrome may reflect nerve regeneration, as opposed to
degeneration, several reports suggest that nerve regeneration is impaired in diabetes. Analysis
of several functional indices in peripheral sensory nerves of diabetic rodents also suggests
depressed, rather than increased, function. For instance, experimental diabetes induces
several nociceptive responses including early thermal hyperalgesia that with time turns into
hypoalgesia, mechanical hyperalgesia, thermal and tactile allodynia, increased C fiber
activity and reduced sensitivity to opioids. In this context, mechanical hyperalgesia may
result from increased firing after sustained suprathreshold mechanical stimulation of C fibers.
[0075]    While therapies with antioxidants, vasodilators and neurotrophins may reverse some
functional and metabolic abnormalities in diabetic nerves, they only result in a partial
amelioration of abnormal pain perception, suggesting that other pathways are at play. The
present invention is able to promote Schwann cell's healing capacity towards treatment of
diabetic neuropathy.
[0076]    The polyclonal IgG composition of the invention may also be used to treat
demyelinating peripheral neuropathy resulting from trauma. A "trauma-induced" neuropathy
refers to damage to the nervous system from external physical injury. Injury or sudden
trauma, e.g. from warfare, automobile accidents, falls, and sports-related activities, can cause
nerves to be partially or completely severed, crushed, compressed, or stretched, sometimes so
forcefully that they are partially or completely detached from the spinal cord and result in
demyelination. Less dramatic traumas also can cause serious nerve damage.
[0077]    The polyclonal IgG composition of the invention may also be used to treat
peripheral neuropathy caused by a toxic agent. Toxins that produce peripheral neuropathy can
generally be divided into three groups: drugs and medications; industrial chemicals; and
environmental toxins. As used herein, the term "toxic agent" is defined as any substance that,
through its chemical action, impairs the normal function of one or more components of the
peripheral nervous system. The definition includes agents that are airborne, ingested as a
contaminant of food or drugs, or taken deliberately as part of a therapeutic regime.
[0078]    The list of toxic agents that may cause peripheral neuropathy includes, but is not
limited to, 3'-azido-3'-deoxythymidine, acetazolamide, acrylamide, adriamycin, alcohol, allyl
chloride, almitrine, amitriptyline, amiodarone, amphotericin, arsenic, aurothioglucose,
carbamates, carbon disulfide, carbon monoxide, carboplatin, chloramphenicol, chloroquine,
cholestyramine, cimetidine, cisplatin, cis-platinum, clioquinol, colestipol, colchicine, colistin,
cycloserine, cytarabine, dapsone, dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, didanosine; dideoxycytidine,
                                                 17

dideoxyinosine, dideoxythymidine, dimethylaminopropionitrile, disulfiram, docetaxel,
doxorubicin, ethambutol, ethionamide, ethylene oxide, FK506 (tacrolimus), glutethimide,
gold, hexacarbons, hexane, hormonal contraceptives, hexamethylolmelamine, hydralazine,
hydroxychloroquine, imipramine, indomethacin, inorganic lead, inorganic mercury, isoniazid,
lithium, methylmercury, metformin, methotrexate, methylbromide, methylhydrazine,
metronidazole, misonidazole, methyl N-butyl ketone, nitrofurantoin, nitrogen mustard,
nitrous oxide, organophosphates, ospolot, paclitaxel, penicillin, perhexiline, perhexiline
maleate, phenytoin, platinum, polychlorinated biphenyls, primidone, procainamide,
procarbazine, pyridoxine, simvastatin, sodium cyanate, streptomycin, sulphonamides,
suramin, tamoxifen, thalidomide, thallium, toluene, triamterene, trimethyltin, triorthocresyl
phosphate, L-tryptophan, vacor, vinca alkaloids, vincristine, vindesine, megadoses of vitamin
A, megadoses of vitamin D, zalcitamine, zimeldine; industrial agents, especially solvents;
heavy metals; and sniffing glue or other toxic compounds.
[0079]     The polyclonal IgG composition of the invention may also be used to treat
demyelinating peripheral neuropathy resulting from the administration of chemotoxins for
cancer therapy. Among the chemotoxins known to cause peripheral neuropathy are
vincristine, vinblastine, cisplatin, paclitaxel, procarbazine, dideoxyinosine, cytarabine, alpha
interferon, and 5-fluorouracil (see Macdonald, Neurologic Clinics 9: 955-967 (1991)).
 I1. DIAGNOSIS AND MONITORING OF DEMYELINATING PERIPHERAL NEUROPATHIES
[0080]     Diagnosis of demyelinating peripheral neuropathy can be made by a physician or
clinician using one or more methods known in the art. A neurological examination is
typically required and involves taking a patient history (including the patient's symptoms,
work environment, social habits, exposure to any toxins, history of alcoholism, risk of HIV or
other infectious disease, and family history of neurological disease), performing tests that
may identify the cause of the neuropathic disorder, and conducting tests to determine the
extent, site, and type of nerve damage.
[0081]     A general physical examination and related tests may reveal the presence of a
systemic disease causing nerve damage. Blood tests can detect diabetes, vitamin deficiencies,
liver or kidney dysfunction, other metabolic disorders, and signs of abnormal immune system
activity. An examination of cerebrospinal fluid that surrounds the brain and spinal cord can
reveal abnormal antibodies associated with neuropathy. More specialized tests may reveal
other blood or cardiovascular diseases, connective tissue disorders, or malignancies. Tests of
muscle strength, as well as evidence of cramps or fasciculations, indicate motor fiber
                                                  18

involvement. Evaluation of a patient's ability to register vibration, light touch, body position,
temperature, and pain reveals sensory nerve damage and may indicate whether small or large
sensory nerve fibers are affected.
[0082]    Based on the results of the neurological exam, physical exam, patient history, and
any previous screening or testing, additional testing may be ordered to help determine the
nature and extent of the neuropathy. Exemplary technologies for aiding in the diagnosis of
peripheral neuropathies include: computed tomography scan, magnetic resonance imaging,
electromyography, nerve conduction velocity, nerve biopsy, or skin biopsy. Apparatuses
useful in the diagnosis of peripheral neuropathies include, without limitation, U.S. patent no.
7,854,703.
[0083]     Computed tomography, or CT scan, is a noninvasive, painless process used to
produce rapid, clear two-dimensional images of organs, bones, and tissues. X-rays are passed
through the body at various angles and are detected by a computerized scanner. The data is
processed and displayed as cross-sectional images, or "slices," of the internal structure of the
body or organ. Neurological CT scans can detect bone and vascular irregularities, certain
brain tumors and cysts, herniated disks, encephalitis, spinal stenosis (narrowing of the spinal
canal), and other disorders.
[0084]    Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) can examine muscle quality and size, detect any
fatty replacement of muscle tissue, and determine whether a nerve fiber has sustained
compression damage. The MRI equipment creates a strong magnetic field around the body.
Radio waves are then passed through the body to trigger a resonance signal that can be
detected at different angles within the body. A computer processes this resonance into either
a three-dimensional picture or a two-dimensional "slice" of the scanned area.
[0085]    Electromyography(EMG) involves inserting a fine needle into a muscle to compare
the amount of electrical activity present when muscles are at rest and when they contract.
EMG tests can help differentiate between muscle and nerve disorders.
[0086]    Nerve conduction velocity (NCV) tests can precisely measure the degree of damage
in larger nerve fibers, revealing whether symptoms are being caused by degeneration of the
myelin sheath or the axon. During this test, a probe electrically stimulates a nerve fiber,
which responds by generating its own electrical impulse. An electrode placed further along
the nerve's pathway measures the speed of impulse transmission along the axon. Slow
transmission rates and impulse blockage tend to indicate damage to the myelin sheath, while
a reduction in the strength of impulses is a sign of axonal degeneration.
                                                19

[0087]     Nerve biopsy involves removing and examining a sample of nerve tissue, most often
from the lower leg. Although this test can provide valuable information about the degree of
nerve damage, it is an invasive procedure that is difficult to perform and may itself cause
neuropathic side effects.
[0088]     Skin biopsy is a test in which doctors remove a thin skin sample and examine nerve
fiber endings. Unlike NCV, it can reveal damage present in smaller fibers; in contrast to
conventional nerve biopsy, skin biopsy is less invasive, has fewer side effects, and is easier to
perform.
[0089]     Methods of monitoring an individual for demyelination or remyelination are known
in the art. Monitoring a subject (e.g., a human patient) for remyelination, as defined herein,
means evaluating the subject for a change, e.g., an improvement in one or more parameters
that are indicative of remyelination, e.g., one can monitor improvement in one or more
symptoms of a demyelinating disorder. Such symptoms include any of the symptoms of a
demyelinating disorder described herein. Remyelination can also be monitored by methods
which include direct determination of the state of myelin in the subject, e.g., one can measure
white matter mass using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or measure the thickness of
myelin fibers using a magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) brain scan.
[0090]      In some embodiments, the evaluation is performed at least 1 hour, e.g., at least 2, 4,
6, 8, 12, 24, or 48 hours, or at least 1 day, 2 days, 3 days, 4 days, 5 days, 6 days, 7 days, 8
days, 9 days, 10 days, 11, days, 12 days, 13 days, 14 days, 15 days, 16 days, 17 days, 18
days, 19 days, or 20 days or more, or at least 1 week, 2 weeks, 3 weeks, 4 weeks, 5 weeks, 6
weeks, 7 weeks, 8 weeks, 9 weeks, 10 weeks, 12 weeks, 13 weeks, 14 weeks, 15 weeks, 16
weeks, 17 weeks, 18 weeks, 19 weeks, 20 weeks or more, or any combination thereof, after
an administration, preferably the first administration, of the polyclonal IgG. The subject can
be evaluated in one or more of the following periods: prior to beginning of treatment; during
the treatment; or after one or more elements of the treatment have been administered.
Evaluating can include evaluating the need for further treatment, e.g., evaluating whether a
dosage, frequency of administration, or duration of treatment should be altered. It can also
include evaluating the need to add or drop a selected therapeutic modality, e.g., adding or
dropping any of the treatments for demyelinating disorders described herein. For example,
continued administration of the polyclonal IgG could be done with one or more additional
therapeutic agents where necessary. In a preferred embodiment, if a preselected outcome of
the evaluation is obtained, an additional step is taken, e.g., the subject is administered another
treatment or another evaluation or test is performed. The level of remyelination can be used
                                                  20

to make a determination on patient care, e.g., a selection or modification of a course of
treatment or the decision of a third party to reimburse for the treatment.
[0091]    In some embodiments, monitoring a subject (e.g., a human patient) for
remyelination can also include monitoring for a reduction in the size or number of
inflammatory lesions (i.e., scleroses) using, e.g., Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scans,
Positron-Emission Tomography (PET) scans, Diffusion-Weighted Imaging (DW-I, or DW
MRI), Diffusion Tensor Imaging, Myelography, Magnetization Transfer. In some
embodiments, monitoring a subject for remyelination can include the detection of, e.g., (i)
abnormal proteins such as tiny fragments of myelin, (ii) elevated levels of or specific types of
lymphocytes, and/or (iii) abnormal levels of immunoglobulin (IgG) molecules. In other
embodiments, monitoring a subject for remyelination can include assessment of a change in
the subject's neuropsychology (e.g., the status of various abilities such as memory, arithmetic,
attention, judgment and reasoning). In some embodiments, the monitoring of a subject (e.g., a
human patient) for remyelination can involve testing a patient's urine for a decrease in levels
of myelin basic protein-like material (MBP-like material), which substance becomes elevated
as axonal damage occurs during disease progression. In some embodiments, where the
demyelinating disorder affects a subject's eyes or vision, the monitoring of a subject for
remyelination can involve testing for improvements in, e.g., color blindness.
[0092]    Provided herein are methods of evaluating a subject, to determine, e.g., if a subject
is responding or not responding to a treatment for a demyelinating disorder, e.g., a therapy
that increases remyelination in a subject such as administering a polyclonal IgG. The method
includes providing a reference value (e.g., a pre-administration value) for the level or state of
myelin in the subject, and optionally, administering to the subject a medicament that
increases remyelination (e.g., a polyclonal IgG). In embodiments where a medicament is
administered, the method also includes providing a post-administration value for the level or
state of myelin in the subject (e.g., the level or state of myelin following administration of a
remyelination therapy) and comparing the post-administration value with the reference value,
thereby evaluating the subject, e.g., determining if the subject is responding or not responding
to the therapy. The post-administration value (i.e., the value corresponding to the state or
level of myelin in a subject following a remyelination therapy) can be determined, e.g., by
any of the assessment methods described herein. The reference value (i.e., the state or level of
myelin in a subject prior to treatment with a remyelination therapy) can also be determined,
e.g., by any of the assessment methods described herein.
                                                 21

[0093]     In some embodiments, a determination that a subject is responding indicates that a
shorter duration of treatment can/should/will be/is administered to the subject (e.g., shorter
than the treatment which is recommended for a subject who is not responding to a therapy, or
a duration shorter than currently used with existing therapies for demyelinating disorders, and
optionally, that indication is entered into a record.
[0094]     In some embodiments, a determination that a subject is responding indicates that a
shorter duration of treatment is counter-indicated for the subject (e.g., a duration shorter than
currently used with existing treatments for demyelinating disorders, e.g., any of the
treatments for demyelinating disorders described herein), and optionally, that indication is
entered into a record.
[0095]     In some embodiments, providing a comparison of the post-administration value with
a reference value includes: providing a determination of a post-administration level of myelin
in a subject at a first time point (e.g., wherein the first time point is 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13,
14 or more days (e.g., 3, 4, 5, 6, 8 or more weeks (e.g., 3, 4, 6, 12 or more months))) after the
commencement of administration of the remyelination therapy (e.g., polyclonal IgG);
providing a determination of a reference value of the state or level of myelin in the subject at
a second time point that is prior to the first time point (e.g., wherein the second time point is
prior to, or within about 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 days of the commencement of, administration of a
remyelination therapy (e.g., polyclonal IgG); and providing a comparison of the post
administration level and reference value of a subject's myelin, wherein increased levels of
myelin in a subject (e.g., the levels differ by no more than about 60%, about 50%, about 40%,
about 30%, about 20%, about 10%, about 5%, about 2%, or about 1%) between the post
administration level and reference value indicates that the subject is responding.
[0096]     In some embodiments, the determination of whether a patient is responding to a
therapy is made by evaluating the subject for a change, an improvement, in one or more
parameters that are indicative of remyelination, e.g., one can monitor improvement in one or
more symptoms of a demyelinating disorder. Such symptoms include any of the symptoms of
a demyelinating disorder described herein. Remyelination can also be monitored by methods
which include direct determination of the state of myelin in the subject, e.g., one can measure
white matter mass using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), measure the thickness of myelin
fibers using a magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) brain scan, or any other direct
measures described herein.
[0097]     In another embodiment, the determination of whether a patient is responding to a
therapy can also be evaluated by any other assessment or indicia described herein, including,
                                                  22

but not limited to, monitoring a patient for a reduction in the size or number of inflammatory
lesions (i.e., scleroses) present in the patient; monitoring a patient's endoneurial fluid for a
reduction in the presence or amount of, e.g., (i) elevated levels of or specific types of
lymphocytes, and/or (ii) abnormal levels of immunoglobulin (IgG) molecules; monitoring a
patient for a positive change in neuropsychology (e.g., the status of various abilities such as
memory, arithmetic, attention, judgment and reasoning); and/or monitoring a patient's urine
for a decrease in levels of myelin basic protein-like material (MBP-like material).
[0098]     In some embodiments, at least a 5% (e.g., at least 10%, at least 15%, at least 20%, at
least 25%, at least 30%, at least 35%, at least 40%, at least 50%, at least 60%, at least 70%)
improvement in one or more symptoms of a demyelinating disorder or other above-described
indicia following a remyelination therapy (e.g., a therapy that induces remyelination in a
subject, e.g., a therapy such as a polyclonal IgG) is sufficient to classify the patient as
responding to a therapy.
IV. PREPARATION OF POLYCLONAL             IGG
[0099]     Immunoglobulin preparations according to the present invention can be prepared
from any suitable starting materials. For example, immunoglobulin preparations can be
prepared from donor serum or monoclonal or recombinant immunoglobulins. In a typical
example, blood is collected from healthy donors. Usually, the blood is collected from the
same species of animal as the subject to which the immunoglobulin preparation will be
administered (typically referred to as "homologous" immunoglobulins). The
immunoglobulins are isolated from the blood and purified by one or more suitable
procedures, such as, for example, Cohn fractionation, ultracentrifugation, electrophoretic
preparation, ion exchange chromatography, affinity chromatography, immunoaffinity
chromatography, polyethylene glycol fractionation, alcohol fractionation, nanofiltration,
ultrafiltration/diafiltration or the like. (See, e.g., Cohn et al., J. Am. Chem. Soc. 68:459-75
(1946); Oncley et al., J. Am. Chem. Soc. 71:541-50 (1949); Barundern et al., Vox Sang.
7:157-74 (1962); Koblet et al., Vox Sang. 13:93-102 (1967); Teschner et al. Vox Sang
(92):42-55 (2007); Hoppe et al. Munch Med Wochenschr (34): 1749-1752 (1967),
Falksveden (Swedish Patent No. 348942); Tanaka et al., Braz J Med Biol Res (33)37-30
(2000); Lebing et al., Vox Sang (84):193-201 (2003); U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,122,373 and
5,177,194; PCT/US2010/036470; and PCT/US2011/038247; the disclosures of which are
incorporated by reference herein.)
                                                    23

[00100] To inactivate various viral contaminants present in plasma-derived products, the
clarified PptG filtrate may be subjected to a solvent detergent (S/D) treatment. Methods for
the detergent treatment of plasma derived fractions are well known in the art (for review see,
Pelletier JP et al., Best Pract Res Clin Haematol. 2006;19(1):205-42). Generally, any
standard S/D treatment may be used in conjunction with the methods provided herein.
[00101] To further purify and concentrate IgG, cation exchange and/or anion exchange
chromatography can be employed. Methods for purifying and concentrating IgG using ion
exchange chromatography are well known in the art. For example, U.S. Patent No. 5,886,154
describes a method in which a Fraction 11+111 precipitate is extracted at low pH (between
about 3.8 and 4.5), followed by precipitation of IgG using caprylic acid, and finally
implementation of two anion exchange chromatography steps. U.S. Patent No. 6,069,236
describes a chromatographic IgG purification scheme that does not rely on alcohol
precipitation at all. PCT Publication No. WO 2005/073252 describes an IgG purification
method involving the extraction of a Fraction 11+111 precipitate, caprylic acid treatment, PEG
treatment, and a single anion exchange chromatography step. U.S. Patent No. 7,186,410
describes an IgG purification method involving the extraction of a Fraction 1+11+111 or
Fraction II precipitate followed by a single anion exchange step performed at an alkaline pH.
U.S. Patent No. 7,553,938 describes a method involving the extraction of a Fraction 1+11+111
or Fraction 11+111 precipitate, caprylate treatment, and either one or two anion exchange
chromatography steps. U.S. Patent No. 6,093,324 describes a purification method
comprising the use of a macroporous anion exchange resin operated at a pH between about
6.0 and about 6.6. U.S. Patent No. 6,835,379 describes a purification method that relies on
cation exchange chromatography in the absence of alcohol fractionation. The disclosures of
the above publications are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties for all purposes
[00102] To reduce the viral load of an IgG composition provided herein, the composition
may be nanofiltered using a suitable nanofiltration device. In certain embodiments, the
nanofiltration device will have a mean pore size of between about 15 nm and about 200 nm.
Examples of nanofilters suitable for this use include, without limitation, DVD, DV 50, DV 20
(Pall), Viresolve NFP, Viresolve NFR (Millipore), Planova 15N, 20N, 35N, and 75N
(Planova). In a specific embodiment, the nanofilter may have a mean pore size of between
about 15 nm and about 72 nm, or between about 19 nm and about 35 nm, or of about 15 nm,
19nm, 35nm, or 72 nm. In a preferred embodiment, the nanofilter will have a mean pore size
of about 35 nm, such as an Asahi PLANOVA 35N filter or equivalent thereof. In a particular
embodiment, the IgG composition recovered from the anion exchange step is nanofiltered
                                                24

using a nanofilter having a pore size between 30 nm and 40 nm, preferably 352 nm. In
another preferred embodiment, the nanofilter will have a mean pore size of about 19 or 20
nm, such as an Asahi PLANOVA 20N filter (19+2 nm) or equivalent thereof. In a particular
embodiment, the IgG composition recovered from the anion exchange step is nanofiltered
using a nanofilter having a pore size between 15 nm and 25 nm, preferably 19+2 nm.
[00103] In certain embodiments, immunoglobulin is prepared from gamma globulin
containing products produced by the alcohol fractionation and/or ion exchange and affinity
chromatography methods well known to those skilled in the art. Purified Cohn Fraction II is
commonly used. The starting Cohn Fraction II paste is typically about 95 percent IgG and is
comprised of the four IgG subtypes. The different subtypes are present in Fraction II in
approximately the same ratio as they are found in the pooled human plasma from which they
are obtained. The Fraction II is further purified before formulation into an administrable
product. For example, the Fraction II paste can be dissolved in a cold purified aqueous
alcohol solution and impurities removed via precipitation and filtration. Following the final
filtration, the immunoglobulin suspension can be dialyzed or diafiltered (e.g., using
ultrafiltration membranes having a nominal molecular weight limit of less than or equal to
100,000 daltons) to remove the alcohol. The solution can be concentrated or diluted to obtain
the desired protein concentration and can be further purified by techniques well known to
those skilled in the art.
[00104] Preparative steps can be used to enrich a particular isotype or subtype of
immunoglobulin. For example, protein A, protein G or protein H sepharose chromatography
can be used to enrich a mixture of immunoglobulins for IgG, or for specific IgG subtypes.
(See generally Harlow and Lane, Using Antibodies, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press
(1999); Harlow and Lane, Antibodies, A Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory
Press (1988); U.S. Pat. No. 5,180,810.)
[00105] Commercial sources of polyclonal immunoglobulins can also be used. Such sources
include but are not limited to: Kiovig@ 10% IVIG (Baxter Healthcare); Gammagard Liquid@
10% IVIG (Baxter Healthcare); Gammagard S/D@ (Baxter Healthcare); Gammagard S/D@
with less than 1 mg/mL of IgA in a 5% solution (Baxter Healthcare); Gamunex@-C, 10%
(Grifols USA); Flebogamma@, 5% and 10% DIF (Grifols USA); Privigen@ 10% Solution
(CSL Behring); Carimune @ NF or Sandoglobulin@ (CSL Behring); and Hizentra@ 20%
Liquid (CSL Behring); Octagam@, 5% and 10% IVIG (Octapharma AG); Gammanorm@
16.5% SCIG (Octapharma AG). The commercial source of immunoglobulin preparation for
use in the methods of the present invention is not critical.
                                                25

[00106] An alternative approach is to use fragments of antibodies with antigen-binding
capability, e.g., Fab', F(ab') 2, Fab, Fv and rIgG. See, e.g., Pierce Catalog and Handbook,
1994-1995 (Pierce Chemical Co., Rockford, Ill.); Kuby, J., Immunology, 3.sup.rd Ed., W.H.
Freeman & Co., New York (1998). The polyclonal IgG composition of the invention may
include fragments of one immunoglobulin isotype, i.e. IgG, or can contain a mixture of
immunoglobulin fragments of different isotypes (e.g., IgA, IgD, IgE, IgG and/or IgM). The
Fc preparation also can contain predominantly (at least 60%, at least 75%, at least 90%, at
least 95%, or at least 99%) fragments from the IgG immunoglobulin isotype, and can contain
minor amounts of the other subtypes. For example, an Fc preparation can contain at least at
least about 75%, at least about 90%, at least about 95%, or at least about 99% IgG fragments.
In addition, the polyclonal IgG preparation can comprise a single IgG subtype or a mixture of
two or more of IgG subtypes. Suitable IgG subtypes include IgGI, IgG2, IgG3, and IgG4. In
a specific embodiment, the polyclonal IgG preparation comprises IgGI fragments.
[00107] Immunoglobulins can be cleaved at any suitable time during preparation to yield
Fab, F(ab') and/or F(ab') 2 fragments, as applicable. A suitable enzyme for cleavage is, for
example, papain, pepsin or plasmin. (See, e.g., Harlow and Lane, Using Antibodies, Cold
Spring Harbor Laboratory Press (1999); Plan and Makula, Vox Sanguinis 28:157-75 (1975).)
After cleavage, the Fc portions can be separated from the Fab, F(ab') and/or F(ab') 2 fragments
by, for example, affinity chromatography, ion exchange chromatography, gel filtration, or the
like. In a specific example, immunoglobulins are digested with papain to separate the Fc
fragment from the Fab fragments. The digestion mixture is then subjected to cationic
exchange chromatography to separate the Fc fragments from the Fab fragments.
[00108] Immunoglobulin fragments can also be prepared from hybridomas or other culture
system which express monoclonal antibody. (See, e.g., Kohler and Milstein, Nature 256:495
97 (1975); Hagiwara and Yuasa, Hum. Antibodies Hybridomas 4:15-19 (1993); Kozbor et al.,
Immunology Today 4:72 (1983); Cole et al., in Monoclonal Antibodies and Cancer Therapy,
Alan R. Liss, Inc., pp. 77-96 (1985).) Human monoclonal antibodies can be obtained, for
example, from human hybridomas (see, e.g., Cote et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 80:2026
30 (1983)) or by transforming human B cells with EBV virus in vitro (see, e.g., Cole et al.,
supra). Monoclonal antibodies produced from hybridomas can be purified and the Fc
fragments separated from the Fab, F(ab') and/or F(ab') 2 fragments as described herein or as
known to the skilled artisan.
[00109] IgG fragments also can be produced recombinantly, such as from eukaryotic cell
culture systems. For example, a single chain Fv fragments (scFv) can be recombinantly
                                                  26

produced by Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells transfected with a vector containing a DNA
sequence encoding the Fv fragments. Methods for creating such recombinant mammalian
cells are described in, for example, Sambrook and Russell, Molecular Cloning, A Laboratory
Manual, 3rd ed. (Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press (New York) 2001) and Ausubel et al.,
Short Protocols in Molecular Biology, 4th ed. (John Wiley & Sons, Inc. (New York) 1999)
and are known to the skilled artisan. Recombinant immunoglobulin fragments can also be
produced in other mammalian cell lines, such as baby hamster kidney (BHK) cells. Methods
of culturing recombinant cells to produce recombinant proteins are also known to the art.
[00110] A variety of other expression systems can be utilized to express recombinant
immunoglobulins IgG fragments. These include, but are not limited to, insect cell systems
and microorganisms such as yeast or bacteria which have been transfected or transformed
with an expression cassette encoding the desired IgG fragment. In certain embodiments, the
microorganism optionally can be engineered to reproduce glycosylation patterns of
mammalian or human IgG fragments.
[00111] In certain embodiments, further preparative steps can be used in order to render an
immunoglobulin preparation safe for use in the methods according to the present invention.
Such steps can include, for example, treatment with solvent/detergent, pasteurization and
sterilization. Additional preparative steps may be used in order to ensure the safety of a
polyclonal IgG preparation. Such preparative steps can include, for example, enzymatic
hydrolysis, chemical modification via reduction and alkylation, sulfonation, treatment with
B-propiolactone, treatment at low pH, or the like. Descriptions of suitable methods can also
be found in, for example, U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,608,254; 4,687,664; 4,640,834; 4,814,277;
5,864,016; 5,639,730 and 5,770,199; Romer et al., Vox Sang. 42:62-73 (1982); Romer et al.,
Vox Sang. 42:74-80 (1990); and Rutter, J. Neurosurg. Psychiat. 57 (Suppl.):2-5 (1994) (the
disclosures of which are incorporated by reference herein).
V. Pharmaceutical Compositions and Dosages
[00112] An individual in whom administration of the polyclonal IgG as set forth herein is an
effective therapeutic regimen for demyelinating peripheral neuropathy, is preferably a human,
but can be any mammal. Thus, as can be readily appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the
art, the methods and pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention are particularly
suited to administration to any a mammal, and including, but by no means limited to,
domestic animals, such as feline or canine subjects, farm animals, such as but not limited to
bovine, equine, caprine, ovine, and porcine subjects, wild animals (whether in the wild or in a
                                               27

zoological garden), research animals, such as mice, rats, rabbits, goats, sheep, pigs, dogs,
cats, etc., i.e., for veterinary medical use.
[00113] It is contemplated that a pharmaceutical composition comprising polyclonal IgG of
the present invention can be administered by a variety of methods known in the art. The
route and/or mode of administration vary depending upon the desired results, but will
typically be intravenous, intramuscular, intranasal, intraperitoneal, intra-arterial, or
subcutaneous. The pharmaceutical composition can include an acceptable carrier suitable for
intravenous, intramuscular, subcutaneous, parenteral, spinal or epidermal administration (e.g.,
by injection or infusion).
[00114] The polyclonal IgG of this invention are useful for local or systemic administration
for prophylactic and/or therapeutic treatment. Exemplary modes of administration include,
without limitation, transdermal, subcutaneous, intra-arterial, intravenous, intranasal,
intramuscular, rectal, buccal, and oral administration. The pharmaceutical compositions can
be administered in a variety of unit dosage forms depending upon the method of
administration. For example, unit dosage forms include powder, tablets, pills, capsules,
suppositories, ampoules, and lozenges. It is only necessary that the active ingredient
constitute an effective amount, i.e., such that a suitable effective dosage will be consistent
with the dosage form employed in single or multiple unit doses. The exact individual
dosages, as well as daily dosages, will, of course, be determined according to standard
medical principles under the direction of a physician or veterinarian. The pharmaceutical
polyclonal IgG immunoglobin compositions of this invention, when administered orally, are
preferably protected from digestion. This is typically accomplished either by complexing the
antibodies with a composition to render them resistant to acidic and enzymatic hydrolysis or
by packaging the antibodies in an appropriately resistant carrier such as a vesicle, in
particular a liposome (see Langer, Science 249:1527-1533 (1990); Treat et al., in Liposomes
in the Therapy of Infectious Disease and Cancer, Lopez-Berestein and Fidler (eds.), Liss,
New York, pp. 353-365 (1989); Lopez-Berestein, ibid., pp. 317-327; see generally ibid).
Means of protecting proteins from digestion are well known in the art.
[00115] The pharmaceutical compositions of this invention are particularly useful for
parenteral administration, such as intravenous administration or administration into a body
cavity or lumen of an organ. The compositions for administration will commonly comprise a
composition of polyclonal IgG with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, preferably an
aqueous carrier. A variety of aqueous carriers can be used, e.g., buffered saline and the like.
                                                28

[00116] Diluents that can be used in pharmaceutical compositions (e.g., granulates)
containing the active compound adapted to be formed into tablets, dragees, capsules and pills
include the following: (a) fillers and extenders, e.g., starch, sugars, mannitol and silicic acid;
(b) binding agents, e.g., carboxymethyl cellulose and other cellulose derivatives, alginates,
gelatine and polyvinyl pyrrolidone; (c) moisturizing agents, e.g., glycerol; (d) disintegrating
agents, e.g., agar-agar, calcium carbonate and sodium bicarbonate; (e) agents for retarding
dissolution, e.g., paraffin; (f) resorption accelerators, e.g., quaternary ammonium compounds;
(g) surface active agents, e.g., cetyl alcohol, glycerol monostearate; (g) adsorptive carriers,
e.g., kaolin and bentonite; (i) lubricants, e.g., talc, calcium and magnesium stearate and solid
polyethylene glycols. The diluents to be used in pharmaceutical compositions adapted to be
formed into suppositories can, for example, be the usual water-soluble diluents, such as
polyethylene glycols and fats (e.g., cocoa oil and high esters, [e.g., C 14-alcohol with C16-fatty
acid]) or mixtures of these diluents.
[00117] The pharmaceutical compositions of the invention are sterile and generally free of
undesirable matter. For parental administration, solutions and suspensions should be sterile,
e.g., water or arachis oil contained in ampoules and, if appropriate, blood-isotonic. These
compositions may be sterilized by conventional, well known sterilization techniques. The
compositions may contain pharmaceutically acceptable auxiliary substances as required to
approximate physiological conditions such as pH adjusting and buffering agents, toxicity
adjusting agents and the like, for example, sodium acetate, sodium chloride, potassium
chloride, calcium chloride, sodium lactate and the like. The concentration of the polyclonal
IgG in these formulations can vary widely, and will be selected primarily based on fluid
volumes, viscosities, patient body weight and the like in accordance with the particular mode
of administration selected and the patient's needs.
[00118] Proper fluidity of the composition can be maintained, for example, by use of coating
such as lecithin, by maintenance of required particle size in the case of dispersion and by use
of surfactants. In some cases, it is preferable to include isotonic agents, for example, sugars
such as sucrose, polyalcohols such as mannitol or sorbitol, and sodium chloride in the
composition. Stabilizers such as nicotinamide, L-proline, L-glycine, or L-isoleucine may
also be employed. Long-term absorption of the injectable compositions can be brought about
by including in the composition an agent which delays absorption, for example, aluminum
monostearate or gelatin.
[00119] The pharmaceutical compositions which are suspensions can contain the usual
diluents, such as liquid diluents, e.g., water, ethyl alcohol, propylene glycol, surface active
                                                   29

agents (e.g., ethoxylated isostearyl alcohols, polyoxyethylene sorbitols and sorbitan esters),
microcrystalline cellulose, aluminum methahydroxide, bentonite, agar-agar and tragacanth, or
mixtures thereof.
[00120] The pharmaceutical compositions can also contain coloring agents and
preservatives, as well as perfumes and flavoring additions (e.g., peppermint oil and
eucalyptus oil), and sweetening agents, (e.g., saccharin and aspartame).
[00121] The pharmaceutical compositions will generally contain from 0.5 to 90% of the
active ingredient by weight of the total composition.
[00122] In addition to the monoclonal antibodies, the pharmaceutical compositions and
medicaments can also contain other pharmaceutically active compounds, e.g. steroids, anti
inflammatory agents or the like.
[00123] Any diluent in the medicaments of the present invention may be any of those
mentioned above in relation to the pharmaceutical compositions. Such medicaments may
include solvents of molecular weight less than 200 as the sole diluent.
[00124] Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention can be prepared in accordance with
methods well known and routinely practiced in the art. See, e.g., Remington: The Science
and PracticeofPharmacy,Mack Publishing Co.,         2 0 th ed., 2000; and Sustained and
ControlledRelease Drug Delivery Systems, J.R. Robinson, ed., Marcel Dekker, Inc., New
York, 1978. Pharmaceutical compositions are preferably manufactured under GMP
conditions. Typically, a therapeutically effective dose or efficacious dose of the
immunoglobulin preparation is employed in the pharmaceutical compositions of the
invention. The pharmaceutical composition can be formulated into dosage forms by
conventional methods known to those of skill in the art. Dosage regimens are adjusted to
provide the optimum desired response (e.g., a therapeutic response). For example, a single
bolus may be administered, several divided doses may be administered over time or the dose
may be proportionally reduced or increased as indicated by the exigencies of the therapeutic
situation. It can be advantageous to formulate parenteral compositions in dosage unit form
for ease of administration and uniformity of dosage. Dosage unit form as used herein refers
to physically discrete units suited as unitary dosages for the subjects to be treated; each unit
contains a predetermined quantity of active compound calculated to produce the desired
therapeutic effect in association with the required pharmaceutical carrier.
[00125] Actual dosage levels can be varied so as to obtain an amount of the active ingredient
which is effective to achieve the desired therapeutic response for a particular patient without
being toxic to the patient. A physician can start doses of the pharmaceutical composition at
                                                30

levels lower than that required to achieve the desired therapeutic effect and gradually increase
the dosage until the desired effect is achieved. In general, effective doses vary depending
upon many different factors, including the specific disease or condition to be treated, its
severity, physiological state of the patient, other medications administered, and whether
treatment is prophylactic or therapeutic.
[00126] The polyclonal IgG composition can be administered on multiple occasions.
Intervals between single dosages can be daily, weekly, biweekly, every 3 weeks, every 4
weeks, monthly or yearly. Intervals can also be irregular as indicated by measuring
therapeutic progress in the patient. Dosage and frequency can vary depending on the half-life
of the antibodies in the patient.
[00127] Alternatively, the polyclonal IgG can be delivered in a controlled release system.
For example, the polyclonal immunoglobulins may be administered using intravenous
infusion, an implantable osmotic pump, a transdermal patch, liposomes, or other modes of
administration. In one embodiment, a pump may be used (see Langer, supra; Sefton, CRC
Crit. Ref. Biomed. Eng. 14:201 (1987); Buchwald et al., Surgery 88:507 (1980); Saudek et
al., N. Engl. J. Med. 321:574 (1989)). In another embodiment, polymeric materials can be
used (see Medical Applications of Controlled Release, Langer and Wise (eds.), CRC Pres.,
Boca Raton, Fla. (1974); Controlled Drug Bioavailability, Drug Product Design and
Performance, Smolen and Ball (eds.), Wiley, New York (1984); Ranger and Peppas, J.
Macromol. Sci. Rev. Macromol. Chem. 23:61 (1983); see also Levy et al., Science 228:190
(1985); During et al., Ann. Neurol. 25:351 (1989); Howard et al., J. Neurosurg. 71:105
(1989)). In yet another embodiment, a controlled release system can be placed in proximity of
the therapeutic target, i.e., a site of injury in the peripheral nervous system, thus requiring
only a fraction of the systemic dose (see, e.g., Goodson, in Medical Applications of
Controlled Release, supra, vol. 2, pp. 115-138 (1984)). . Other controlled release systems are
discussed in the review by Langer (Science 249:1527-1533 (1990)).
[00128] In the case of a polyclonal IgG immunoglobulin preparation, intravenous
immunoglobulin (IVIG) is commonly used. IVIG formulations are designed for
administration by injection. Because polyclonal IgG preparations have achieved an
exceptionally high immunoglobulin concentration (e.g. 10% w/v in some embodiments, 15%
w/v in other embodiments, 20% w/v in still other embodiments, and up to 25% w/v in still
further embodiments), which significantly reduces the volume for a therapeutically effective
dose, the composition of the present invention is particularly advantageous for subcutaneous
and/or intramuscular administration to a patient, as well as intravenous administration.
                                                    31

[00129] The term "effective amount" refers to an amount of polyclonal IgG preparation that
results in an improvement or remediation of a medical condition being treated in the subject
(e.g., for treating peripheral nerve trauma, for treating toxin-induced peripheral neuropathy,
etc.). An effective amount to be administered to the subject can be determined by a physician
with consideration of individual differences in age, weight, disease severity, route of
administration (e.g., intravenous v. subcutaneous) and response to the therapy.
[00130] The dosing schedule may vary, depending on the circulation half-life, and the
formulation used. The compositions are administered in a manner compatible with the dosage
formulation in the therapeutically effective amount. Precise amounts of active ingredient
required to be administered depend on the judgment of the practitioner and are peculiar to
each individual.
[00131] A suitable dose of polyclonal IgG may be administered to a patient weekly,
biweekly, every 3 weeks, every 4 weeks, or monthly to a subject, wherein the dose ranges
from about 0.050 to 5 g/kilogram of patient body weight, about 0.095 to 4.7 g/kilogram of
patient body weight, about 0.140 to 4.4 g/kilogram of patient body weight, about 0.185 to 4.1
g/kilogram of patient body weight, about 0.230 to 3.8 g/kilogram of patient body weight,
about 0.275 to 3.5 g/kilogram of patient body weight, about 0.320 to 3.2 g/kilogram of patient
body weight, about 0.365 to 2.9 g/kilogram of patient body weight, about 0.4 10 to 2.6
g/kilogram of patient body weight, about 0.455 to 2.3 g/kilogram of patient body weight,
about 0.500 to 2.0 g/kilogram of patient body weight.
[00132] In alternative embodiments, the polyclonal IgG composition of the invention is
administered weekly, biweekly, every 3 weeks, every 4 weeks, or monthly to a subject at a
dose of about 0.05 to 4.9 g/kilogram of patient body weight, about 0.05 to 4.8 g/kilogram of
patient body weight, about 0.05 to 4.7 g/kilogram of patient body weight, about 0.05 to 4.6
g/kilogram of patient body weight, about 0.05 to 4.5 g/kilogram of patient body weight, about
0.05 to 4.4 g/kilogram of patient body weight, about 0.05 to 4.3 g/kilogram of patient body
weight, about 0.05 to 4.2 g/kilogram of patient body weight, about 0.05 to 4.1 g/kilogram of
patient body weight, about 0.05 to 4.0 g/kilogram of patient body weight, about 0.05 to 3.9
g/kilogram of patient body weight, about 0.05 to 3.8 g/kilogram of patient body weight, about
0.05 to 3.7 g/kilogram of patient body weight, about 0.05 to 3.6 g/kilogram of patient body
weight, about 0.05 to 3.5 g/kilogram of patient body weight, about 0.05 to 3.4 g/kilogram of
patient body weight, about 0.05 to 3.3 g/kilogram of patient body weight, about 0.05 to 3.2
g/kilogram of patient body weight, about 0.05 to 3.1 g/kilogram of patient body weight, about
0.05 to 3.0 g/kilogram of patient body weight, about 0.05 to 2.9 g/kilogram of patient body
                                                 32

weight, about 0.05 to 2.8 g/kilogram of patient body weight, about 0.05 to 2.7 g/kilogram of
patient body weight, about 0.05 to 2.6 g/kilogram of patient body weight, about 0.05 to 2.5
g/kilogram of patient body weight, about 0.05 to 2.4 g/kilogram of patient body weight, about
0.05 to 2.3 g/kilogram of patient body weight, about 0.05 to 2.2 g/kilogram of patient body
weight, about 0.05 to 2.1 g/kilogram of patient body weight, about 0.05 to 2.0 g/kilogram of
patient body weight, about 0.05 to 1.9 g/kilogram of patient body weight, about 0.05 to 1.8
g/kilogram of patient body weight, about 0.05 to 1.7 g/kilogram of patient body weight, about
0.05 to 1.6 g/kilogram of patient body weight, about 0.05 to 1.5 g/kilogram of patient body
weight, about 0.05 to 1.4 g/kilogram of patient body weight, about 0.05 to 1.3 g/kilogram of
patient body weight, about 0.05 to 1.2 g/kilogram of patient body weight, about 0.05 to 1.1
g/kilogram of patient body weight, about 0.05 to 1.0 g/kilogram of patient body weight.
Clinicians familiar with the diseases treated by IgG preparations can determine the
appropriate dose for a patient according to criteria known in the art.
[00133] In other embodiments, an IVIG product can be administered to a subject within the
range of about 0.2 g/kilogram of patient body weight to about 4 g/kilogram patient body
weight each time, and the frequency of administration may range from twice a week, once a
week, twice a month, once a month, or once every other month. One exemplary dose range
of IVIG is between about 0.1 to about 1 or about 0.2 to about 0.8 g/kg patient body weight,
typically administered at the frequency of twice a month or once a month. For instance, IVIG
is administered to some patients at the dose of 0.2, 0.4, 0.6, or 0.8 g/kg patient body weight
according to a twice-a-month schedule. In other cases, IVIG is administered at the dose of
0.2, 0.4, 0.6 or 0.8 g/kg patient body weight according to a once-a-month schedule.
[00134] The duration of IVIG treatment for a demyelinating peripheral neuropathy can vary:
it may be as short as 3 or 6 months, or may be as long as 18 months, 2 years, 5 years, or 10
years. In some cases, the IVIG treatment may last the remainder of a patient's natural life.
Effectiveness of the IVIG treatment may be assessed during the entire course of
administration after a certain time period, e.g., every 3 months or every 6 months for an 18
month treatment plan. In other cases, effectiveness may be assessed every 9 or 12 months for
a longer treatment course. The administration schedule (dose and frequency) may be
adjusted accordingly for any subsequent administration.
[00135] For intravenous administration, the polyclonal IgG is administered at an exemplary
initial infusion rate of 0.5 mL/kg/hr (0.8 mg/kg/min) for 30 minutes whereas the exemplary
                                                 33

maintenance infusion rate would be to increase the rate every 30 minutes if tolerated up to 5
mL/kg/hr (8 mg/kg/min). Infusion times may vary depending on the dose, rate of infusion
and tolerability.
[00136] For subcutaneous administration to individuals of 40 kg patient body weight and
greater, an exemplary initial infusion rate is 30 mL/site at 20 mL/hr/site whereas an
exemplary maintenance infusion rate is 30 mL/site at 20-30 mL/hr/site. For subcutaneous
administration to individuals of less than 40 kg patient body weight, an exemplary initial
infusion rate is 20-30 mL/site at 15 mL/hr/site whereas an exemplary maintenance infusion
rate is 20 mL/site at 15-20 mL/hr/site. Infusion times may vary depending on the dose, rate
of infusion and tolerability.
[00137] In accordance with the present invention, the time needed to complete a course of
the treatment can be determined by a physician and may range from as short as one day to
more than a month. In certain embodiments, a course of treatment can be from 1 to 6
months.
[00138] Methods for preparing parenterally administrable compositions will be known or
apparent to those skilled in the art and are described in more detail in such publications as
Remington's Pharmaceutical Science, 15th ed., Mack Publishing Company, Easton, Pa.
(1980).
[00139] VI.    COMBINATION THERAPY
[00140] In some embodiments, the polyclonal IgG can be administered to a subject as a
combination therapy with another treatment, e.g., another treatment for a demyelinating
disorder (e.g., any of the demyelinating disorders described herein. For example, the
combination therapy can include administering to the subject (e.g., a human patient) one or
more additional agents that provide a therapeutic benefit to the subject who has, or is at risk
of developing, a demyelinating disorder. In some embodiments, the polyclonal IgG and the
one or more additional agents are administered at the same time. In other embodiments, the
polyclonal IgG is administered first in time and the one or more additional agents are
administered second in time. In some embodiments, the one or more additional agents are
administered first in time and the polyclonal IgG is administered second in time. The
polyclonal IgG can replace or augment a previously or currently administered therapy. For
example, upon treating with polyclonal IgG, administration of the one or more additional
agents can cease or diminish, e.g., be administered at lower levels. In other embodiments,
administration of the previous therapy is maintained. In some embodiments, a previous
                                                34

therapy will be maintained until the level of polyclonal IgG reaches a level sufficient to
provide a therapeutic effect. The two therapies can be administered in combination.
[00141] In some embodiments, the individual receiving a first therapy for a demyelinating
disorder, e.g., Interferon Beta la (Avonex), Interferon Beta lb (Rebif), glatiramer acetate
(Copaxone), mitoxantrone (Novantrone), azathiprine (Imuran), cyclophosphamide (Cytoxan
or Neosar), cyclosporine (Sandimmune), methotrexate, Cladribine (Leustatin),
methylprednisone (Depo-Medrol or Solu-Medrol), prednisone (Deltasone), prednisolone
(Delta-Cortef), dexamethasone (Medrol or Decadron), adreno-corticotrophic hormone
(ACTH), or Corticotropin (Acthar), can also be administered polyclonal IgG. In some
embodiments, when the human is administered polyclonal IgG, the first therapy is halted. In
other embodiments, the human is monitored for a first pre-selected result, e.g., an
improvement in one or more symptoms of a demyelinating disorder (such as increased
remyelination), e.g., any of the symptoms of demyelinating disorders described herein. In
some embodiments, when the first pre-selected result is observed, treatment with polyclonal
IgG is decreased or halted. In some embodiments, the human is then monitored for a second
pre-selected result after treatment with polyclonal IgG is halted, e.g., a worsening of a
symptom of a demyelinating disorder. When the second pre-selected result is observed,
administration of the polyclonal IgG to the human is reinstated or increased, or administration
of the first therapy is reinstated, or the human is administered both polyclonal IgG, or an
increased amount of polyclonal IgG, and the first therapeutic regimen.
[00142] In one embodiment, a human receiving a first therapy for a demyelinating disorder,
who is then treated with polyclonal IgG, continues to receive the first therapy at the same or a
reduced amount. In another embodiment, treatment with the first therapy overlaps for a time
with treatment with polyclonal IgG, but treatment with the first therapy is subsequently
halted.
[00143] In some embodiments of the invention, a therapeutically effective amount of
polyclonal IgG is co-administered with an anti-inflammatory to a patient in need thereof
Anti-inflammatory agents are a well-known class of pharmaceutical agents which reduce
inflammation by acting on body mechanisms (Stedman's Medical Dictionary 26 e., Williams
and Wilkins, (1995); Physicians Desk Reference 51 ed, Medical Economics, (1997)).
[00144] Anti-inflammatory agents useful with the methods of the invention include Non
steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Agents (NSAIDS). NSAIDS typically inhibit the body's ability
to synthesize prostaglandins. Prostaglandins are a family of hormone-like chemicals, some of
which are made in response to cell injury. Specific NSAIDS approved for administration to
                                                 35

humans include naproxen sodium, diclofenac, sulindac, oxaprozin, diflunisal, aspirin,
piroxicam, indomethocin, etodolac, ibuprofen, fenoprofen, ketoprofen, mefenamic acid,
nabumetone, tolmetin sodium, and ketorolac tromethamine.
[00145] Other anti-inflammatory agents useful with the methods of the invention include
salicylates, such as, for example, salicyclic acid, acetyl salicylic acid, choline salicylate,
magnesium salicylate, sodium salicylate, olsalazine, and salsalate.
[00146] Other anti-inflammatory agents useful with the methods of the invention include
cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibitors. COX catalyzes the conversion of arachidonate to
prostaglandin H2 (PGH2); a COX inhibitor inhibits this reaction. COX is also known as
prostaglandin H synthase, or PGH synthase. Two Cox genes, Cox-1 and Cox-2 have been
isolated in several species. COX-2 is tightly regulated in most tissues and usually only
induced in abnormal conditions, such as inflammation, rheumatic and osteo-arthritis, kidney
disease and osteoporosis. COX- 1 is believed to be constitutively expressed so as to maintain
platelet and kidney function and inter homeostasis. Typical COX inhibitors useful in the
methods of the invention include etodolac, celebrex, meloxicam, piroxicam, nimesulide,
nabumetone, and rofecoxib.
[00147] Preferred anti-inflammatory agents that can be incorporated into a polymer matrix
for administration in the methods of the invention include: Isonixin, Amtolmetin Guacil,
Proglumetacin, Piketoprofen, Difenamizole, Epirizole, Apazone, Feprazone, Morazone,
Phenylbutazone, Pipebuzone, Propyphenazone, Ramifenazone, Thiazolinobutazone, Aspirin,
Benoiylate, Calcium Acetylsalicylate, Etersalate, Imidazole Salicylate, Lysine
Acetyisalicylate, Morpholine Salicylate, 1-Naphthyl Salicylate, Phenyl Acetysalicylate,
Ampiroxicam, Droxicam, S-Adenosylmethionine, Amixetine, Benzydamine, Bucolome,
Difenpiramide, Emorfazone, Guaiazulene, Nabunetone, Nimesulide, Proquazone, Superoxide
Dismutase, and Tenidap.
[00148] Anti-inflammatory agents that can be appended to a polymer for administration in
the methods of the invention include: Etofenamate, Talniflumate Terofenamate, Acemetacin,
Alclofenac, Bufexamac, Cinmetacin, Clopirac, Felbinac, Penclozic Acid, Fentiazac, Ibufenac,
Indomethacin, Isofezolac, Isoxepac, Lonazolac, Metiazinic Acid, Mofezolac, Oxametacine,
Pirazolac, Sulindac, Tiaramide, Tolmetin, Tropesin, Zomepirac, Bumadizon, Butibufen,
Fenbufen, Xenbucin Clidanac, Ketorolac, Tinoridine, Benoxaprofen, Bermoprofen, Bucloxic
Acid, Fenoprofen, Flunoxaprofen, Flurbiprofen, Tbuprofen, Tbuproxam, Indoprofen,
Ketoprofen, Loxoprofen, Naproxen, Oxaprozin, Pirprofen, Pranoprofen, Prodznic Acid,
Suprofen, Tiaprofenic Acid, Zaltoprofen, Benzpiperylon, Mofebutazone, Oxyphenbutazone,
                                                 36

Suxibuzone, Acetaminosalol, Parsalmide, Phenyl Salicylate, Salacetamide, Salicylsulfuric
Acid, Isoxican, Lomoxicam, Piroxicam, Tenoxicam,      .epsilon.-Acetamidocaproic    Acid,
Bendazac, .alpha.-Bisabolol, Paranyline, Perisoxal, and Zileuton.
[00149] Anti-inflammatory agents that can be incorporated into a polymer backbone for
administration in the methods of the invention include: Enfenamic Acid, Aceclofenac,
Glucametacin, Alminoprofen, Caiprofen, Xinoprofen, Salsalate, 3-Amino-4-hydroxybutyric
Acid, Ditazol, Fepradinol, and Oxaceprol.
[00150] Anti-inflammatory agents that possess suitable ortho functionality to be
incorporated into the backbone of a polymer of formula (I) as described herein include:
Flufenamic Acid, Meclofenamic Acid, Mefenamic Acid, Niflumic Acid, Tolfenamic Acid,
Amfenac, Bromfenac, Diclofenac Sodium, Etodolac, Bromosaligenin, Diflunisal, Fendosal,
Getitisic Acid, Glycol Salicylate, Salicilic Acid, Mesalamine, Olsalazine, Salicylamide 0
Acetic Acid, Sulfasalazine,
[00151] For any anti-inflammatory agent referred to herein by a trade name it is to be
understood that either the trade name product or the active ingredient possessing anti
inflammatory activity from the product can be used. Additionally, preferred agents identified
herein for incorporation into a polymer backbone can also preferably be appended to a
polymer or can be incorporated into a polymer matrix. Preferred agents that can be appended
to a polymer can also preferably be incorporated into a polymer matrix.
                                          EXAMPLES
[00152] Examples are provided below to illustrate the present invention. These examples are
not meant to constrain the present invention to any particular application or theory of
operation.
[00153] EXAMPLE 1: INVESTIGATION OF IVIG EFFECT ONSCHWANN CELLS
[00154] The direct effect of human serum-derived polyclonal immunoglobulins on Schwann
cell homeostasis, differentiation, and maturation as demonstrated through various molecular
and cellular variables was investigated using three models: 1) a primary rat Schwann cell
culture model; 2) a p57kip2 suppressed Schwann cell model; and 3) a co-culture of PNS
neurons and myelinating Schwann cells.
[00155] 1.1.   PREPARATION OF THE RAT SCHWANN CELL MODEL 1:             In this model, naive
primary Schwann cells (SCs) isolated from the sciatic nerves of newborn rats were cultured.
At this stage, SCs are immature and have not yet initiated differentiation processes. In
                                                37

culture, they do not progress along their differentiation program and remain proliferative but
immature, most likely due to the presence of intrinsic differentiation inhibitors (Heinen et al.,
2008a).
[00156] 1.2.   PREPARATION OF P57KIP2 SUPPRESSED SCHWANN CELL MODEL                  2: The
present inventors have identified the p57kip2 gene as a novel intrinsic inhibitor of
myelinating glial cell differentiation, maturation and myelination. It has been demonstrated
that long-term shRNA dependent suppression of the p57kip2 gene uncouples primary SC
differentiation from axonal contact. This was revealed by cell cycle exit, altered SC
morphology as well as induced myelin expression (Kndry et al., 2002; Heinen et al., 2008a;
Heinen et al., 2008b). In this second model, p57kip2 suppressed SC was used for comparison
with control transfected cells, i.e. non-differentiating cells. This culture system provides the
unique opportunity to observe SC differentiation and maturation in vitro in the absence of
axons in a quantitative way.
[00157] 1.3.   PREPARATION OF A CO-CULTURE OF          PNS NEURONS      AND MYELINATING
SCHWANN CELLS      - MODEL 3: In this model, myelinating neuron/SC co-cultures were
generated. Culture preparations were made from embryonic Wistar rat or C57/BL6 mouse
dorsal root ganglia containing both immature sensory neurons and Schwann cell precursors of
the PNS. This co-culture simulates the in vivo situation and offers the possibility of studying
the final wrapping/myelination process and whether this complex interaction can be
influenced by immunoglobulin administration. Optimization of the co-culture conditions
and preparations was done according to established protocols used in the inventors'
laboratory or the protocol published from Paivalinen et al., (2008) with some modifications.
IVIG stimulation was performed in parallel to initiation of the myelination process with
dialysed IGIV/buffer preparations. IGIV/buffer dialysis was performed against cell culture
medium without supplements. All experiments were performed with one concentration of
IGIV: 20mg/ml. The duration of stimulation was determined by analyzing the myelination
kinetics (internode formation) after 3 and 6 days following addition of dialysed IGIV/buffer.
[00158] 1.4. CELL MORPHOLOGY: Cell morphology was investigated in model 1 (rat SCs in
culture) and model 2 (p57kip2-suppressed SCs) for up to 9 days with stimulation by 10mg/ml
and 20mg/ml of IVIG for model 1 (to observe dose dependency) and up to 7 days stimulation
(9 days transfection) for model 2. Experiments were performed with both non-dialysed and
dialysed IGIV and buffer preparations. IVIG and buffer dialysis was performed against cell
                                                 38

culture medium without supplements. All model 2 experiments were performed with one
concentration of dialysed IGIV (20mg/ml). In model 2, the cell growth and differentiation
kinetics was also determined by measuring the cell protrusion length after 3 and 7 days of
stimulation with dialysed IVIG.
[00159] 1.5. CELL DEATH/PROLIFERATION: Cell death/proliferation was investigated in
model 1 after 2 days stimulation with non-dialyzed and dialyzed IVIG/buffer preparations.
IVIG/buffer dialysis was performed against cell culture medium without supplements. All
experiments were performed with one concentration of IVIG (20mg/ml). Two assays for
measuring cell proliferation were employed: immunocytochemical staining against the Ki-67
antigen and imunocytochemical staining against BrdU. Ki-67 antigen is a nuclear protein
which serves as a cellular marker for proliferation. BrdU (bromodeoxyuridine) is a
nucleotide analogue of thymidine used for labeling of proliferating cells.
Immunocytochemical staining against caspase-3 was employed as an apoptosis marker.
Caspase-3 is a protease activated in apoptotic cells and therefore used as a cell death marker.
Cells were fixed after two different BrdU-pulse durations of 8h and 24h.
[00160] 1.6. GENE EXPRESSION: Gene expression was analyzed in model 1 (rat SCs in
culture - section 1.1) and model 2 (p57kip2-suppressed SCs - section 1.2) exposed for up to
9 days stimulation for model 1 and 7 days stimulation (9 days transfection) for model 2 using
both non-dialyzed and dialyzed IVIG/buffer preparations. Dialysed SYNAGIS preparations
were used as a IgGI control on naive SCs (model 1). IVIG/buffer/SYNAGIS dialysis was
performed against cell culture medium without supplements. All experiments were
performed with one concentration of IVIG: 20mg/ml. Transcription of myelin genes (Po,
MBP) and Fc receptors (CD64, CD32 and CD 16) were measured using real-time RT-PCR.
[00161] EXAMPLE 2: SCHWANN CELL RESPONDS TO INCUBATION WITH IVIG
[00162] 2.1. MORPHOLOGY: IVIG treatment was observed to affect Schwann cell
morphology. SCs cultured in the presence of 10mg/ml IVIG, and to a larger extent, in the
presence of 20mg/ml IVIG, appeared to have larger somata and nuclei. It is currently unclear
whether this is a direct impact on SC shape and cytoskeleton or adhesion properties, a result
from different cell densities, or is reflective of discrete cell surface alterations possibly
connected to the IVIG binding site(s) on the cell surface.
[00163] Significantly accelerated growth of cellular protrusions was measured upon
stimulation with IGIV using model 2 (p57kip2 suppression). This effect was observed only in
                                                  39

the early stages of the differentiation process, indicating an IVIG effect on the differentiation
kinetics of the Schwann cells. To explain, the growth of cellular protrusions is a maturation
parameter which was found to be dependent on suppressed p57kip2 levels. On the other hand,
no effect on actin filament assembly and structure could be observed after IVIG stimulation
as revealed by TRITC conjugated phalloidin stainings.
[00164] 2.2. CELL DEATH/PROLIFERATION (MODEL 1): After stimulation with non
dialyzed IVIG (20mg/ml) preparations, the proliferation rate of naive SC was significantly
reduced, as revealed by assays using proliferation markers BrdU and Ki-67. See FIGs. 1-2.
The IVIG-dependent effect on the proliferation rate was diminished with IVIG dialysis, but
remained statistically significant thereafter. There is currently no evidence of induction of
apoptosis after treatment with IVIG based on the negative staining for caspase-3.
[00165] 2.3. GENE EXPRESSION: Stimulation of non-transfected SCs (model 1) with non
dialyzed and dialyzed IVIG/buffer preparations led to slight upregulation of Po and strong
upregulation of the MBP genes within the first 3 days of treatment, but not after longer
incubation periods. Stimulation of p57kip2 suppressed cells (model 2) with non-dialyzed and
dialyzed IVIG/buffer preparations also led to similar results regarding myelin gene
expression. The expression and upregulation of both myelin genes were significantly stronger
in the p57kip2-suppressed cells than in the control transfected cells. Observations of the gene
regulation of Fc receptors showed that Schwann cells express CD64 and CD32 and that long
term suppression for p57kip2 leads to significant upregulation of these genes. There was a
detectable level of CD64 Fc receptor expression in immature SCs. In differentiating
Schwann cells (upon suppression of the intrinsic inhibitor p57kip2), CD64 levels were
significantly increased with IVIG stimulation.
[00166] Importantly, the monoclonal IgGI controls (Synagis, Avastin and Herceptin)
showed no significant effect on myelin gene expression. Stimulation of p57kip2 suppressed
cells (model 2) with non-dialysed and dialysed IVIG/buffer preparations induced myelin gene
expression to a similar extent. Again MBP expression was strongly induced upon IVIG
stimulation whereas PO expression was mildly induced by the treatment. Note that myelin
gene induction could be observed during a period of seven days of stimulation and was
therefore not limited to early phases. Furthermore, the expression of the p57kip2 gene was
found to encode an intrinsic inhibitor of Schwann cell differentiation and was significantly
lowered in control transfected (non-differentiating) cells.
[00167] Observations of the gene regulation of all known Fc7 receptors showed that
Schwann cells express the CD64 Fc receptor. In differentiating Schwann cells (model 2),
                                                 40

CD64 levels were significantly increased in comparison to control transfected (non
differentiating) cells. Regulation of the CD64 receptor expression in response to IVIG
stimulation could not be observed. Of note, effects of the non-dialysed buffer control were
observed in all the gene expression experiments performed. This effect was, however,
diminished after dialysis. Further gene expression analyses were therefore performed with
dialysed IVIG preparations only.
[00168] 2.4. SUMMARY OF FINDINGS: In the first 18 months of the investigation, it was
discovered that primary SCs respond to IVIG incubation with altered cell morphology
accompanied by an accelerated growth of cellular protrusions in early stages of the
differentiation process. Incubation with IVIG was also found to reduce Schwann cell
proliferation without affecting cell survival. Furthermore, expression of two major myelin
genes, Po and MBP, was induced in immature as well as differentiating SCs following
stimulation with IVIG. Data shows that primary rat Schwann cells were express the CD64 Fc
receptor and that in differentiating Schwann cells (upon suppression of the intrinsic inhibitor
p57kip2), CD64 levels were significantly increased with exposure to IVIG. The evidence
also provides strong indications for an upregulation of Fc receptors (in particular CD64) in
differentiating SCs. Furthermore, a specific binding of the human IVIGs on the Schwann cell
surface was shown.
[00169] These findings support the hypothesis that SCs might exhibit immune competence.
Reduced proliferating rate with no signs of apoptosis as well as the induction of myelin
genes, combined with accelerated growth of cellular protrusions, suggest a promotion of the
differentiation process in the immature SC by IVIG. These are the first in vitro results
demonstrating that Schwann cells are not only able to respond to but also to specifically bind
immunoglobulins and that IVIG stimulation can promote Schwann cell precursor maturation.
[00170] EXAMPLE 3: GENE EXPRESSION
[00171] For further examination of the IVIG dependent effects on differentiating (p57kip2
suppressed cells, model 2) and non-differentiating (control suppressed cells, model 2)
Schwann cell gene expression we collected 16 RNA samples from 4 independent experiments
for a GeneChip Array analysis (performed by Miltenyi Biotec, Germany). Sample validation
was performed by determination of expression levels of MBP, Po, p57kip2 and CD64 genes.
[00172] Statistical and functional analysis was performed. Genes that were identified as
significantly up- or down-regulated upon treatment with IVIG are provided in Tables 1 and 2.
Future aims are at further gene identification as well as validation of the obtained results.
                                                41

Table 1. Comparison of non-differentiating Schwann cells +/- IVIG
                                          42

Up regulated genes after treatment    Down regulated genes after treatment
(gene sequence name)                  (gene sequence name)
Tyrp1                                 RGD1562551
Tyrp1                                 Ctnna2
Col24al                               Olr832
Fat3                                  Phgrl
Tmem72                                RGD1566220
Tesc                                  Nedd9
1118                                  SIc12a3
Mtla                                  Arhgef9
SIc40a1                               Gckr
Asgrl                                 TC636329
LOC678704                             A_64_PO23581
TC609365                              Ptprr
Bc16b                                 Olr749
A_64_P063062                          Nebl
Npas2                                 RGD1562545
Gpx2                                  Hes5
Matn1                                 Mpzl2
A_64_PO22503                          Ezr
Fbxo32                                Cryab
Pls1                                  Fcgr2b
A_64_P094596
A_64_PO25678
Olig1
Sox2
Pip1
                                   43

Table 2. Comparison of differentiating Schwann cells +/- IVIG
          Up regulated genes after treatment       Down regulated genes after treatment
          (gene sequence name)                     (gene sequence name)
          ENSRNOT00000064975                       XM_346212
          Zfp334                                   XR_009266
          Mmp25                                    LOC688695
         A_64_P117674                              Ak311
          A_64_P151655                             A_64_P163956
          A_44_P386999
          Olig1
          Sox10
          Hes5
[00173] In order to confirm the observed induction of myelin gene expression (in particular
Po and MBP) at protein level, we performed Western-blot analysis on p57kip2 suppressed
versus control suppressed cells (model 2) after treatment with dialysed IVIG/buffer. We
could demonstrate that in differentiating Schwann cells protein levels of Po and to a lesser
extent of MBP were increased after IG treatment.
[00174] EXAMPLE 4: IMMUNE-RELA TED PROTEINS
[00175] It was important to confirm direct IVIG binding to the Schwann cell surface.
Applying an anti-human Fab-specific F(ab)' 2 and anti-human Fcy-specific F(ab)' 2 antibodies,
it was shown that human immunoglobulins in the IVIG specifically bound to the Schwann
cell surface. Live Schwann cells in culture were stimulated with IVIG, washed, fixed and
then separately stained against human Fab fragments, human Fcy fragments or against both
epitopes in combination of a double-staining. A specific surface binding could be localized
within the perinuclear region of the cells. These binding studies were performed with naive
Schwann cells (model 1) using IVIG and IgG1 controls (Avastin and Herceptin) as well as
with differentiating Schwann cells (model 2) using IVIG. In order to address the question of
whether CD64 receptor protein is also expressed on the Schwann cell surface, staining
experiments with two anti-CD64 antibodies have been initiated.
                                                44

[00176] In order to determine whether CD64 receptor protein was also expressed on the
Schwann cell surface staining experiments with two anti-CD64 antibodies were performed.
One anti-CD64 antibody appeared to bind specifically to the rat CD64 receptor on the
Schwann cells and diffuse receptor staining was distributed over the cell surface of the non
differentiating cells. In comparison, the receptor staining on differentiating cells was
concentrated to the cell soma above the perinuclear region. The detected CD64 signals did
not coincide with the IVIG binding signals (comparison of immunological stainings).
[00177] EXAMPLE 5: INTERNODE FORMATION
[00178] In order to improve efficiency and reproducibility of the in vitro myelination model
(model 3), a number of experimental improvement steps using DRG cultures derived
C57/BL6 mouse embryos were performed and established. To this end, the protocol
according to Phivalhinen et al. (2008) was modified and can now be used to study the effects
of IVIG application on axon/Schwann cell interactions. IVIG stimulation (20mg/ml) was
performed concomitant to the initiation of the myelination process using dialysed
IGIV/buffer preparations.
[00179] After determination of the optimal time point for the analysis at 7 days upon
initiation of myelinisation, a statistically significant number of IVIG stimulation experiments
(n=9) were performed. In order to evaluate the ability of immunoglobulin treatment to
modulate the generation of myelin sheaths (internode formation), the number of internodes
(normalizing to the whole number of nuclei in the co-culture) of IVIG treated were compared
to the number of internodes in control co-cultures. Although a trend towards slightly
increased internode densities could be observed, no statistically significant difference in
myelin segment formation was detected after treatment.
[00180] EXAMPLE 6: IN VIVO NERVE REPAIR PARADIGM
[00181] 6.1. SUMMARY
[00182] In order to translate in vitro findings based on primary rat Schwann cell cultures to
an in vivo paradigm, chronic peripheral nerve lesions were induced in adult rats treated with
IVIG or control buffer during a so called "nerve regeneration period". Sciatic nerves were
transected and, by means of suturing religation of nerve ends, nerve regeneration was
prevented for a period of three months. After this degeneration period, nerves were ligated to
                                                  45

allow regeneration to take place and IVIG or buffer was administered (i.p. injections). Nerves
were allowed to regenerate for another three months until the animals were sacrificed.
[00183] The above-described surgical approach on Schwann cells was used to determine
whether IVIG stimulation can repair the activity of injured peripheral nerves. During the
three months regeneration (and IVIG/buffer treatment) period a number of functional tests
were performed on live rats. Afterwards animals were sacrificed and sciatic nerves were
dissected, fixed and embedded for morphological and immunohistochemical future analyses
aiming at the description of Schwann cell/myelin and axonal reactions. Preliminary results
were acquired from the functional analyses. These preliminary findings indicate that
differences between the two groups (IVIG vs. buffer treated animals) exist. Specifically,
IVIG treated animals displayed longer and broader footprint areas (contact zones between
foot and floor) as compared to buffer treated animals. These footprint areas also gradually
increased during the treatment period and this was accompanied with an increased landing
pressure (corresponding to the force that is used by the leg to make a step or to the pressure
the foot exerts to the surface). Overall these first preliminary data suggest that IVIG treated
animals experience an accelerated normalization of walking behavior and an increased
strength in their leg usage.
[00184] 6.2. METHODS
[00185] IVIG dependent effects on Schwann cell survival were investigated. Specifically, a
previously established chronic peripheral nerve denervation model (Fu and Gordon; J
Neurosci 1995) was used to study the proliferation as well as remyelination and axonal
regeneration in denervated nerve segments in vivo. This in vivo model features similar nerve
conditions to those observed in many human nerve pathologies. This in vivo model also
provides the advantage of focusing on regenerative events only as degeneration processes
(i.e., immune reactions are temporally excluded).
[00186] For this purpose sciatic nerves of 24 adult Lewis rats were transected and nerve
regeneration was prevented by means of surturing religation of the nerve ends. This setup
results in chronically injured and denervated nerve segments. Regeneration was prevented for
the period of three months after nerve transaction. During this period, no functional tests
were performed with the animals.
                                                 46

[00187] After three months of degeneration all 24 rats were exposed to a delayed sciatic
nerve ligation (anastomosis) in that proximal nerve segments were sutured to the distal nerve
segments thereby allowing nerve regeneration to take place. Note that in this chronic setup,
the overall regeneration capacity was significantly reduced as compared to acute nerve
lesions. During this first three months period axonal and myelin degeneration process were
completed.
[00188] In a first set of experiments (study 1), the generation of anti-drug antibodies (ADA)
and human IgG plasma levels after IVIG application was studied in healthy rats (unlesioned
nerves) using ELISA tests. ADA against IVIGs was then monitored in lesioned and treated
animals as secondary readout in study 2 (see below).
[00189] In a second set of experiments (study 2), Lewis Rats with chronic peripheral nerve
lesions was treated with Ig IVIG /kg body weight (high-dose treatment) following nerve
ligation (regeneration period of 3 month). IVIG application was done by means of i.p.
injections once every week in the first month and then once every second week in the last two
months of the regeneration phase. Control rats with nerve lesions received IVIG formulation
buffer injections. Control buffer treated and IVIG treated animal groups comprised of 12
adult female rats each. During the period of IVIG treatment, blood samples were collected
from the tail vein in order to monitor ADA and to determine the half-life of human IgG (see
study 1). Blood plasma samples were collected every second week prior to treatment.
[00190] 6.2. RESULTS
[00191] In order to test the degree of recovery of function of the target organs after
religation of the nerve ends, a weekly set of functional evaluation tests were conducted.
Sensory function was evaluated by testing the withdrawal response of toe 4 and 5 after
application of a pain stimulus (pinch test with a forceps). Muscle strength and regeneration of
muscle fibers were analyzed using the leg spread test. These two functional tests as well as
monitoring of the animals' weight (health and wellbeing parameter) were done on a weekly
basis. The animals were further subjected to weekly to monitoring of footprints and walking
tracks (i.e., the "cat walk analysis") to evaluate functional recovery of the sciatic nerves.
[00192] At the end of the study, 21 animals were left: 10 animals that received buffer control
injections and 11 animals treated with IVIG. All rats were sacrificed and the regenerating
                                                 47

peripheral nerve segments, as well as contralateral healthy control nerves were collected for
further analysis. For this purpose animals were divided in three groups:
[00193] Group I consists of 4 buffer treated and 4 IVIG treated animals. Sciatic nerves
segments (healthy and transected) of these animals will be processed for electron microscopy
analysis (EM). Apart from determining axonal density (thus measuring regeneration
efficiency) this will also include a g-ratio calculation (axonal diameter divided by the
diameter of the axon and its myelin sheath) in order to determine remyelination efficiencies.
This analysis is currently ongoing. Functional evaluation data of these animals (cat walk data,
pinch-test and leg spread behavior) were determined and preliminary results are described
below.
[00194] Group II consists of 3 buffer treated and 4 IVIG treated animals. Sciatic nerves
segments (healthy and transected) of these animals will be used for immunohistochemical
stainings (IHC) against axonal, myelin and glial markers in order to determine the degree of
cellular redifferentiation and regeneration. Nerves are currently processed and this study is
also ongoing. Functional evaluation data of these animals (cat walk data, pinch-test and leg
spread behavior) were determined and preliminary results are available are described below.
[00195] Group III consists of 3 buffer treated and 3 IVIG treated animals. The transected
sciatic nerves segments of these animals displayed no anatomical regeneration signs since the
anastomosis did not take place. The functional evaluation data of these animals will not be
included in the overall analysis.
[00196] A preliminary evaluation of the cat walk data indicates that differences between the
two groups (IVIG vs. buffer treated animals) exist. IVIG treated animals displayed longer and
broader footprint areas (contact zones between foot and floor) as compared to buffer treated
animals. These footprint areas also gradually increased during the treatment period and this
was accompanied with an increased landing pressure (corresponding to the force that is used
by the leg to make a step or to the pressure the foot exerts to the surface). Overall this data
suggest that IVIG treated animals experience an accelerated normalization of walking
behavior and an increased strength in their leg usage.
[00197] EXAMPLE            7:  SUPPLEMENTAL            STUDIES       TO    DETERMINE          THE
UNDER YLING MECHANISMS OF IVIG ACTION
                                                 48

[00198] To better understand the underlying mechanisms of IVIG action and mechanisms by
which IVIGs promote cellular maturation, detailed molecular/cellular investigations on
stimulated Schwann cells will be performed.
[00199] As outlined above (see 5.1), a GeneChip analysis on non-differentiating and
differentiating Schwann cells exposed to IVIG treatment was performed and analyzed. Based
upon the newly discovered upregulated and downregulated genes (Tables 1 and 2), further
validation experiments will be conducted using quantitative real-time RT-PCR on selected
genes. If necessary and applicable, additional validations using antibodies (Western-blot,
immunological stainings as well as ELISA) will be performed. This will be particularly
interesting for genes related to immune competence. Of note, this expression analysis will not
only be analyzed in order to understand what cellular processes are most IVIG sensitive, it
will most likely also serve to define additional marker genes that can be used to monitor and
quantify IVIG dependent reactions.
[00200] Following establishment of a suitable in vitro myelination assay (model 3), a
statistically significant number of IVIG stimulation experiments will be performed. The
active time windows and to which extent immunoglobulin treatment can modulate the
generation of myelin sheaths (internode formation) will be evaluated.
[00201] Using a Cy3 conjugated anti-human Fab antibody, the specific binding of IVIGs to
Schwann cell surfaces can be demonstrated. It remains to be shown whether this is due to
interaction with the CD64 Fc receptor or whether Schwann cell-specific epitopes are
recognized by Fab-mediated binding. For this purpose, Schwann cells (model 1) will either
be contacted with Fc and F(ab)2 fractions of papain-digested IVIG or bound IVIGs on
Schwann cells will be digested with papain in situ. Furthermore, the application of a FITC
conjugated anti-human Fc antibody in combination with Cy3 conjugated anti-human Fab
antibody is expected to result in papain sensitive stainings. Two anti-CD64 antibodies will be
applied on non-differentiating and differentiating (model 2) Schwann cells in order to
determine whether CD64 is also expressed as a receptor protein on the Schwann cell surface.
In case that the IVIG binding is really mediated via this Fc receptor, it will be expected that
the CD64 signals coincide with the IVIG binding (immunological stainings). Further to this
end, it will be examined whether an increase in CD64 protein levels can be observed as a
consequence of the differentiation process (Western-blot).
[00202] To provide functional proof for Fc-receptor involvement, pharmacological
inhibitors such as 3-(1-Methyl-iH-indol-3-yl-methylene)-2-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-indole-5
sulfonamide or Ly294002 interfering with spleen tyrosine kinase (Syk) and
                                                49

phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (P13K) will be applied, respectively, prior to IVIG stimulation
of naive Schwann cells (model 1). This will indicate whether these Fc-dependent signaling
components are involved in MBP induction (or appropriate marker genes identified in 1.).
Furthermore, digested IVIGs will be used to stimulate cultured Schwann cells (model 1) in
order to reveal whether Fc or/and Fab fractions are responsible for IVIG specific gene
regulations (MBP and other marker genes identified in the gene expression analysis). Finally,
shRNA-mediated suppression of CD64 expression in Schwann cells (model 1) can be used to
confirm that IVIG binding is CD64 dependent as well as responsible for the IVIG dependent
induction of MBP expression (or other marker genes identified in the gene expression
analysis).
[00203] Standard Schwann cell culture (maintenance and differentiation) conditions feature
high fetal calf serum concentrations (up to 10% of volume). It is therefore conceivable that
immunoglobulins present in the serum are diminishing IVIG-dependent Schwann cell
reactions. To test this, the serum concentration will be reduced to the lower limit needed in
order to assure cell survival and differentiation, the Schwann cells stimulated with IVIGs and
MBP expression levels (models 1 and 2) as well as morphological parameters measured
(model 2).
[00204] The present inventors' recent investigations revealed that Schwann cell
differentiation is critically dependent of the histone methyltransferase enhancer of zeste
homolog 2 (EZH2; Heinen et al., in revision). Upon suppression of EZH2 activity, cultured
Schwann cells show dedifferentiation reactions similar to what is observed in nerve
pathologies. As part of future investigations, such dedifferentiating Schwann cells will be
stimulated with IVIGs to determine expression of Schwann cell marker and myelin genes.
The latter of which were shown to be downregulated below control levels. It will be of
interest to see whether immunoglobulin treatment is not only able to promote
differentiation/maturation reactions (as seen with model 2; i.e. upon suppression of the
inhibitory gene p57kip2) but can also interfere with dedifferentiation processes (such as
normalization of myelin gene expression levels).
[00205] Although the foregoing invention has been described in some detail by way of
illustration and example for purposes of clarity of understanding, it is readily apparent to
those of ordinary skill in the art in light of the teachings of this invention that certain changes
and modifications may be made thereto without departing from the spirit or scope of the
appended claims.
                                                   50

[00206]         References
[00207]         Arnson, Y., Shoenfeld, Y., Amital, H. (2009). Intravenous immunoglobulin
therapy for autoimmune diseases. Autoimmunity 42(6), 553-60.
[00208]         Asakura, K., Miller, D.J., Pease, L.R. and Rodriguez, M. (1998). Targeting of
IgMkappa antibodies to oligodendrocytes promotes CNS remyelination. J. Neurosci. 18,
7700-7708.
[00209]         Bhatheja, K. and Field, J. (2006). Schwann cells: origins and role in axonal
maintenance and regeneration. Int. J. Biochem. Cell Biol. 38(12):1995-9.
[00210]         Bieber, A., Asakura,K., Warrington, A., Kaveri, S.V., and Rodriguez, M.
(2000). Antibody-mediated remyelination: relevance to multiple sclerosis. Mult. Scler. 6
Suppl 2, SI-S5.
[00211]         Bieber, A.J., Warrington, A., Asakura, K., Ciric, B., Kaveri, S.V., Pease, L.R.,
and Rodriguez,M. (2002). Human antibodies accelerate the rate of remyelination following
lysolecithin-induced demyelination in mice. Glia 37, 241-249.
[00212]         Burstyn-Cohen, T., Frumkin, A., Xu, Y. T., Scherer, S. S., and Klar, A.
(1998). Accumulation of F-spondin in injured peripheral nerve promotes the outgrowth of
sensory axons. J. Neurosci.,18(21), 8875-8885.
[00213]         Fu, S.Y. and Gordon, T. (1995a). Contributing factors to poor functional
recovery after delayed nerve repair: Prolonged axotomy. J. Neurosci.,15(5), 3876-3885.
[00214]         Fu, S.Y. and Gordon, T. (1995b). Contributing factors to poor functional
recovery after delayed nerve repair: Prolonged denervation. J. Neurosci.,15(5), 3886-3895.
[00215]         Heinen, A., Kremer, D., Hartung, H.P., and KUry P. (2008a). p57(kip2)'s role
beyond Schwann cell cycle control. Cell Cycle 7, 2781-2786.
[00216]         Heinen, A., Kremer, D., G6ttle, P., Kruse, F., Hasse, B., Lehmann, H.,
Hartung, H.P., and KUry, P. (2008b). The cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p57kip2 is a
negative regulator of Schwann cell differentiation and in vitro myelination. Proc. Natl. Acad.
Sci. U. S. A 105, 8748-8753.
[00217]         KUry, P., Greiner-Petter, R., Comely, C., Jirgens, T. and MUller, H.W. (2002).
Mammalian Achaete Scute Homolog 2 Is Expressed in the Adult Sciatic Nerve and Regulates
the Expression of Krox24, Mob-i, CXCR4, and p57kip2 in Schwann Cells. J. Neurosci. 22,
7586-7595.
[00218]         Lin, H.H., Spies, J.M., Lu, J.L. and Pollard, J.D. (2007), Effective treatment of
experimental autoimmune neuritis with human immunoglobulin. J. Neurol Sci.;256:61-7.
[00219]         Nakahara, J., Seiwa, C., Shibuya, A., Aiso,S. and Asou, H. (2003). Expression
of Fc receptor for immunoglobulin M in oligodendrocytes and myelin of mouse central
nervous system. Neurosci. Lett. 337, 73-76.
[00220]         Negi, V. S., Elluru, S., Siberil, S. Graff-Dubois, S., Mouthon, L., Kazatchkine,
M.D., Lacroix-Desmazes, S., Bayry, J. and Kaveri, S.V. (2007). Intravenous
immunoglobulin: an update on the clinical use and mechanisms of action. J. Clin. Immunol.
27:233.
[00221]         Phivalhinen, S., Nissinen, M., Honkanen, H., Lahti, 0., Kangas, S.M.,
Peltonen, J., Peltonen, S. and Heapea, A.M. (2008). Myelination in mouse dorsal root
ganglion/Schwann cell cocultures. Mol. Cell. Neurosci. 37, 568-578
                                                  51

[00222]        Handbook of Development Neurotoxicology eds. Slikker et al. (1998),
Academic Press, San Diego.
[00223]        Vargas, M.E., Watanabe, J., Singh, S.J., Robinson, W.H. and Barres, B.A.
(2010). Endogenous antibodies promote rapid myelin clearance and effective axon
regeneration after nerve injury. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A 107 (26), 11993-11998.
[00224]        Warrington, A.E., Bieber, A.J., Ciric, B., Pease, L.R., Van, K., V, and
Rodriguez, M. (2007). A recombinant human IgM promotes myelin repair after a single, very
low dose. J. Neurosci. Res. 85, 967-976.
                                               52

                                          CLAIMS
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
  1. A method of treating a demyelinating peripheral neuropathy comprising administering
      a therapeutically effective amount of polyclonal IgG to a mammal diagnosed with
      said neuropathy, with the proviso that said neuropathy is not an immune-mediated or
      infection-mediated neuropathy and excludes Guillain-Baff6 syndrome, chronic
      demyelinating polyneuropathy and multifocal motor neuropathy.
  2. The method of claim 1, wherein the mammal is human.
  3.  The method of any of claims 1-2, wherein the polyclonal IgG is administered locally.
  4. The method of claim 3, wherein the polyclonal IgG is administered intramuscularly or
      intradermally.
  5. The method of any of claims 1-2, wherein the polyclonal IgG is administered
      systemically.
  6. The method of claim 5, wherein the polyclonal IgG is administered intranasally,
      subcutaneously, orally, intra-arterially or intravenously.
  7. The method of any of claims 1-6, wherein an anti-inflammatory agent is co
      administered with the polyclonal IgG to the mammal.
  8.  The method of claim 7, wherein the anti-inflammatory agent is adrenocorticotropic
      hormone, a corticosteroid, an interferon, glatiramer acetate, or a non-steroidal anti
      inflammatory drug.
  9.  The method of any of claims 1-8, wherein the demyelinating peripheral neuropathy is
      selected from a trauma-induced neuropathy, a toxin-induced neuropathy, an inherited
      neuropathy, and a neuropathy induced by a metabolic disease.
  10. The method of claim 9, wherein the peripheral neuropathy is a trauma-induced
      neuropathy.
  11. The method of claim 9, wherein the peripheral neuropathy is a toxin-induced
      neuropathy.
  12. The method of claim 9, wherein the peripheral neuropathy is an inherited neuropathy.
  13. The method of claim 9, wherein the peripheral neuropathy is induced by a metabolic
      disease.
                                               53

14. The method of claim 13, wherein the peripheral neuropathy is diabetic neuropathy.
15. The method of any of claims 1-8, wherein the demyelinating peripheral neuropathy is
    motor neuropathy.
16. The method of any of claims 1-8, wherein the demyelinating peripheral neuropathy is
    sensory neuropathy.
17. The method of any of claims 1-8, wherein the demyelinating peripheral neuropathy is
    sensorimotor neuropathy.
18. The method of any of claims 1-8, wherein the demyelinating peripheral neuropathy is
    autonomic neuron neuropathy.
19. The method of any of claims 1-18, wherein the polyclonal IgG is administered
    weekly.
20. The method of any of claims 1-18, wherein the polyclonal IgG is administered
    biweekly.
21. The method of any of claims 1-18, wherein the polyclonal IgG is administered
    monthly.
22. The method of any of claims 1-21, wherein the polyclonal IgG is administered to the
    mammal at a dose of about 0.05 to 5 g per kg of patient body weight.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein the polyclonal IgG is administered to the mammal
    at a dose of about 0.5 to 2 g per kg of patient body weight.
24. A method of treating peripheral nerve trauma comprising administering a
    therapeutically effective amount of polyclonal IgG to a mammal with peripheral nerve
    trauma.
25. The method of claim 24, wherein the polyclonal IgG is administered locally.
26. The method of claim 23, wherein the polyclonal IgG is administered intramuscularly
    or intradermally.
27. The method of claim 24, wherein the polyclonal IgG is administered systemically.
28. The method of claim 27, wherein the polyclonal IgG is administered intranasally,
    orally, intra-arterially, subcutaneously, or intravenously.
                                             54

29. The method of any of claims 24-28, wherein the polyclonal IgG is administered to the
    mammal at a dose of about 0.05 to 5 g per kg of patient body weight.
30. The method of claim 29, wherein the polyclonal IgG is administered to the mammal
    at a dose of about 0.5 to 2 g per kg of patient body weight.
31. The method of any of claims 24-30, wherein an anti-inflammatory agent is co
    administered with the polyclonal IgG to the mammal.
32. The method of claim 31, wherein the anti-inflammatory agent is adrenocorticotropic
    hormone, a corticosteroid, an interferon, glatiramer acetate, or a non-steroidal anti
    inflammatory drug.
33. The method of any of claims 24-32, wherein the mammal is human.
34. A method of treating toxin-induced peripheral neuropathy comprising administering a
    therapeutically effective amount of polyclonal IgG to a mammal diagnosed with said
    neuropathy, wherein said neuropathy is not infection-mediated.
35. The method of claim 34, wherein the polyclonal IgG is administered locally.
36. The method of claim 35, wherein the polyclonal IgG is administered intramuscularly
    or intradermally.
37. The method of claim 34, wherein the polyclonal IgG is administered systemically.
38. The method of claim 37, wherein the polyclonal IgG is administered intranasally,
    orally, intra-arterially, subcutaneously, or intravenously.
39. The method of any of claims 34-38, wherein the polyclonal IgG is administered to the
    mammal at a dose of about 0.05 to 5 g per kg of patient body weight.
40. The method of claim 39, wherein the polyclonal IgG is administered to the mammal
    at a dose of about 0.5 to 2 g per kg of patient body weight.
41. The method of any of claims 34-40, wherein an anti-inflammatory agent is co
    administered with the polyclonal IgG to the mammal.
42. The method of claim 41, wherein the anti-inflammatory agent is adrenocorticotropic
    hormone, a corticosteroid, an interferon, glatiramer acetate, or a non-steroidal anti
    inflammatory drug.
43. The method of any of claims 34-42, wherein the mammal is human.
                                             55

44. A method of promoting myelination of a peripheral nerve cell by a Schwann cell
    comprising contacting said Schwann cell with an amount of polyclonal IgG sufficient
    to promote myelination of said peripheral nerve cell by the Schwann cell.
45. A method of promoting the differentiation of an immature Schwann cell into a
    myelinating state comprising contacting said Schwann cell with polyclonal IgG in an
    amount sufficient to induce the Schwann cell differentiation.
46. A method of promoting the production of myelin by a Schwann cell comprising
    contacting said Schwann cell with an amount of polyclonal IgG sufficient to
    upregulate MBP genes.
47. A method of culturing mammalian nervous tissue which comprises axons, said
    method comprising contacting the tissue in culture with an effective amount of
    Schwann cells and an effective amount of polyclonal IgG, whereby the contacting of
    Schwann cells with polyclonal IgG induces upregulation of MBP genes.
48. A method of treating a peripheral nerve injury in a mammal comprising:
    transplanting nerve cells to a site of the peripheral nerve injury;
    contacting the nerve cells with a composition comprising Schwann cells and
    polyclonal IgG.
49. The method of claim 48, wherein the mammal is human.
                                             56

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           7/9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           8/9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           9/9

