Abstract
A medical device, comprising: a urological device; and a retrieval string attached to
the urological device, the retrieval string having a proximal end connected the
urological device and an opposed distal end, wherein the retrieval string comprises a
ferromagnetic material. In an alternative embodiment, the retrieval string comprises a
hydrodynamic cap connected to the distal end. Furthermore, a method of removing
the urological device from a patient by pulling the at least one retrieval string and the
attached urological device through and out of the urethra of the patient is also
provided.

   WO 2013/177068                                                                PCT/US2013/041877
                             IMPLANTABLE UROLOGICAL DEVICE
                            WITH IMPROVED RETRIEVAL FEATURE
                               Cross-Reference to Related Applications
 5          This patent application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No.
    61/649,253, filed May 19, 2012, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
                                              Background
            Ureteral stents and other medical devices, such as the intravesical drug delivery
    devices described in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2011/0152839 to Cima et al.,
10  may be provided with a retrieval string to facilitate removal of the device from the patient.
    The retrieval string may be called a tether, dangler, dangler string, retrieval ligature,
    withdrawal string, pull string, pull-string suture, or pullout suture. Ideally, the retrieval
    string enables the patient or physician to remove the device from the patient's ureter,
    through the bladder and urethra, without the need for a cystoscopic procedure.
15          The retrieval string generally must extend through and outside of the patient's
    urethra the entire period the device is deployed in the patient in order for the patient or
    medical professional to be able to grasp the string. However, this may cause other
    problems. For example, the patient may accidentally tug on the string, e.g., during or
    following urination, which may cause pain if the stent is shifted in the ureter. It also could
20  cause the device to be dislodged or excreted prematurely. In addition, the retrieval string
    may be uncomfortable to the patient, may interfere with directing the flow of urine during
    urination, and/or may increase the risk of infection by providing a pathway for bacteria
    migration.
            U.S. Patent 6,258,098 to Taylor et al. discloses a magnetic system to blindly retrieve
25  ureteral stents. A ferromagnetic bead is tethered to the proximal end of a ureteral stent with
    a flaccid string. When the stent is introduced, the bead hangs from the stent in the bladder.
    Retrieval is performed by introducing a catheter into the bladder tipped with a rare-earth
    magnet, which has a very strong magnetic field. The magnet attracts the bead, and exerts
    sufficient force on the bead to pull the stent out through the ureter and urethra when the
30  catheter is withdrawn. U.S. Patent 4,790,809 to Kuntz also discloses a system in which a
    ferromagnetic element is incorporated into the tip of a ureteral stent. These systems are all
    geared towards retrieving stents, which are confined in their deployment locations. In
    contrast, a free-floating intravesical device would not likely be useful or readily adaptable
    for use with those magnetic systems. For example, a free-floating device may be located
                                                     1

   WO 2013/177068                                                                 PCT/US2013/041877
    anywhere within the bladder and perhaps in any orientation, making a blind search for the
    ferromagnetic tip much more difficult than one such as the stent which generally would be
    in a known location and orientation even without cystoscopic visualization. Moreover, the
    addition of such large ferromagnetic elements as disclosed in those patents might cause an
 5  unsecured device to sink to the bladder neck and increase the risk of prematurely entraining
    the ferromagnetic element in the urethra and accidentally voiding the device from the
    bladder.
             It therefore would be desirable to provide devices and methods which facilitate the
    selective retrieval of deployed urological devices from a patient, while avoiding one or
10  more of the drawbacks associated with conventional retrieval strings and designs.
                                             Brief Summary
             Improved systems and methods for retrieving medical devices from the bladder are
    provided. In one aspect, the system includes a urological device configured for controlled
    emergence of one or more retrieval strings attached to the urological device. In one
15  embodiment, the retrieval string has a proximal end connected the urological device and an
    opposed distal end and is configured in an initial confined form which, following a period
    of deployment of the medical device in a urinary bladder of a patient, changes to an
    unconfined form in which the distal end of the at least one retrieval string is extendible into
    the urethra of the bladder to enable extraction of the medical device from bladder by pulling
20  the at least one retrieval string. In one particular embodiment, the device further includes a
    bioerodible component operable to (i) maintain the at least one retrieval string in its initial
    confined form, and (ii) permit the at least one retrieval string to take the unconfined form
    following degradation of the bioerodible component in vivo. Also in particular
    embodiments, the system includes a hydrodynamic cap on the distal end of the retrieval
25  string to facilitate entry into and passage through the urethra, to facilitate emergence of the
    distal end of the retrieval string from the bladder.
             In another aspect, the system includes a urological device with a retrieval string that
    includes a ferromagnetic material effective to facilitate magnetic capture of the retrieval
    string, such as by magnetic coupling with a magnet-tipped catheter inserted through the
30  urethra of the patient. In a particular embodiment, the ferromagnetic retrieval string is
    buoyant in urine within the bladder. The ferromagnetic retrieval string may or may not be
    configured to have an initial confined form which, following a period of deployment of the
    medical device in a urinary bladder of a patient, changes to an unconfined form as described
    above.
                                                     2

   WO 2013/177068                                                                 PCT/US2013/041877
             In embodiments, the urological device incorporating one or a combination of these
    systems is a drug delivery device. In a particular embodiment, the urological device
    includes (i) a device body having at least one drug reservoir lumen, and (ii) a drug
    formulation positioned in the at least one drug reservoir lumen, wherein the device is
 5  elastically deformable between a retention shape for retaining the urological device in the
    bladder and a low profile shape for deployment of the urological device through a patient's
    urethra. In an embodiment, the urological device is configured to permit the distal end of
    the retrieval string in its unconfined form to extend out from the urethra of the bladder when
    the device is in its retention shape and thereby enable the patient or a physician to pull the
10  distal end of the retrieval string and cause the device to take its low profile shape, permitting
    the device to be extracted through the patient's urethra.
                                   Brief Description of the Drawings
             FIG. 1 is a plan view of a prior art urological device which may be modified to
    include embodiments of the retrieval systems described herein.
15           FIG. 2 is a plan view of one embodiment of an intravesical drug delivery device
    having a retrieval string attached thereto.
             FIGS. 3A-3D are perspective views showing various embodiments for attaching a
    retrieval string to end pieces of one type of an intravesical drug delivery device.
             FIG. 3E shows a cross-sectional view of an end piece, with a retrieval string,
20  installed in a lumen of a tubular body of one embodiment of an intravesical drug delivery
    device.
             FIG. 4 shows one embodiment of a drug delivery device having a short retrieval
    string attached to an end of a drug delivery device in a retention shape and in a low profile
    shape for pulling the device through a patient's urethra.
25           FIG. 5 is a plan view of one embodiment of a urological device having a rod shaped
    bioerodible component with a retrieval string (and hydrodynamic cap) wound thereabout,
    for providing controlled emergence of the retrieval string.
             FIG. 6A is a plan view of one embodiment of a urological device having a coiled
    retrieval string (and hydrodynamic cap) covered by a bioerodible cap, for providing
30  controlled emergence of the retrieval string.
             FIG. 6B is a plan view of one embodiment of a coiled retrieval string secured in a
    coiled configuration by a plurality of regions of bioerodible tacky material applied onto the
    coil.
                                                     3

   WO 2013/177068                                                               PCT/US2013/041877
            FIG. 7 is a plan view of one embodiment of a urological device having a bioerodible
    component with an embedded retrieval string and a hydrodynamic cap, for providing
    controlled emergence of the retrieval string.
            FIG. 8 is a plan view of one embodiment of a urological device having a bioerodible
 5  capsule containing a retrieval string and a hydrodynamic cap, for providing controlled
    emergence of the retrieval string.
            FIG. 9 shows plan views of one embodiment of a urological device having a
    retrieval string with a hydrodynamic cap confined in a folded position along an outer
    surface of the device body with a plurality of annular shaped bioerodible components, for
10  providing controlled emergence of the retrieval string.
            FIG. 10 shows a sequence of steps for retrieval of a urological device from the
    bladder using one embodiment of a retrieval system that includes a ferromagnetic retrieval
    string and magnet-tipped catheter device.
            FIG. 11 shows two possible constructions of the retrieval strings described herein.
15          FIG. 12 shows several possible constructions of retrieval strings that include a
    ferromagnetic material for use with the retrieval systems described herein.
            FIGS. 13A-B show a placebo drug delivery having a coiled retrieval string secured
    by a bioerodible cap. The device was built and tested in a simple in vitro voiding model,
    demonstrating controlled emergence of the retrieval string following degradation of the
20  bioerodible cap.
            FIGS. 14-15 illustrate embodiments of an elongated, coiled or curved, intravesical
    drug delivery device, in which the retrieval string is attached in a middle portion of the
    device or to an end of the device.
                                         Detailed Description
25          Improved urological devices and methods for device retrieval from patients are
    provided. The devices and method advantageously include one or more retrieval features
    that enable the devices to be removed from the patient without cystoscopy, a procedure
    which patients strongly wish to avoid.
            In a preferred embodiment, the devices provide controlled emergence of the retrieval
30  string from urethra, such that removal can be performed at home by the patient or by a
    medical professional in a simple out-patient (office) procedure. In another embodiment, the
    device includes a buoyant, magnetic retrieval string that can be magnetically coupled to the
    end of catheter inserted through the urethra in a blind procedure to pull the retrieval string
    into and through the urethra, so that the retrieval string can used to remove the device from
                                                    4

   WO 2013/177068                                                                PCT/US2013/041877
    patient, again such that the removal can be performed by a medical professional in a simple
    out-patient (office) procedure without cystoscopy.
             The urological device can be essentially any device that is designed for temporary
    therapeutic or diagnostic use in a patient's urinary tract and urogenital system. Non
 5  limiting examples includes ureteral stents, drug delivery devices, or combinations thereof.
    In a preferred embodiment, the urological device is one of the devices described in U.S.
    Patent Application Publication No. 2011/0152839 to Cima et al.; PCT Application
    Publication WO 2012/019155 to Taris Biomedical, Inc., et al.; U.S. Patent Application
    Publication No. 2012/0089122 to Lee et al., PCT Application Publication WO 2012/018923
10  to Taris Biomedical, Inc., et al.; U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2010/0331770 to
    Lee, et al.; and U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2011/0060309 to Lee, et al., which
    are incorporated herein by reference.
             The retrieval string may be constructed of any suitable material, and may include
    natural or synthetic fibers. The retrieval string may be of monofilament or multifilament
15  (e.g., braided, spun, twisted, or the like) construction. Monofilament string may be
    preferred, as it may reduce bacterial growth due to its smooth surface. It preferably is
    flaccid and has a relatively thin diameter to minimize patient discomfort, but with high
    enough tensile strength to resist breaking when being pulled to withdraw the attached
    medical device from the patient. In embodiments, the retrieval string comprises a material
20  selected from those known in the art for use in/as non-absorbable sutures. Examples of
    such materials of construction for such sutures include Nylon 6, polypropylene, silk, cotton,
    polyester, polyester/Dacron, 316 stainless steel, and polymer blends, such as
    poly(vinylidene fluoride) with poly(vinylidene fluoride-co-hexafluoropolypropylene),
    among others. The retrieval string may be dyed, clear or have its natural color. The
25  retrieval string may be coated and/or impregnated with an antimicrobial agent known in the
    art. The retrieval string may be attached to the urological device through a variety of
    means, including adhesive bonding, tying the string through or around part of the device, or
    the like.
             The retrieval string may be a single string or a loop. As used herein, the terms "end
30  portion" or "distal end" in reference to a portion of the retrieval string can be either a single
    strand or a loop.
             The devices and methods disclosed herein may be used in humans, whether male or
    female, adult or child, or in other mammals, such as for veterinary or livestock applications.
    Accordingly, the term "patient" as used herein may refer to humans or other mammals.
                                                     5

   WO 2013/177068                                                                 PCT/US2013/041877
              The devices and methods can be understood with reference to Figures 1-15, which
    are exemplary and not limiting. The drawings are not to scale.
              In a first type of embodiment (Type 1), the device includes a long retrieval string,
    such that after the urological device is inserted into the patient, an end portion of the
 5  retrieval string is in a position extending outside of the patient's urethra. The other end
    portion of the retrieval string may be attached to the urological device at various locations
    depending on the device type and the deployed location of the urological device in the
    patient. The string can be a single strand or a loop style.
              FIG. 1 shows one example of a urological device, an elastically deformable drug
10  delivery device 10, which is described in U.S. Patent Application Publication No.
    2012/0089122 to Lee et al. The attachment position of the retrieval string can be varied,
    such as in the middle portion (shown as "A" in FIG. 1) or at either end (shown as "B" and
    "C" in FIG. 1) of the body 14 of device 10. It may be sutured to the device 10. In one
    embodiment which is shown in FIG. 2, the retrieval string is attached to the wire form 16
15  (i.e., the retention frame) through an opening 18 in the side wall of the retention frame
    lumen 20 adjacent to the drug reservoir lumen 22, which initially would house a drug
    payload (not shown). The retrieval string 12 may be tied or knotted to or wrapped around
    the wire form 16.
              In other embodiments, the retrieval string 12 is attached at one of the end portions
20  (B and C in FIG. 1) of device 10. In embodiments, one or both of the ends of the drug
    reservoir lumen 22 are closed off with an end piece, which may be or may include a plug
    secured within the end opening of the drug reservoir lumen. The end piece may be made of
    essentially any biocompatible material. An example material of construction is silicone,
    although other biocompatible polymers and materials can be used.
25            The retrieval string may be knotted and looped through an aperture in the end piece
    or other portion of the urological device. Alternatively, the retrieval string may be potted in
    the end piece or other portion of the urological device, FIGS. 3A-3D shows four possible
    embodiments in which a retrieval string 12 is attached to an end piece 30, 31, 32, or 33.
    FIG. 3A shows an end piece 30, which has a single hole, traverse to the longitudinal axis of
30  the end piece and through which retrieval string 12 is threaded. FIG. 3B shows an end
    piece 31, which has two holes parallel to the longitudinal axis of the end piece and through
    which the retrieval string 12 is threaded. FIG. 3C shows an end piece 32, in which the
    proximal end portion of the retrieval string 12 is embedded, e.g., potted, with the distal end
    portion extending out of the end piece. In FIG. 3D, a mid-portion of a string is embedded
                                                     6

   WO 2013/177068                                                                  PCT/US2013/041877
    in end piece 33, such that the two retrieval strings 12 extend from end piece 33. FIG. 3E
    shows an end piece component inserted into the end of the large lumen of the drug delivery
    device housing.
              The Type 1 embodiment, described above, may not be preferred. That is, although
 5  having the retrieval string placed outside the urethra is useful to aid in non-cystoscopic
    device retrieval, it comes with the potential for discomfort, infection risk,
    inadvertent/premature withdrawal of a device, and urinary spraying or problems with the
    direction of the urinary stream. To overcome these disadvantages, additional types of
    device embodiments are provided, as detailed below.
10            In a second type embodiment (Type 2), the end portion of the retrieval string (which
    may be in the form of a loop) is free but does not extend outside the urethra. Therefore, the
    end portion of the retrieval sting must be grasped by a medical profession in a minimally
    invasive procedure, which may be blind (no visualization of the device or retrieval string) or
    visualized with a cystoscope. In one sub-type, the retrieval string is short compared with
15  Type 1. The device in FIG. 4, for example, can be retrieved in a linear fashion during
    cystoscopic retrieval when the string was grasped. Retrieval in a linear fashion can reduce
    the possible discomfort of patients when the device passes through the urethra. In a second
    sub-type, the retrieval string is magnetic, and preferably buoyant, and can be readily
    grasped and withdrawn in a blind procedure.
20            In a third type embodiment (Type 3), all or a portion (such as the end portion) of the
    retrieval string is wound, coiled, encapsulated, and/or otherwise confined in or on the device
    (i.e., it is not free and does not extend from the urethra) until such time that device retrieval
    is desired. That is, the device is designed to provide controlled emergence of the retrieval
    string from the urethra.
25            One embodiment of a Type 3 device is shown in FIG. 5. Here, the urological device
    body 54 includes an end piece 51, and the retrieval string 52 is in a confined form, wound
    around a rod-shaped bioerodible component 58. The proximal end of the retrieval string 52
    is attached to end piece 51, and the distal end of the retrieval string is attached to a
    hydrodynamic cap 56. Following deployment of the device in the patient, the bioerodible
30  component 58 degrades. Once the bioerodible component 58 loses sufficient integrity to
    connect the hydrodynamic cap 56 and the urological device body 54 after a pre-determined
    period, the retrieval string 52 becomes unconfined, e.g., unwound, as shown in the lower
    illustration of FIG. 5. Then, the hydrodynamic cap 56 can become entrained in the
    patient's urethra. Once the hydrodynamic cap 56 is entrained in the urethra, hydrodynamic
                                                     7

   WO 2013/177068                                                                 PCT/US2013/041877
    force applied to the cap 56 during urination will drag the hydrodynamic cap 56 and the
    distal end portion of the retrieval string 52 out of the urethra, where it can be readily
    grasped, thereby enabling the patient or caregiver to pull the urological device and withdraw
    it from the patient's body.
 5           As used herein, the terms "bioerodible" or "biodegradable" means that the device or
    a component thereof (e.g., the bioerodible component associated with release of the retrieval
    string) degrades in vivo by dissolution, enzymatic hydrolysis, erosion, resorption, or a
    combination thereof. In one embodiment, this degradation occurs at a time that does not
    interfere with the intended kinetics of release of the drug from the device. For example,
10  substantial erosion of the bioerodible portion may not occur until after the drug formulation
    is substantially or completely released.
             In a preferred embodiment, the hydrodynamic cap 56 is constructed to be non
    buoyant (after the bioerodible component has failed) so that it will sink within the bladder,
    facilitating its entrainment with urine flowing into/through the urethra. For example, the
15  hydrodynamic cap may be formed of a biocompatible polymer, metal, or combination
    thereof, such that the cap has a density greater than about 1.0 g/mL.
               The hydrodynamic cap 56 can have essentially any suitable shape. In
    embodiments, it is less than 5 mm in its longest dimension. The shape may be cylindrical,
    bullet-shaped, bulbous, elliptical, circular, bow-shaped, spherical, ellipsoid, crescent, half
20  ring, bean-shaped, banana-shaped, doughnut-shaped, or rectangular. Other shapes are
    envisioned. The hydrodynamic cap may be made of any suitable biocompatible material.
             The hydrodynamic cap is optional, and the variations of the urological device
    providing controlled emergence of the retrieval string without a hydrodynamic cap are
    envisioned. For example, the retrieval string itself may be sufficiently non-buoyant and/or
25  shaped at the distal end portion to promote urinary entrainment.
             In another of a Type 3 device embodiment, the retrieval string in the confined form
    is embedded or housed in a bioerodible component. For example, as shown in FIG. 7,
    device body 74 includes a retrieval string 72 with a hydrodynamic cap 76, which are
    embedded in a bioerodible component 78, except for a proximal end portion 71 of the
30  retrieval string 72, which is used to secure the retrieval string to the urological device body
    74. Following a selected period of device deployment in the bladder, the bioerodible
    component will degrade and permit the retrieval string 72 and hydrodynamic cap 76 to take
    a free, unconfined form, which can then pass with urine through the urethra to facilitate
    device withdrawal from the patient.
                                                     8

   WO 2013/177068                                                               PCT/US2013/041877
             Another Type 3 device embodiment is shown in FIG. 8. Here, device body 84
    includes a retrieval string 82 with a hydrodynamic cap 86, which are confined in a
    bioerodible capsule 88, except for a proximal end portion 81 of the retrieval string 82,
    which is used to secure the retrieval string to the urological device body 84. Following a
 5  selected period of device deployment in the bladder, the bioerodible capsule will degrade
    and rupture, permitting the retrieval string 82 and hydrodynamic cap 86 to take a free,
    unconfined form, which can then pass with urine through the urethra to facilitate device
    withdrawal from the patient. In one embodiment, air (or another biocompatible gas) is
    provided in the bioerodible capsule 88 with the retrieval string 82 which advantageously
10  may be used to promote buoyancy of the whole device in the bladder until the bioerodible
    capsule 82 degrades and is ruptured to release the string, the hydrodynamic cap, and the air.
              Since the retrieval string in the foregoing embodiments will likely undergo a large
    strain in its confined position (e.g., when wound or contained in a small space), the retrieval
    string, in a preferred embodiment, consists of a thin silk or braided polyester suture
15  material, rather than a monofilament nylon or monofilament polypropylene suture material.
             Yet another embodiment of a Type 3 device is shown in FIG. 9. Here, device body
    94 includes a retrieval string 92 with a hydrodynamic cap 96. The proximal end 91 of the
    retrieval string is secured to an end of the device body, which may be a drug delivery
    device. The remainder of the retrieval string 92 is folded and constrained along the length
20  of the device with four bioerodible components 98. Fewer or more bioerodible components
    may be used, depending for example on the particular shapes and dimensions of the device
    body and the bioerodible component(s). Following a selected period of device deployment
    in the bladder, the bioerodible components will degrade, permitting the retrieval string 92
    and hydrodynamic cap 96 to take a free, unconfined form, which can then pass with urine
25  through the urethra to facilitate device withdrawal from the patient. In this embodiment, the
    string 92 may be under relatively low strain, and so a monofilament suture material may be
    preferable. The number and shape and placement of the bioerodible components 98 can
    vary. The hydrodynamic cap is optional.
             FIG. 9 also shows in a plan view that the bioerodible components 98 may be single
30  or multiple-lumen type. For the single lumen type, both the device body and the retrieval
    string may pass through the single lumen (Cl). For the multiple lumen type, the device
    body may pass through the large lumen and the retrieval string may pass through either
    large or small lumens.     The device 94 may be elastically deformable between a retention
    shape, shown in the upper illustration, for retaining the urological device in the bladder and
                                                     9

   WO 2013/177068                                                                  PCT/US2013/041877
    a low profile shape for deployment of the urological device through a patient's urethra.
    This lower profile shape in a deployment catheter or cystoscope is shown in the lower
    illustration in FIG. 9.
             The configuration in which the retrieval string is confined can impact the reliability,
 5  timing and ease with which the retrieval string is deployed following degradation of the
    bioerodible component. For example, the string should be able to be easily uncoiled
    without entanglement with itself or the urological device. FIG. 6A shows yet another
    embodiment of a Type 3 device. Here, the retrieval string 62 is spirally wound and
    confined inside a bioerodible cap 68. End A of the retrieval string is attached to urological
10  device 64, while end B of the retrieval string is free. Once the bioerodible cap dissolves or
    degrades in urine, the retrieval string 62 will be uncoiled.
             In another embodiment, the bioerodible component may be in the form of a
    biodegradable and temporarily sticky material, which can be used in the process of forming
    the retrieval string into a confined structure. For example, a viscous polysaccharide
15  aqueous solution can be used to facilitate the string coiling process, as shown in FIG. 6B.
    Here, the sticky material 69 is applied to only limited areas of the coil of retrieval string 62
    as shown in FIG. 6B. Alternatively, the material or can be applied along all or substantially
    all of the string, before or after the string is folded or coiled into a confined form. The
    string tends to be straight locally or globally depending on its material and thickness. The
20  sticky material remains sticky during the string coiling process and can become dry or
    solidified after the coiling process.
             In another Type 2 device embodiment, the retrieval string is, or includes, a magnetic
    or ferromagnetic buoyant string. By making the string buoyant in urine, it may reduce or
    avoid having the string rest at the bottom of the bladder, potentially being dragged out by
25  hydrodynamic forces during urination, which in turn may trigger discomfort to the patient,
    infection, possible anchoring of the device at the bladder neck, which could cause
    inflammation due to constant contact with the bladder wall. In one embodiment, the
    retrieval string-and advantageously only the retrieval string-is magnetically coupled to a
    magnet-tipped catheter. Once the string is out, it can be grasped by the patient or care
30  provider to pull the device out completely out of the patient.
             It is noted that the magnetic force necessary to pull out a string through the urethra
    generally is much lower than that needed to pull out a device directly. Consequently, the
    size of the ferromagnetic element needed to obtain the required magnetic force for retrieval
                                                       10

   WO 2013/177068                                                                  PCT/US2013/041877
    is also smaller. This enables a reduction in the size of the ferromagnetic element while still
    retaining enough magnetic attraction with a magnet to retrieve the string.
             Furthermore, in a preferred embodiment, the magnetic component associated with
    the retrieval string is spread over a substantial portion of the retrieval string, not just at its
 5  end, which advantageously increases the likelihood and ease of magnetically coupling the
    string to a magnet-tipped catheter in a blind procedure (since the ferromagnetic
    elements/string will be scattered in more locations throughout the bladder), as compared to
    a blind procedure in which only the tip end of the retrieval string or urological device is
    magnetic.
10           FIG. 10 shows a sequence of illustrations showing how the retrieval process works
    in one embodiment. In the first (top) illustration, the urological device, such as a drug
    delivery device, sits in the bottom of the bladder, while the buoyant retrieval string floats
    toward the top of the bladder, staying out of the area near the bladder neck where it might
    get dragged out through the urethra. In the second illustration, a magnet-tipped catheter is
15  inserted into the bladder through the urethra, and the magnet becomes magnetically coupled
    to the retrieval string which contains a ferromagnetic material. Then, the magnet-tipped
    catheter and part of the coupled retrieval string are withdrawn from the bladder. Lastly, the
    string is exteriorized through the urethra and pulled to retrieve the device from the bladder
    through the urethra.
20           FIG. 11 shows two types of retrieval string constructions. In the top portion of the
    Figure, the string is hollow. That is, annular in shape, with a lumen that can be loaded with
    one, or preferably, multiple ferromagnetic elements (not shown) that are dimensioned to fit
    into the lumen. In the bottom portion of the Figure, the string is solid. It has no lumen. In
    such embodiments, the ferromagnetic elements may be dispersed in the material forming the
25  string. For example, the string may be formed of a synthetic polymer, which is melted and
    then extruded into one or more filaments. The ferromagnetic material may be
    mixed/dispersed into the melt prior to extrusion.
             FIG. 12 shows a number of potential configurations of the string with ferromagnetic
    elements. The configuration chosen for implementation may depend on how much force is
30  actually necessary to pull the string out of the urethra, and what configurations meet this
    requirement. The ferromagnetic elements do not necessarily need to be placed along the
    whole length of the string. For example, they could be along only part of the string if one
    wants to make sure that a specific part of the string is attached to the magnet.
                                                     11

   WO 2013/177068                                                                 PCT/US2013/041877
             The controlled emergence retrieval string or the magnetic buoyant retrieval string
    systems described herein may be used with essentially any type of fixed or free-floating
    medical device that is deployed in or through the urinary bladder of a patient. Particular,
    non-limiting examples include ureteral stents and intravesical drug delivery devices, such as
 5  untethered, or free-floating, drug delivery devices. In another embodiment, the urological
    device may be a diagnostic or imaging device, such as disclosed in U.S. Patent No.
    2010/0076261 to Neeman et al. In one embodiment, the magnetic buoyant retrieval string
    is configured for controlled emergence.
             The location where the retrieval string is attached to the urological device may affect
10  the removal force. For example, with embodiments of the intravesical drug delivery device,
    if the string is attached in the middle portion (as in FIG. 14) or at least the location where
    the device can 'bridge' across the internal urethral orifice, more force (to buckle the device)
    will be required to introduce the device to the urethra compared with the case where the
    string is attached to the end of the device or where the device does not bridge across the
15  urethral orifice (as in FIG. 15). The embodiment of FIG.14 is preferable in the case where
    the string is present out of the urethra during the whole treatment period to prevent
    accidental pull-out of the device.
             The retrieval string systems described above may be used with a variety of
    implantable urological devices. Additional description of embodiments of such devices is
20  provided hereinbelow.
             In one embodiment, the urological device is a drug delivery device designed for
    insertion through the urethra and free-floating retention in the bladder. In one embodiment,
    the device includes a drug reservoir portion, a retention frame portion, and a retrieval string
    portion. The device has a relatively expanded shape suited for retention in the bladder, but
25  can be elastically compressed to take a relatively lower-profile shape for deployment
    through the channel of a deployment instrument, such as a cystoscope or catheter.
    Following deployment into the (i.e. release into the bladder), the device may assume the
    relatively expanded shape to retain the drug delivery device.
             In another embodiment, the urological device is ureteral stent device which includes
30  a retrieval string portion at or near the bladder-residing end of the stent. In one
    embodiment, the ureteral stent device also includes at least one drug delivery portion
    associated with the ureteral stent portion, such as with one of the stent ends. In particular
    embodiments, the drug delivery portion is positioned on the bladder-residing end to deliver
    drug locally to the bladder, although the kidney-residing end also may be associated with a
                                                    12

   WO 2013/177068                                                                PCT/US2013/041877
    drug delivery portion, or both ends may be associated with separate drug delivery
    components, regardless of whether the stent ends are straight or pigtailed. The drug
    delivery portion also may extend along all or some of the central body of the ureteral stent
    portion in some embodiments.
 5            For the purposes of this disclosure, terms such as "relatively expanded shape,"
    "relatively higher-profile shape," or "retention shape" generally denote any shape suited for
    retaining the device in the intended implantation location, including but not limited to a
    coiled or pretzel shape that is suited for retaining the device in the bladder. Similarly, terms
    such as "relatively lower-profile shape," "low-profile shape," or "deployment shape"
10  generally denote any shape suited for deploying the drug delivery device into the body,
    including the linear or elongated shape that is suited for deploying the device through the
    working channel of a catheter, cystoscope, or other deployment instrument positioned in a
    lumen of the body, such as the urethra. In embodiments, the drug delivery device may
    naturally assume the relatively expanded shape and may be deformed, either manually or
15  with the aid of an external apparatus, into the relatively lower-profile shape for insertion
    into the body. Once deployed, the device may spontaneously or naturally return to the
    initial, relatively expanded shape for retention in the body.
              In one embodiment, the drug delivery device includes a tube or wall that defines a
    drug reservoir lumen and a tube or wall that defines a retention frame lumen. A drug
20  formulation, which may comprise one or more solid drug units (e.g., tablets or capsules)
    including one or more drugs, may be contained in the drug reservoir lumen. End plugs may
    close the ends of the drug reservoir lumen and/or the retention frame lumen. In one
    embodiment, the retrieval string may be operable associated with one or both ends of the
    device. In another embodiment, the retrieval string may be operably associated with the
25  retention frame itself or with the tube(s) defining the drug reservoir lumen and/or the
    retention frame lumen.
              The retention frame lumen may be loaded with a retention frame (sometimes called
    a "wireform"), which may be an elastic wire. In one case, the retention frame includes a
    nitinol wire. The retention frame may be configured to spontaneously return to a retention
30  shape, such as the illustrated "pretzel" shape or another coiled shape. For example, the
    retention frame may have an elastic limit and modulus that allows the device to be
    introduced into the body in a relatively lower-profile shape, permits the device to return to
    the relatively expanded shape once inside the body, and impedes the device from assuming
    the relatively lower-profile shape within the body in response to expected forces, such as the
                                                      13

   WO 2013/177068                                                               PCT/US2013/041877
    hydrodynamic forces associated with contraction of the detrusor muscle and urination.
    Thus, the device may be retained in the body once implanted, limiting or preventing
    accidental expulsion.
            The material used to form the drug delivery device body may be elastic or flexible to
 5  permit moving the device between deployment and retention shapes. The material used to
    form the device body also may be water permeable or porous so that solubilizing fluid can
    enter the drug reservoir portion to solubilize the drug units once the device is implanted.
    For example, silicone or another biocompatible elastomeric material may be used.
            In one embodiment in which the drug delivery device is designed to be implanted in
10  the bladder, the drug delivery device is designed to be inserted into the bladder through the
    urethra cystoscopically. Thus, the device may be sized and shaped to fit through a narrow
    tubular path of a deployment instrument, such as a catheter or cystoscope. Typically, a
    cystoscope for an adult human has an outer diameter of about 5 to 7 mm and a working
    channel having an inner diameter of about 2.4 mm to about 2.6 mm. In other embodiments,
15  a cystoscope has a working channel with a larger inner diameter, such as an inner diameter
    of 4 mm or more. Thus, the device may be relatively small in size. For example, when the
    device is elastically deformed to the relatively lower profile shape, the device for an adult
    patient may have a total outer diameter that is about 3.75 mm or less, such as about 2.6 mm
    or less. For pediatric patients, the dimensions of the device are anticipated to be smaller.
20          The overall shape of the intravesical device may enable the device to reorient itself
    within the bladder to reduce its engagement or contact with the bladder wall. The device
    also may be small enough in the retention shape to permit intravesical mobility. In
    particular, the device when deployed may be small enough to move within the bladder, such
    as to move freely or unimpeded throughout the entire bladder under most conditions of
25  bladder fullness, facilitating patient tolerance of the device. Free movement of the device
    also facilitates uniform drug delivery throughout the entire bladder, as opposed to a
    particular bladder location located near the release orifice. However, devices that otherwise
    move freely within the bladder may be impeded from moving freely when the bladder is
    empty, and yet the device may still be tolerable if sufficiently compressible.
30          In some embodiments, the device is at least partially non-bioerodible. Suitable
    materials of construction may include medical grade silicone, natural latex,
    polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE), expanded PTFE, poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA),
    poly(glycerol sebacate) (PGS), stainless steel, nitinol, elgiloy (non ferro magnetic metal
    alloy), polypropylene, polyethylene, polycarbonate, polyester, nylon, or combinations
                                                     14

   WO 2013/177068                                                                PCT/US2013/041877
    thereof. Following release of the drug formulation, the device and/or the retention frame
    may be removed substantially intact or in multiple pieces. In some embodiments, the
    device is partially bioerodible so that the device, upon partial erosion, breaks into non
    erodible pieces small enough to be excreted from the bladder. Useful biocompatible
 5  erodible and non-erodible materials of construction are known in the art.
             Generally, the drug delivery device includes at least one drug reservoir portion. In
    embodiments, the drug reservoir portion includes the part of the device body that forms at
    least one drug reservoir lumen, which houses a drug formulation of at least one drug. The
    drug reservoir portion may be bounded by a sidewall. The drug reservoir lumen may
10  comprise an elastic tube, such as a polymeric tube. In one embodiment, the drug reservoir
    lumen of the device includes an elongated tube. An interior of the tube may define one or
    more drug reservoirs, and a drug formulation may be housed in the drug reservoir(s). In
    other embodiments, the drug reservoir lumen is in a form other than a tube.
             The drug reservoir portion may operate as an osmotic pump. In such an
15  embodiment, the tube may be formed from a water permeable material, such as a silicone,
    or tube may have a porous structure, or both. Following implantation, water or urine
    permeates through the wall of the tube, one or more apertures formed through the tube, or
    one or more passing pores formed through a porous tube. The water enters the reservoir,
    and is imbibed by the drug formulation. Solubilized drug is dispensed at a controlled rate
20  out of the reservoir through the one or more apertures, driven by osmotic pressure in the
    reservoir. The delivery rate and overall performance of the osmotic pump is affected by
    device parameters, such as the surface area of the tube; the permeability to liquid of the
    material used to form the tube; the shape, size, number and placement of the apertures; and
    the drug formulation dissolution profile, among other factors. The delivery rate can be
25  predicted from the physicochemical parameters defining the particular drug delivery system,
    according to well known principles. In some embodiments, the device may initially exhibit
    a zero-order release rate and subsequently may exhibit a reduced, non-zero-order release
    rate, in which case the overall drug release profile may be determined by the initial zero
    order release rate and the total payload.
30           In an alternative embodiment, the device may operate essentially by diffusion of the
    drug from the tube through (i) one or more discrete apertures formed in the wall of the tube,
    or passing pores formed in the wall of a porous tube, or (ii) through the wall of the tube
    itself, which may be permeable to the drug, or (iii) or through an end piece or wall disposed
    in one or both ends of the tube, or (iv) a combination thereof. In embodiments in which
                                                    15

   WO 2013/177068                                                                 PCT/US2013/041877
    diffusion occurs through a wall, the apertures or passing pores may not be included. In still
    other embodiments, the device may operate by a combination of osmosis and diffusion.
             The drug reservoir portion may be formed from an elastomeric material, which may
    permit elastically deforming the device for its insertion into a patient, e.g., during its
 5  deployment through deployment instrument such as a cystoscope or catheter. For example,
    the tube may be elastically deformed along with the retention frame for intravesical
    implantation. In an embodiment, the drug reservoir portion is formed from a material that is
    both elastomeric and water permeable. One material that is both elastomeric and water
    permeable is silicone, although other biocompatible materials may be used.
10           The device body or a component thereof may be formed of a non-resorbable
    material. For example, it may be formed of a medical grade silicone tubing. Other
    examples of suitable non-resorbable materials include synthetic polymers selected from
    poly(ethers), poly(acrylates), poly(methacrylates), poly(vinyl pyrolidones), poly(vinyl
    acetates), poly(urethanes), celluloses, cellulose acetates, poly(siloxanes), poly(ethylene),
15  PTFE and other fluorinated polymers, poly(siloxanes), copolymers thereof, and
    combinations thereof.
             The device body or a component thereof may be bioerodible. It may be desirable to
    include a retrieval string even with a completely bioerodible device, for example, if the
    patient experiences unexpected side effects from the device or drug, then it may be desirable
20  to remove the device earlier than the end of the treatment period. In embodiments, the
    device body, the bioerodible component used to confine the retrieval string, or both, may be
    made of a biodegradable or bioresorbable polymer. Examples of suitable such materials
    include synthetic polymers selected from poly(amides), poly(esters), poly(ester amides),
    poly(anhydrides), poly(orthoesters), polyphosphazenes, pseudo poly(amino acids), PGS,
25  copolymers thereof, and mixtures thereof. In a preferred embodiment, the resorbable
    synthetic polymers are selected from poly(lactic acids), poly(glycolic acids), PLGA,
    poly(caprolactones), and mixtures thereof. Other curable bioresorbable elastomers include
    poly(caprolactone) (PC) derivatives, amino alcohol-based poly(ester amides) (PEA) and
    poly (octane-diol citrate) (POC).
30            The device body also may be configured to maintain the retention shape without, or
    at least without requiring, a retention frame. For example, the device body may include a
    "backbone" that holds the device in its retention shape. The "backbone" may be a thicker
    and/or stronger section of the material from which the drug reservoir portion is formed. The
    "backbone" may traverse the length of the drug reservoir portion, either linearly, spirally, or
                                                    16

   WO 2013/177068                                                                  PCT/US2013/041877
    tortuously. In a particular embodiment, the device body is formed with a material that is
    treated or altered so that the device is deformable between a retention shape and a
    deployment shape. For example, the material used to form the drug reservoir portion may
    "'memorize" and spontaneously assume the relatively expanded shape upon the application
 5  of heat to the device, such as when exposed to body temperatures upon entering the bladder.
    In some instances, the heating may cause at least a portion of the polymeric material to
    cross-link so that the device is capable of retaining the retention shape upon deployment in
    the bladder.
             In some embodiments, the drug delivery device includes one or more apertures or
10  orifices for dispensing the drug, such as via osmosis, diffusion, or a combination thereof,
    among other. The apertures may be spaced along the tube to provide a passageway for
    release of the drug formulation. The apertures or orifices may be positioned through a
    sidewall or an end of the tube.
             The drug formulation can include essentially any therapeutic, prophylactic, or
15  diagnostic agent, such as one that would be useful to release locally into the bladder or
    ureter for local or regionally treatments. The drug formulation may consist only of the drug,
    or one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients may be included. The drug may be a
    biologic. The drug may be a metabolite. As used herein, the term "drug" with reference to
    any specific drug described herein includes its alternative forms, such as salt forms, free
20  acid forms, free base forms, solvates, and hydrates. Pharmaceutically acceptable excipients
    are known in the art and may include lubricants, viscosity modifiers, surface active agents,
    osmotic agents, diluents, and other non-active ingredients of the formulation intended to
    facilitate handling, stability, dispersibility, wettability, and/or release kinetics of the drug.
             The drug delivery device may be used to treat pain. A variety of anesthetic agents,
25  analgesic agents, and combinations thereof may be used. The anesthetic agent may be a
    cocaine analogue. In particular embodiments, the anesthetic agent is an aminoamide, an
    aminoester, or combinations thereof. Representative examples of aminoamides or amide
    class anesthetics include articaine, bupivacaine, carticaine, cinchocaine, etidocaine,
    levobupivacaine, lidocaine, mepivacaine, prilocaine, ropivacaine, and trimecaine.
30  Representative examples of aminoesters or ester-class anesthetics include amylocaine,
    benzocaine, butacaine, chloroprocaine, cocaine, cyclomethycaine, dimethocaine,
    hexylcaine, larocaine, meprylcaine, metabutoxycaine, orthocaine, piperocaine, procaine,
    proparacaine, propoxycaine, proxymetacaine, risocaine, and tetracaine. These anesthetics
    typically are weak bases and may be formulated as a salt, such as a hydrochloride salt, to
                                                      17

   WO 2013/177068                                                              PCT/US2013/041877
    render them water-soluble, although the anesthetics also can be used in free base or hydrate
    form. Other anesthetics, such as lontocaine, also may be used. The drug also can be an
    antimuscarinic compound that exhibits an anesthetic effect, such as oxybutynin or
    propiverine. The drug also may include other drugs described herein, alone or in
 5  combination with an anesthetic agent.
             The analgesic agent may be an opioid. Representative examples of opioid agonists
    include alfentanil, allylprodine, alphaprodine, anileridine, benzylmorphine, bezitramide,
    buprenorphine, butorphanol, clonitazene, codeine, desomorphine, dextromoramide,
    dezocine, diampromide, diamorphone, dihydrocodeine, dihydromorphine, dimenoxadol,
10  dimepheptanol, dimethylthiambutene, dioxaphetyl butyrate, dipipanone, eptazocine,
    ethoheptazine, ethylmethylthiambutene, ethylmorphine, etonitazene fentanyl, heroin,
    hydrocodone, hydromorphone, hydroxypethidine, isomethadone, ketobemidone,
    levorphanol, levophenacylmorphan, lofentanil, meperidine, meptazinol, metazocine,
    methadone, metopon, morphine, myrophine, nalbuphine, narceine, nicomorphine,
15  norlevorphanol, normethadone, nalorphine, normorphine, norpipanone, opium, oxycodone,
    oxymorphone, papaveretum, pentazocine, phenadoxone, phenomorphan, phenazocine,
    phenoperidine, piminodine, piritramide, proheptazine, promedol, properidine, propiram,
    propoxyphene, sufentanil, tilidine, tramadol, pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, and
    mixtures thereof. Other opioid drugs, such as mu, kappa, delta, and nociception opioid
20  receptor agonists, are contemplated.
             The analgesic agent may be a narcotic or non-narcotic agent. Representative
    examples of analgesics include acetaminophen, buprenorphine, butorphanol, codeine,
    dihydrocodeine, fentanyl, heroin, hydrocodone, hydromorphone, methadone, morphine,
    nicomorphine, oxycodone, oxymorphone, pentazocine, pethidine, propoxyphene, pyridium
25  (phenazopyridine), thebaine, tramadol, alicyl alcohol, phenazopyridine hydrochloride,
    acetylsalicylic acid, flufenisal, ibuprofen, indoprofen, indomethacin, and naproxen. The
    analgesic agent may be selected, for example, from non-opioid, non-steroidal analgesics,
    opioid analgesics, and salicylates, among others types.
             The drug delivery device may be used to treat inflammatory conditions such as
30  IC/BPS (interstitial cystitis/bladder pain syndrome) as well as radiation cystitis, prostatitis,
    urethritis, post-surgical pain, and kidney stones. Non-limiting examples of specific drugs
    for these conditions include lidocaine, glycosaminoglycans (e.g., chondroitin sulfate,
    sulodexide), pentosan polysulfate sodium (PPS), dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), oxybutynin,
    mitomycin C, heparin, flavoxate, ketorolac, or a combination thereof. For kidney stones,
                                                    18

   WO 2013/177068                                                               PCT/US2013/041877
    the drug(s) may be selected to treat pain and/or to promote dissolution of renal stones.
    Other examples of drugs that may be used in the treatment of IC/BPS include nerve growth
    factor monoclonal antibody (MAB) antagonists, such as Tanezumab, and calcium channel
    alpha-2-delta modulators, such as PD-299685 or gabepentin.
 5          The drug delivery device may be used in association with the placement of a ureteral
    stent, such as to treat pain, urinary urgency or urinary frequency resulting from ureteral
    stent placement. Non-limiting examples of specific drugs for such treatment include anti
    muscarinics, a-blockers, narcotics, and phenazopyridine, among others.
            The drug delivery device may be used to treat urinary incontinence, frequency, or
10  urgency, including urge incontinence and neurogenic incontinence, as well as trigonitis.
    Drugs that may be used include anticholinergic agents, antispasmodic agents, anti
    muscarinic agents, 3-2 agonists, alpha adrenergics, anticonvulsants, norepinephrine uptake
    inhibitors, serotonin uptake inhibitors, calcium channel blockers, potassium channel
    openers, and muscle relaxants. Representative examples of suitable drugs for the treatment
15  of incontinence include oxybutynin, S-oxybutytin, emepronium, verapamil, imipramine,
    flavoxate, atropine, propantheline, tolterodine, rociverine, clenbuterol, darifenacin,
    terodiline, trospium, hyoscyamin, propiverine, desmopressin, vamicamide, clidinium
    bromide, dicyclomine HCl, glycopyrrolate aminoalcohol ester, ipratropium bromide,
    mepenzolate bromide, methscopolamine bromide, scopolamine hydrobromide, iotropium
20  bromide, fesoterodine fumarate, YM-46303 (Yamanouchi Co., Japan), lanperisone (Nippon
    Kayaku Co., Japan), inaperisone, NS-21 (Nippon Shinyaku Orion, Formenti, Japan/Italy),
    NC-1800 (Nippon Chemiphar Co., Japan), Z D-6169 (Zeneca Co., United Kingdom), and
    stilonium iodide.
            The drug delivery device may be used to treat urinary tract cancer, such as bladder
25  cancer and prostate cancer. Drugs that may be used include antiproliferative agents,
    cytotoxic agents, chemotherapeutic agents, or a combination thereof. Representative
    examples of drugs which may be suitable for the treatment of urinary tract cancer include
    Bacillus Calmette Guerin (BCG) vaccine, cisplatin, doxorubicin, valrubicin, gemcitabine,
    mycobacterial cell wall-DNA complex (MCC), methotrexate, vinblastine, thiotepa,
30  mitomycin, fluorouracil, leuprolide, diethylstilbestrol, estramustine, megestrol acetate,
    cyproterone, flutamide, a selective estrogen receptor modulators (i.e. a SERM, such as
    tamoxifen), botulinum toxins, and cyclophosphamide. The drug may be a biologic, and it
    may comprise a monoclonal antibody, a TNF inhibitor, an anti-leukin, or the like. The drug
    also may be an immunomodulator, such as a TLR agonist, including imiquimod or another
                                                    19

   WO 2013/177068                                                                PCT/US2013/041877
    TLR7 agonist. The drug also may be a kinase inhibitor, such as a fibroblast growth factor
    receptor-3 (FGFR3)-selective tyrosine kinase inhibitor, a phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase
    (PI3K) inhibitor, or a mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) inhibitor, among others or
    combinations thereof. Other examples include celecoxib, erolotinib, gefitinib, paclitaxel,
 5  polyphenon E, valrubicin, neocarzinostatin, apaziquone, Belinostat, Ingenol mebutate,
    Urocidin (MCC), Proxinium (VB 4845), BC 819 (BioCancell Therapeutics), Keyhole
    limpet haemocyanin, LOR 2040 (Lorus Therapeutics), urocanic acid, OGX 427
    (OncoGenex), and SCH 721015 (Schering-Plough). Other intravesical cancer treatments
    include small molecules, such as Apaziquone, adriamycin, AD-32, doxorubicin, doxetaxel,
10  epirubicin, gemcitabine, HTI-286 (hemiasterlin analogue), idarubicin, y-linolenic acid,
    mitozantrone, meglumine, and thiotepa; large molecules, such as Activated macrophages,
    activated T cells, EGF-dextran, HPC-doxorubicin, IL-12, IFN-a2b, IFN-y, a-lactalbumin,
    p53 adenovector, TNFa; combinations, such as Epirubicin + BCG, IFN + farmarubicin,
    Doxorubicin + 5-FU (oral), BCG + IFN, and Pertussis toxin + cystectomy; activated cells,
15  such as macrophages and T cells; intravesical infusions such as IL-2 and Doxorubicin;
    chemosensitizers, such as BCG+antifirinolytics (paramethylbenzoic acid or aminocaproic
    acid) and Doxorubicin + verapimil; diagnostic/imaging agents, such as
    Hexylaminolevulinate, 5-aminolevulinic acid, Iododexyuridine, HMFG1 Mab+Tc99m; and
    agents for the management of local toxicity, such as Formaline (hemorrhagic cystitis).
20           The drug delivery device may be used to treat infections involving the bladder, the
    prostate, and the urethra. Antibiotics, antibacterial, antifungal, antiprotozoal, antiseptic,
    antiviral and other antiinfective agents can be administered for treatment of such infections.
    Representative examples of drugs for the treatment of infections include mitomycin,
    ciprofloxacin, norfloxacin, ofloxacin, methanamine, nitrofurantoin, ampicillin, amoxicillin,
25  nafcillin, trimethoprim, sulfonamides trimethoprimsulfamethoxazole, erythromycin,
    doxycycline, metronidazole, tetracycline, kanamycin, penicillins, cephalosporins, and
    aminoglycosides.
             The drug delivery device may be used to treat fibrosis of a genitourinary site, such
    as the bladder or uterus. Representative examples of drugs for the treatment of fibroids
30  include pentoxphylline (xanthine analogue), antiTNF, antiTGF agents, GnRH analogues,
    exogenous progestins, antiprogestins, selective estrogen receptor modulators, danazol and
    NSAIDs.
             The drug delivery device may be used to treat neurogenic bladder. Representative
    examples of drugs for the treatment of neurogenic bladder include analgesics or
                                                   20

   WO 2013/177068                                                                  PCT/US2013/041877
    anaesthetics, such as lidocaine, bupivacaine, mepivacaine, prilocaine, articaine, and
    ropivacaine; anticholinergics; antimuscarinics such as oxybutynin or propiverine; a
    vanilloid, such as capsaicin or resiniferatoxin; antimuscarinics such as ones that act on the
    M3 muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mAChRs); antispasmodics including GABAB
 5  agonists such as baclofen; botulinum toxins; capsaicins; alpha-adrenergic antagonists;
    anticonvulsants; serotonin reuptake inhibitors such as amitriptyline; and nerve growth factor
    antagonists. In various embodiments, the drug may be one that acts on bladder afferents or
    one that acts on the efferent cholinergic transmission, as described in Reitz et al., Spinal
    Cord42:267-72 (2004).
10           The drug may be selected from those known for the treatment of incontinence due to
    neurologic detrusor overactivity and/or low compliant detrusor. Examples of these types of
    drugs include bladder relaxant drugs (e.g., oxybutynin (antimuscarinic agent with a
    pronounced muscle relaxant activity and local anesthetic activity), propiverine,
    impratroprium, tiotropium, trospium, terodiline, tolterodine, propantheline,
15  oxyphencyclimine, flavoxate, and tricyclic antidepressants; drugs for blocking nerves
    innervating the bladder and urethra (e.g., vanilloids (capsaicin, resiniferatoxin), botulinum
    A toxin); or drugs that modulate detrusor contraction strength, micturition reflex, detrusor
    sphincter dyssynergia (e.g., GABAb agonists (baclofen), benzodiazapines). In another
    embodiment, the drug is selected from those known for the treatment of incontinence due to
20  neurologic sphincter deficiency. Examples of these drugs include alpha adrenergic agonists,
    estrogens, beta-adrenergic agonists, tricyclic antidepressants (imipramine, amitriptyline). In
    still another embodiment, the drug is selected from those known for facilitating bladder
    emptying (e.g., alpha adrenergic antagonists (phentolamine) or cholinergics). In yet another
    embodiment, the drug is selected from among anticholinergic drugs (e.g., dicyclomine),
25  calcium channel blockers (e.g., verapamil) tropane alkaloids (e.g., atropine, scopolamine),
    nociceptin/orphanin FQ, and bethanechol (e.g., m3 muscarinic agonist, choline ester).
             In an embodiment, the drug formulation is in solid or semi-solid form, for example
    to reduce the overall volume of the drug formulation and thereby reduce the size of the
    device and/or to maintain the drug in a stable form during storage and before release. The
30  semi-solid form may be, for example, an emulsion or suspension; a gel or a paste. The solid
    form may be solid drug units that are loaded into a drug reservoir (e.g., housing lumen).
    The drug unit is a solid, discrete object that substantially retains a selectively imparted
    shape (at the temperature and pressure conditions to which the delivery device normally will
    be exposed during assembly, storage, and handling before implantation). The drug units
                                                    21

   WO 2013/177068                                                               PCT/US2013/041877
    may be in the form of tablets, capsules, pellets, or beads, although other configurations are
    possible.
            The present description is further illustrated by the following non-limiting example.
 5  Example 1
            ETHIBOND EXCELTM (Ethicon Endo-Surgery Inc.) polyester suture (size 5-0,
    green braided) was used as a retrieval string. A placebo drug delivery device (silicone tube
    with pretzel-shaped retention frame) was used as a representative urological device. One
    end of the retrieval string was attached to an end of the device. Then, the string was spirally
10  wound or coiled and was collapsed so that it could be confined to a plane (FIG. 13A and
    13B). Then, a biodegradable cap was placed over the bundled string. Specifically, a gelatin
    capsule cap (size 4) was used as shown in FIG. 13A and 13B, although other degradable
    polymers, such as PLGA could have been used.
            A simple voiding model, which consisted of a funnel (16 oz capacity) and latex
15  tubing (ID: 6.35 mm and length: 23 cm) was used as a test apparatus. The drug delivery
    device with capped/confined retrieval string was placed inside the funnel part and water was
    filled while one end of the latex tubing was clamped. The tubing was unclamped when the
    funnel was emptied so that the funnel was emptied only by gravity. As the gelatin cap
    dissolved, the bunched string was unwound in the water. After repeating the filling and
20  emptying steps several times, the retrieval string emerged at the end of the tubing. Thus,
    this experiment demonstrated controlled emergence of the retrieval string.
            Publications cited herein and the materials for which they are cited are specifically
    incorporated by reference. Modifications and variations of the methods and devices
    described herein will be obvious to those skilled in the art from the foregoing detailed
25  description. Such modifications and variations are intended to come within the scope of the
    appended claims.
                                                   22

                                        CLAIMS
1. A medical device, comprising:
           a urological device; and
           a retrieval string attached to the urological device, the retrieval string having
   a proximal end connected the urological device and an opposed distal end,
           wherein the retrieval string comprises a ferromagnetic material.
2. The medical device of claim 1, wherein the retrieval string is hollow and the
   ferromagnetic material is contained in the lumen of the retrieval string.
3. The medical device of claim 1, wherein the retrieval string is solid and the
   ferromagnetic material is embedded in the retrieval string.
4. The medical device of claim 1, wherein the ferromagnetic material is disposed on
   the outer surface of the retrieval string.
5. The medical device of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the retrieval string is
   buoyant in urine.
6. The medical device of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the urological device
   comprises an intravesical drug delivery device.
7. The medical device of claim 6, wherein the retrieval string is buoyant in urine.
8. The medical device of any one of claims I to 4, wherein the urological device
   comprises a ureteral stent.
9. The medical device of claim 8, wherein the retrieval string is buoyant in urine.

10. The medical device of any one of claims I to 4, wherein the urological device
    comprises (i) a device body having at least one drug reservoir lumen, and (ii) a drug
    formulation positioned in the at least one drug reservoir lumen, wherein the device
    is elastically deformable between a retention shape for retaining the urological
    device in the bladder and a low profile shape for deployment of the urological
    device through a patient's urethra.
11. The medical device of claim 10, wherein the retrieval string is buoyant in urine.
12. A method of removing a urological device from a patient comprising:
             grasping the at least one retrieval string of the medical device of any one of
    claims 1 to 11 deployed in the patient; and
             pulling the at least one retrieval string and the attached urological device
    through and out of the urethra of the patient.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the grasping comprises magnetically coupling a
    distal end of a urethrally-inserted catheter to the at least one retrieval string.
14. A medical device, comprising:
             a urological device; and
             a retrieval string attached to the urological device, the retrieval string having
    a proximal end connected the urological device and an opposed distal end,
             wherein the retrieval string comprises a hydrodynamic cap connected to the
    distal end.
15. The medical device of claim 14, wherein the retrieval string and the hydrodynamic
    cap are non-buoyant in urine.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
