                                        ABSTRACT
        Provided herein are pharmaceutical compositions comprising an antagonist, an
agonist, a seal coat, and a sequestering polymer, wherein the antagonist, agonist, seal coat
and at least one sequestering polymer are all components of a single unit, and wherein the
seal coat forms a layer physically separating the antagonist from the agonist from one
another. Methods for manufacturing such a pharmaceutical composition are also provided.
Methods for treating pain using such compositions are also demonstrated.

   WO 2009/085778                                                           PCT/US2008/087043
                                                                                  ALPH-301
                             PHARMACEUTICAL COMPOSITION
    RELATED APPLICATIONS
            This application claims priority to U.S. Ser. No. 60/007,935 filed December 17,
 5  2007.
    FIELD OF THE INVENTION
            This invention pertains to composotions and methods useful for treating pain in
    human patients. One such composition contains both an opioid antagonist and an opioid
10  agonist formulated such that the agonist is released over time with minimal release of the
    antagonist.
    BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
            Improved methods for treating pain are desired by those of skill in the art. A
15  disease in which pain is a major symptom is osteoarthritis (OA).         OA is the most
    common form of arthritis in the United States (Hochberg et al., 1995a), affecting more
    than 21 million people. It is a disease of primarily middle-aged and older adults and is a
    leading cause of disability (American College of Rheumatology, 2000a).        OA results
    from degeneration of the joint cartilage, and usually involves the neck, low back, knees,
20  hips, and fingers. The prevalence of OA of the hip and knee increases progressively with
    age (Peloso et al., 2000). Unlike rheumatoid arthritis and other inflammatory arthritides,
    inflammation, if present, is usually mild and localized to the joint. The cause of OA is
    unknown, but biomechanical stresses affecting the articular cartilage and subchondral
   bone, biochemical changes in the articular cartilage and synovial membrane, and genetic
25  factors are significant in its pathogenesis (Hochberg et al., 1995b; American College of
    Rheumatology, 2000b).
            OA is characterized by pain that typically worsens with activity and weight
    bearing and improves with rest, as well as morning stiffness, and pain and stiffness that
   ease after a few minutes of movement. Clinical examination often reveals tenderness to
30 palpation, bony enlargement, crepitus, and/or limited joint motion (American College of
    Rheumatology, 2000b). As the disease advances, OA patients experience increasing pain

   WO 2009/085778                                                               PCT/US2008/087043
    and loss of function, with pain intruding at periods of rest (Peloso et al., 2000). Since no
    cure for OA is available, the primary goal of OA treatment is to reduce pain while
    maintaining or improving joint mobility and limiting functional impairment.
            Nonpharmacologic and pharmacologic treatments for OA are used in conjunction
 5  to reduce pain and to improve functional status. Nonpharmacologic therapies include
    patient education, weight loss (if overweight), occupational therapy, physical therapy,
    and aerobic exercise programs to restore joint movement and increase strength and
   aerobic capacity (American College of Rheumatology, 2000a). The initial pharmacologic
   therapies for OA include nonopioid analgesics (e.g., acetaminophen) and topical
10 analgesics, followed by treatment with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)
   and judicious use of intra-articular steroid injections (Hochberg et al., 1995a). Although
   these medications may provide temporary pain relief, the beneficial effect may be offset
    by other factors.   Use of nonopioid analgesics to treat moderate to severe OA pain is
    limited by a ceiling effect for analgesia (Roth et al., 2000). Additionally, NSAIDs can be
15  toxic to the gastrointestinal tract, and NSAIDs and acetaminophen can produce renal
   toxicity, especially in the elderly (Peloso et al., 2000). Thus, a need exists for additional
   analgesic treatment options for pain associated with OA.
            Recent efforts have been made to liberalize the use of opioids for the treatment of
   chronic nonmalignant pain (Sullivan et al., 2005).         Sullivan proposes subject-centered
20 principles to guide efforts to relieve chronic nonmalignant pain, including the acceptance
   of all subject pain reports as valid but negotiation of treatment goals early in care,
   avoidance of subject harm, and incorporation of chronic opioids as one part of the
   treatment plan if they improve the subject's overall health-related quality of life.
   Prescribing opiates in the treatment of chronic nonmalignant pain may pose a challenge
25 to the primary care physician (Olsen et al., 2004).
            Although an outright ban on opioid use in chronic nonmalignant pain is no longer
   ethically acceptable, ensuring that opioids provide overall benefit to subjects requires
   significant physician time and skill. Subjects with chronic nonmalignant pain should be
   assessed and treated for concurrent psychiatric disorders; those with disorders are entitled
30 to equivalent efforts at pain relief.      The essential question is not whether chronic
                                                  2

   WO 2009/085778                                                            PCT/US2008/087043
    nonmalignant pain is real or proportional to objective disease severity, but how it should
    be managed so that the subject's overall quality of life is optimized.
            As early as the mid 1990s, naltrexone has been shown to effectively block
    morphine effects in humans (Kaiko et al., 1995). Morphine effects in normal volunteers
 5  were blocked by three 100-mg doses of naltrexone. The first dose of naltrexone was
    given 24 hours before dosing with controlled release morphine sulfate (MS Contin"),
    followed by a second dose at the time of MS Contin dosing and a third dose 24 hours
    after MS Contin administration.     Single 200 mg doses of MS Contin given with the
    naltrexone blockade were generally well tolerated, and adverse effects were similar to
10  those reported for naltrexone alone and for lower doses of morphine without naltrexone.
    Naltrexone proved safe and effective in blocking the effects of controlled release
    morphine, permitting bioequivalence studies of a high dose of morphine in normal
    volunteers.
            Although well absorbed orally, naltrexone is subject to significant first-pass
15  metabolism, with oral bioavailability estimates ranging from 5% to 40% (Naltrexone HCI
    Tablets, USP Package Insert). The activity of naltrexone is believed to be due to both the
    parent compound and the 6-p-naltrexol metabolite. Both parent drug and metabolites are
    excreted primarily by the kidney (53% to 79% of the dose); however, urinary excretion of
    unchanged naltrexone accounts for less than 2% of an oral dose and fecal excretion is a
20  minor elimination pathway.     The mean elimination terminal half-life (ti/ 2) values for
    naltrexone and 6-p-naltrexol are 4 hours and 13 hours, respectively.       Naltrexone and
    6--naltrexol are dose-proportional in terms of area under the concentration-time curve
    (AUC) and maximum plasma concentration (Cmx) over the range of 50 to 200 mg and do
    not accumulate after 100 mg daily doses.
25          Various formulations of opioids are in development that have a reduced risk of
    diversion and non-medical use and can be used to treat patients with chronic,
    nonmalignant conditions.     Kadian@ (morphine sulfate extended-release capsule) was
    developed for use in subjects with chronic pain who require repeated dosing with a potent
    opioid analgesic, and has been tested in subjects with pain due to malignant and
30  nonmalignant conditions. Kadian contains polymer-coated extended-release pellets of
    morphine sulfate, to deliver up to 24 hours of continuous pain relief. This formulation
                                                 3

   WO 2009/085778                                                           PCT/US2008/087043
    lacks an immediate-release component, only providing a slow release of the analgesic.
    This slow-release technology serves to minimize plasma peaks and troughs, thereby
    providing a relatively flat pharmacokinetic (PK) curve upon multiple dosing.          This
    delivery mechanism is ideally suited for chronic pain patients. Kadian capsules are an
 5  extended-release oral formulation of morphine sulfate indicated for the management of
    moderate to severe pain when a continuous, around-the-clock opioid analgesic is needed
    for an extended period of time.
            However, persons abusing opioids are likely to tamper with controlled-release
    formulations in hopes of obtaining the entire dose to induce an immediate euphoria. To
10  further deter non-medical opioid use, formulations containing opioid antagonists are
    being developed. As described herein, Kadian NT (morphine sulfate plus naltrexone
    hydrochloride extended-release capsules), is a product that is intended to be used as an
    opiate analgesic for moderate to severe pain. Its abuse-deterrence feature incorporates an
    immediate release of naltrexone upon illicit manipulation; this is intended to neutralize
15  the euphoric potential of morphine and increase safety after ingestion of the tampered
    product. If Kadian NT is used as directed, a patient should receive a dose of morphine
    equivalent to the same mg dose of Kadian. However, if the drug product is tampered
    with and ingested by a patient who is opioid dependent, the patient may be exposed to a
    dose of naltrexone sufficient to produce withdrawal symptoms.
20          Abuse-resistant, sustained-release dosage forms of products intended to treat pain
    have been described in the art (see, for example, U.S. Application Nos. 2003/0124185
    and 2003/0044458). However, it is believed that substantial amounts of the opioid
    antagonist or other antagonist found in these sequestered forms are released over time
    (usually less than 24 hours) due to the osmotic pressure that builds up in the core of the
25  sequestered form, as water permeates through the sequestered form into the core. The
    high osmotic pressure inside the core of the sequestered form causes the opioid
    antagonist or antagonist to be pushed out of the sequestered form, thereby causing the
    opioid antagonist or antagonist to be released from the sequestered form.       As shown
    below, certain embodiments described herein provide improved forms of sequestered
30  opioid antagonists and controlled-release opioid agonists.
                                                 4

   WO 2009/085778                                                             PCT/US2008/087043
            In view of the foregoing drawbacks of the sequestered forms of the prior art, there
    exists a need in the art for methods of treating pain. A sequestered form of an opioid
    antagonist or other antagonist that is not substantially released from the sequestered form
    due to osmotic pressure. The invention provides such a sequestering form of an opioid
 5  antagonist or antagonist. This and other objects and advantages of the invention, as well
    as additional inventive features, will be apparent from the description of the invention
    provided herein.
    BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
10  Figure 1.     Mean Change From Baseline BPI Average Pain Score in the ITT
    Population.
    Figure 2. BPI Diary Average Pain Score.
    Figure 3. WOMAC Pain Score.
    Figure 4. WOMAC Composite Score.
15
    BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
            This invention pertains to compositions and methods useful for treating pain in,
    human patients. One such composition contains both an opioid antagonist and an opioid
    agonist formulated such that the agonist is released over time with minimal release of the
20  antagonist.
    DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
            Provided herein are compositions and methods for administering a multiple active
    agents to a mammal in a form and manner that minimizes the effects of either active
25  agent upon the other in vivo.      In certain embodiments, at least two active agents are
    formulated as part of a pharmaceutical composition. A first active agent may provide a
    therapeutic effect in vivo. The second active agent may be an antagonist of the first
    active agent, and may be useful in preventing misuse of the composition. For instance,
    where the first active agent is a narcotic, the second active agent may be an antagonist of
30  the narcotic. The composition remains intact during normal usage by patients and the
    antagonist is not released.       However, upon tampering with the composition, the
                                                   5

    WO 2009/085778                                                             PCT/US2008/087043
     antagonist may be released thereby preventing the narcotic from having its intended
     effect. In certain embodiments, the active agents are both contained within a single unit,
     such as a bead, in the form of layers.      The active agents may be formulated with a
     substantially impermeable barrier as, for example, a controlled-release composition, such
  5 that release of the antagonist from the composition is minimized.                 In certain
    embodiments, the antagonist is released in in vitro assays but is substantially not released
     in vivo. In vitro and in vivo release of the active agent from the composition may be
    measured by any of several well-known techniques. For instance, in vivo release may be
    determined by measuring the plasma levels of the active agent or metabolites thereof (i.e.,
10  AUC, Cmax).
             In certain embodiments, one of the active agents is an opioid receptor agonist.
     Several opioid agonists are commercially available or in clinical trials and may be
    administered as described herein such that the alcohol effects are minimized.        Opioid
    agonists    include, for example, alfentanil,     allylprodine, alphaprodine, anileridine,
 15 benzylmorphine,      bezitramide,    buprenorphine,   butorphanol,   clonitazene,   codeine,
    cyclazocine, desomorphine, dextromoramide, dezocine, diampromide, dihydrocodeine,
    dihydroetorphine, dihydromorphine, dimenoxadol, dimepheptanol, dimethylthiambutene,
    dioxaphetyl butyrate, dipipanone, eptazocine, ethoheptazine, ethylmethylthiambutene,
    ethylmorphine, etonitazene, etorphine, fentanyl, heroin, hydrocodone, hydromorphone,
20  hydroxypethidine,       isomethadone,      ketobemidone,      levallorphan,    levorphanol,
    levophenacylmorphan,       lofentanil, meperidine, meptazinol, metazocine, methadone,
    metopon, morphine, myrophine, nalbuphine, narceine, nicomorphine, norlevorphanol,
    normethadone, nalorphine, normorphine, norpipanone, opium, oxycodone, oxymorphone,
    papaveretum, pentazocine, phenadoxone, phenazocine, phenomorphan, phenoperidine,
25  piminodine, piritramide, propheptazine, promedol, properidine, propiram, propoxyphene,
    sufentanil, tramadol, tilidine, derivatives or complexes thereof, pharmaceutically
    acceptable salts thereof, and combinations thereof. Preferably, the opioid agonist is
    selected from the group consisting of hydrocodone, hydromorphone, oxycodone,
    dihydrocodeine, codeine, dihydromorphine, morphine, buprenorphine, derivatives or
30  complexes thereof, pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, and combinations thereof.
    Most preferably, the opioid agonist is morphine, hydromorphone, oxycodone or
                                                  6

   WO 2009/085778                                                           PCT/US2008/087043
    hydrocodone. Equianalgesic doses of these opioids, in comparison to a 15 mg dose of
    hydrocodone, are as follows:     oxycodone (13.5 mg), codeine (90.0 mg), hydrocodone
    (15.0 mg), hydromorphone (3.375 mg), levorphanol (1.8 mg), meperidine (135.0 mg),
    methadone (9.0 mg), and morphine (27.0 mg).
 5          A common dosage form of hydrocodone is in combination with acetaminophen
    and is commercially available, for example, as Lortab@ in the United States from UCB
    Pharma, Inc. (Brussels, Belgium), as 2.5/500 mg, 5/500 mg, 7.5/500 mg and 10/500 mg
    hydrocodone/acetaminophen tablets. Tablets are also available in the ratio of 7.5 mg
    hydrocodone bitartrate and 650 mg acetaminophen and a 7.5 mg hydrocodone bitartrate
10  and 750 mg acetaminophen. Hydrocodone, in combination with aspirin, is given in an
    oral dosage form to adults generally in 1-2 tablets every 4-6 hours as needed to alleviate
    pain. The tablet form is 5 mg hydrocodone bitartrate and 224 mg aspirin with 32 mg
    caffeine; or 5 mg hydrocodone bitartrate and 500 mg aspirin. Another formulation
    comprises hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen. Vicoprofen@, commercially available in
15  the U.S. from Knoll Laboratories (Mount Olive, N.J.), is a tablet containing 7.5 mg
    hydrocodone bitartrate and 200 mg ibuprofen. The invention is contemplated to
    encompass all such formulations, with the inclusion of the opioid antagonist and/or
    antagonist in sequestered form as part of a subunit comprising an opioid agonist.
            Oxycodone,      chemically   known     as    4,5-epoxy-14-hydroxy-3-methoxy-17
20  methylmorphinan-6-one, is an opioid agonist whose principal therapeutic action is
    analgesia. Other therapeutic effects of oxycodone include anxiolysis, euphoria and
    feelings of relaxation. The precise mechanism of its analgesic action is not known, but
    specific CNS opioid receptors for endogenous compounds with opioid-like activity have
    been identified throughout the brain and spinal cord and play a role in the analgesic
25  effects of this drug. Oxycodone is commercially available in the United States, e.g., as
    Oxycotin@ from Purdue Pharma L.P. (Stamford, Conn.), as controlled-release tablets for
    oral administration containing 10 mg, 20 mg, 40 mg or 80 mg oxycodone hydrochloride,
    and as OxyIRTM, also from Purdue Pharma L.P., as immediate-release capsules
    containing 5 mg oxycodone hydrochloride. The invention is contemplated to encompass
30  all such formulations, with the inclusion of an opioid antagonist and/or antagonist in
    sequestered form as part of a subunit comprising an opioid agonist.
                                                 7

    WO 2009/085778                                                            PCT/US2008/087043
              Oral hydromorphone is commercially available in the United States, e.g., as
      Dilaudid@ from Abbott Laboratories (Chicago, Ill.).       Oral morphine is commercially
     available in the United States, e.g., as Kadian@ from Faulding Laboratories (Piscataway,
     N.J.).
  5          In embodiments in which the opioid agonist comprises hydrocodone, the
     sustained-release oral dosage forms can include analgesic doses from about 8 mg to about
     50 mg of hydrocodone per dosage unit. In sustained-release oral dosage forms where
     hydromorphone is the therapeutically active opioid, it is included in an amount from
     about 2 mg to about 64 mg hydromorphone hydrochloride. In another embodiment, the
10   opioid agonist comprises morphine, and the sustained-release oral dosage forms of the
     invention include from about 2.5 mg to about 800 mg morphine, by weight. In yet
     another embodiment, the opioid agonist comprises oxycodone and the sustained-release
     oral dosage forms include from about 2.5 mg to about 800 mg oxycodone. In certain
     preferred embodiments, the sustained-release oral dosage forms include from about 20
15   mg to about 30 mg oxycodone. Controlled release oxycodone formulations are known in
     the art. The following documents describe various controlled-release oxycodone
     formulations suitable for use in the invention described herein, and processes for their
     manufacture: U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,266,331; 5,549,912; 5,508,042; and 5,656,295, which are
     incorporated herein by reference. The opioid agonist can comprise tramadol and the
20   sustained-release oral dosage forms can include from about 25 mg to 800 mg tramadol
     per dosage unit.
             In certain embodiments, another active agent contained within the composition
     may be an opioid receptor antagonist. In certain embodiments, the agonist and antagonist
     are administered together, either separately or as part of a single pharmaceutical unit. In
25   the instance when the therapeutic agent is an opioid agonist, the antagonist preferably is
     an opioid antagonist, such as naltrexone, naloxone, nalmefene, cyclazacine, levallorphan,
     derivatives or complexes thereof, pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, and
     combinations thereof. More preferably, the opioid antagonist is naloxone or naltrexone.
     By "opioid antagonist" is meant to include one or more opioid antagonists, either alone or
30   in combination, and is further meant to include partial antagonists, pharmaceutically
     acceptable salts thereof, stereoisomers thereof, ethers thereof, esters thereof, and
                                                   8

   WO 2009/085778                                                              PCT/US2008/087043
    combinations thereof. The pharmaceutically acceptable salts include metal salts, such as
    sodium salt, potassium salt, cesium salt, and the like; alkaline earth metals, such as
    calcium salt, magnesium salt, and the like; organic amine salts, such as triethylamine salt,
    pyridine salt, picoline salt, ethanolamine salt, triethanolamine salt, dicyclohexylamine
 5  salt, N,N-dibenzylethylenediamine salt, and the like; inorganic acid salts, such as
    hydrochloride, hydrobromide, sulfate, phosphate, and the like; organic acid salts, such as
    formate, acetate, trifluoroacetate, maleate, tartrate, and the like; sulfonates, such as
    methanesulfonate, benzenesulfonate, p-toluenesulfonate, and the like; amino acid salts,
    such as arginate, asparginate, glutamate, and the like. In certain embodiments, the amount
10  of the opioid antagonist can be about 10 ng to about 275 mg. In a preferred embodiment,
    when the antagonist is naltrexone, it is preferable that the intact dosage form releases less
    than 0.125 mg or less within 24 hours, with 0.25 mg or greater of naltrexone released
    after 1 hour when the dosage form is crushed or chewed.
             In a preferred embodiment, the opioid antagonist comprises naloxone. Naloxone
15  is an opioid antagonist, which is almost void of agonist effects. Subcutaneous doses of up
    to 12 mg of naloxone produce no discernable subjective effects, and 24 mg naloxone
    causes only slight drowsiness. Small doses (0.4-0.8               mg) of naloxone given
    intramuscularly or intravenously in man prevent or promptly reverse the effects of
    morphine-like opioid agonist. One mg of naloxone intravenously has been reported to
20  block completely the effect of 25 mg of heroin. The effects of naloxone are seen almost
    immediately     after intravenous administration.     The drug is absorbed after oral
    administration, but has been reported to be metabolized into an inactive form rapidly in
    its first passage through the liver, such that it has been reported to have significantly
    lower potency than when parenterally administered. Oral dosages of more than I g have
25  been reported to be almost completely metabolized in less than 24 hours. It has been
    reported that 25% of naloxone administered sublingually is absorbed (Weinberg et al.,
    Clin. Pharmacol. Ther. 44:335-340 (1988)).
             In another preferred embodiment, the opioid antagonist comprises naltrexone. In
    the treatment of patients previously addicted to opioids, naltrexone has been used in large
30  oral doses (over 100 mg) to prevent euphorigenic effects of opioid agonists. Naltrexone
    has been reported to exert strong preferential blocking action against mu over delta sites.
                                                  9

   WO 2009/085778                                                             PCT/US2008/087043
    Naltrexone is known as a synthetic congener of oxymorphone with no opioid agonist
    properties, and differs in structure from oxymorphone by the replacement of the methyl
    group located on the nitrogen atom of oxymorphone with a cyclopropylmethyl group.
    The hydrochloride salt of naltrexone is soluble in water up to about 100 mg/cc. The
 5  pharmacological and pharmacokinetic properties of naltrexone have been evaluated in
    multiple animal and clinical studies. See, e.g., Gonzalez et al. Dnigs 35:192-213 (1988).
    Following oral administration, naltrexone is rapidly absorbed (within 1 hour) and has an
    oral bioavailability ranging from 5-40%. Naltrexone's protein binding is approximately
    21% and the volume of distribution following single-dose administration is 16.1 L/kg.
10          Naltrexone    is  commercially available      in tablet    form  (Revia@,    DuPont
    (Wilmington, Del.)) for the treatment of alcohol dependence and for the blockade of
    exogenously administered opioids. See, e.g., Revia (naltrexone hydrochloride tablets),
    Physician's Desk Reference, 51 " ed., Montvale, N.J.; and Medical Economics 51:957-959
    (1997). A dosage of 50 mg Revia@ blocks the pharmacological effects of 25 mg IV
15  administered heroin for up to 24 hours. It is known that, when coadministered with
    morphine, heroin or other opioids on a chronic basis, naltrexone blocks the development
    of physical dependence to opioids. It is believed that the method by which naltrexone
    blocks the effects of heroin is by competitively binding at the opioid receptors.
    Naltrexone has been used to treat narcotic addiction by complete blockade of the effects
20  of opioids. It has been found that the most successful use of naltrexone for a narcotic
    addiction is with narcotic addicts having good prognosis, as part of a comprehensive
    occupational or rehabilitative program involving behavioral control or other compliance
    enhancing methods. For treatment of narcotic dependence with naltrexone, it is desirable
    that the patient be opioid-free for at least 7-10 days. The initial dosage of naltrexone for
25  such purposes has typically been about 25 mg, and if no withdrawal signs occur, the
    dosage may be increased to 50 mg per day. A daily dosage of 50 mg is considered to
    produce adequate clinical blockade of the actions of parenterally administered opioids.
    Naltrexone also has been used for the treatment of alcoholism as an adjunct with social
    and psychotherapeutic methods.
30          Other preferred opioid antagonists include, for example, cyclazocine and
    naltrexone, both of which have cyclopropylmethyl substitutions on the nitrogen, retain
                                                   10

   WO 2009/085778                                                              PCT/US2008/087043
    much of their efficacy by the oral route, and last longer, with durations approaching 24
    hours after oral administration.
             The antagonist may also be a bittering agent. The term "bittering agent" as used
    herein refers to any agent that provides an unpleasant taste to the host upon inhalation
 5  and/or swallowing of a tampered dosage form comprising the sequestering subunit. With
    the inclusion of a bittering agent, the intake of the tampered dosage form produces a
    bitter taste upon inhalation or oral administration, which, in certain embodiments, spoils
    or hinders the pleasure of obtaining a high from the tampered dosage form, and
    preferably prevents the abuse of the dosage form.
10           Various bittering agents can be employed including, for example, and without
    limitation, natural, artificial and synthetic flavor oils and flavoring aromatics and/or oils,
    oleoresins and extracts derived from plants, leaves, flowers, fruits, and so forth, and
    combinations thereof. Nonlimiting representative flavor oils include spearmint oil,
    peppermint oil, eucalyptus oil, oil of nutmeg, allspice, mace, oil of bitter almonds,
15  menthol and the like. Also useful bittering agents are artificial, natural and synthetic fruit
    flavors such as citrus oils, including lemon, orange, lime, and grapefruit, fruit essences,
    and so forth. Additional bittering agents include sucrose derivatives (e.g., sucrose.
    octaacetate), chlorosucrose derivatives, quinine sulphate, and the like. A preferred
    bittering agent for use in the invention is Denatonium Benzoate NF-Anhydrous, sold
20  under the name BitrexTM (Macfarlan Smith Limited, Edinburgh, UK). A bittering agent
    can be added to the formulation in an amount of less than about 50% by weight,
    preferably less than about 10% by weight, more preferably less than about 5% by weight
    of the dosage form, and most preferably in an amount ranging from about 0.1 to 1.0
    percent by weight of the dosage form, depending on the particular bittering agent(s) used.
25           Alternatively, the antagonist may be a dye. The term "dye" as used herein refers
    to any agent that causes discoloration of the tissue in contact. In this regard, if the
    sequestering subunit is tampered with and the contents are snorted, the dye will discolor
   the nasal tissues and surrounding tissues thereof. Preferred dyes are those that can bind
    strongly with subcutaneous tissue proteins and are well-known in the art. Dyes useful in
30 applications ranging from, for example, food coloring to tattooing, are exemplary dyes
    suitable for the invention. Food coloring dyes include, but are not limited to FD&C Green
                                                   11

   WO 2009/085778                                                              PCT/US2008/087043
   #3 and FD&C Blue #1, as well as any other FD&C or D&C color. Such food dyes are
   commercially available through companies, such as Voigt Global Distribution (Kansas
   City, Mo.).
             The antagonist may alternatively be an irritant. The term "irritant" as used herein
 5  includes a compound used to impart an irritating, e.g., burning or uncomfortable,
    sensation to an abuser administering a tampered dosage form of the invention. Use of an
    irritant will discourage an abuser from tampering with the dosage form and thereafter
    inhaling, injecting, or swallowing the tampered dosage form. Preferably, the irritant is
    released when the dosage form is tampered with and provides a burning or irritating
10 effect to the abuser upon inhalation, injection, and/or swallowing the tampered dosage
    form. Various irritants can be employed including, for example, and without limitation,
   capsaicin, a capsaicin analog with similar type properties as capsaicin, and the like. Some
   capsaicin analogues or derivatives include, for example, and without limitation,
   resiniferatoxin, tinyatoxin, heptanoylisobutylamide, heptanoyl guaiacylamide, other
15  isobutylamides or guaiacylamides, dihydrocapsaicin, homovanillyl octylester, nonanoyl
   vanillylamide, or other compounds of the class known as vanilloids. Resiniferatoxin is
   described, for example, in U.S. Pat. No. 5,290,816. U.S. Pat. No. 4,812,446 describes
   capsaicin analogs and methods for their preparation. Furthermore, U.S. Pat. No.
   4,424,205     cites Newman, "Natural       and Synthetic     Pepper-Flavored     Substances,"
20 published in 1954 as listing pungency of capsaicin-like analogs. Ton et al., British
   Journal of Pharmacology 10:175-182 (1955), discusses pharmacological actions of
   capsaicin and its analogs. With the inclusion of an irritant (e.g., capsaicin) in the dosage
    form, the irritant imparts a burning or discomforting quality to the abuser to discourage
    the inhalation, injection, or oral administration of the tampered dosage form, and
25  preferably to prevent the abuse of the dosage form. Suitable capsaicin compositions
    include capsaicin (trans 8-methyl-N-vanillyl-6-noneamide) or analogues thereof in a
   concentration between about 0.00125% and 50% by weight, preferably between about
    1% and about 7.5% by weight, and most preferably, between about 1% and about 5% by
    weight.
30           The antagonist may also be a gelling agent. The term "gelling agent" as used
   herein refers to any agent that provides a gel-like quality to the tampered dosage form,
                                                 12

   WO 2009/085778                                                              PCT/US2008/087043
    which slows the absorption of the therapeutic agent, which is formulated with the
    sequestering subunit, such that a host is less likely to obtain a rapid "high." In certain
    preferred embodiments, when the dosage form is tampered with and exposed to a small
    amount (e.g., less than about 10 ml) of an aqueous liquid (e.g., water), the dosage form
 5  will be unsuitable for injection and/or inhalation. Upon the addition of the aqueous liquid,
    the tampered dosage form preferably becomes thick and viscous, rendering it unsuitable
    for injection. The term "unsuitable for injection" is defined for purposes of the invention
    to mean that one would have substantial difficulty injecting the dosage form (e.g., due to
    pain upon administration or difficulty pushing the dosage form through a syringe) due to
10  the viscosity imparted on the dosage form, thereby reducing the potential for abuse of the
    therapeutic agent in the dosage form. In certain embodiments, the gelling agent is present
    in such an amount in the dosage form that attempts at evaporation (by the application of
    heat) to an aqueous mixture of the dosage form in an effort to produce a higher
    concentration of the therapeutic agent, produces a highly viscous substance unsuitable for
15  injection. When nasally inhaling the tampered dosage form, the gelling agent can become
    gel-like upon administration to the nasal passages, due to the moisture of the mucous
    membranes. This also makes such formulations aversive to nasal administration, as the
    gel will stick to the nasal passage and minimize absorption of the abusable substance.
    Various gelling agents may can be employed including, for example, and without
20  limitation, sugars or sugar-derived alcohols, such as mannitol, sorbitol, and the like,
    starch and starch derivatives, cellulose derivatives, such as microcrystalline cellulose,
    sodium caboxymethyl cellulose, methylcellulose, ethyl cellulose, hydroxyethyl cellulose,
    hydroxypropyl cellulose, and hydroxypropyl methylcellulose, attapulgites, bentonites,
    dextrins, alginates, carrageenan, gum tragacant, gum acacia, guar gum, xanthan gum,
25  pectin, gelatin, kaolin, lecithin, magnesium aluminum silicate, the carbomers and
    carbopols, polyvinylpyrrolidone, polyethylene glycol, polyethylene oxide, polyvinyl
    alcohol, silicon dioxide, surfactants, mixed surfactant/wetting agent systems, emulsifiers,
    other polymeric materials, and mixtures thereof, etc. In certain preferred embodiments,
    the gelling agent is xanthan gum. In other preferred embodiments, the gelling agent of the
30  invention is pectin. The pectin or pectic substances useful for this invention include not
    only purified or isolated pectates but also crude natural pectin sources, such as apple,
                                                  13

   WO 2009/085778                                                               PCT/US2008/087043
    citrus or sugar beet residues, which have been subjected, when necessary, to esterification
    or de-esterification, e.g., by alkali or enzymes. Preferably, the pectins used in this
    invention are derived from citrus fruits, such as- lime, lemon, grapefruit, and orange.
    With the inclusion of a gelling agent in the dosage form, the gelling agent preferably
 5  imparts a gel-like quality to the dosage form upon tampering that spoils or hinders the
    pleasure of obtaining a rapid high from due to the gel-like consistency of the tampered
    dosage form in contact with the mucous membrane, and in certain embodiments, prevents
    the abuse of the dosage form by minimizing absorption, e.g., in the nasal passages. A
    gelling agent can be added to the formulation in a ratio of gelling agent to opioid agonist
10  of from about i:40 to about 40:1 by weight, preferably from about 1:1 to about 30:1 by
    weight, and more preferably from about 2:1 to about 10:1 by weight of the opioid
    agonist. In certain other embodiments, the dosage form forms a viscous gel having a
    viscosity of at least about 10 cP after the dosage form is tampered with by dissolution in
    an aqueous liquid (from about 0.5 to about 10 ml and preferably from 1 to about 5 ml).
15  Most preferably, the resulting mixture will have a viscosity of at least about 60 cP.
            The antagonist can comprise a single type of antagonist (e.g., a capsaicin),
    multiple forms of a single type of antagonist (e.g., a capasin and an analogue thereof), or
    a combination of different types of antagonists (e.g., one or more bittering agents and one
    or more gelling agents). Desirably, the amount of antagonist in a unit of the invention is
20  not toxic to the host.
            In one embodiment, the invention provides a sequestering subunit comprising an
    opioid antagonist and a blocking agent, wherein the blocking agent substantially prevents
    release of the opioid antagonist from the sequestering subunit in the gastrointestinal tract
    for a time period that is greater than 24 hours. This sequestering subunit is incorporated
25  into a single pharmaceutical unit that also includes an opioid agonist.                  The
    pharmaceutical unit thus includes a core portion to which the opioid antagonist is applied.
    A seal coat is then optionally applied upon the antagonist. Upon the seal coat is then
    applied a composition comprising the pharmaceutically active agent. An additional layer
    containing the same or a different blocking agent may then be applied such that the
30  opioid agonist is released in the digestive tract over time (i.e., controlled release). Thus,
                                                  14

   WO 2009/085778                                                              PCT/US2008/087043
    the opioid antagonist and the opioid agonist are both contained within a single
    pharmaceutical unit, which is typically in the form of a bead.
            The term "sequestering subunit" as used herein refers to any means for containing
    an antagonist and preventing or substantially preventing the release thereof in the
 5  gastrointestinal tract when intact, i.e., when not tampered with. The term "blocking
    agent" as used herein refers to the means by which the sequestering subunit is able to
    prevent substantially the antagonist from being released. The blocking agent may be a
    sequestering polymer, for instance, as described in greater detail below.
            The terms "substantially prevents," "prevents," or any words stemming therefrom,
10  as used herein,, means that the antagonist is substantially not released from the
    sequestering subunit in the gastrointestinal tract. By "substantially not released" is meant
    that the antagonist may be released in a small amount, but the amount released does not
    affect or does not significantly affect the analgesic efficacy when the dosage form is
    orally administered to a host, e.g., a mammal (e.g., a human), as intended. The terms
15  "substantially prevents," "prevents," or any words stemming therefrom, as used herein,
    does not necessarily imply a complete or 100% prevention. Rather, there are varying
    degrees of prevention of which one of ordinary skill in the art recognizes as having a
    potential benefit. In this regard, the blocking agent substantially prevents or prevents the
    release of the antagonist to the extent that at least about 80% of the antagonist is
20  prevented from being released from the sequestering subunit in the gastrointestinal tract
    for a time period that is greater than 24 hours. Preferably, the blocking agent prevents
    release of at least about 90% of the antagonist from the sequestering subunit in the
    gastrointestinal tract for a time period that is greater than 24 hours. More preferably, the
    blocking agent prevents release of at least about 95% of the antagonist from the
25  sequestering subunit. Most preferably, the blocking agent prevents release of at least
    about 99% of the antagonist from the sequestering subunit in the gastrointestinal tract for
    a time period that is greater than 24 hours.
            For purposes of this invention, the amount of the antagonist released after oral
    administration can be measured in-vitro by dissolution testing as described in the United
30  States Pharmacopeia (USP26) in chapter <711> Dissolution. For example, using 900 mL
    of 0.1 N HCI, Apparatus 2 (Paddle), 75 rpm, at 370 C to measure release at various times
                                                  15

   WO 2009/085778                                                             PCT/US2008/087043
    from the dosage unit. Other methods of measuring the release of an antagonist from a
    sequestering subunit over a given period of time are known in the art (see, e.g., USP26).
             Without being bound to any particular theory, it is believed that the sequestering
    subunit of the invention overcomes the limitations of the sequestered forms of an
 5  antagonist known in the art in that the sequestering subunit of the invention reduces
    osmotically-driven release of the antagonist from the sequestering subunit. Furthermore,
    it is believed that the present inventive sequestering subunit reduces the release of the
    antagonist for a longer period of time (e.g., greater than 24 hours) in comparison to the
    sequestered forms of antagonists known in the art. The fact that the sequestered subunit
10  of the invention provides a longer prevention of release of the antagonist is particularly
    relevant, since precipitated withdrawal could occur after the time for which the
    therapeutic agent is released and acts. It is well known that the gastrointestinal tract
    transit time for individuals varies greatly within the population. Hence, the residue of the
    dosage form may be retained in the tract for longer than 24 hours, and in some cases for
15  longer than 48 hours. It is further well known that opioid analgesics cause decreased
   bowel motility, further prolonging gastrointestinal tract transit time. Currently, sustained
    release forms having an effect over a 24 hour time period have been approved by the
    Food and Drug Administration. In this regard, the present inventive sequestering subunit
   provides prevention of release of the antagonist for a time period that is greater than 24
20  hours when the sequestering subunit has not been tampered.
             The sequestering subunit of the invention is designed to prevent substantially the
   release of the antagonist when intact. By "intact" is meant that a dosage form has not
    undergone tampering. The term "tampering" is meant to include any manipulation by
   mechanical, thermal and/or chemical means, which changes the physical properties of the
25 dosage form. The tampering can be, for example, crushing, shearing, grinding, chewing,
   dissolution in a solvent, heating (for example, greater than about 45* C.), or any
   combination thereof. When the sequestering subunit of the invention has been tampered
   with, the antagonist is released from the sequestering subunit. In some cases, the release
    is immediate.
30           By "subunit" is meant to include a composition, mixture, particle; etc., that can
   provide a dosage form (e.g., an oral dosage form) when combined with another subunit.
                                                  16

   WO 2009/085778                                                               PCT/US2008/087043
    The subunit can be in the form of a bead, pellet, granule, spheroid, or the like, and can be
    combined with additional same or different subunits, in the form of a capsule, tablet or
    the like, to provide a dosage form, e.g., an oral dosage form. The subunit may also be
    part of a larger, single unit, forming part of that unit, such as a layer. For instance, the
 5  subunit may be a core coated with an antagonist and a seal coat; this subunit may then be
    coated with additional compositions including a pharmaceutically active agent such as an
    opioid agonist.
            For purposes of the invention, the antagonist can be any agent that negates the
    effect of the therapeutic agent or produces an unpleasant or punishing stimulus or effect,
10  which will deter or cause avoidance of tampering with the sequestering subunit or
    compositions comprising the same. Desirably, the antagonist does not harm a host by its
    administration or consumption but has properties that deter its administration or
    consumption, e.g., by chewing and swallowing or by crushing and snorting, for example.
    The antagonist can have a strong or foul taste or smell, provide a burning or tingling
15  sensation, cause a lachrymation response, nausea, vomiting, or any other unpleasant or
    repugnant sensation, or color tissue, for example. Preferably, the antagonist is selected
    from the group consisting of an antagonist of a therapeutic agent, a bittering agent, a dye,
    a gelling agent, and an irritant. Exemplary antagonists include capsaicin, dye, bittering
    agents and emetics.
20          By "antagonist of a therapeutic agent" is meant any drug or molecule, naturally
    occurring or synthetic, that binds to the same target molecule (e.g., a receptor) of the
    therapeutic agent, yet does not produce a therapeutic, intracellular, or in vivo response. In
    this regard, the antagonist of a therapeutic agent binds to the receptor of the therapeutic
    agent, thereby preventing the therapeutic agent from acting on the receptor, thereby
25  preventing the achievement of a "high" in the host.
            In the instance when the therapeutic agent is an opioid agonist, the antagonist
    preferably is an opioid antagonist, such as naltrexone, naloxone, nalmefene, cyclazacine,
    levallorphan, derivatives or complexes thereof, pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof,
    and combinations thereof. More preferably, the opioid antagonist is naloxone or
30  naltrexone. By "opioid antagonist" is meant to include one or more opioid antagonists,
    either alone or in combination, and is further meant to include partial antagonists,
                                                 17

   WO 2009/085778                                                                PCT/US2008/087043
   pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, stereoisomers thereof, ethers thereof, esters
   thereof, and combinations thereof. The pharmaceutically acceptable salts include metal
   salts, such as sodium salt, potassium salt, cesium salt, and the like; alkaline earth metals,
   such as calcium salt, magnesium salt, and the like; organic amine salts, such as
 5 triethylamine salt, pyridine salt, picoline salt, ethanolamine salt, triethanolamine salt,
   dicyclohexylamine salt, N,N-dibenzylethylenediamine salt, and the like; inorganic acid
   salts, such as hydrochloride, hydrobromide, sulfate, phosphate, and the like; organic acid
   salts, such as formate, acetate, trifluoroacetate, maleate, tartrate, and the like; sulfonates,
   such as methanesulfonate, benzenesulfonate, p-toluenesulfonate, and the like; amino acid
10 salts, such as arginate, asparginate, glutamate, and the like. In certain embodiments, the
   amount of the opioid antagonist, present in sequestered form, can be about 10 ng to about
   275 mg. In a preferred embodiment, when the antagonist is naltrexone, it is preferable
   that the intact dosage form releases in vivo less than 0.125 mg or less within 24 hours,
   with 0.25 mg or greater of naltrexone released after 1 hour when the dosage form is
15 crushed or chewed.
            The antagonist can comprise a single type of antagonist (e.g., a capsaicin),
   multiple forms of a single type of antagonist (e.g., a capasin and an analogue thereof), or
   a combination of different types of antagonists (e.g., one or more bittering agents and one
   or more gelling agents). Desirably, the amount of antagonist in the sequestering subunit
20 of the invention is not toxic to the host.
            The blocking agent prevents or substantially prevents the release of the antagonist
   in the gastrointestinal tract for a time period that is greater than 24 hours, e.g., between 24
   and 25 hours, 30 hours, 35 hours, 40 hours, 45 hours, 48 hours, 50 hours, 55 hours, 60
   hours, 65 hours, 70 hours, 72 hours, 75 hours, 80 hours, 85 hours, 90 hours, 95 hours, or
25  100 hours; etc. Preferably, the time period for which the release of the antagonist is
   prevented or substantially prevented in the gastrointestinal tract is at least about 48 hours.
   More preferably, the blocking agent prevents or substantially prevents the release for a
   time period of at least about 72 hours.
            The blocking agent of the present inventive sequestering subunit can be a system
30 comprising a first antagonist-impermeable           material and a core. By "antagonist
   impermeable material" is meant any material that is substantially impermeable to the
                                                  18

   WO 2009/085778                                                              PCT/US2008/087043
    antagonist, such that the antagonist is substantially not released from the sequestering
    subunit. The term "substantially impermeable" as used herein does not necessarily imply
   complete or 100% impermeability. Rather, there are varying degrees of impermeability of
   which one of ordinary skill in the art recognizes as having a potential benefit. In this
 5 regard, the antagonist-impermeable material substantially prevents or prevents the release
    of the antagonist to an extent that at least about 80% of the antagonist is prevented from
    being released from the sequestering subunit in the gastrointestinal tract for a time period
    that is greater than 24 hours. Preferably, the antagonist-impermeable material prevents
    release of at least about 90% of the antagonist from the sequestering subunit in the
10  gastrointestinal tract for a time period that is greater than 24 hours. More preferably, the
    antagonist-impermeable material prevents release of at least about 95% of the antagonist
    from the sequestering subunit. Most preferably, the antagonist-impermeable material
    prevents release of at least about 99% of the antagonist from the sequestering subunit in
    the gastrointestinal tract for a time period that is greater than 24 hours. The antagonist
15  impermeable material prevents or substantially prevents the release of the antagonist in
    the gastrointestinal tract for a time period that is greater than 24 hours, and desirably, at
    least about 48 hours. More desirably, the antagonist-impermeable material prevents or
    substantially prevents the release of the adversive agent from the sequestering subunit for
    a time period of at least about 72 hours.
20          Preferably, the first antagonist-impermeable material comprises a hydrophobic
    material, such that the antagonist is not released or substantially not released during its
    transit through the gastrointestinal tract when administered orally as intended, without
    having been tampered with. Suitable hydrophobic materials for use in the invention are
    described herein and set forth below. The hydrophobic material is preferably a
25  pharmaceutically acceptable hydrophobic material. Preferably, the pharmaceutically
    acceptable hydrophobic material comprises a cellulose polymer.
            It is preferred that the first antagonist-impermeable material comprises a polymer
    insoluble in the gastrointestinal tract. One of ordinary skill in the art appreciates that a
    polymer that is insoluble in the gastrointestinal tract will prevent the release of the
30  antagonist upon ingestion of the sequestering subunit. The polymer can be a cellulose or
    an acrylic polymer. Desirably, the cellulose is selected from the group consisting of
                                                   19

   WO 2009/085778                                                                PCT/US2008/087043
    ethylcellulose, cellulose acetate, cellulose propionate, cellulose acetate propionate,
    cellulose   acetate   butyrate, cellulose    acetate phthalate,    cellulose   triacetate,  and
    combinations thereof. Ethylcellulose includes, for example, one that has an ethoxy
    content of about 44 to about 55%. Ethylcellulose can be used in the form of an aqueous
 5  dispersion, an alcoholic solution, or a solution in other suitable solvents. The cellulose
    can have a degree of substitution (D.S.) on the anhydroglucose unit, from greater than
    zero and up to 3 inclusive. By "degree of substitution" is meant the average number of
    hydroxyl groups on the anhydroglucose unit of the cellulose polymer that are replaced by
    a substituting group. Representative materials include a polymer selected from the group
10  consisting of cellulose acylate, cellulose diacylate, cellulose triacylate, cellulose acetate,
    cellulose diacetate, cellulose triacetate, monocellulose alkanylate, dicellulose alkanylate,
    tricellulose alkanylate, monocellulose alkenylates, dicellulose alkenylates, tricellulose
    alkenylates, monocellulose aroylates, dicellulose aroylates, and tricellulose aroylates.
             More specific celluloses include cellulose propionate having a D.S. of 1.8 and a
15  propyl content of 39.2 to 45 and a hydroxy content of 2.8 to 5.4%; cellulose acetate
    butyrate having a D.S. of 1.8, an acetyl content of 13 to 15% and a butyryl content of 34
    to 39%; cellulose acetate butyrate having an acetyl content of 2 to 29%, a butyryl content
    of 17 to 53% and a hydroxy content of 0.5 to 4.7%; cellulose triacylate having a D.S. of
    2.9 to 3, such as cellulose triacetate, cellulose trivalerate, cellulose trilaurate, cellulose
20  tripatmitate, cellulose trisuccinate, and cellulose trioctanoate, cellulose diacylates having
    a D.S. of 2.2 to 2.6, such as cellulose disuccinate, cellulose dipalmitate, cellulose
    dioctanoate, cellulose dipentanoate, and coesters of cellulose, such as cellulose acetate
    butyrate, cellulose acetate octanoate butyrate, and cellulose acetate propionate.
             Additional cellulose polymers useful for preparing a sequestering subunit of the
25  invention    includes    acetaldehyde    dimethyl    cellulose   acetate,   cellulose    acetate
    ethylcarbamate,      cellulose    acetate    methycarbamate,       and     cellulose     acetate
    dimethylaminocellulose acetate.
             The acrylic polymer preferably is selected from the group consisting of
   methacrylic     polymers,    acrylic   acid  and    methacrylic   acid    copolymers,     methyl
30  methacrylate     copolymers,     ethoxyethyl    methacrylates,    cyanoethyl      methacrylate,
   poly(acrylic acid), poly(methacrylic acid), methacrylic acid alkylamide copolymer,
                                                  20

   WO 2009/085778                                                               PCT/US2008/087043
   poly(methyl methacrylate), polymethacrylate, poly(methyl methacrylate) copolymer,
   polyacrylamide, aminoalkyl methacrylate copolymer, poly(methacrylic acid anhydride),
   glycidyl methacrylate copolymers, and combinations thereof. An acrylic polymer useful
   for preparation of a sequestering subunit of the invention includes acrylic resins
 5 comprising copolymers synthesized from acrylic and methacrylic acid esters (e.g., the
   copolymer of acrylic acid lower alkyl ester and methacrylic acid lower alkyl ester)
   containing about 0.02 to about 0.03 mole of a tri (lower alkyl) ammonium group per mole
   of the acrylic and methacrylic monomer used. An example of a suitable acrylic resin is
   ammonio methacrylate copolymer NF2 1, a polymer manufactured by Rohm Pharma
10 GmbH, Darmstadt, Germany, and sold under the Eudragit@ trademark. Eudragit RS30D
    is preferred. Eudragit@ is a water-insoluble copolymer of ethyl acrylate (EA), methyl
   methacrylate (MM) and trimethylammoniumethyl methacrylate chloride (TAM) in which
   the molar ratio of TAM to the remaining components (EA and MM) is 1:40. Acrylic
   resins, such as Eudragit@, can be used in the form of an aqueous dispersion or as a
15  solution in suitable solvents.
            In another preferred embodiment, the antagonist-impermeable material is selected
    from the group consisting of polylactic acid, polyglycolic acid, a co-polymer of polylactic
    acid and polyglycolic acid, and combinations thereof. In certain other embodiments, the
    hydrophobic material includes a biodegradable polymer comprising a poly(lactic/glycolic
20  acid) ("PLGA"), a polylactide, a polyglycolide, a polyanhydride, a polyorthoester,
    polycaprolactones,     polyphosphazenes,     polysaccharides,     proteinaceous   polymers,
    polyesters,     polydioxanone,     polygluconate,     polylactic-acid-polyethylene    oxide
    copolymers, poly(hydroxybutyrate), polyphosphoester or combinations thereof.
            Preferably, the biodegradable polymer comprises a poly(lactic/glycolic acid), a
25  copolymer of lactic and glycolic acid, having a molecular weight of about 2,000 to about
    500,000 daltons. The ratio of lactic acid to glycolic acid is preferably from about 100:1 to
    about 25:75, with the ratio of lactic acid to glycolic acid of about 65:35 being more
    preferred.
            Poly(lactic/glycolic acid) can be prepared by the procedures set forth in U.S. Pat.
30  No. 4,293,539 (Ludwig et al.), which is incorporated herein by reference. In brief,
    Ludwig prepares the copolymer by condensation of lactic acid and glycolic acid in the
                                                  21

   WO 2009/085778                                                             PCT/US2008/087043
    presence of a readily removable polymerization catalyst (e.g., a strong ion-exchange resin
    such as Dowex HCR-W2-H). The amount of catalyst is not critical to the polymerization,
    but typically is from about 0.01 to about 20 parts by weight relative to the total weight of
    combined lactic acid and glycolic acid. The polymerization reaction can be conducted
 5  without solvents at a temperature from about 100* C. to about 250* C. for about 48 to
    about 96 hours, preferably under a reduced pressure to facilitate removal of water and by
    products. Poly(lactic/glycolic acid) is then recovered by filtering the molten reaction
    mixture in an organic solvent, such as dichloromethane or acetone, and then filtering to
    remove the catalyst.
10          Suitable plasticizers, for example, acetyl triethyl citrate, acetyl tributyl citrate,
    triethyl citrate, diethyl phthalate, dibutyl phithalate, or dibutyl sebacate, also can be
    admixed with the polymer used to make the sequestering subunit. Additives, such as
    coloring agents, talc and/or magnesium stearate, and other additives also can be used in
    making the present inventive sequestering subunit.
15          In certain embodiments, additives may be included in the compositions to
    improve the sequestering characteristics of the sequestering subunit. As described below,
    the ratio of additives or components with respect to other additives or components may
    be modified to enhance or delay improve sequestration of the agent contained within the
    subunit. Various amounts of a functional additive (i.e., a charge-neutralizing additive)
20  may be included to vary the release of an antagonist, particularly where a water-soluble
    core (i.e., a sugar sphere) is utilized.   For instance, it has been determined that the
    inclusion of a low amount of charge-neutralizing additive relative to sequestering
   polymer on a weight-by-weight basis may cause decreased release of the antagonist.
            In certain embodiments, a surfactant may serve as a charge-neutralizing additive.
25  Such neutralization may in certain embodiments reduce the swelling of the sequestering
    polymer by hydration of positively charged groups contained therein. Surfactants (ionic
   or non-ionic) may also be used in preparing the sequestering subunit. It is preferred that
   the surfactant be ionic.      Suitable exemplary agents include, for example, alkylaryl
    sulphonates, alcohol sulphates, sulphosuccinates, sulphosuccinamates, sarcosinates or
30 taurates and others. Additional examples include but are not limited to ethoxylated castor
   oil, benzalkonium chloride, polyglycolyzed glycerides, acetylated monoglycerides,
                                                 22

   WO 2009/085778                                                              PCT/US2008/087043
    sorbitan fatty acid esters, poloxamers, polyoxyethylene fatty acid esters, polyoxyethylene
    derivatives,   monoglycerides      or ethoxylated  derivatives   thereof, diglycerides     or
    polyoxyethylene derivatives thereof, sodium docusate, sodium lauryl sulfate, dioctyl
    sodium sulphosuccinate, sodium lauryl sarcosinate and sodium methyl cocoyl taurate,
 5  magnesium lauryl sulfate, triethanolamine, cetrimide, sucrose laurate and other sucrose
    esters, glucose (dextrose) esters, simethicone, ocoxynol, dioctyl sodiumsulfosuceinate,
    polyglycolyzed         glycerides,      sodiumdodecylbenzene         sulfonate,       dialkyl
    sodiumsulfosuccinate, fatty alcohols such as lauryl, cetyl, and steryl,glycerylesters, cholic
    acid or derivatives thereof, lecithins, and phospholipids.     These agents are typically
10  characterized as ionic (i.e., anionic or. cationic) or nonionic. In certain embodiments
    described herein, an anionic surfactant such as sodium lauryl sulfate (SLS) is preferably
    used (U.S. Pat. No. 5,725,883; U.S. Pat. No. 7,201,920; EP 502642Al; Shokri, et al.
    Pharm. Sci. 2003. The effect of sodium lauryl sulphate on the release of diazepam from
    solid dispersions prepared by cogrinding technique. Wells, et al. Effect of Anionic
15  Surfactants on the Release of Chlorpheniramine Maleate From an Inert, Heterogeneous
    Matrix. Drug Development and Industrial Pharmacy 18(2) (1992): 175-186. Rao, et al.
    "Effect of Sodium Lauryl Sulfate on the Release of Rifampicin from Guar Gum Matrix."
    Indian Journal of Pharmaceutical Science (2000): 404-406; Knop, et al. Influence of
   surfactants of different charge and concentration on drug release from pellets coated
20  with an aqueous dispersion of quaternary acrylic polymers. STP Pharma Sciences, Vol.
    7, No. 6, (1997) 507-512). Other suitable agents are known in the art.
            As shown herein, SLS is particularly useful in combination with Eudragit RS
    when the sequestering subunit is built upon a sugar sphere substrate. The inclusion of
    SLS at less than approximately 6.3% on a weight-to-weight basis relative to the
25  sequestering polymer (i.e., Eudragit RS) may provide a charge neutralizing function
    (theoretically 20% and 41% neutralization, respectively), and thereby significantly slow
    the release of the active agent encapsulated thereby (i.e., the antagonist naltrexone).
    Inclusion of more than approximately 6.3% SLS relative to the sequestering polymer
    appears to increase release of the antagonist from the sequestering subunit. With respect
30  to SLS used in conjunction with Eudragit* RS, it is preferred that the SLS is present at
    approximately 1%, 2%, 3%, 4% or 5%, and typically less than 6% on a w/w basis relative
                                                 23

   WO 2009/085778                                                            PCT/US2008/087043
   to the sequestering polymer (i.e., Eudragit* RS). In preferred embodiments, SLS may be
    present at approximately 1.6% or approximately 3.3% relative to the sequestering
   polymer. As discussed above, many agents (i.e., surfactants) may substitute for SLS in
   the compositions disclosed herein.
 5          Additionally useful agents include those that may physically block migration of
   the antagonist from the subunit and / or enhance the hydrophobicity of the barrier. One
   exemplary agent is talc, which is commonly used in pharmaceutical compositions
    (Pawar et al. Agglomeration of ibuprofen With              Ta/c by Novel Crystallo-Co
   Agglomeration Techniique. AAPS PharmSciTech. 2004; 5(4): article 55). As shown in
10 the Examples, talc is especially useful where the sequestering subunit is built upon a
    sugar sphere core. Any form of talc may be used, so long as it does not detrimentally
    affect the function of the composition. Most talc results from the alteration of dolomite
    (CaMg(CO 3 )2 or magnesite (MgO) in the presence of excess dissolved silica (SiO 2) or by
   altering serpentine or quartzite.       Talc may be include minerals such as tremolite
15  (CaMg 3(SiO 3 )4), serpentine (3MgO-2SiO 2-2H 2O), anthophyllite (Mg 7 (OH) 2 -(Si4 O1 )2),
   magnesite, mica, chlorite, dolomite, the calcite form of calcium carbonate (CaCO3 ), iron
   oxide, carbon, quartz, and / or manganese oxide. The presence of such impurities may be
    acceptable in the compositions described herein provided the function of the talc is
    maintained. It is preferred that that talc be USP grade. As mentioned above, the function
20  of talc as described herein is to enhance the hydrophobicity and therefore the
    functionality of the sequestering polymer. Many substitutes for talc may be utilized in
    the compositions described herein as may be determined by one of skill in the art.
            It has been determined that the ratio of talc to sequestering polymer may make a
    dramatic difference in the functionality of the compositions described herein.         For
25  instance, the Examples described below demonstrate that the talc to sequestering polymer
    ratio (w/w) is important with respect to compositions designed to prevent the release of
    naltrexone therefrom. It is shown therein that inclusion of an approximately equivalent
    amount (on a weight-by-weight basis) of talc and Eudragit* RS results in a very low
    naltrexone release profile. In contrast, significantly lower or higher both a lower (69%
30  w/w) and a higher (151% w/w) talc:Eudragit* RS ratios result in increased release of
    naltrexone release. Thus, where talc and Eudragit* RS are utilized, it is preferred that
                                                  24

   WO 2009/085778                                                             PCT/US2008/087043
    talc is present at approximately 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 100%, 105%, 110%, 115%,
    120% or 125% w/w relative to Eudragit* RS.          As described above, the most beneficial
    ratio for other additives or components will vary and may be determined using standard
    experimental procedures.
 5           In certain embodiments, such as where a water-soluble core is utilized, it is useful
    to include agents that may affect the osmotic pressure of the composition (i.e., an osmotic
    pressure regulating agent) (see, in general, WO 2005/046561 A2 and WO 2005/046649
    A2 relating to Eudramode*). This agent is preferably applied to the Eudragit* RS / talc
    layer described above.       In a pharmaceutical unit comprising a sequestering subunit
10  overlayed by an active agent (i.e., a controlled-release agonist preparation), the osmotic
    pressure regulating agent is preferably positioned immediately beneath the active agent
    layer.     Suitable osmotic pressure regulating agents may include, for instance,
    hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose (HPMC) or chloride ions (i.e., from NaCl), or a
    combination of HPMC and chloride ions (i.e., from NaCl). Other ions that may be useful
15  include bromide or iodide. The combination of sodium chloride and HPMC may be
    prepared in water or in a mixture of ethanol and water, for instance. HPMC is commonly
    utilized in pharmaceutical compositions (see, for example, U.S. Pat. Nos. 7,226,620 and
    7,229,982). In certain embodiments, HPMC may have a molecular weight ranging from
    about 10,000 to about 1,500,000, and typically from about 5000 to about 10,000 (low
20  molecular weight HPMC). The specific gravity of HPMC is typically from about 1.19 to
    about 1.31, with an average specific gravity of about 1.26 and a viscosity of about 3600
    to 5600. HPMC may be a water-soluble synthetic polymer. Examples of suitable,
    commercially available hydroxypropyl methylcellulose polymers include Methocel KOO
    LV and Methocel K4M (Dow). Other HPMC additives are known in the art and may be
25  suitable in preparing the compositions described herein. As shown in the Examples, the
    inclusion of NaCl     (with HPMC) was found to have positively affect sequestration of
    naltrexone by Eudragit* RS.       In certain embodiments, it is preferred that the charge
    neutralizing additive (i.e., NaCI) is included at less than approximately 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7,
    8, 9, or 10% of the composition on a weight-by-weight basis.             In other preferred
30  embodiments, the charge-neutralizing additive is present at approximately 4% of the
    composition on a weight-by-weight basis.
                                                  25

   WO 2009/085778                                                             PCT/US2008/087043
              Thus, in one embodiment, a sequestering subunit built upon a sugar sphere
    substrate is provided comprising a sequestering polymer (i.e., Eudragit* RS) in
    combination with several optimizing agents, including sodium lauryl sulfate (SLS) as a
    charge-neutralizing agent to reduce swelling of the film by hydration of the positively
 5 charged groups on the polymer; talc to create a solid impermeable obstacle to naltrexone
   transport through the film and as a hydrophobicity-enhancing agent; and a chloride ion
    (i.e., as NaCl) as an osmotic pressure reducing agent. The ratio of each of the.additional
    ingredients relative to the sequestering polymer was surprisingly found to be important to
   the function of the sequestering subunit.          For instance, the Examples provide a
10  sequestering subunit including a sequestering polymer and the optimizing agents SLS at
    less than 6%, preferably 14%, and even more preferably 1.6% or 3.3% on a w/w basis
   relative to Eudragit RS; talc in an amount approximately equal to Eudragit* RS (on a
   w/w basis); and, NaCl present at approximately 4% on a w/w basis relative to Eudragit*
    RS.
15            The therapeutic agent applied upon the sequestering subunit may be any
   medicament. The therapeutic agent of the present inventive compositions can be any
   medicinal agent used for the treatment of a condition or disease, a pharmaceutically
   acceptable salt thereof, or an analogue of either of the foregoing. The therapeutic agent
   can be, for example, an analgesic (e.g., an opioid agonist, aspirin, acetaminophen, non
20  steroidal anti-inflammatory      drugs ("NSAIDS"),      N-methyl-D-aspartate   ("NMDA")
    receptor antagonists, cycooxygenase-Il inhibitors ("COX-Il inhibitors"), and glycine
   receptor antagonists), an antibacterial agent, an anti-viral agent, an anti-microbial agent,
   anti-infective agent, a chemotherapeutic, an immunosuppressant agent, an antitussive, an
   expectorant, a decongestant, an antihistamine drugs, a decongestant, antihistamine drugs,
25 and the like. Preferably, the therapeutic agent is one that is addictive (physically and/or
   psychologically) upon repeated use and typically leads to abuse of the therapeutic agent.
   In this regard, the therapeutic agent can be any opioid agonist as discussed herein.
              The therapeutic agent can be an opioid agonist. By "opioid" is meant to include a
   drug, hormone, or other chemical or biological substance, natural or synthetic, having a
30 sedative, narcotic, or otherwise similar effect(s) to those containing opium or its natural
   or synthetic derivatives. By "opioid agonist," sometimes used herein interchangeably
                                                 26

   WO 2009/085778                                                                 PCT/US2008/087043
    with terms "opioid" and "opioid analgesic," is meant to include one or more opioid
    agonists, either alone or in combination, and is further meant to include the base of the
    opioid, mixed or combined agonist-antagonists, partial agonists, pharmaceutically
    acceptable salts thereof, stereoisomers thereof, ethers thereof, esters thereof, and
 5  combinations thereof.
            Opioid agonists include, for example, alfentanil, allylprodine, alphaprodine,
    anileridine, benzylmorphine,      bezitramide, buprenorphine, butorphanol, clonitazene,
    codeine,    cyclazocine,    desomorphine,     dextromoramide,      dezocine,      diampromide,
    dihydrocodeine,    dihydroetorphine,     dihydromorphine,    dimenoxadol,       dimepheptanol,
10  dimethylthiambutene,     dioxaphetyl butyrate, dipipanone, eptazocine, ethoheptazine,
    ethylmethylthiambutene,      ethylmorphine,    etonitazene,   etorphine,     fentanyl,    heroin,
    hydrocodone,      hydromorphone,       hydroxypethidine,    isomethadone,        ketobemidone,
    levallorphan, levorphanol, levophenacylmorphan, lofentanil, meperidine, meptazinol,
    metazocine,    methadone,     metopon,     morphine,   myrophine,      nalbuphine,     narceine,
15  nicomorphine, norlevorphanol, normethadone, nalorphine, normorphine, norpipanone,
    opium,     oxycodone,      oxymorphone,      papaveretum,      pentazocine,       phenadoxone,
    phenazocine, phenomorphan, phenoperidine, piminodine, piritramide, propheptazine,
    promedol,     properidine,   propiram,    propoxyphene,     sufentanil,    tramadol,     tilidine,
    derivatives or complexes thereof, pharmaceutically           acceptable salts thereof, and
20  combinations thereof. Preferably, the opioid agonist is selected from the group consisting
    of     hydrocodone,       hydromorphone,       oxycodone,       dihydrocodeine,         codeine,
    dihydromorphine,      morphine,    buprenorphine,    derivatives    or   complexes      'thereof,
    pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, and combinations thereof. Most preferably, the
   opioid agonist is morphine, hydromorphone, oxycodone or hydrocodone. In a preferred
25 embodiment, the opioid agonist comprises oxycodone or hydrocodone and is present in
   the dosage form in an amount of about 15 to about 45 mg, and the opioid antagonist
   comprises naltrexone and is present in the dosage form in an amount of about 0.5 to
   about 5 mg.
            Equianalgesic doses of these opioids, in comparison to a 15 mg dose of
30 hydrocodone, are set forth in Table I below:
                                                  27

   WO 2009/085778                                                           PCT/US2008/087043
                                              Table I
                                  Equianalgesic Doses of Opioids
                                   Opioid                Calculated Dose (mg)
                   Oxycodone                             13.5
                   Codeine                              90.0
                   Hydrocodone                           15.0
                   Hydromorphone                        3.375
                   Levorphanol                           1.8
                   Meperidine                            135.0
                   Methadone                            9.0
                   Morphine                             27.0
            Hydrocodone is a semisynthetic narcotic analgesic and antitussive with multiple
 5  nervous system and gastrointestinal actions. Chemically, hydrocodone is 4,5-epoxy-3
    methoxy-17-methylmorphinan-6-one, and is also known as dihydrocodeinone. Like other
    opioids, hydrocodone can be habit-forming and can produce drug dependence of the
    morphine type. Like other opium derivatives, excess doses of hydrocodone will depress
    respiration.
10          Oral hydrocodone is also available in Europe (e.g., Belgium, Germany, Greece,
    Italy, Luxembourg, Norway and Switzerland) as an antitussive agent. A parenteral
    formulation is also available in Germany as an antitussive agent. For use as an analgesic,
    hydrocodone bitartrate is commonly available in the United States only as a fixed
    combination with non-opiate drugs (e.g., ibuprofen, acetaminophen, aspirin; etc.) for
15  relief of moderate to moderately severe pain.
            A common dosage form of hydrocodone is in combination with acetaminophen
    and is commercially available, for example, as Lortab@ in the United States from UCB
    Pharma, Inc. (Brussels, Belgium), as 2.5/500 mg, 5/500 mg, 7.5/500 mg and 10/500 mg
    hydrocodone/acetaminophen tablets. Tablets are also available in the ratio of 7.5 mg
20  hydrocodone bitartrate and 650 mg acetaminophen and a 7.5 mg hydrocodone bitartrate
    and 750 mg acetaminophen. Hydrocodone, in combination with aspirin, is given in an
                                                28

   WO 2009/085778                                                           PCT/US2008/087043
   oral dosage form to adults generally in 1-2 tablets every 4-6 hours as needed to alleviate
    pain. The tablet form is 5 mg hydrocodone bitartrate and 224 mg aspirin with 32 mg
   caffeine; or 5 mg hydrocodone bitartrate and 500 mg aspirin. Another formulation
   comprises hydrocodone bitartrate and ibuprofen. Vicoprofen@, commercially available in
 5 the U.S. from Knoll Laboratories (Mount Olive, N.J.), is a tablet containing 7.5 mg
    hydrocodone bitartrate and 200 mg ibuprofen. The invention is contemplated to
   encompass all such formulations, with the inclusion of the opioid antagonist and/or
   antagonist in sequestered form as part of a subunit comprising an opioid agonist.
            Oxycodone,      chemically   known      as 4,5-epoxy-14-hydroxy-3-methoxy-17
10  methylmorphinan-6-one, is an opioid agonist whose principal therapeutic action is
   analgesia. Other therapeutic effects of oxycodone include anxiolysis, euphoria and
    feelings of relaxation. The precise mechanism of its analgesic action is not known, but
    specific CNS opioid receptors for endogenous compounds with opioid-like activity have
   been identified throughout the brain and spinal cord and play a role in the analgesic
15 effects of this drug.
            Oxycodone is commercially available in the United States, e.g., as Oxycotin@
    from Purdue Pharma L.P. (Stamford, Conn.), as controlled-release tablets for oral
   administration containing 10 mg, 20 mg, 40 mg or 80 mg oxycodone hydrochloride, and
   as OxyIRTM, also from Purdue Pharma L.P., as immediate-release capsules containing 5
20 mg oxycodone hydrochloride. The invention is contemplated to encompass all such
    formulations, with the inclusion of an opioid antagonist and/or antagonist in sequestered
    form as part of a subunit comprising an opioid agonist.
            Oral hydromorphone is commercially available in the United States, e.g., as
   Dilaudid@ from Abbott Laboratories (Chicago, Ill.).       Oral morphine is commercially
25 available in the United States, e.g., as Kadian@ from Faulding Laboratories (Piscataway,
   N.J.).
            Exemplary NSAIDS include ibuprofen, diclofenac, naproxen, benoxaprofen,
    flurbiprofen, fenoprofen,    flubufen, ketoprofen,   indoprofen, piroprofen, carprofen,
   oxaprozin, pramoprofen, muroprofen, trioxaprofen, suprofen, aminoprofen, tiaprofenic
30 acid, fluprofen, bucloxic acid, indomethacin, sulindac, tolmetin, zomepirac, tiopinac,
   zidometacin, acemetacin, fentiazac, clidanac, oxpinac, mefenamic acid, meclofenamic
                                                 29

   WO 2009/085778                                                             PCT/US2008/087043
   acid, flufenamic acid, niflumic acid, tolfenamic acid, diflurisal, flufenisal, piroxicam,
    sudoxicam or isoxicam, and the like. Useful dosages of these drugs are well-known.
             Exemplary      NMDA     receptor  medicaments   include    morphinans,   such. as
   dexotromethorphan         or dextrophan, ketamine, d-methadone,       and pharmaceutically
 5 acceptable      salts thereof, and encompass drugs that block a major intracellular
   consequence of NMDA-receptor activation, e.g., a ganglioside, such as (6-aminothexyl)
    5-chloro- 1-naphthalenesulfonamide. These drugs are stated to inhibit the development of
   tolerance to and/or dependence on addictive drugs, e.g., narcotic analgesics, such as
    morphine, codeine; etc., in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,321,012 and 5,556,838 (both to Mayer et al.),
10  both of which are incorporated herein by reference, and to treat chronic pain in U.S. Pat.
   No. 5,502,058 (Mayer et al.), incorporated herein by reference. The NMDA agonist can
   be included alone or in combination with a local anesthetic, such as lidocaine, as
   described in these patents by Mayer et al.
             COX-2 inhibitors have been reported in the art, and many chemical compounds
15 are known to produce inhibition of cyclooxygenase-2. COX-2 inhibitors are described,
    for example, in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,616,601; 5,604,260; 5,593,994; 5,550,142; 5,536,752;
    5,521,213; 5,475,995; 5,639,780; 5,604,253; 5,552,422; 5,510,368; 5,436,265; 5,409,944
   and 5,130,311, all of which are incorporated herein by reference. Certain preferred COX
    2    inhibitors    include  celecoxib   (SC-58635),  DUP-697,     flosulide (CGP-28238),
20 meloxicam, 6-methoxy-2-naphthylacetic acid (6-NMA), MK-966 (also known as Vioxx),
    nabumetone (prodrug for 6-MNA), nimesulide, NS-398, SC-5766, SC-58215, T-614, or
   combinations thereof. Dosage levels of COX-2 inhibitor on the order of from about 0.005
   mg to about 140 mg per kilogram of body weight per day have been shown to be
   therapeutically effective in combination with an opioid analgesic. Alternatively, about
25 0.25 mg to about 7 g per patient per day of a COX-2 inhibitor can be administered in
   combination with an opioid analgesic.
             The treatment of chronic pain via the use of glycine receptor antagonists and the
    identification of such drugs is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5,514,680 (Weber et al.), which
    is incorporated herein by reference.
30           Pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the antagonist or agonist agents discussed
   herein include metal salts, such as sodium salt, potassium salt, cesium salt, and the like;
                                                  30

   WO 2009/085778                                                               PCT/US2008/087043
    alkaline earth metals, such as calcium salt, magnesium salt, and the like; organic amine
    salts, such as triethylarnine salt, pyridine salt, picoline salt, ethanolamine salt,
    triethanolamine salt, dicyclohexylamine salt, N,N'-dibenzylethylenediamine salt, and the
    like; inorganic acid salts, such as hydrochloride, hydrobromide, sulfate, phosphate, and
 5  the like; organic acid salts, such as formate, acetate, trifluoroacetate, maleate, tartrate, and
    the like; sulfonates, such as. methanesulfonate, benzenesulfonate, p-toluenesulfonate, and
    the like; amino acid salts, such as arginate, asparginate, glutamate, and the like.
             In embodiments in which the opioid agonist comprises hydrocodone, the
    sustained-release oral dosage forms can include analgesic doses from about 8 mg to about
10  50 mg of hydrocodone per dosage unit. In sustained-release oral dosage forms where
    hydromorphone is the therapeutically active opioid, it is included in an amount from
    about 2 mg to about 64 mg hydromorphone hydrochloride. In another embodiment, the
    opioid agonist comprises morphine, and the sustained-release oral dosage forms of the
    invention include from about 2.5 mg to about 800 mg morphine, by weight. In yet
15  another embodiment, the opioid agonist comprises oxycodone and the sustained-release
    oral dosage forms include from about 2.5 mg to about 800 mg oxycodone. In certain
    preferred embodiments, the sustained-release oral dosage forms include from about 20
    mg to about 30 mg oxycodone. Controlled release oxycodone formulations are known in
    the art. The following documents describe various controlled-release oxycodone
20  formulations suitable for use in the invention described herein, and processes for their
    manufacture: U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,266,331; 5,549,912; 5,508,042; and 5,656,295, which are
    incorporated herein by reference. The opioid agonist can comprise tramadol and the
    sustained-release oral dosage forms can include from about 25 mg to 800 mg tramadol
    per dosage unit.
25           Methods of making any of the sequestering subunits of the invention are known in
    the art. See, for example, Remington: The Science and Practice of Pharmacy,Alfonso R.
    Genaro (ed),   20 'h edition, and Example 2 set forth below. The sequestering subunits can
    be prepared by any suitable method to provide, for example, beads, pellets, granules,
    spheroids, and the like.      Spheroids or beads, coated with an active ingredient can be
30  prepared, for example, by dissolving the active ingredient in water and then spraying the
    solution onto a substrate, for example, nu pariel 18/20 beads, using a Wurster insert.
                                                  31

   WO 2009/085778                                                               PCT/US2008/087043
    Optionally, additional ingredients are also added prior to coating the beads in order to
    assist the active ingredient in binding to the substrates, and/or to color the solution; etc.
    The resulting substrate-active material optionally can be overcoated with a barrier
    material to separate the therapeutically active agent from the next coat of material, e.g.,
 5  release-retarding material. Preferably, the barrier material is a material comprising
    hydroxypropyl methylcellulose. However, any film-former known in the art can be used.
    Preferably, the barrier material does not affect the dissolution rate of the final product.
             Pellets comprising an active ingredient can be prepared, for example, by a melt
    pelletization technique. Typical of such techniques is when the active ingredient in finely
10  divided form is combined with a binder (also in particulate form) and other optional inert
    ingredients, and thereafter the mixture is pelletized, e.g., by mechanically working the
    mixture in a high shear mixer to form the pellets (e.g., pellets, granules, spheres, beads;
    etc., collectively referred to herein as "pellets"). Thereafter, the pellets can be sieved in
    order to obtain pellets of the requisite size. The binder material is preferably in particulate
15  form and has a melting point above about 40* C. Suitable binder substances include, for
    example, hydrogenated castor oil, hydrogenated vegetable oil, other hydrogenated fats,
    fatty alcohols, fatty acid esters, fatty acid glycerides, and the like.
            The diameter of the extruder aperture or exit port also can be adjusted to vary the
    thickness of the extruded strands. Furthermore, the exit part of the extruder need not be
20  round; it can be oblong, rectangular; etc. The exiting strands can be reduced to particles
    using a hot wire cutter, guillotine; etc.
            The melt-extruded multiparticulate system can be, for example, in the form of
    granules, spheroids, pellets, or the like, depending upon the extruder exit orifice. The
    terms "melt-extruded multiparticulate(s)" and "melt-extruded multiparticulate systemss"
25  and "melt-extruded particles" are used interchangeably herein and include a plurality of
    subunits, preferably within a range of similar size and/or shape. The melt-extruded
    multiparticulates are preferably in a range of from about 0.1 to about 12 mm in length
    and have a diameter of from about 0.1 to about 5 mm. In addition, the melt-extruded
    multiparticulates can be any geometrical shape within this size range. Alternatively, the
30  extrudate can simply be cut into desired lengths and divided into unit doses of the
    therapeutically active agent without the need of a spheronization step.
                                                    32

   WO 2009/085778                                                           PCT/US2008/087043
             The substrate also can be prepared via a granulation technique. Generally, melt
    granulation techniques involve melting a normally solid hydrophobic material, e.g., a
    wax, and incorporating an active ingredient therein. To obtain a sustained-release dosage
     form, it can be necessary to incorporate an additional hydrophobic material.
 5           A coating composition can be applied onto a substrate by spraying it onto the
     substrate using any suitable spray equipment. For example, a Wurster fluidized-bed
     system can be used in which an air flow from underneath, fluidizes the coated material
    and effects drying, while the insoluble polymer coating is sprayed on. The thickness of
    the coating will depend on the characteristics of the particular coating composition, and
10  can be determined by using routine experimentation.
             Any manner of preparing a subunit can be employed. By way of example, a
    subunit in the form of a pellet or the like can be prepared by co-extruding a material
    comprising the opioid agonist and a material comprising the opioid antagonist and/or
    antagonist in sequestered form. Optionally, the opioid agonist composition can cover,
15  e.g., overcoat, the material comprising the antagonist and/or antagonist in sequestered
    form. A bead, for example, can be prepared by coating a substrate comprising an opioid
    antagonist and/or an antagonist in sequestered form with a solution comprising an opioid
    agonist.
             The sequestering subunits of the invention are particularly well-suited for use in
20  compositions comprising the sequestering subunit and a therapeutic agent in releasable
    form. In this regard, the invention also provides a composition comprising any of the
    sequestering subunits of the invention and a therapeutic agent in releasable form. By
    "releasable form" is meant to include immediate release, intermediate release, and
    sustained-release forms. The therapeutic agent can be formulated to provide immediate
25  release of the therapeutic agent. In preferred embodiments, the composition provides
    sustained-release of the therapeutic Agent.
             The therapeutic agent in sustained-release form is preferably a particle of
    therapeutic agent that is combined with a release-retarding material. The release-retarding
    material is preferably a material that permits release of the therapeutic agent at a
30  sustained rate in an aqueous medium. The release-retarding material can be selectively
                                                 33

   WO 2009/085778                                                               PCT/US2008/087043
   chosen so as to achieve, in combination with the other stated properties, a desired in vitro
   release rate.
            In a preferred embodiment, the oral dosage form of the invention can be
    formulated to provide for an increased duration of therapeutic action allowing once-daily
 5 dosing. In general, a release-retarding material is used to provide the increased duration
   of therapeutic action. Preferably, the once-daily dosing is provided by the dosage forms
    and methods described in U.S. Patent Application Pub. No. 2005/0020613 to Boehm,
   entitled "Sustained-Release Opioid Formulations and Method of Use," filed on Sep. 22,
   2003, and incorporated herein by reference.
10          Preferred release-retarding materials include acrylic polymers, alkylcelluloses,
    shellac, zein, hydrogenated vegetable oil, hydrogenated castor oil, and combinations
   thereof. In certain      preferred embodiments,      the release-retarding      material is a
   pharmaceutically acceptable acrylic polymer, including acrylic acid and methacrylic acid
   copolymers, methyl methacrylate copolymers, ethoxyethyl methacrylates, cynaoethyl
15 methacrylate, aminoalkyl methacrylate copolymer, poly(acrylic acid), poly(methacrylic
   acid),     methacrylic    acid   alkylamide     copolymer,       poly(methyl    methacrylate),
   poly(methacrylic acid anhydride), methyl methacrylate, polymethacrylate, poly(methyl
    methacrylate) copolymer, polyacrylamide, aminoalkyl methacrylate copolymer, and
    glycidyl methacrylate copolymers. In certain preferred embodiments, the acrylic polymer
20  comprises one or more ammonio methacrylate copolymers. Ammonio methacrylate
    copolymers are well-known in the art, and are described in NF21, the 214 edition of the
    National Formulary, published by the United States Pharmacopeial Convention Inc.
    (Rockville, Md.), as fully polymerized copolymers of acrylic and methacrylic acid esters
    with a low content of quaternary ammonium groups. In other preferred embodiments, the
25  release-retarding material is an alkyl cellulosic material, such as ethylcellulose. Those
    skilled in the art will appreciate that other cellulosic polymers, including other alkyl
    cellulosic polymers, can be substituted for part or all of the ethylcellulose.
            Release-modifying agents, which affect the release properties of the release
    retarding material, also can be used. In a preferred embodiment, the release-modifying
30  agent functions as a pore-former. The pore-former can be organic or inorganic, and
    include materials that can be dissolved, extracted or leached from the coating in the
                                                 34

   WO 2009/085778                                                              PCT/US2008/087043
    environment of use. The pore-former can comprise one or more hydrophilic polymers,
    such as hydroxypropylmethylcellulose. In certain preferred embodiments, the release
    modifying agent is selected from hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, lactose, metal stearates,
    and combinations thereof.
 5          The release-retarding material can also include an erosion-promoting agent, such
    as starch and gums; a release-modifying agent useful for making microporous lamina in
    the environment of use, such as polycarbonates comprised of linear polyesters of
    carbonic acid in which carbonate groups reoccur in the polymer chain; and/or a semi
    permeable polymer.
10          The release-retarding material can also include an exit means comprising at least
    one passageway, orifice, or the like. The passageway can be formed by such methods as
    those disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3,845,770; 3,916,889; 4,063,064; and 4,088,864, which
    are incorporated herein by reference. The passageway can have any shape, such as round,
    triangular, square, elliptical, irregular; etc.
15          In certain embodiments, the therapeutic agent in sustained-release form can
    include a plurality of substrates comprising the active ingredient, which substrates are
    coated with a sustained-release coating comprising a release-retarding material.
            The sustained-release preparations of the invention can be made in conjunction
    with any multiparticulate system, such as beads, ion-exchange resin beads, spheroids,
20  microspheres, seeds, pellets, granules, and other multiparticulate systems in order to
    obtain a desired sustained-release of the therapeutic agent. The multiparticulate system
    can be presented in a capsule or in any other suitable unit dosage form.
            In certain preferred embodiments, more than one multiparticulate system can be
    used, each exhibiting different characteristics, such as pH dependence of release, time for
25  release in various media (e.g., acid, base, simulated intestinal fluid), release in vivo, size
    and composition.
            To obtain a sustained-release of the therapeutic agent in a manner sufficient to
    provide a therapeutic effect for the sustained durations, the therapeutic agent can be
    coated with an amount of release-retarding material sufficient to obtain a weight gain
30  level from about 2 to about 30%, although-the coat can be greater or lesser depending
    upon the physical properties of the particular therapeutic agent utilized and the desired
                                                    35

   WO 2009/085778                                                                PCT/US2008/087043
    release rate, among other things. Moreover, there can be more than one release-retarding
    material used in the coat, as well as various other pharmaceutical excipients.
             Solvents typically used for the release-retarding material include pharmaceutically
    acceptable solvents, such as water, methanol, ethanol, methylene chloride and
 5  combinations thereof.
             In certain embodiments of the invention, the release-retarding material is in the
    form of a coating comprising an aqueous dispersion of a hydrophobic polymer. The
    inclusion of an effective amount of a plasticizer in the aqueous dispersion of hydrophobic
    polymer will further improve the physical properties of the film. For example, because
10  ethylcellulose has a relatively high glass transition temperature and does not form flexible
    films under normal coating conditions, it is necessary to plasticize the ethylcellulose
    before using the same as a coating material. Generally, the amount of plasticizer included
    in a coating solution is based on the concentration of the film-former, e.g., most often
    from about I to about 50 percent by weight of the film-former. Concentrations of the
15  plasticizer, however, can be determined by routine experimentation.
             Examples of plasticizers for ethylcellulose and other celluloses include dibutyl
    sebacate, diethyl phthalate, triethyl citrate, tributyl citrate, and triacetin, although it is
    possible that other plasticizers (such as acetylated monoglycerides, phthalate esters,
    castor oil; etc.) can be used.
20           Examples of plasticizers for the acrylic polymers include citric acid esters, such as
    triethyl citrate NF2 1, tributyl citrate, dibutyl phthalate, and possibly 1,2-propylene glycol,
     polyethylene glycols, propylene glycol, diethyl phthalate, castor oil, and triacetin,
    although it is possible that other plasticizers (such as acetylated monoglycerides,
     phthalate esters, castor oil; etc.) can be used.
25           The sustained-release profile of drug release in the formulations of the invention
     (either in vivo or in vitro) can be altered, for example, by using more than one release
     retarding material, varying the thickness of the release-retarding material, changing the
     particular release-retarding material used, altering the relative amounts of release
     retarding material, altering the manner in which the plasticizer is added (e.g., when the
30   sustained-release coating is derived from an aqueous dispersion of hydrophobic
     polymer), by varying the amount of plasticizer relative to retardant material, by the
                                                     36

   WO 2009/085778                                                               PCT/US2008/087043
   inclusion of additional ingredients or excipients, by altering the method of manufacture;
   etc.
            In certain other embodiments, the oral dosage form can utilize a multiparticulate
   sustained-release matrix. In certain embodiments, the sustained-release matrix comprises
 5 a hydrophilic and/or hydrophobic polymer, such as gums, cellulose ethers, acrylic resins
   and protein-derived materials. Of these polymers, the cellulose ethers, specifically
   hydroxyalkylcelluloses and carboxyalkylcelluloses, are preferred. The oral dosage form
   can contain between about 1% and about 80% (by weight) of at least one hydrophilic or
    hydrophobic polymer.
10          The hydrophobic material is preferably selected from the group consisting of
   alkylcellulose, acrylic and methacrylic acid polymers and copolymers, shellac, zein,
    hydrogenated castor oil, hydrogenated vegetable oil, or mixtures thereof. Preferably, the
   hydrophobic material is a pharmaceutically acceptable acrylic polymer, including acrylic
   acid and methacrylic acid copolymers, methyl methacrylate, methyl methacrylate
15 copolymers,       ethoxyethyl     methacrylates,    cyanoethyl    methacrylate,   aminoalkyl
   methacrylate copolymer, poly(acrylicacid), poly(methacrylic acid), methacrylic acid
    alkylamine copolymer, poly(methyl methacrylate), poly(methacrylic acid)(anhydride),
    polymethacrylate,     polyacrylamide, poly(methacrylic     acid anhydride), and glycidyl
    methacrylate copolymers. In other einbodiments, the hydrophobic material can also
20  include hydrooxyalkylcelluloses such as hydroxypropylmethylcellulose and mixtures of
    the foregoing.
            Preferred    hydrophobic materials      are water-insoluble    with   more or less
    pronounced hydrophobic trends. Preferably, the hydrophobic material has a melting point
    from about 30* C. to about 2000 C., more preferably from about 45* C. to about 90* C.
25  The hydrophobic material can include neutral or synthetic waxes, fatty alcohols (such as
    lauryl, myristy!, stearyl, cetyl or preferably cetostearyl alcohol), fatty acids, including
    fatty acid esters, fatty acid glycerides (mono-, di-, and tri-glycerides), hydrogenated fats,
    hydrocarbons, normal waxes, stearic acid, stearyl alcohol and hydrophobic and
    hydrophilic materials having hydrocarbon backbones. Suitable waxes include beeswax,
30  glycowax, castor wax, carnauba wax and wax-like substances, e.g., material normally
                                                  37

   WO 2009/085778                                                               PCT/US2008/087043
    solid at room temperature and having a melting point of from about 300 C. to about 100*
    C.
             Preferably, a combination of two or more hydrophobic materials are included in
    the matrix formulations. If an additional hydrophobic material is included, it is preferably
 5  a natural or synthetic wax, a fatty acid, a fatty alcohol, or mixtures thereof. Examples
    include      beeswax,     camauba        wax,      stearic   acid    and    stearyl   alcohol.
       In other embodiments, the sustained-release matrix comprises digestible, long-chain
    (e.g., Cs-C5o, preferably C12 -C4 0 ), substituted or unsubstituted hydrocarbons, such as fatty
    acids, fatty alcohols, glyceryl esters of fatty acids, mineral and vegetable oils and waxes.
10  Hydrocarbons having a melting point of between about 250 C. and about 90* C. are
    preferred. Of these long-chain hydrocarbon materials, fatty (aliphatic) alcohols are
    preferred. The oraldosage form can contain up to about 60% (by weight) of at least one
    digestible, long-chain hydrocarbon.
             Further, the sustained-release matrix can contain up to 60% (by weight) of at least
15  one polyalkylene glycol.
             In a preferred embodiment, the matrix comprises at least one water-soluble
    hydroxyalkyl cellulose, at least one C12-C36, preferably C14-Cn, aliphatic alcohol and,
    optionally, at least one polyalkylene glycol. The at least one hydroxyalkyl cellulose is
    preferably a hydroxy (CI-C 6 ) alkyl            cellulose,  such   as hydroxypropylcellulose,
20  hydroxypropylmethylcellulose and, preferably, hydroxyethyl cellulose. The amount of
    the at least one hydroxyalkyl cellulose in the oral dosage form will be determined,
    amongst other things, by the precise rate of opioid release required. The amount of the at
    least one aliphatic alcohol in the present oral dosage form will be determined by the
    precise rate of opioid release required. However, it will also depend on whether the at
25  least one polyalkylene glycol is absent from the oral dosage form.
             In certain embodiments, a spheronizing agent, together with the active ingredient,
    can be spheronized to form spheroids. Microcrystalline cellulose and hydrous lactose
    impalpable are examples of such agents. Additionally (or alternatively), the spheroids can
    contain a water-insoluble polymer, preferably an acrylic polymer, an acrylic copolymer,
30  such as a methacrylic acid-ethyl acrylate copolymer, or ethyl cellulose. In such
    embodiments, the sustained-release coating will generally include a water-insoluble
                                                     38

   WO 2009/085778                                                              PCT/US2008/087043
    material such as (a) a wax, either alone or in admixture with a fatty alcohol, or (b) shellac
    or zein.
             Preferably, the sequestering subunit comprises the therapeutic agent in sustained
    release form. The sustained-release subunit can be prepared by any suitable method. For
 5  example, a plasticized aqueous dispersion of the release-retarding material can be applied
    onto the subunit comprising the opioid agonist. A sufficient amount of the aqueous
    dispersion of release-retarding material to obtain a predetermined sustained-release of the
    opioid agonist when the coated substrate is exposed to aqueous solutions, e.g., gastric
    fluid, is preferably applied, taking into account the physical characteristics of the opioid
10  agonist, the manner of incorporation of the plasticizer; etc. Optionally, a further overcoat
    of a film-former, such as Opadry (Colorcon, West Point, Va.), can be applied after
    coating with the release-retarding material.
             The subunit can be cured in order to obtain a stabilized release rate of the
    therapeutic agent. In embodiments employing an acrylic coating, a stabilized product can
15  be. preferably obtained by subjecting the subunit to oven curing at a temperature above
    the glass transition temperature of the plasticized acrylic polymer for the required time
    period. The optimum temperature and time for the particular formulation can be
    determined by routine experimentation.
             Once prepared, the subunit can be combined with at least one additional subunit
20  and, optionally, other excipients or drugs to provide an oral dosage form.
             In addition to the above ingredients, a sustained-release matrix also can contain
    suitable quantities of other materials, e.g., diluents, lubricants, binders, granulating aids,
    colorants, flavorants and glidants that are conventional in the pharmaceutical art.
             Optionally and preferably, the mechanical fragility of any of the sequestering
25  subunits described herein is the same as the mechanical fragility of the therapeutic agent
    in releasable form. In this regard, tampering with the composition of the invention in a
    manner to obtain the therapeutic agent will result in the destruction of the sequestering
    subunit, such that the antagonist is released and mixed in with the therapeutic agent.
    Consequently, the antagonist cannot be separated from the therapeutic agent, and the
30  therapeutic agent cannot be administered in the absence of the antagonist. Methods of
                                                  39

   WO 2009/085778                                                              PCT/US2008/087043
    assaying the mechanical fragility of the sequestering subunit and of a therapeutic agent
    are known in the art.
            The composition of the invention can be in any suitable dosage form or
    formulation, (see, e.g., Pharmaceutics and Pharmacy Practice, J. B. Lippincott
 5  Company, Philadelphia, Pa., Banker and Chalmers, eds., pages 238-250 (1982)).
    Formulations suitable for oral administration can consist of (a) liquid solutions, such as
    an effective amount of the inhibitor dissolved in diluents, such as water, saline, or orange
    juice; (b)   capsules, sachets,    tablets, lozenges,    and troches,    each containing a
    predetermined amount of the active ingredient, as solids or granules; (c) powders; (d)
10  suspensions in an appropriate liquid; and (e) suitable emulsions. Liquid formulations may
    include diluents, such as water and alcohols, for example, ethanol, benzyl alcohol, and
    the polyethylene alcohols, either with or without the addition of a pharmaceutically
    acceptable surfactant. Capsule forms can be of the ordinary hard- or soft-shelled gelatin
    type containing, for example, surfactants, lubricants, and inert fillers, such as lactose,
15  sucrose, calcium phosphate, and corn starch. Tablet forms can include one or more of
    lactose, sucrose, mannitol, corn starch, potato starch, alginic acid, microcrystalline
    cellulose, acacia, gelatin, guar gum, colloidal silicon dioxide, croscarmellose sodium,
    talc, magnesium stearate, calcium stearate, zinc stearate, stearic acid, and other
    excipients, colorants, diluents, buffering agents, disintegrating agents, moistening agents,
20  preservatives, flavoring agents, and pharmacologically compatible excipients. Lozenge
    forms can comprise the active ingredient in a flavor, usually sucrose and acacia or
    tragacanth, as well as pastilles comprising the active ingredient in an inert base, such as
    gelatin and glycerin, or sucrose and acacia, emulsions, gels, and the like containing, in
    addition to the active ingredient, such excipients as are known in the art.
25          One of ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate that the compositions of the
    invention can be modified in any number of ways, such that the therapeutic efficacy of
    the composition is increased through the modification. For instance, the therapeutic agent
    or sequestering subunit could be conjugated either directly or indirectly through a linker
    to a targeting moiety. The practice of conjugating therapeutic agents or sequestering
30  subunits to targeting moieties is known in the art. See, for instance, Wadwa et al., J. Drug
     Targeting 3: 111 (1995), and U.S. Pat. No. 5,087,616. The term "targeting moiety" as
                                                   40

   WO 2009/085778                                                             PCT/US2008/087043
   used herein, refers to any molecule or agent that specifically recognizes and binds to a
   cell-surface receptor, such that the targeting moiety directs the delivery of the therapeutic
   agent or sequestering subunit to a population of cells on which the receptor is expressed.
   Targeting moieties include, but are not limited to, antibodies, or fragments thereof,
 5 peptides, hormones, growth factors, cytokines, and any other naturally- or non-naturally
   existing ligands, which bind to cell-surface receptors. The term "linker" as used herein,
   refers to any agent or molecule that bridges the therapeutic agent or sequestering subunit
   to the targeting moiety. One of ordinary skill in the art recognizes that sites on the
   therapeutic agent or sequestering subunit, which are not necessary for the function of the
10 agent or sequestering subunit, are ideal sites for attaching a linker and/or a targeting
   moiety, provided that the linker and/or targeting moiety, once attached to the agent or
   sequestering subunit, do(es) not interfere with the function of the therapeutic agent or
   sequestering subunit.
            With respect to the present inventive compositions, the composition is preferably
15 an oral dosage form. By "oral dosage form" is meant to include a unit dosage form
   prescribed or intended for oral administration comprising subunits. Desirably, the
   composition comprises the sequestering subunit coated with the therapeutic agent in
   releasable form, thereby forming a composite subunit comprising the sequestering
    subunit and the therapeutic agent. Accordingly, the invention further provides a capsule
20  suitable for oral administration comprising a plurality of such composite subunits.
            Alternatively, the oral dosage form can comprise any of the sequestering subunits
   of the invention in combination with a therapeutic agent subunit, wherein the therapeutic
    agent subunit comprises the therapeutic agent in releasable form. In this respect, the
    invention provides a capsule suitable for oral administration comprising a plurality of
25  sequestering subunits of the invention and a plurality of therapeutic subunits, each of
    which comprises a therapeutic agent in releasable form.
            The invention further provides tablets comprising a sequestering subunit of the
    invention and a therapeutic agent in releasable form. For instance, the invention provides
    a tablet suitable for oral administration comprising a first layer comprising any of the
30  sequestering subunits of the invention and a second layer comprising therapeutic agent in
    releasable form, wherein the first layer is coated with the second layer. The first layer can
                                                  41

   WO 2009/085778                                                             PCT/US2008/087043
   comprise a plurality of sequestering subunits. Alternatively, the first layer can be or can
   consist of a single sequestering subunit. The therapeutic agent in releasable form can be
    in the form of a therapeutic agent subunit and the second layer can comprise a plurality of
   therapeutic subunits. Alternatively, the second layer can comprise a single substantially
 5 homogeneous layer comprising the therapeutic agent in releasable form.
            When the blocking agent is a system comprising a first antagonist-impermeable
   material and a core, the sequestering subunit can be in one of several different forms. For
   example, the system can further comprise a second antagonist-impermeable material, in
   which case the sequestering unit comprises an antagonist, a first antagonist-impermeable
10  material, a second antagonist-impermeable material, and a core. In this instance, the core
    is coated with the first antagonist-impermeable material, which, in turn, is coated with the
   antagonist, which, in turn, is coated with the second antagonist-impermeable material.
   The first antagonist-impermeable material and second antagonist-impermeable material
   substantially prevent release of the antagonist from the sequestering subunit in the
15 gastrointestinal tract for a time period that is greater than 24 hours. In some instances, it
   is preferable that the first antagonist-impermeable material is the same as the second
   antagonist-impermeable material. In other instances, the first antagonist-impermeable
   material is different from the second antagonist-impermeable material. It is within the
   skill of the ordinary artisan to determine whether or not the first and second antagonist
20  impermeable materials should be the same or different. Factors that influence the
   decision as to whether the first and second antagonist-impermeable materials should be
   the same or different can include whether a layer to be placed over the antagonist
    impermeable material requires certain properties to prevent dissolving part or all of the
   antagonist-impenneable layer when applying the next layer or properties to promote
25 adhesion of a layer to be applied over the antagonist-impermeable layer.
            Alternatively, the antagonist can be incorporated into the core, and the core is
   coated with the first antagonist-impermeable material. In this case, the invention provides
   a sequestering subunit comprising an antagonist, a core and a first antagonist
   impermeable material, wherein the antagonist is incorporated into the core and the core is
30 coated with the first antagonist-impermeable material, and wherein the first antagonist
   impermeable      material substantially prevents     release of the antagonist from the
                                                 42

   WO 2009/085778                                                            PCT/US2008/087043
   sequestering subunit in the gastrointestinal tract for a time period that is greater than 24
   hours. By "incorporate" and words stemming therefrom, as used herein is meant to
    include any means of incorporation, e.g., homogeneous dispersion of the antagonist
   throughout the core, a single layer of the antagonist coated on top of a core, or a multi
 5  layer system of the antagonist, which comprises the core.
             In another alternative embodiment, the core comprises a water-insoluble material,
   and the core is coated with the antagonist, which, in turn, is coated with the first
   antagonist-impermeable       material. In this case, the invention further provides a
    sequestering subunit comprising an antagonist, a first antagonist-impermeable material,
10 and a core, which comprises a water-insoluble material, wherein the core is coated with
   the antagonist, which, in turn, is coated with the first antagonist-impermeable material,
   and wherein the first antagonist-impermeable material substantially prevents release of
   the antagonist from the sequestering subunit in the gastrointestinal tract for a time period
    that is greater than 24 hours. The term "water-insoluble material" as used herein means
15 any material that is substantially water-insoluble. The term "substantially water
    insoluble" does not necessarily refer to complete or 100% water-insolubility. Rather,
   there are varying degrees of water insolubility of which one of ordinary skill in the art
   recognizes as having a potential benefit. Preferred water-insoluble materials include, for
   example, microcrystalline cellulose, a calcium salt, and a wax. Calcium salts include, but
20 are not limited to, a calcium phosphate (e.g., hydroxyapatite, apatite; etc.), calcium
   carbonate, calcium sulfate, calcium stearate, and the like. Waxes include, for example,
   carnuba wax, beeswax, petroleum wax, candelilla wax, and the like.
             In one embodiment, the sequestering subunit includes an antagonist and a seal
   coat where the seal coat forms a layer physically separating the antagonist within the
25  sequestering subunit from the agonist which is layered upon the sequestering subunit. In
    one embodiment, the seal coat comprises one or more of an osmotic pressure regulating
    agent, a charge-neutralizing additive, a sequestering polymer hydrophobicity-enhancing
    additive, and a first sequestering polymer (each having been described above). In such
    embodiments, it is preferred that the osmotic pressure regulating agent, charge
30  neutralizing additive, and / or sequestering polymer hydrophobicity-enhancing additive,
    respectively where present, are present in proportion to the first sequestering polymer
                                                 43

   WO 2009/085778                                                               PCT/US2008/087043
    such that no more than 10% of the antagonist is released from the intact dosage form.
    Where an opioid antagonist is used in the sequestering subunit and the intact dosage form
    includes an opioid agonist, it is preferred that ratio of the osmotic pressure regulating
   agent, charge-neutralizing additive, and / or sequestering polymer hydrophobicity
 5 enhancing additive, respectively where present, in relation to the first sequestering
    polymer is such that the physiological effect of the opioid agonist is not diminished when
    the composition is in its intact dosage form or during the normal course digestion in the
   patient. Release may be determined as described above using the USP paddle method
    (optionally using a buffer containing a surfactant such as Triton X- 100) or measured from
10  plasma after administration to a patient in the fed or non-fed state. In one embodiment,
   plasma naltrexone levels are determined; in others, plasma 6-beta naltrexol levels are
   determined.      Standard tests may be utilized to ascertain the antagonist's effect on agonist
    function (i.e., reduction of pain).
            The sequestering subunit of the invention can have a blocking agent that is a
15  tether to which the antagonist is attached. The term "tether" as used herein refers to any
   means by which the antagonist is tethered or attached to the interior of the sequestering
    subunit, such that the antagonist is not released, unless the sequestering subunit is
    tampered with. In this instance, a tether-antagonist complex is formed. The complex is
   coated with a tether-impermeable material, thereby substantially preventing release of the
20 antagonist from the subunit. The term "tether-impermeable material" as used herein
    refers to any material that substantially prevents or prevents the tether from permeating
   through the material. The tether preferably is an ion exchange resin bead.
            The invention further provides a tablet suitable for oral administration comprising
   a single layer comprising a therapeutic agent in releasable form and a plurality of any of
25  the sequestering subunits of the invention dispersed throughout the layer of the
   therapeutic agent in releasable form. The invention also provides a tablet in which the
   therapeutic agent in releasable form is in the form of a therapeutic agent subunit and the
   tablet comprises an at least substantially homogeneous mixture of a plurality of
    sequestering subunits and a plurality of subunits comprising the therapeutic agent.
30          In preferred embodiments, oral dosage forms are prepared to include an effective
    amount of melt-extruded subunits in the form of multiparticles within a capsule. For
                                                  44

   WO 2009/085778                                                             PCT/US2008/087043
   example, a plurality of the melt-extruded muliparticulates can be placed in a gelatin
   capsule in an amount sufficient to provide an effective release dose when ingested and
   contacted by gastric fluid.
           In  another preferred      embodiment,    the   subunits,   e.g., in the   form  of
 5 multiparticulates, can be compressed into an oral tablet using conventional tableting
   equipment using standard techniques. Techniques and compositions for making tablets
   (compressed and molded), capsules (hard and soft gelatin) and pills are also described in
   Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, (Aurther Osol., editor), 1553-1593 (1980), which
   is incorporated herein by reference. Excipients in tablet formulation can include, for
10 example, an inert diluent such as lactose, granulating and disintegrating agents, such as
   cornstarch, binding agents, such as starch, and lubricating agents, such as magnesium
   stearate.
           In yet another preferred embodiment, the subunits are added during the extrusion
   process and the extrudate can be shaped into tablets as set forth in U.S. Pat. No.
15 4,957,681 (Klimesch et al.), which is incorporated herein by reference.
           Optionally, the sustained-release, melt-extruded, multiparticulate systems or
   tablets can be coated, or the gelatin capsule can be further coated, with a sustained
   release coating, such as the sustained-release coatings described herein. Such coatings are
   particularly useful when the subunit comprises an opioid agonist in releasable form, but
20 not in sustained-release form. The coatings preferably include a sufficient amount of a
   hydrophobic material to obtain a weight. gain level form about 2 to about 30 percent,
   although the overcoat can be greater, depending upon the physical properties of the
   particular opioid analgesic utilized and the desired release rate, among other things.
           The melt-extruded dosage forms can further include combinations of melt
25 extruded multiparticulates. containing one or more of the therapeutically active agents
   before being encapsulated. Furthermore, the dosage forms can also include an amount of
   an immediate release therapeutic agent for prompt therapeutic effect. The immediate
   release therapeutic agent can be incorporated or coated on the surface of the subunits
   after preparation of the dosage forms (e.g., controlled-release coating or matrix-based).
30 The dosage forms can also contain a combination of controlled-release beads and matrix
   multiparticulates to achieve a desired effect.
                                                 45

   WO 2009/085778                                                             PCT/US2008/087043
            The sustained-release formulations preferably slowly release the therapeutic
   agent, e.g., when ingested and exposed to gastric fluids, and then to intestinal fluids. The
   sustained-release profile of the melt-extruded formulations can be altered, for example,
   by varying the amount of retardant, e.g., hydrophobic material, by varying the amount of
 5 plasticizer relative to hydrophobic material, by the inclusion of additional ingredients or
   excipients, by altering the method of manufacture; etc.
            In other embodiments, the melt-extruded material is prepared without the
    inclusion of the subunits, which are added thereafter to the extrudate. Such formulations
   can have the subunits and other drugs blended together with the extruded matrix material,
10 and then the mixture is tableted in order to provide a slow release of the therapeutic agent
   or other drugs. Such formulations can be particularly advantageous, for example, when
   the therapeutically active agent included in the formulation is sensitive to temperatures
   needed for softening the hydrophobic material and/or the retardant material.
            In certain embodiments, the release of the antagonist of the sequestering subunit
15 or composition is expressed in terms of a ratio of the release achieved after tampering,
   e.g., by crushing or chewing, relative to the amount released from the intact formulation.
   The ratio is, therefore, expressed as [Crushed]:[Whole], and it is desired that this ratio
   have a numerical range of at least about 4:1 or greater (e.g., crushed release within I
    hour/intact release in 24 hours). In certain embodiments, the ratio of the therapeutic agent
20  and the antagonist, present in the sequestering subunit, is about 1:1, about 50:1, about
    75:1, about 100:1, about 150:1, or about 200:1, for example, by weight, preferably about
    1:1 to about 20:1 by weight or 15:1 to about 30:1 by weight. The weight ratio of the
    therapeutic agent to antagonist refers to the weight of the active ingredients. Thus, for
    example, the weight of the therapeutic agent excludes the weight of the coating, matrix,
25  or other component that renders the antagonist sequestered, or other possible excipients
    associated with the antagonist particles. In certain preferred embodiments, the ratio is
    about 1:1 to about 10:1 by weight. Because in certain embodiments the antagonist is in a
    sequestered from, the amount of such antagonist within the dosage form can be varied
    more widely than the therapeutic agent/antagonist combination dosage forms, where both
30  are available for release upon administration, as the formulation does not depend on
    differential metabolism or hepatic clearance for proper functioning. For safety reasons,
                                                  46

   WO 2009/085778                                                            PCT/US2008/087043
    the amount of the antagonist present in a substantially non-releasable form is selected as
    not to be harmful to humans, even if fully released under conditions of tampering.
            The compositions of the invention are particularly well-suited for use in
   preventing abuse of a therapeutic agent. In this regard, the invention also provides a
 5 method of preventing abuse of a therapeutic agent by a human being. The method
   comprises incorporating the therapeutic agent into any of the compositions of the
    invention. Upon administration of the composition of the invention to the person, the
   antagonist is substantially prevented from being released in the gastrointestinal tract for a
   time period that is greater than 24 hours. However, if a person tampers with the
10 compositions, the sequestering subunit, which is mechanically fragile, will break and
    thereby allow the antagonist to be released. Since the mechanical fragility of the
    sequestering subunit is the same as the therapeutic agent in releasable form, the
   antagonist will be mixed with the therapeutic agent, such that separation between the two
   components is virtually impossible.
Is          The effectiveness of treatment of chronic moderate to severe pain (focusing on
   osteoarthritis of the hip or knee) is typically measured by mean change in diary Brief
   Pain Inventory (BPI) score of average pain (daily scores of average pain averaged over 7
   days; in-clinic BPI and/or daily diary BPI (worst, least, and current pain)), WOMAC
   Osteoarthritis Index, Medical Outcomes Study (MOS) Sleep Scale, Beck Depression
20 Inventory, and Patient Global Impression of Change (PGIC). The safety and tolerability
   of opioid medications such as Kadian NT are compared to placebo using Adverse Events
   (AEs), clinical laboratory data, vital signs, and two measures of opioid withdrawal:
   Subjective Opiate Withdrawal Scale (SOWS) and Clinical Opiate Withdrawal Scale
   (COWS).
25          BPI is typically measured using Il-point BPI system as follows:
    1.      Please rate your pain by circling the one number that best describes your
   pain at its worst in the last 24 hours.
                                                47

    WO 2009/085778                                                             PCT/US2008/087043
         0          1       2        3       4        5    6        7        8      9          10
        No pain                                                                      Pain as bad as
                                                                                   you can imagine
     2.       Please rate your pain by circling the one number that best describes your
              pain at its least in the last 24 hours.
         0          1       2       3        4        5    6        7        8      9          10
        No pain                                                                      Pain as bad as
                                                                                   you can imagine
 5
     3.       Please rate your pain by circling the one number that best describes your
              pain on the average in the last 24 hours.
         0          1       2       3        4        5    6        7        8      9          10
        No pain                                                                      Pain as bad as
                                                                                   you can imagine
10   4.         Please rate your pain by circling the one number that tells how much pain
                you have right now.
         0          1       2       3        4        5     6       7        8      9          10
        No pain                                                                       Pain as bad as
                                                                                   you can imagine
              The MOS Sleep Scale is a self-administered, subject-rated questionnaire
     consisting of 12 items that assess key components of sleep (R. D., & Stewart, A. L.
15.  (1992). Sleep measures. In A. L. Stewart & J. E. Ware (eds.), Measuring functioning and
     well-being: The Medical Outcomes Study approach (pp. 235-259), Durham, NC: Duke
     University Press). When scored, the instrument provides seven subscale scores (sleep
     disturbance, snoring, awaken short of breath or with a headache, quantity of sleep,
     optimal sleep, sleep adequacy, and somnolence) as well as a nine-item overall sleep
20   problems index. Higher scores reflect more impairment in all subscales except for sleep
     adequacy, where a higher score reflects less impairment. A typical representation of the
     MOS Sleep Scale is shown below:
     1. How long did it usually take for you to fall asleep during the past four weeks?
                                                    48

  WO 2009/085778                                                           PCT/US2008/087043
                                                (Circle One)
                      0 - 15 minutes                   1
                       16 - 30 minutes                2
                      31 - 45 minutes                 3
                      46 - 60 minutes                 4
                      More than 60 minutes             5
  2. On the average, how many hours did you sleep each night during the past four weeks?
5
                      Write in the number of
                      hours per night:
   How often during the past four weeks did you...
                                                    (Circle One Number On Each Line)
                                        All of     Most      A Good   Some     A Little  None
                                         the       of the     Bit of  of the    of the   of the
                                        Time       Time        the    Time      Time     Time
                                                              Time
                                          V          V          V       V         V        V
   3. feel that your sleep was not         1         2          3       4         5        6
      quiet (moving restlessly,
      feeling tense, speaking, etc.,
      while sleeping)?
  4. get enough sleep to feel rested       1         2          3       4         5        6
      upon waking in the morning?
   5. awaken short of breath or with       1         2          3.      4         5        6
      a headache?
   6. feel drowsy or sleepy during         1         2          3       4         5        6
      the day?
   7. have trouble falling asleep?         1         2          3       4         5        6
   8. awaken during your sleep             1         2          3       4         5        6
      time and have trouble falling
      asleep again?
                                               49

   WO 2009/085778                                                             PCT/US2008/087043
    9. have trouble staying awake           .1        2          3          4         5         6
        during the day?
    10. snore during your sleep?            1         2          3          4         5         6
    11. take naps (5 minutes or             1         2          3          4         5         6
        longer) during the day?
    12. get the amount of sleep you.        1         2          3          4         5         6
        needed?
    The Beck Depression inventory is a self-administered, 21-item test in multiple-choice
    format that measures the presence and degree of depression (Beck et al. An inventory for
    measuring depression. Arch Gen Psych. 1961;4:56.1-571).            Each of the inventory
 5  questions corresponds to a specific category of depressive symptom and/or attitude.
    Answers are scored on a 0 to 3 scale, where "0" is minimal and "3" is severe. A score of
    <15 indicates mild depression, a score of 15-30 indicates moderate depression, and a
    score >30 indicates severe depression.
            The WOMAC Osteoarthritis Index consists of questions on three subscales: Pain,
10  Stiffness, and Physical Function (Bellamy et al. Validation study of WOMAC: a health
    status instrument for measuring clinically important patient relevant outcomes to
    antirheumatic drug therapy in patients with osteoarthritis of the hip or knee. J Rheumatol.
     1988;15:1833-1840; Bellamy N. Pain assessment in osteoarthritis: experience with the
    WOMAC osteoarthritis index. Semin Arthritis Rheum. 1989;18:14-17; Bellamy et al.
15  Double blind randomized controlled trial of sodium meclofenamate (Meclomen) and
    diclofenac   sodium (Voltaren):       post validation reapplication      of the WOMAC
    Osteoarthritis index. J Rheumatol. 1992;19:153-159). Questions are typically completed
    by the subject before any other efficacy assessments are performed. A typical WOMAC
    survey is reproduced below:
20          The PGIC is a self-administered instrument that measures change in patient's
    overall status on a scale ranging from I (very much improved) to 7 (very much worse).
    The PGIC is based on the Clinical Global Impression of Change (CGIC) (Guy W.
    ECDEU assessment manual for psychopharmacology. Washington, DC: Department of
                                                50

   WO 2009/085778                                                              PCT/US2008/087043
   Health, Education and Welfare, t976;217-222. Publication Number (ADM) 76-338),
   which is a validated scale. A typical form of the PGIC survey is shown below:
                 How would you rate your overall status since your last visit?
                                          (Please circle one)
 5
                                     Very Much Improved        1
                                     Much Improved            2
                                     Minimally Improved       3
                                     No Change                4
                                     Minimally Worse           5
                                     Much Worse               6
                                     Very Much Worse           7
           Any or all of these measures of effectiveness may be used alone or in combination
   to determine the efficacy of various formulations or treatment regimens. Proviced herein
   are methods for treating pain in a person comprising administering thereto a multilayer
10 pharmaceutical composition as described herein such that pain is substantially relieved in
   the patient. By "substantially relieved" is meant that the person reports a decrease in pain
   as measured by any of several known methods (including but not limited to those
   described herein) for determining pain.        This decrease may be in comparison to no
   treatment, a placebo, or another form of treatment including but not limited to another
15 composition, either one described herein or otherwise available to one of skill in the art.
   Typically but not necessarily, pain is considered substantially relieved where the decrease
    is significant (e.g., p<0.05). The methods described herein provide methods for
    substantially relieving pain (e.g, providing an analgesic effect) for time periods of at least
   one week (e.g., two, four, eight, 12, 16, 20, 24, 28, 32, 36, 40 and 100 weeks) by
20 administering a multi-layer pharmaceutical composition as described herein.            In one
   embodiment, the method includes regularly administering (e.g., at least once, twice,
    three, or four times daily) a multi-layer pharmaceutical composition comprising an
   agonist and an atagonist as described herein for at least one week (e.g., one, two, four,
   eight, 12, 16, 20, 24, 28, 32, 36, 40 and 100 weeks) wherein no substantial release (e.g.,
25 zero, or less than about 10%, 20%, or 30% release) of the antagonist is observed.            In
    some embodiments, administration of the composition to a population once daily for a
    time period of at least one week results in no substantial release in at least about 90%,
                                                  51

  WO 2009/085778                                                         PCT/US2008/087043
   80%, 70%, 60%, or 50% of the individuals making up the population. Release may be
   measured by detecting naltrexone or 0-naltrexol in plasma.
          A better understanding of the present invention and of its many advantages will
5  be had from the following examples, given by way of illustration.
                                              52

  WO 2009/085778                                                      PCT/US2008/087043
                                       EXAMPLES
          Exemplary KadianNT formulations and methods described below in Examples I
  4    may    also   be  found  in    PCT/US2007/014282    (WO     2007/149438    A2),
   PCT/US2007/021627 (WO 2008/063301 A2), and PCT/US08/10357.
5
                                         Example 1
   Optimization Study #4, KadianNT, Morphinesulfate and Naltrexone HCI 60mg/4.8mg
                                        (20-780-1N)
                                PI-1495                    PI-1496
                                mg/unit          Percent   mg/unit      Percent
   Sealed-coated sugar spheres
   Sugar spheres (#25-30 mesh)  37.2             11.7      37. I        11.9
   Ethylcellulose N50           6.2              1.9       6.2          2.0
   Mag Stearate                 2.5              0.8       2.5          0.8
   DBS                          0.6              0.2       0.6          0.2
   Talc                         15.5             4.9        15.5        5.0
   Subtotal                     62.0             19.4      61.9         19.9
   Naltrexone cores
   Sealed sugar spheres           (62.0)            (19.4) (61.9)       (19.9)
   Naltrexone HCI               4.8              1.50      4.8          1.54
   HPC (Klucel LF)              0.9             '.3        0.9          0.3
   Ascorbic acid                0.5              0.2       0.5          0.2
   Talc                         2.27             0.7       2.24         0.7
   Subtotal                     70.5             22.1       70.3        22.6
   Naltrexone pellets
   Walfrexone cores               (70.5)         (22.1)    (70.3)       (22.6)
   Eudragit RS PO               53.3              16.7     53.3         17.1
   SLS                          1.8              0.6        1.8         0.6
   DBS                          5.36              1.7      5.36         1.7
   Talc                         52.1             16.3      52.1         16.8
                                             53

   WO 2009/085778                                                          PCT/US2008/087043
    Subtotal                         183.0           7.4          182.9      18.8
    Naltrexone-morphine cores
    Mallrexonepellets                (183.0)       (57.4)         (182.9)     (58.8)
    Morphine sulfate                 59.9          18.8           59.7        19.2
    Sodium chloride                  11.2          3.5
    HPC (Klucel LF)                  7.3           2.3.           4.76        1.5
    HPMC, 3 cps                                                   7.6         2.4
    Subtotal                         '61.4         82.0           255.0        2.0
    Naltrexone-morphine pellets
     altrexone-morphine cores        (261.4)       (82.0)         (255.0)     (82.0)
    Ethylcellulose NSO               19.81         6.2            19.31       6.2
    PEG 6000                         9.16          2.9            8.9         2.9
    Eudragit LIOO-55                 4.3           1.3            4.2         1.4
    DEP                              4.12          1.3            4           1.3
    Talc                             20.13         6.3            19.62       6.3
    Total                            319.0         100.0          311.0       100.0
     A. Method of preparation
        1. Dissolve Ethylcellulose and dibutyl sebacate into ethanol, then disperse talc and
           magnesium stearate into the solution.
 5      2. Spray the dispersion from I onto sugar spheres in a Wurster to form seal-coated
           sugar spheres (50pm seal coat).
        3. Dissolve Klucel LF and ascorbic acid into 20:80 mixture of water and ethanol.
           Disperse naltrexone HCI and talc into the solution.
        4. Spray the naltrexone dispersion from 3 onto seal-coated sugar spheres from 2 in a
10         Wurster to form naltrexone cores.
        5. Dissolve Eudragit RS, sodium lauryl sulfate and dibutyl debacate into ethanol.
           Disperse talc into the solution.
        6. Spray the dispersion from 5 onto naltrexone cores from 4 in a Wurster to form
           naltrexone pellets.
15      7. The Naltrexone pellets are dried at 50*C for 48 hours.
                                                54

   WO 2009/085778                                                            PCT/US2008/087043
      8. Resulting pellets have a Eudragit RS coat thickness of 150pm for both PI-1495
           PI-1496.
      9. (Only for PI-1495) Dissolve sodium chloride and hypromellose into water.
       10. Dissolve hypromellose into 10:90 mixture of water and ethanol. Disperse
 5         morphine sulfate into the solution.
       11. (Only for PI- 1495) Spray the solution from 9 followed by the dispersion from 10
           onto naltrexone pellets in 7 in a rotor to form naltrexone-morphine cores.
       12. (Only for PI-1496) Spray the dispersion from 10 onto naltrexone pellets in 7 in a
           rotor to form naltrexone-morphine cores.
10     13. Dissolve ethylcellulose, PEG 6000, Eudragit LI00-55 and diethyl phthalate into
           ethanol. Disperse talc into the solution.
       14. Spray the dispersion from 12 onto naltrexone-morphine cores in I I or 12 to form
           naltrexone-morphine pellets.
       15. The pellets are filled into capsules.
15
     B. In-vitro drug release
           1. Method - USP paddle method at 37*C and 100rpm
                       - I hour in 0. IN HCl, then 72 hours in 0.05M pH 7.5 phosphate buffer
20            Results - Percent of NT released at 73 hours for P1-1495 = 0%
                       - Percent of NT released at 73 hours for PI-1496 = 0%
           2. Method - USP paddle method at 37*C and 100rpm
                        - 72 hrs in 0.2% Triton X-100/0.2% sodium acetate/0.002N HCI, pH
25                          5.5
              Results - Percent of NT released at 73 hours for PI-1495= 0%
                        - Percent of NT released at 73 hours for P-1496 = 0%
30
                                                  55

   WO 2009/085778                                                            PCT/US2008/087043
    C.      In-vivo study
            This is a single-dose, open-label, two period study in which two groups of eight
    subjects received one dose of either PI-1495 or PI-1496.          Each subject received an
    assigned treatment sequence based on a randomization schedule under fasting and non
 5  fasting conditions. Blood samples were drawn prior to dose administration and at 0.5 to
     168 hours post-dose. Limits of quantitation are 4.00 pg/mL for naltrexone and 0.250
    pg/mL for 6-beta-naltrexol. A summary of the pharmacokinetic results is shown in the
    following tables.
                                             Naltrexone
                                   PI-1495                      PI-1496
                                   Fast            Fed          Fast                Fed
    Tmax (hr)                      54.00 (N=2) 14.34 (N=3)      55.20 (N=5)       41.60 (N=5)
    Cmax (pg/mL)                   8.53          6.32 (N=7)     24.23 (N=7)        45.67 (N=7)
    AUCst (pg*h/mL)                 100.8        75.9 (N=7)     500.6 (N=7)        1265 (N=7)
    AUCco (pg*h/mL)                --            -             2105.3 (N=2)        3737 (N=2)
    T1/2 (hr)                      --             -               4.56 (N=2)       33.17 (N=2)
    Relative Bioavailability to an oral solution (Dose-adjusted)
    Cmax Ratio (Test/Solution)     0.29%         0.21%          0.82%              1.55%
    AUC,,, Ratio (Test/Solution) 1.13%           0.85%          5.61%              14.17%
    AUCco Ratio (Test/Solution) --               -              22.0%              39.1%
10  N=8, unless specified otherwise
                                          6-beta-Naltrexol
                                    PI-1495                     PI-1496
                                    Fast            Fed         Fast                Fed
    Tmax (hr)                       69.00         41.44 (N=7)   70.51              67.63
    Cmax (pg/mL)                    116.3          151.7 (N=7)  303.3              656.7
    AUCs 1 (pg*h/mL)                5043          7332 (N-7)     14653             27503
     AUCco (pg*h/mL)                5607          8449 (N=6)     14930              7827
                                                   56

   WO 2009/085778                                                          PCT/US2008/087043
   T1/2 (hr)                      20.97         16.69 (N=7)    16.29            2.59
   Relative Bioavailability to an oral solution (Dose-adjusted)
   Cmax Ratio (Test/Solution)     0.47%         0.62%          1.23%           2.67%
   AUC,, Ratio (Test/Solution) 2.45%            3.45%         7.12%            13.36%
   AUCco Ratio (Test/Solution) 2.64%            3.97%         7.02%            13.08%
   N=8, unless specified otherwise
           Kadian NT pellets with naltrexone pellet coat thickness of 150pm had comparable
   naltrexone release as NT pellets with 90pm coat thickness. This comparable NT release
 5 may also be attributed from the presence of 50pm seal coat on the sugar spheres used in
   Kadian NT pellets. Significant NT sequestering was observed, both at fasting (>97%)
   and fed states (>96%). Kadian NT pellets containing sodium chloride immediately above
   the naltrexone pellet coat (PI-1495) had half the release of naltrexone compared to
   Kadian NT pellet without sodium chloride (PI-1496), consistent with in vitro results.
10 There is again food effect observed. Lag time was significantly reduced.
                                                 57

  WO 2009/085778                                                                                                        PCT/US2008/087043
                                                         Examplie 2
   Optimization Study #5, KadianNT, Morphine sulfate and Naltrexone HCI 6ovng/2.4mg
                                                       (20-903-A U)
5
                                                                         PI-1510                       _____
                                      ___________________                    g/unit                  Percent
                    Sugar spheres (#25-30 mesh) 39.9                                                 12.2
                   Ethylcetlulose N50                                   6.5                          2.0
                   DBS___________                                        0.7____                        0.2
                                                          _______________              66.4___       20.3
                   Naltrexone cores                                       ______                                  _____
                    Sealed sugar spheres                                (66.4)                       (20.31)
                    Naltrexone IICI                                           2A____                 0.73
                    Ascorbic       acid                                      0.2____                 0.1
                   Suzbotal                                             70.6_____                    21.6
                    Naltrexone          Dellets                          ______                                   _____
                    Nalirexone cores                                     __(70.6)             __          __21.6)       _
                    Eudragit       RS PO                                53.0__                       16.2
                    __    _   __    _    _  __     _   __    _    _        1.8     _    _       _         0.6
                                             __   _ __ _   _   __ _   __ _      _  5.3    _ __     _  1.6
                   Naltrexone-morphine cores______
                    Nalirexone pellets                                  (183.7)                      (56.2)
                     Morphine sulfate                                   60.1                         18.4
                    Sodium        chloride                              12.5          ___            3.8
                                        __   _  _ __    _ _  __    _  _  _      ___________6.         1.9
                   S'ubtoal                                                   262.4            ___   80.2
                    Naitrexone-morphine                    pellets           ___________
                    Naltraxone-morphinecores                            (262.4)                      ('80.2)
                   Ethylcellulose N50                                    2.9                         7.0
                    Eudragit       L 100-55                               _____0                      1.5
                                             __   _  _ __ _   _ _   __ _   _  _   4.7     _ __ __     1.5
                                                                58

   WO 2009/085778                                                           PCT/US2008/087043
    B. Method of preparation
          I. Dissolve Ethylcellulose and dibutyl sebacate into ethanol, then disperse talc
               and magnesium stearate into the solution.
 5        2. Spray the dispersion from 1 onto sugar spheres in a Wurster to form seal
               coated sugar spheres (50pm seal coat).
          3. Dissolve Klucel LF and ascorbic acid into 20:80 mixture of water and ethanol.
               Disperse naltrexone HCI and talc into the solution.
          4. Spray the naltrexone dispersion from 3 onto seal-coated sugar spheres from 2
10             in a Wurster to form naltrexone cores.
          5. Dissolve Eudragit RS, sodium lauryl sulfate and dibutyl sebacate into ethanol.
               Disperse talc into the solution.
          6. Spray the dispersion from 5 onto naltrexone cores from 4 in a Wurster to form
               naltrexone pellets.
15        7. The Naltrexone pellets are dried at 50*C for 48 hours.
          8. Resulting pellets have a Eudragit RS coat thickness of 150pm.
          9. Dissolve sodium chloride and hypromellose into water.
          10. Dissolve hypromellose into 10:90 mixture of water and ethanol. Disperse
               morphine sulfate into the solution.
20        11. Spray the solution from 9 followed by the dispersion from 10 onto naltrexone
               pellets in 7 in a rotor to form naltrexone-morphine cores.
           12. Dissolve ethylcellulose, PEG 6000, Eudragit Ll00-55 and diethyl phthalate
               into ethanol. Disperse talc into the solution.
           13. Spray the dispersion from 12 onto naltrexone-morphine cores in I1 or 12 to
25             form naltrexone-morphine pellets.
           14. The pellets are filled into capsules.
    B. In-vitro drug release
           1. Method - USP paddle method at 37*C and 100rpm
30                      - I hour in 0.IN HCI, then 72 hours in 0.05M pH 7.5 phosphate buffer
              Results - Percent of NT released at 73 hours for = 0%
                                                  59

   WO 2009/085778                                                          PCT/US2008/087043
           2. Method - USP paddle method at 37*C and 100rpm
                        - 72 hrs in 0.2% Triton X-100/0.2% sodium acetate/0.002N HCI, pH
                           5.5
 5             Results - Percent of NT released at 73 hours = 0%
   C.      In-vivo study
           This is a single-dose, open-label, two period study in which eight subjects were
   randomized to receive one dose of PI-1510 under either fasted or fed state during Study
10 Period I and alternate fasted or fed state for Study Period 2. Blood samples were drawn
   prior to dose administration and at 0.5 to 168 hours post-dose. Limits of quantitation are
   4.00 pg/mL for naltrexone and 0.250 pg/mL for 6-beta-naltrexol. A summary of the
   pharmacokinetic measurements is provided in the following tables.
                                       6-beta-Naltrexol levels
                                              PI-1510
                                              Fast          Fed
              Tmax (hr)                       45.00 (N=6)  57.29 (N=7)
              Cmax (pg/mL)                    16.1         25.0
              AUC., (pg*h/mL)                 609.2        1057
              AUCoo (pg*h/mL)                1233          1431 (N=6)
              T1/2 (hr)                      17.36         17.48 (N=6)
              Relative Bioavailability to an oral solution (Dose
              adjusted)
              Cmax Ratio (Test/Solution) 0.44%            0.68%
              AUC, 1 Ratio (Test/Solution) 1.97%          3.42%
              AUCoo Ratio (Test/Solution) 3.86%           4.49%
15              N=8, unless specified otherwise
           It was concluded that PI-1510 and PI-1495 are comparable. The reduction in
   naltrexone loading in the pellets (from 1.5% in Pl-1495 to 0.7% in Pl-1510) does not
   seem to affect NT release. Significant NT sequestering was observed, both at fasting
   (>96%) and fed states (>95%). The food effect observed was modest in terms of total NT
20 release. However, the lag time was significantly reduced in the presence of food. There
   were subjects with multiple peaks of release.
                                                  60

   WO 2009/085778                                                          PCT/US2008/087043
                       Summary of NT release from all in-vivo studies
    BA (Cmax) = Relative bioavailability based on Cmax = Dose-adjusted ratio of Cmax
    (NT/KNT pellet) to Cmax (NT soln)
    BA (AUC last) = Relative bioavailability based on AUC last = Dose-adjusted ratio of
 5 AUC last (NT/KNT pellet) to AU
    BA (AUC inf) = Relative bioavailability based on AUC inf = Dose-adjusted ratio of
   AUC inf (NT/KNT pellet)
   Total in-vivo cumulative NT release can be extrapolated from BA (AUC inf) calculations
    from 6-beta-Naltrexol plasma levels
10
                                                BA (AUC last)
                             BA (Cmax) (%)            (%)        BA (AUC inf) (%)
         OPTIM. #4
         PI-1495
         Fast
             Avg + SD        0.5 10.5        2.5  2.3           2.6 2.4
             Range           0.1 -1.4        5.9 - 0.3           0.3'- 5.7
         Fed
             Avg+ SD         3.0  6.7       10.2 19.4          11.3 20.0
             Range           0.1 - 19.4      0.2 -57.0           0.2-55.4
         Fed (-Subject 1)
             Avg  SD        0.6 0.9        3.6 4.9            4.0 5.0
             Range           0.1 -2.5        0.2 - 13.8          0.2-13.4
         PI-1496
         Fast
             Avg  SD         1.2 0.9       7.1 4.6            7.0 4.6
             Range           0.1 -2.7        0.6 -14.2           0.6- 14.5
         Fed
             Avg  SD        2.7  2.9        13.4 12.6         13.1 12.3
             Range           0.1 -7.6        0.1 -31.6           0.4-30.7
         OPTIM. #5
         PI-1510
         Fast
             Avg              0.4            2.0                  .9
                                              61

WO 2009/085778                                                 PCT/US2008/087043
      IFed                I             I
           Avg              .7          13.4                .5
                                     Example 3
                          Kadian NT Formulation #6 (AL-01)
                                                    15% TPCW        Final
                                                                 formulation
                                                                    AL-Ol
Seal-coated Sugar Spheres
 Sugar Spheres (#25-30 mesh)                           11.99        11.94
 Ethylcellulose NF 50 cps                              2.00          1.99
Magnesium Stearate NF                                  0.80          0.80
 Dibutyl Sebacate NF                                   0.20          0.20
Talc USP (Suzorite 1656)                               5.00          4.98
Naltrexone HCI Core
 Seal-coated Sugar Spheres'                                              (19.90)
 Naltrexone Hydrochloride USP                          0.73          0.72
Hydroxypropyl Cellulose NF                             0.14          0.14
Ascorbic Acid USP                                      0.07          0.07
Talc USP (Suzorite 1656)                               0.34          0.34
Naltrexone HCI   Intermediate Pellet
Naltrexone HCI Core                                                      (21.17)
 Ammonio Methacrylate Copolymer Type B NF              6.26          6.23
 Sodium Lauryl Sulfate NF                              0.22          0.22
 Dibutyl Sebacate NF                                   0.63          0.62
Talc USP (Suzorite 1656)                               6.08          6.05
Naltrexone HCI Finished Pellet
Naltrexone HCI Intermediate Pellet                                       (34.29)
Ammonio Methacrylate Copolymer Type B NF               9.89          9.85
Sodium Lauryl Sulfate NF                               0.34          0.34
Dibutyl Sebacate NF                                    0.99          0.98
Talc USP (Suzorite 1656)                               9.71          9.67
NaCl Overcoated Naltrexone HCI Pellet
Naltrexone HCI Finished Pellet                                             5.13)
Sodium Chloride USP                                    3.75          3.73
Hydroxypropyl Cellulose NF                             0.42          0.41
MS Cores with Sequestered Naltrexone MCI
NaCI Overcoated Naltrexone HCI Pellet                                   (59.28)
                                         62

   WO 2009/085778                                                            PCT/US2008/087043
   Morphine Sulfate USP                                         18.11               18.03
   Hydroxypropyl Cellulose NF                                    1.42                1.42
   MS Extended-release with Sequestered
   Naltrexone HCI Pellet .
   MS Cores with Sequestered Naltrexone HCI                                             -(78.73)
   Component (a): ethylcellulose NE (50 cps)                     7.40               7.36
   Component (c): polyethylene glycol NF (6000)                  3.42               3.40
   Component (b): methacrylic acid copolymer NF                  1.60                1.60
   (Type C, Powder)
   Diethyl Phthalate NF (plasticizer)                            1.53                1.53
   Talc USP (Suzorite 1656) (filler)                             6.98               7.38
   Total                                                        100.0               100.0
          In certain embodiments, components (a), (b) and / or (c) may be included as
   described below:
          (a)     preferably a matrix polymer insoluble at pH of about 1 to about 7.5;
 5        preferably ethylcellulose; preferably.at least 35 % by weight of a+b+c;
          (b)     preferably an enteric polymer insoluble at pH of about I to about 4 but
          soluble at pH of about 6 to about 7.5; preferably methacrylic acid-ethyl acrylate
          copolymer (methacrylic acid copolymer type C) preferably about 1 to about 30%
          of a+b+c; and,
10        (c)     compound soluble at a pH from about I to about 4; preferably
          polyethylene glycol with a molecular weight from about 1700 to about 20,000;
          preferably from about 1% to about 60% by weight of a+b+c.
     C. Method of preparation
15         1. Ethylcellulose and Dibutyl Sebacate were dissolved into Alcohol SDA3A.
              Talc and Magnesium Stearate were then dispersed into the solution. The
              percent solid of the dispersion was 20%.
          2. The dispersion from 1 was sprayed onto Sugar Spheres in a Wurster to form
              Seal-coated Sugar Spheres (approx. 50pm seal coat).
20        3. Hydroxypropyl Cellulose and Ascorbic Acid were dissolved into a 20:80
              mixture of Water and Alcohol SDA3A.         Naltrexone HCl and Talc were then
              dispersed into the solution. The percent solid of the dispersion is 20.4%.
                                                63

   WO 2009/085778                                                           PCT/US2008/087043
          4. The Naltrexone HCI dispersion from 3 was sprayed onto Seal-coated Sugar
              Spheres from 2 in a Wurster to form Naltrexone HCI cores.
          5. Ammonio Methacrylate Copolymer, Sodium Lauryl Sulfate and Dibutyl
              Sebacate were dissolved into a 22:78 mixture of Water and Alcohol SDA3A.
 5            Talc was dispersed into the solution. The percent solid of the dispersion was
              20%.
          6. The dispersion from 5 was sprayed onto Naltrexone HCI cores from 4 in a
              Wui ster to form Naltrexone HCI Intermediate Pellets.
          7. The Naltrexone I ICI Intermediate Pellets were dried in an oven at 50*C for 24
10            hours.
          8. Ammonio Methacrylate Copolymer, Sodium Lauryl Sulfate and Dibutyl
              Sebacate were dissolved into a 22:78 mixture of Water and Alcohol SDA3A.
              Talc was dispersed into the solution. The percent solid of the dispersion was
             -20%.
15        9. The dispersion from 8 was sprayed onto Naltrexone HCI Intermediate Pellets
              from 7 in a Wurster to form Naltrexone HCl Finished Pellets.
          10. The Naltrexone HCI Finished Pellets were dried in an oven at 50*C for 24
              hours.
          I1. The resulting pellets had a pellet coat thickness of approximately 150Im.
20        12. Sodium Chloride (NaCI) and Hydroxypropyl Cellulose were dissolved into
              Water. The percent solid in the solution was 6%.
          13. The Sodium Chloride solution from- 12 was sprayed onto Naltrexone HCI
              Finished Pellets from 10 in a Wurster to form Sodium Chloride (NaCl)
              Overcoated Naltrexone HCI Pellets.
25        14. Hydroxypropyl Cellulose was dissolved into Alcohol SDA3A, and Morphine
              Sulfate dispersed into the solution. The percent solid in the dispersion was
              24.4%.
          15. The Morphine Sulfate dispersion from 14 was sprayed onto NaCl Overcoated
              Naltrexone HCI Pellets in 13 in a rotor to form Morphine Sulfate Cores with
30            Sequestered Naltrexone HCL.
                                                64

   WO 2009/085778                                                             PCT/US2008/087043
           16. Ethylcellulose, Polyethylene Glycol, Methacrylic Acid Copolymer and
               Diethyl Phthalate were dissolved into Alcohol SDA3A.         Talc was dispersed
               into the solution. The percent solid in the dispersion was 14.3%.
           17. The Dispersion from 16 was sprayed onto Morphine Sulfate Cores with
 5             Sequestered Naltrexone HCI in 15 to form Morphine Sulfate Extended-release
               with Sequestered Naltrexone HCI Pellets.
           18. The pellets were filled into capsules.
                                             Example 4
10                               Methods for Treating Pain (202)
           As an example, Kadian NT (60mg morphine sulfate, 2.4mg naltrexone HCl) was
   administered to humans and compared to the previously described product Kadian. Each
   Kadian sustained release capsule contains either 20, 30, 50, 60, or 100 mg of Morphine
   Sulfate USP and the following inactive ingredients              common to all strengths:
15 hydroxypropyl methylcellulose, ethylcellulose, methacrylic acid copolymer, polyethylene
   glycol, diethyl phthalate, talc, corn starch, and sucrose. In these studies, the effects of
   Kadian were compared to those of Kadian NT.
           Patients already being treated with Kadian were subjected to a "washout" period
   of approximately 14 days during which Kadian was not administered.             Immediately
20 following this washout period, the trial was begun.       Patients were either administered
    Kadian or Kadian NT at day 0. After a period of up to 28 days treatment with Kadian@,
   patients were then "crossed-over" to Kadian NT or continued taking Kadian@.             The
   amount of Kadian NT was individually adjusted such that each patient was receiving
   approximately the same amount of morphine they had previously been receiving while
25 taking Kadian. This cross-over was then repeated after 14 days. Various physiological
   responses were measured at different timepoints, as discussed below. These responses
   included morphine blood levels, naltrexone blood levels, 6-0-natrexol blood levels and
   pain scores.
           Mean     morphine    concentrations    were   measured    and   determined   to  be
30 approximately the same for Kadian@ and Kadian NT. This observation confirms that the
                                                 65

   WO 2009/085778                                                            PCT/US2008/087043
   new formulation effectively releases morphine into the blood of patients. This is shown
   in the table below:
                          Cmax      Cmin     Cavg rma Fluctuation AC(TAUJ'
                          pg/mL     pg/mL) pg/mL: (hr)1      (%)      Lhr*pg/mL
                                               Kadian
                    N        68        68      68     68      68            68
                  Mcan    12,443     6,650   9,317   4.90    66.3        111,806
                   SD      7,680     4,544   6,019   3.36    28.8        72,223
                   Min     2,630     1,000   1,758   0.00    21.4        21,100
                 Media     9,870     5,285   7,426   5.00    63.5        89,110
                   Max    35,600    21,600 28,908    12.0    213        346,900
                  CV%       61.7      68.3    64.6   68.5    43.4          64.6
                                            Kadian NT
                    N        68        68      68     68      68            68
                  Mean    13,997     6,869  10,120 4.29     71.49        121,438
                   SD     10,949     5,377   7,316   3.05   38.59         87,794
                   Min     2,420      0.00   1,815   0.00   21.04        21,775
                 Median 10,200       5,805   7,496   4.00.  65.89         89,948
                   Max    57,600    29,000 35,046    12.0    265        420,550
                  CV%       78.2      78.3    72.3   71.0    54.0          72.3
 5          It is important that the Kadian NT formulation not release significant amounts of
   antagonist (i.e., naltrexone or derivatives thereof) into the bloodstream such that the
   activity of morphine is diminished.       Only 14 of 69 patients had quantifiable (> 4.0
   pg/mL) naltrexone concentrations. The range of quantifiable concentrations was 4.4-25.5
   pg/mL.       However, the release of some naltrexone into the bloodstream did not
10 significantly affect the pain scores (see below).
                                                  66

   WO 2009/085778                                                          PCT/US2008/087043
                              Subject   Naltrexone     Pain Score*
                                           Conc.
                                         (pg/mL)
                               49411       25.5             2
                               49408        16.8            3
                               59510        15.9            2
                               29218        13.5            0
                               39308       7.74             0
                               39306       8.98              1
                               49422        8.12            4
                               79709       7.15             2
                               89817       6.82             3
                               59509       6.29             2
                               49409       6.58             2
                               49431       4.81              1
                               49430       4.58              1
                               59530        4.4             3
    *A pain score of 0-3 is considered "mild" and 4-7 is considered "moderate".
           When provided in an immediate formulation, naltrexone (parent) is rapidly
   absorbed and converted to the 6-p-naltrexol metabolite. 6-p-naltrexol is a weaker opioid
 5 antagonist than naltrexone, having only 2 to 4% the antagonist potency. Most patients
   had quantifiable levels (> 0.25 pg/mL) of 6-p-naltrexol. The incidental presence of 6-p
   naltrexol in the plasma had no effect on pain scores.
           It was also important to confirm that Kadian NT did not result in a significantly
   different type, number or severity of common adverse events. This was confirmed, as
10  shown below:
                                      Open-label             Double-blind
                      Event            Kadian          Kadian        Kadian NT
                                                 67

  WO 2009/085778                                                          PCT/US2008/087043
                                    (N=11l)         (N=71)          (N=71)
                 Any event           83.8%          45.1%           46.5%
               Constipation          46.8%          12.7%            15.5%
                  Nausea             40.5%           8.5%            9.9%
               Somnolence            28.8%           8.5%            9.9%
                 Vomiting            24.3%           4.2%            8.5%
                  Dizziness          20.7%           7.0%             1.4%
                 Headache            16.2%           8.5%            4.2%
         In addition, it was important to note whether Kadian NT functioned similarly to
  Kadian with respect to adverse events typically associated with withdrawal symptoms.
5 This was confirmed as shown below:
                                  Open-label              Double-blind
                   Event             Kadian        Kadian        Kadian NT
                                    (N=l l1)       (N=71)          (N=71)
                  Tremor              3.6%           0.0%            0.0%
                  Anxiety             2.7%           2.8%            1.4%
                Irritability          1.8%           0.0%            0.0%
               Restlessness           0.9%           0.0%            0.0%
              Muscle Twitch           0.9%           0.0%            0.0%
                Cold Sweat            0.9%           0.0%            1.4%
               Piloerection           0.0%           0.0%            0.0%
                  Rhinitis            0.0%           0.0%            0.0%
               Tachycardia            0.0%           0.0%            0.0%
                                             68

   WO 2009/085778                                                        PCT/US2008/087043
           Other measurements, including In-Clinic Pain, WOMAC Pain, WOMAC
   Stiffness, WOMAC Daily Activities, and BPI Pain were also made. It was determined
   that the differences in these measurements in those taking Kadian and those taking
   Kadian NT was not significant, as shown below.
 5
                        In-Clinic Pain (ITT Population, Completers)
                                        Mean        Treatment   95% CI for
                      Day         Kadian Kadian      P-value     Difference
                                              NT
                    Baseline            2.13
                 Change Day 7      N=68      N=69     0.9773     -0.32, 0.33
                                   +0.18     +0.16
                Change Day 14      N=69      N=69     0.2176     -0.13, 0.56
                                   +0.28     +0.06
                        WOMAC Pain (ITT Population, Completers)
                                   Mean             Treatment     95% CI for
                Day       Kadian     Kadian NT       P-value       Difference
              Baseline             98.1
            Change Da      N=69          N=69         0.0928        -2.0, 26.0
                 14        +18.1         +5.9
10                     WOMAC Stiffness (ITT Population. Completers)
                                   Mean             Treatment     95% CI for
                Day       Kadian     Kadian NT       P-value       Difference
              Baseline             51.1
                                              69

   WO 2009/085778                                                             PCT/US2008/087043
            Change Day     N=69           N=69            0.0200          1.7, 18.5
                 14        +12.3           +2.1
                   WOMAC Daily Activities (ITT Population, Completers)
                                   Mean                 Treatment      95% CI for
                Day       Kadian      Kadian NT           P-value      Difference
              Baseline             396.6
            Change Da      N=69           N=69            0.1206        -11.0, 93.6
                 14        +70.7          +28.9
 5         In conclusion, plasma morphine levels for Kadian and Kadian NT are
   bioequivalent. It was observed that 55 of 69 (80%) patients had no measurable levels of
   naltrexone.   Of the 14 patients with measurable levels of naltrexone, there was no
   negative effect on pain scores. Seven of these 14 patients had a measurable level at only
   one time point. Most patients had some level of 6-0-naltrexol, however there was no
10 negative effect on pain scores. In addition, there was no difference in pain scores in
   individuals taking Kadian or Kadian NT.
                                           Example 5
                         Long-Term Kadian NT Efficacy Study (301)
15 A.      STUDY DESIGN
           This study was a randomized, double-blind, and placebo-controlled study in
   subjects with moderate to severe chronic pain due to osteoarthritis (OA) of the hip or
   knee. The primary objective of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of Kadian NT
   (twice daily (BID)) compared with placebo for the treatment of chronic moderate to
20 severe pain (focusing on osteoarthritis of the hip or knee) as measured by mean change in
   diary BPI score of average pain (daily scores of average pain averaged over 7 days) from
   randomization to 12 weeks following randomization. The secondary objectives were: 1)
                                                70

   WO 2009/085778                                                              PCT/US2008/087043
   to evaluate the efficacy of Kadian NT (BID) compared with placebo as measured by in
   clinic BPI, daily diary BPI (worst, least, and current pain), WOMAC Osteoarthritis
   Index, Medical Outcomes Study (MOS) Sleep Scale, Beck Depression Inventory, and
   Patient Global Impression of Change (PGIC); and, 2) To evaluate the safety and
 5 tolerability of Kadian NT compared to placebo using AEs, clinical laboratory data, vital
   signs, and two measures of opioid withdrawal: Subjective Opiate Withdrawal Scale
   (SOWS) and Clinical Opiate Withdrawal Scale (COWS).
            For this study, the Baseline Visit (Day 0) was labeled Visit X. Subsequent visits
    in the Titration Phase of the study were labeled Visit X I    Week, Visit X +2 Weeks, etc.
10 The first visit in the Maintenance Phase is labeled Visit Y, and subsequent visits in this
   phase of the study are Visit Y+1 Week, Visit Y+2 Weeks, Visit Y+4 Weeks, etc.
    1.      Screening Visit
            Potential subjects were screened up to 14 days (Days -14 to -1) prior to a Baseline
15 Visit (Visit X/Day 0). At the Screening Visit, the informed consent was reviewed and
   signed; inclusion and exclusion criteria and medical history was reviewed; standard
   clinical laboratory tests, hepatitis serology tests, and a 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG)
   will be performed, a complete physical examination (including height, weight, and Body
    Mass Index (BMI) calculation) were be performed; and, vital signs (blood pressure, heart
20 rate, respiratory rate, and body temperature) were recorded. In addition, a urine drug
    screen was performed for all subjects. A urine pregnancy test was performed for all
    female subjects of childbearing potential.
    2.      Washout Period
25          During the Washout Period (a 1 to 7 day period during the Day -14 to Day -1
    Screening), subjects were instructed to stop taking all prohibited medications and pain
    medications. Subjects used an electronic diary to answer daily questions about their pain
    score and use of rescue medication. Once the required pain score has been achieved
   (defined as an average 24-hour pain intensity of >5 on the 11-point Brief Pain Inventory
30 (BPI) scale), the subject was instructed by the electronic diary to contact the site and
                                                 71

   WO 2009/085778                                                              PCT/US2008/087043
   return to the clinic for the Baseline Visit within 72 hours of having achieved the pain
    score of 25. If the subject still had not achieved a pain intensity of 5 on the Il-point
    BPI scale by the end of the Washout Period, then the subject was discontinued.
 5 3.       Baseline Visit
            Subjects returned for their Baseline Visit to revisit inclusion and exclusion
   criteria, perform standard clinical laboratory tests (including urine drug screen and urine
   pregnancy test), record vital signs, assess adverse events (AEs) and concomitant
   medications, complete the Medical Outcomes Study (MOS) Sleep Scale, the Beck
10  Depression Inventory, and the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities (WOMAC)
   Osteoarthritis Index, and assess pain level using the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI). Subjects
   who meet all inclusion/exclusion criteria and who have an average 24-hour pain intensity
   of 25 on the I1-point BPI scale completed the Baseline Visit, enter the Titration Phase
   and begin titrating to an effective dose of open-label Kadian NT. If subjects did not meet
15 the 24-hour pain intensity inclusion criteria (i.e., 24-hour pain intensity score is not 25) at
   the Baseline Visit, they were not allowed to re-qualify for entry into the Titration Phase
   of the study. Subjects who are unable to tolerate their pain with the maximum allowed
   rescue medication were be discontinued from the study.
20 4.       Titraticn Phase
            During the Titration Phase, all opioid naive subjects (defined as a subject who has
   not received any opioid in the last 30 days) started with 20 mg Kadian NT at bedtime for
   the first 3 nights. If the subject was taking opioids prior to the washout, the starting dose
   was 20 mg BID (with the first dose taken at bedtime).          The dose of study drug was
25 titrated up or down to find a Kadian NT BID dose that managed the subject's pain.
   Dosage titrations (up or down) were made weekly, however, if needed, and subjects were
   titrated up after being on their current dose for at least 3 days (72 hours). Increases in
   Kadian NT dosing during the titration period proceeded by total daily dose increases of
   20 mg (with the exception of a 40 mg daily dose increase if titrating from 120 mg/day to
30  160 mg/day). The maximum allowed dose was 80 mg BID (160 mg/day).                        Two
                                                 72

   WO 2009/085778                                                              PCT/US2008/087043
    back-titrations (dose reductions) were allowed if necessary to establish the tolerated
    effective dose.     All patients were given a daily prophylactic bowel regimen for
    constipation.    Subjects were dispensed an electronic take-home diary for daily pain
    assessments and rescue medication (acetaminophen up to 500 mg every 6 hours as
 5  needed). Subjects returned for weekly visits during the titration period. At each visit
    during titration, vital signs were recorded, and diaries collected, reviewed and re
    dispensed, and study medication will be returned and dispensed as appropriate. Adverse
    events (AE), and concomitant medications including rescue medication were assessed
    and recorded. Pain levels were also assessed using the BPI at each visit. The maximum
10  duration of the Titration Phase was 45 days.
             A subject was considered a treatment responder (reached an "effective dose")
    when the average score of the "pain on the average in the last 24 hours" (question # 3) is
    54 on the 11-point BPI scale over the last 4 day period prior to the clinic visit as collected
    in the diary with a minimum 2 point decrease from baseline. All treatment responders
15  were randomized into the study. If this criterion was not met by the end of the Titration
    Phase, or if a subject is not able to complete the titration due to lack of efficacy, AE
    and/or other reason(s), or if a subject's pain is not managed with >20 and 80 mg BID of
    Kadian NT, an Early Termination Visit was completed.
             Once a subject was identified as a treatment responder, they continued dose
20  titration for increased pain relief prior to being randomized. However, the subjects did
    not receive a dose greater than 160 mg/day nor titrated longer than the maximum
    allowable number of 45 days.
    5.       Maintenance Phase
25           Subjects who successfully completed the Titration Phase entered the Maintenance
    Phase (Visit Y) and were randomized to, receive either the same effective dose of
    Kadian NT achieved in the Titration Phase or placebo.          Subjects randomized to the
    placebo arm were force tapered gradually from Kadian NT to placebo (in a blinded
    fashion using a double-dummy design) and all subjects, whether receiving Kadian NT or
30  placebo, were assessed for signs of withdrawal during the tapering period of the
                                                  73

   WO 2009/085778                                                          PCT/US2008/087043
    Maintenance Phase. In the Maintenance Phase, subjects had visits on days 0 (Visit Y),
    Visit Y+ I week, and Visit Y+2 weeks and then visits every 2 weeks up to 12 weeks
    (Visits Y+4, 6, 8, 10, and 12 Weeks). At each visit, vital signs were recorded, diaries
    collected, reviewed and re-dispensed as appropriate, study medication- and rescue
 5  medication returned and dispensed as appropriate.    AEs, concomitant medications, and
    rescue medications were assessed and recorded, the MOS Sleep Scale (Visit Y, and Visits
    Y+4, 8, and 12 Weeks), the WOMAC Osteoarthritis Index and the Patient Global
    Impression of Change (PGIC) (except at Visit Y+1 Week), and the Beck Depression
    Inventory (Visits Y 14, 8, and 12 Weeks) were completed, and pain level assessed. The
10  Clinical Opiate Withdrawal Scale (COWS) was performed at Day 0 (Visit Y), Visits Y+l
    Week, Y +2 Weeks, Y + 12 Weeks and at the Early Termination Visit (if applicable).
    The Subjective Opiate Withdrawal Scale (SOWS) was completed daily for the first 2
    weeks of the Maintenance Phase.        In addition, at Visit Y+12 Weeks, a physical
    examination (including weight) and standard clinical laboratory tests was performed.
15  The electronic diary was not be dispensed at Visit Y+12 Weeks. Subjects completing the
    Maintenance Phase will completed a two-week tapering period and were scheduled for a
    Post-Treatment Follow-Up visit at the end of the taper to record vital signs, assess and
    record AEs and concomitant medications, and arrange appropriate transition to standard
    of care for the existing OA condition.
20
    6.      Early Termination
            Subjects who prematurely withdrew from the Titration Phase of the study
    completed an Early Termination Visit that included COWS and the same procedures as
    the final visit in the Maintenance Phase (Visit Y+12 Weeks) except for the MOS Sleep
25  Scale, the Beck Depression Inventory, and the WOMAC Osteoarthritis Index.          These
    subjects were asked to return for a Post-Treatment Follow-Up visit as described
    previously.     Subjects who prematurely terminated from the Titration Phase were not
    provided a blister card for the two-week taper period. Instead, the investigator was free
    to choose to taper subjects via IWRS by gradually selecting lower dosage strengths. For
30  this study, rescue medication was        allowed in the form of sponsor provided
                                                74

   WO 2009/085778                                                             PCT/US2008/087043
    acetaminophen (500 mg every 6 hours as needed) during the Washout, Titration, and
    Maintenance Phases
    7.     Study Medications
 5         Study medications were in the form of capsules administered orally.           Study
    medications arc:    1) Kadian NT 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, and 80 mg capsules; 2) placebo to
    match the above Kadian NT capsules; or, 3) acetaminophen (up to 500 mg every 6 hours
    as needed) as rescue medication.
10  8.     Study Population
           It was assumed that 55% of the subjects who enter the open-label Titration Phase
    would be randomized into the double-blind Maintenance Phase, and that approximately
    728 subjects recruited to enter the Titration Phase to achieve approximately 200 subjects
    in each of the two treatment groups (Kadian NT or placebo) in the Maintenance Phase.
15  The inclusion criteria are shown below:
            1) Subject is 21 years of age or older and exhibits sufficient literary skills to
               complete study assessments.
           2) If female, subject is either not of childbearing potential (defined as
               postmenopausal for at least one year or surgically sterile [bilateral tubal
20             ligation,    bilateral oophorectomy     or . hysterectomy])  or subject   is of
               childbearing potential and practicing one of the following methods of birth
               control:
                   "    total abstinence from sexual intercourse (minimum one complete
                        menstrual cycle before study entry);
25                 .    a vasectomized partner;
                   "    contraceptives (oral, parenteral, or transdermal) for three consecutive
                        months prior to investigational product administration;
                   e    intrauterine device (IUD); or,
                                                  75

   WO 2009/085778                                                               PCT/US2008/087043
                  e    double-barrier method (condoms, sponge, diaphragm or vaginal ring
                       with jellies or cream).
          3) If female of childbearing potential, subject has a negative urine pregnancy test
              at screening (urine specimen must be obtained within 14 days prior to
 5            Baseline);
          4) Subject is judged to be in generally good health at screening based upon the
              results of a medical history, physical examination, laboratory profile, and 12
              lead ECG;
          5) Subject is able to communicate meaningfully and comply with all study
10            procedures;
          6) Subject must voluntarily sign and date an informed consent form, approved by
              an Institutional Review Board (IRB)/Independent Ethics Committee (IEC),
              prior to the conduct of any study-specific procedures;
          7) Subject required treatment of target joint pain within the last 90 days and
15            meets at least one of the following criteria:
                   * is unable to consistently control target joint pain with non-opioid
                       analgesics (e.g. therapeutic doses of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory
                       drugs [NSAIDs], cyclooxygenase-II [COX-IIj inhibitors), or tramadol
                       OR
20                 e   currently requires opioid treatment (single or combination product) for
                       target joint pain, with the equivalent of 40 mg/day of oral morphine
                       sulfate, inclusive of breakthrough pain medication.
          8) Subject has an average 24-hour pain intensity of >5 on the 11-point BPI scale
              at the Baseline Visit;
25        9) Subject has a primary diagnosis of Functional Class 1-Ill OA of the hip or
              knee and subject meets American College of Rheumatology (ACR) clinical
              classification criteria for osteoarthritis of the hip and knee, defined by the
              following:
                                                  76

   WO 2009/085778                                                            PCT/US2008/087043
                      e   in the case knee OA: knee pain and at least 3 of age >50; morning
                          stiffness <30 minutes; crepitus on active motion; bony tenderness;
                          bony enlargement; and, no palpable warmth of synovium;
                      e   In the case of hip OA: hip pain and: decreased range of movement
 5                        (ROM) (internal rotation of the hip <15* AND hip flexion <1150)
                          OR age >50; morning Stiffness 5 60 minutes; and, pain with hip
                          internal rotation;
                      " If more than one potential joint met the above listed criteria at
                          baseline, the subject was directed to choose the most painful joint
10                        to serve as the target joint for this study. The target joint was not
                          allowed to contain any type of orthopedic and/or prosthetic device.
          A subject was excluded from the study if he/she met any of the following criteria:
              1) Documented history of an allergic reaction (hives, rash, etc.) or a clinically
                  significant intolerance to morphine or other opioids, such that treatment
15                with morphine is contraindicated;
              2) Pregnant and/or breast-feeding;
              3) Clinically significant infection/injury/illness within one month prior to
                  screening;
              4) Receiving systemic chemotherapy or had an active malignancy of any
20                type, or had been diagnosed with cancer within the past three years
                  (excluding squamous or basal cell carcinoma of the skin);
              5) Documented       history    of drug abuse/dependence/misuse       or narcotic
                  analgesic abuse/dependence/misuse within five years prior to screening;
              6) History of alcohol abuse/dependence within five years prior to screening,
25                which, in the opinion of the investigator, may have influenced subject
                  compliance with the study;
              7) Positive result for non-prescription drugs of abuse at screening (e.g.
                  cocaine, heroin, marijuana);
                                                 77

   WO 2009/085778                                                            PCT/US2008/087043
              8) Sitting systolic blood pressure >180 mmHg or <90 mmHg, and/or a sitting
                   diastolic blood pressure >120 mmHg or <50 mmHg at screening;
              9) BMI >45 kg/m 2;
              10) Beck Depression Index score >18 at Baseline or has an established history
 5                 of major depressive disorder that is not controlled with medication;
              11) Introduction of physiotherapy without four-week stabilization period
                   (except transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) which is not
                   allowed);
              12)In the medical judgment of the investigator, the subject had a psychiatric
10                 or psychological disorder that would interfere with the completion of the
                   study, confound the study results, or pose patient risk;
               13) Clinically significant abnormalities in clinical chemistry, hematology or
                   urinalysis, including serum glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase/aspartate
                   aminotransferase (AST) or serum glutamic-pyruvic transaminase/alanine
15                 aminotransferase (ALT) >3.0 times the upper limit of the reference range
                   or a serum creatinine >3.0 mg/dL at screening;
              14) Medical condition, other than OA, that is not well controlled with
                   treatment, or any clinically significant condition that would, in the opinion
                   of the investigator, have precluded study participation or interfere with the
20                 assessment of pain and other symptoms of OA;
              15) Unable to discontinue all formulations of prior analgesics (opioid and/or
                   non-opioid) other than acetaminophen during the Washout Period of the
                   study;
               16) Received any investigational drug within 30 days prior to screening, or is
25                 scheduled to receive an investigational drug other than blinded study drug
                   during the course of this study;
               17) Documented history of, or currently active, seizure disorder (with the
                   exception of febrile seizures);
               18) Requires treatment with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOls);
                                                 78

   WO 2009/085778                                                               PCT/US2008/087043
              19).Documented history of a medical condition that, in the opinion of the
                  investigator, would compromise the subject's ability to swallow, absorb,
                  metabolize, or excrete study drug, including (but not limited to) intractable
                  nausea     and/or  vomiting     and/or    severe    gastrointestinal   narrowing
 5                (pathologic or iatrogenic);
              20) Screening laboratory values show the presence of Hepatitis B surface
                  antigen (HBs Ag), Hepatitis C antibody (HCV Ab), or active Hepatitis A
                  immunoglobulin M (HAV IgM).                (Inactive Hepatitis A results are
                  permitted.);
10            21) Primary diagnosis of Functional Class IV OA;
              22) History of spinal stenosis, severe herniated disc, tumors/infections of the
                  spinal cord, metastasis, seronegative spondyloarthropathy, major trauma to
                  L-S spine, back pain due to visceral disorder, or progressive neurological
                  disorder;
15            23) Active gastrointestinal disease, with the exception of gastroesophageal
                  reflux disease (GERD);
              24) Surgical intervention to the back within six months of study entry or plans
                  for surgical intervention while in the study;
              25) Underwent an elective surgical procedure within eight weeks prior to
20                screening, or is scheduled for an elective surgical procedure during the
                  course of the study;
              26) Incurred an injury at the target joint within 12 weeks prior to screening;
              27) Documented history of prior disease (other than OA) and/or surgery at the
                  target joint within the last year prior to enrollment;
25            28) Documented history of sciatica, gout, pseudogout, and experienced flare
                  within the last 2 years or has a history of Paget's disease;
              29)Documented history of rheumatoid arthritis, uncontrolled inflammatory
                  arthritis (e.g. psoriatic arthritis) or NSAID-dependent            inflammatory
                  arthritis;
                                                 79

   WO 2009/085778                                                                PCT/US2008/087043
               30) Any chronic pain syndrome (i.e., fibromyalgia) that, in the investigator's
                   opinion, would interfere with the 'assessment           of pain and/or other
                   symptoms of OA;
               31) Received recent epidural or local corticosteroid injections in target joint
 5                 within two months of screening, or target joint viscosupplementation
                   within the past three months;
               32) Received oral or intramuscular corticosteroids within the past 90 days.
                   (Topical, nasal, and inhaled corticosteroids are permitted.);
               33) Effective dose resulting from the Titration Phase of the study is <20 mg
10                 BID or >80 mg BID;
               34) Involved in an ongoing worker's compensation claim or litigation related
                   to the target joint, or has settled a worker's compensation claim or
                   disability claim related to the target joint within the past five years;
               35) Considered by the investigator, for any reason, to be an unsuitable
15                 candidate to receive extended release morphine sulfate with naltrexone,
                   including (but not limited to) the risk(s) in terms of precautions, warnings,
                   and contraindications in the Investigator's Brochure for Kadian NT;
               36) Historically non-responsive to morphine;
               37) Previous allergy to acetaminophen; and / or,
20             38) History of severe impairment of pulmonary function, hypercarbia,
                   hypoxia,    chronic    obstructive   pulmonary     disease,    cor  pulmonale,
                   uncontrolled asthma, sleep apnea syndrome, or respiratory depression.
    9.     Efficacy Variables
25         The primary efficacy measure was the change from randomization baseline to the
    Visit Y + 12 Weeks diary BPI score of average pain (daily scores of average pain
    averaged for each subject over a 7-day interval to obtain a weekly score). Continuous
    secondary efficacy variables include the following:
               *   Diary BPI average pain averaged over the entire maintenance period;
                                                  80

   WO 2009/085778                                                          PCT/US2008/087043
              *   In-clinic BPI;
              *   Diary BPI worst, least, average and current pain (averaged over 7-day
                  intervals to obtain weekly scores);
              e   WOMAC Osteoarthritis Index Pain Subscale, Stiffness Subscale, Physical
 5                Function Subscale, and Composite Index;
              *   MOS Sleep Scale subscalc scores (sleep disturbance, snoring, awaken
                  short of breath or with a headache, quantity of sleep, optimal sleep, sleep
                  adequacy, and somnolence) and nine-item overall sleep problems index;
              0   Beck Depression Inventory score; and,
10            *   Amount of rescue (pill counts summed over 7-day intervals to obtain
                  weekly counts).
          Categorical secondary efficacy variables include the following:
              " Patient Global Impression of Change (PGIC); and,
              *   Responders at Week 12,
15
    10.   Safety Endpoints
          Safety was assessed based on AEs, clinical laboratory data, vital signs, and two
    measures of opioid withdrawal: SOWS and COWS.
20  11.   Analysis Populations
          Four subject analysis populations were defined as follows:
              *   Intent-to-Treat (ITT) population: all subjects who are randomized into the
                  Maintenance Phase of the study and take at least one dose of double-blind
                  study medication after randomization.
25            e   Completers population:        all subjects who    complete the     12-week
                  Maintenance Phase of the study without major protocol violations.
              "   Safety population:    all subjects who are administered any amount of
                  double-blind study medication in the Maintenance Phase.
                                               81

   WO 2009/085778                                                               PCT/US2008/087043
               *   Titration Phase population: all subjects who are administered any amount
                   of Kadian NT in the Titration Phase
           Membership in the analysis populations were determined prior to unblinding.
    Subjects in the ITT population who were not in the Completers and Safety populations
 5  were summarized by reason for exclusion from the respective analysis population. In the
    event that a subject was randomized incorrectly or administered the incorrect study
    medication, analyses of the ITT and Completer populations was to be based on the
    assigned treatment, whereas all other analyses would be based on the actual treatment.
    Subjects whose assigned treatment depends on analysis population were identified.
10
    12.    Efficacy Analyses
    A.     Primary Analysis:
           The primary efficacy measure was changed from randomization baseline to the
    Visit Y + 12 Weeks diary BPI score of average pain (daily scores of average pain will be
15  averaged for each subject over a 7-day interval to obtain a weekly score). For subjects
    who complete the study, the final 7-day interval on study was used.            The following
    imputation rules were used for subjects who prematurely discontinued from the study:
               *   Screening baseline will be imputed for discontinuations due to adverse
                   events. Screening baseline is defined as the in-clinic BPI obtained at Visit
20                 X. This imputation rule assigns no efficacy benefit to study drug when the
                   subject discontinues for an adverse event;
               e   If the results of the COWS questionnaire at discontinuation were worse
                   than at randomization baseline (Visit Y) and indicated at least a moderate
                   (score     13) level of withdrawal symptoms, the following imputation rules
25                 were used:
                        o Randomization baseline will be imputed for the placebo group.
                            This imputation rule applies regardless of reason for
                            discontinuation, and assigns full efficacy benefit to subjects in the
                            placebo group who discontinue while experiencing at least
30                          moderate withdrawal symptoms.
                                                  82

   WO 2009/085778                                                              PCT/US2008/087043
                        o   The weekly diary BPI average pain score during the last 7 days on
                            study will be imputed for discontinuations in the Kadian NT group
                            due to lack of efficacy or administrative reasons. Screening
                            baseline will be imputed for discontinuations in the Kadian NT
 5                          group due to adverse events. This imputation rule assigns a score
                            that is worse than the randomization baseline score for subjects
                            who report at least moderate levels of withdrawal symptoms.
                    The weekly diary BPI average pain score during the last 7 days on study'
                    was imputed for discontinuations due to lack of efficacy or administrative
10                  reasons. This imputation rule assigned the actual pain reported at
                    discontinuation, which for both study drugs tends to be worse than
                    randomization baseline when open-label Kadian NT is administered but
                    less severe than screening baseline.
            Screening baseline is defined as the in-clinic BPI obtained at Visit X.
15  Randomization baseline is defined as the diary BPI average pain score averaged over the
    last 7 days of the Titration Phase. If the diary BPI average pain score after randomization
    is missing for > 3 days during the 7-day interval identified for analysis, the 7-day average
    will be considered missing and the above imputation rules will be used to estimate the
    missing value.
20          The primary statistical analysis was the analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) with
    treatment as a categorical factor and the randomization baseline score as covariate. The
    primary efficacy analysis population was the ITT population.
    B.      Senstivity Analysis
25          Three additional imputation methods will be examined as sensitivity analyses for
    the impact of opiate withdrawal on the primary efficacy variable of weekly diary BPI
    average pain score. For the first method, the randomization baseline will be imputed for
    all subjects (regardless of treatment group) who prematurely discontinue the study. For
    the second method in both treatment groups, the screening baseline will be imputed for
30  subjects who discontinue for adverse events or lack of efficacy, and the randomization
                                                  83

   WO 2009/085778                                                              PCT/US2008/087043
    baseline will be imputed for subjects who discontinue for any other reason. For the third
    method, the screening baseline will be imputed for all subjects (regardless of treatment
   group) who prematurely discontinue the study.           These will be supportive efficacy
   analyses of the primary endpoint and should be directionally consistent with the primary
 5 analysis. However, statistical significance and predefined power > 80% are not required.
   D.       Secondary Analyses
   Continuous secondary efficacy variables include the following:
        e Diary BPI average pain averaged over the entire maintenance period;
10      * In-clinic BPI;
        * Weekly diary BPI worst, least, and current pain (daily scores averaged over 7-day
            intervals to obtain weekly scores);
        * WOMAC Osteoarthritis Index Pain Subscale, Stiffness Subscale, Physical Function
            Subscale, and Composite Index;
15      * MOS Sleep Scale subscale scores (sleep disturbance, snoring, awaken short of
            breath or with a headache, quantity of sleep, optimal sleep, sleep adequacy, and
            somnolence) and nine-item overall sleep problems index;
        * Beck Depression Inventory score; and,
        * Amount uf rescue (pill counts summed over 7-day intervals to obtain weekly
20          counts);
   Categorical secondary efficacy variables include the following:
        * PGIC; and,
        * Responders at Week 12 based on in-clinic BPI.
            Continuous secondary efficacy variables observed during the Titration Phase (in
25 clinic BPI and diary BPI worst, least, average, and current pain) were summarized at each
   visit in terms of descriptive statistics including the number of observations, mean,
   standard deviation, minimum, maximum, and quartiles. Actual values and change from
   Baseline to each visit and the final value prior to randomization or discontinuation were
   summarized. Only subjects with both a Baseline and a post-Baseline value during the
30 titration phase were included in the change from Baseline analysis.
                                                84

   WO 2009/085778                                                           PCT/US2008/087043
            The proportion of subjects who were responders at Visit Y were summarized.
    Subjects who failed to qualify for randomization were considered non-responders.
    Subjects who completed Visit Y were defined as responders by a range of percent
   decreases from Visit X to Visit Y on the in-clinic 24-hour pain assessment. Response
 5 criteria was to range from 0% to 100% decreases (in increments of 10%). The proportion
   of responders was displayed graphically.      The above analysis was conducted for the
   Titration Phase analysis population and only included visits occurring during the titration
   phase.
            Continuous secondary efficacy variables observed during the Maintenance Phase
10 were summarized at each visit in terms of descriptive statistics by treatment. Actual
   values and change from Visit Y (except the Beck Depression Inventory score) were
    summarized. Change from Visit Y was compared between treatments at each visit using
   an ANCOVA with treatment as the factor and Visit Y value as the covariate. Change
    from Visit Y+2 weeks was compared between treatments at each subsequent visit using
15 an ANCOVA with treatment as the factor and Visit Y+2 weeks value as the covariate.
   Only subjects with both a Visit Y or Visit Y+2 weeks value and a subsequent visit were
    included in the respective change from Visit Y or Visit Y+2 weeks analyses. In addition
   to analyzing -the observed cases, missing observations were imputed based on the same
    logic as for the primary efficacy analysis.
20          The Maintenance Phase continuous secondary efficacy variables were analyzed
   using a mixed-effects repeated measures model. The response variable was the efficacy
   variable in question at each visit in the Maintenance Phase. The model included fixed
   effects model terms for days on study, treatment, their interaction, and the Visit Y value
   of the variable in question as a covariate. The covariance structure with the largest value
25  for Schwarz's Bayesian Criterion (BIC) from PROC MIXED was employed. Missing
   data was not be imputed in this analysis.
            The cumulative proportion of subjects who were responders at Visit Y +12 Weeks
   of the Maintenance Phase was summarized with the method of Farrar (2006).               All
    subjects with both a Baseline and at least one Maintenance Phase in-clinic 24 hour BPI
30 assessment were included in the analysis. Subjects were defined as responders by the
   percent decrease from Visit X to Visit Y + 12 Weeks on the in-clinic 24-hour pain
                                                85

   WO 2009/085778                                                            PCT/US2008/087043
    assessment.. Subjects discontinued from the study before Visit Y + 12 Weeks were
    considered non-responders.    Treatment differences in the proportion of subjects who
    report at least 20%, 30%, 40%, and 50% improvement were assessed with Fisher's exact
    test.
 5          Categorical secondary efficacy variables (e.g., the PGIC) were summarized at
    each visit in terms of frequencies and percentages, by treatment. These were compared
    between treatments using a CMH test with row mean scores. In addition to analyzing the
    observed cases, missing observations were imputed using the method described for the
    continuous variables.   The above analysis was conducted for the ITT and Completers
10  analysis populations.
    13.     Safety Analyses
            Safety was assessed based on AEs, laboratory values, vital signs, and two
    measures of opioid withdrawal: SOWS and COWS.
15  A.      Titration Phase:
            The number and percentage of subjects with AEs were displayed by body system
    and preferred term using the Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA).
    Summaries in terms of severity and relationship to study drug were also provided.
    Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) were summarized separately in a similar manner.
20  Subject listings of AEs causing discontinuation of study medication and SAEs were
    produced. These analyses were performed based on AEs with a start date during the
    Titration Phase.
            Vital signs will be summarized at each visit in terms of descriptive statistics
    including the mean, standard deviation, minimum, maximum, and quartiles.          Actual
25  values and change from Baseline (Visit X) to each visit and the final value prior to
    randomization or discontinuation were summarized. Only subjects with both a Baseline
    and a post-Baseline value during the titration phase were included in the change from
    Baseline analysis. The above analyses will be conducted for the Titration Phase analysis
    population and will only include visits occurring during the Titration Phase.
30
                                                86

    WO 2009/085778                                                            PCT/US2008/087043
     B.       Maintenance Phase:
              The number and percentage of subjects with AEs were displayed by body system
     and preferred term using MedDRA, by treatment. Summaries in terms of severity and
     relationship to study drug were also provided. SAEs were summarized separately in a
 5   similar manner. Subject listings of AEs causing discontinuation of study medication and
     SAEs were produced. These analyses were performed based on AEs with a start date on
     or after the date of the first dose of randomized study drug and repeated for AEs with a
     start date on or after the date of the Visit Y+2 weeks visit. The frequencies of AEs
     among the treatment groups were compared using Fisher's exact test.
10            Vital signs will be summarized at each visit in terms of descriptive statistics by
     treatment. Actual values, change from Visit Y, and change from Visit Y+2 weeks were
     summarized. Change from Visit Y were compared between treatments at each visit using
     an ANCOVA with treatment as the factor and Visit Y value as the covariate. Change
     from Visit Y+2 weeks was compared between treatments at each subsequent visit using
15   an ANCOVA with treatment as the factor and Visit Y+2 weeks value as the covariate.
     Only subjects with both a Visit Y or Visit Y+2 weeks value and a subsequent visit were
     included in the respective change from Visit Y or Visit Y+2 weeks analyses. The vital
     signs were also be categorized according to Potentially Clinically Significant (PCS)
     criteria. The frequency and percentage of subjects with at least one value during the
20   Maintenance Phase that meets the PCS criteria were summarized for the two treatment
     groups.
              Quantitative laboratory test results were summarized at Visit Y+12 Weeks in
     terms of descriptive statistics, by treatment. Actual values and change from Visit Y was
     summarized. Change from Visit Y was compared between treatments at each visit using
25   an ANCOVA with treatment as the factor and Visit Y value as the covariate.             Only
     subjects with both a Visit Y and a subsequent visit were included in the respective change
     from Visit Y analyses.
              The quantitative laboratory test results were also categorized according to
   - Potentially Clinically Significant (PCS) criteria.     The frequency and percentage of
30   subjects with at least one value during the Maintenance Phase that meets the PCS criteria
     were summarized for the two treatment groups.         For qualitative laboratory tests, the
                                                   87

   WO 2009/085778                                                             PCT/US2008/087043
   number and percentage of subjects in each category were produced for each treatment at
   Visit Y + 12 Weeks. For all laboratory tests, a shift table was produced summarizing
   changes from normal (at Baseline) to abnormal and vice-versa. Only subjects.with both a
    Baseline and a post-Baseline value were included in the change from Baseline analysis.
 5         COWS were summarized in terms of descriptive statistics by treatment. Actual
   values and change from Visit Y to Visit Y+1 were summarized for subjects whose dose
   of Kadian NT was 580 mg at randomization. For subjects whose dose of Kadian NT was
   >80 mg at randomization, actual values and change from Visit Y to Visit Y+2 weeks was
    summarized.
10         SOWS were summarized in terms of descriptive statistics by treatment. Actual
   values and change from Visit Y to the most severe score on Days 5-7 were summarized
   for subjects whose dose of Kadian NT was 80 mg at randomization. For subjects whose
   dose of Kadian NT was >80 mg at randomization, actual values and change from Visit Y
   to the most severe score on Days 12-14 were summarized. The first three evaluations
15  following study drug discontinuation were used for subjects who discontinued before the
   specified range of study dates.
    14.    Sample Size Considerations
           The sample size calculation was based on the primary efficacy analysis. The null
20 hypothesis was that there was no treatment group difference for the primary efficacy
   analysis and the alternative hypothesis was that a treatment group difference does exist.
   No adjustment for multiple analyses was made because the primary efficacy endpoint and
   analysis were specified. A Type I error of 0.05 for a 2-tailed test with at least 90% power
   was specified. An effect size (mean treatment group difference divided by the pooled
25 standard deviation) of 0.33 was assumed for the primary efficacy analysis. Given these
   assumptions, a sample size of 200 subjects randomized to each treatment group was
   required to obtain at least 90% power.
           A summary of the procedures described above is provided in the following table:
                                               88

WO 2009/085778                                                 PCT/US2008/087043
          c
                                x XX         XXXXX'XXXXXXX
                > >
                  x  ix           x                     x  <X     x
                  ~~       ~x               XX    XX         x  xxS
                            28;
                                           2                               x
                        -;A>
                                    J)   Y
             o~~~~ '~XX                E        X    Xj
         C12
            .0                      89

WO 2009/085778                              PCT/US2008/087043
                  E     U         E
                                        u
                         ii       C
                      Ca
                          u       C
                                      E
                                .0
                                  C4
                                  4)1
                  ol       K/     ..  C
                          cc       u
           C4u
             +~           0
            >             0
              40  to)
        "a    ~           00.    ,C       Z
     s u .      = E       Cu
                            .000

WO 2009/085778                                                                   PCT/US2008/087043
                                  (00
                        44j
                        Cu
 -4j
                        a                                                              ra
 *0
                                                            -i                         0
                        $44
  0 0
     H                                                                                 0
 in
           +  Z                                                                0       1-4
                 0:   0                                                                       $4.4
                      (4.4~f     0.........0.........0                                        0
       4)    di     %)0-4     a)   4        0),-4)     4 -4     la 0 0 -14 a)4                (
                                                                                       w4            0
                                                                                      4.) 4        4
                          1-4-C
                                                                                       a) to
                        C4)c0
                                                             to                           _4C
                                                             m0                        4)4J
                                                            44(                       44       Z
                                                                                      "44
       1-40
           4co >
                                                                       910

WO 2009/085778                                                                                                              PCT/US2008/087043
                                          022
                                                        020
              C~          C0
                             r\O-O
                                       ~               %  Acr-
                                                          N .0mC>
                                                                                 oo
                                                                             )OCOONC     co
                                                                                                     N NmO          O
                                                                                                                      2'          CD       CD>@
               -    1|          m-4N                W               m m       N    m                  D       O  D
                                r                                                                     |-r               1          w         V
 -ri                                                                                                                              fo        N
        +         ir-                   C .       -  -O                  * .-   +   -  .O              -    * .I                             d
               E-
     +
               C-                   m                  0
                                                                       0)
                                                                       C          O                       iN) OO Ot0
                                                                                                                                 .C
 >4                                  4          C                                                                C    t                     +
               Z                                            -e4                                                                              V)
                                                                                                                                  02O
                                                            ''a)                                  C                                        m
 01                                                                                                                                 i        >2-
                                                                                                                                             C
                                             dl                                                                                             41
        di/                                                                   O       O           2EM            E0               0D2EE
                                          4)                                                                                        )     W
       --        41              0a          'J~O'.                                               OO.4-40              I4         O4C4.     44
                                          444)                                                                                           0                 CL
                                                                                                  a)                                  4
                          CC                                     ..
                                                                                                                                  .> -H       4
                                          02(CD                                                                                  >           02
                         (t)                                                                                                      -iE.
                         -44
                    44
                   ---                                                                            0                              .C
                                                                                                                                 .0
                                                                                                                                  (D         0)
                                 C(                                                                                       0        C         W
               1.4                                                                                                                4.)       *-w4r
                                                              0                                                                                   4 04
                       4                                      -.                                                                 Ud)02
               or o                                                                                                                      c m4)0
                                                                                                                                             0.
                              ,                         S.-         e4                                                            C          4.4       N z  0
                              AjM               -H                                .1      920V)4) C                                    '4U)
          di-4                      Md                              52
                                    C>                 Xf
                                                      1r)    -4X                                                                   0
                                                        y         a#    2                                                        OM         -4
                                       02        C     02     d                    C       92                    C    0

WO 2009/085778                                                                PCT/US2008/087043
                 0                                         *1
                            00
                                                                                    0
                                              0                                            N
                                               -1:                                 k4
 1-4          z
 +                                                                                    4
                                                                                    (D     0
 -4
                                      $4                                                   1
                                               00)
                                         0
    (0)                                                                              04j   0
  40                                                                                       >
 0                                                                                 >
 >4                                                                                 0        0
                                     (12                                                   0
    01                    4a)                                                              E
        0*.-4
                 4.)4.                                                x            .C      C
            0     n       04                                                               0o:I)Q
         0-4                                                                       -. 4
                 4J                                        0
          0               (a.                   r>                                         0Nc
                                                sj~~                                       0:Hv
                                     4      0                                               4) 0 a
                                                     0-                                 V)  -.
                          c:                                                            c  0
               00                                                                  40      a0
               oo                                                                    W c4
                          0                                                        .000
                                                                                     0014
               0                   0,                                                   040
        002                                                                             0 '-4
                          ,444                                                                     r-
                          4j               0)           (0        0r_
                      4-)     a) C         -4   -         c      -4~
         01                2.                                                        C41
                 >        HU
                                                             C-4        N m e
                      * C                                                            1493

WO 2009/085778                                                           PCT/US2008/087043
                              CLI
          4)
                           00
                                                                              to4
 0
                                      'C                                                W
                         c                                 I.-                 O
               m.                              00                              w.-
                                                                                   U(D4
                                         a)                                             >
 L4
                                       0
                                       cU               C)
 040
          m     .-                             01
                                                                                        CD
                                          0                                             >4
    E-                                                                                  0
                                                                                  4     41
 a)                                                                           CD40
                     44                                                        a)         0
 .
             o:    -
                                               (a                coC
                                                                              0-       '41
                                      1/v                                         0
                                                                              Ei     0
                                         0*.-0
                                        0-4                                    H        C
                                                                              31:.0 U
                       V)                                                       ) r_ 04
                                                  0                          .00        0C
       4-844
                                                  41  .0.0                                           0iI
                            +                                                               d -- A C
                        0                                                     C)     0
                        -4                                                    4.) 10
                                                  41 0       f                     %Wr 0
                                                  fa           w  ac-44.                00.
                                  -'-4

WO 2009/085778                                                                                                                                      PCT/US2008/087043
                                 0
                                                                                     (                                0
                     >         C 0     4-
                         >CO0>                                                      N                              0
                           I        .I-I4                                           0                              0
                             r_ 0 to+0
                                                                  1               4              >
                                                               O'E.--4,0
                                 4J                                                                                                                            0)
      U)                                                                                                                                                        00iCI
      0                           0 +.                                                                                                                                .
      :3
                             r_ 0)        U)                                                                                                                    CEr-r
                 V   Z        =U4    O>'I                                                                                    N    I
                  m)         C                                                                                                                                  0 -1
                       0)D                                                              0)~0
                                                                                           f C>     0                   C00Nm       a    C>
      (n                                                                                            ..   C 0.....                         . 0                  4
                                                                                                  fn ,-w                                           0 .4 m2            $4
                                 10                                                                                                                         U)         0
      C) 00                                                              ;C          -t                  N                  N               N              0)        1)1*
 1-4 040.
      M [1c.                                                                                                                                               (4        )V
 E-       0. -MS4-                                                                                    4.
    V)                                                                                                                                                              w'-4'
                                                               0)1-.->                                                                                              >4.0
                                                                                                                                                                  41
                                           C4                                                                                                                  0))        0
                                                                -,q                                                                                        0    I         0)
                                 >)                                                                                                                        a)       m     )
     IL'                                                                                                                                                     p 00) 0
     4)                                                                                    -W             )                 w)              tr)            M      4)c
     >:           0Cs        IIn                                                                                        C4-    N      o V t                $U0          4J
                 0.-4        aO         )                                           N-         I                  N            I                           $4-j          r
             14  ~       M    11    M     S4 --                                      4                            .4                                                CA
                                                                                                                                                                         (a>
      0)          -4   Z     a    4-4>
                                           04                                                                                                                  r-     U)W
                                                                                                                  '0       c'                              a)0          4
    il.                                                                                                                      .- .D0~I                             %0(0O       - 0 4C
             co                                  4.                                 N                             N 4 m(          m c)m(                      0-''"
                                                                    .-  fr-                                          ,                                          4 0 0)
                                     >                                                                                                                          -H   >0)0>
                                                               (14 m                                          N M 4" I              -   (N    m 0)4           0i           .0
                                                                  C)~        0)-                                                                                        14-A
                                             4:                                             >'                                                                      $0>
                                                                                                   ~0       ..                         ID                           a
                                                CU                               41                Co C:01                       0)M C - 0)w00
                                      IC )                  0)       0i     ) m -H               W0i-4) rl                 04 4)A W) -                     0 )      k).L
                                                          CoU4 Ox 4
                                                    r_... E                 m,.         E. V)Cx           :        r    Cf E     OE0Cs
                                                                                                                                                           4.2 V) '44 4.)
                                                                                                                                                           U -4 -H- -
                                          4
                                    C)     4+                                                                        -0fC
                                                                                        95

WO 2009/085778                                                                                                                                                                                                           PCT/US2008/087043
                                                                                                                    OD                                                      m
                            --
                                    14)
                                     CDE-)N
                                                4       >
                                                                   0NA0
                                 d)      4) $d                     CSJ                                                N                                                     '.
                                       d) E       4'
                                    Cp                             0
                                    r.
                                    C        0>
                                                                      -i                                              0
                                                            11                                                              >                                                                                                                                                  U
                                                                                 '                      m)                          \O                            )                     0)                           m
                                         ) 4.)                                                                                                                                          C..               .        . .  . (                    J
                                     m                             00                                                                              00N                                                0+.
                                                  ) NN0
                                                                                                                                                                                   .                    .      .
                                    c 0 () +
                                                                    OO
                                                                            -    ..
                                                                                    OO
                                                                                               .4000
                                                                                                                   r,
                                                                                                                          IO.--             O            O                 NO
                                                                                                                                                                          '4
                                                                                                                                                                                                 IOO
                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               44
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         :)0-4%
                                             .)                             .                .     .   . O                     .
                                                                                                                                                  rs
                                                                                                                                                      .     .
                                                                                                                                                                        w r r-       .     .                     .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    r-E                             E
                                                   HL~00-          r-         NO0~                                  r-                                                    r-                                                             u
                                                              4J                ON-                MNv                   ONM                     MN             V         ON            r-N                                              0     c
                                                                                                       S0.....C).                                                              .                       0.          0
                     C\OOSO'--NC4f-                                                                                                                            NOO             N                                                         04)5OO
               >       E-                                                      N                       t,                           C)                          r                       co                          r-                       t
       4)               C r         0)        .
                                    4)       4+                             .    .      .      .     .                         .        .      .      .     ...                  W       .     .      .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        C)
      .C                    0             0          .                                                                                                          .r.
                                                                               N     OO                  N                           0)OO                         N                      0)            O             N                  4'
                       10z          r-44 >                                  .                      .      .     . O               .        . - 0               .O                          ...          N          0.O                   3 0i
       5                4o          U)                                                                                                                                                                                                   0 -4
                                                                               m.                      '0           r-     O                                C,                   O             a
       4J                                                                                 >             0.              .            .          .        .0.                   .         .          .       .0H                  0      >+ 03
                c.4,  C         41                                                                     OD           N                                            o         NM)            m\                        a)o                   U
       m                                                                 c r-         t        O              0                      0)         \o      %D            co               C)            0)    t O. N                              (A
       C; C                                                        <-0>                           .      .     .        .    .            .        .      .        .     . C     O.        .      .                                            0)
  v (D 0                                          3    a-          r-               14N              V:::           r-           N                                                                                             ..A Nano              U)
   -Ci)'-                                                                 .                                         .                                                     '-                                                            41      0
       SU0.                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -     4)
  d)      0E-a                      C     O0+)4-                   ra          CE->
                                                                               00          MO OO C>                     M MOO                                  N                  O             OO                 N             > C- ,              c      -
           0                        O                                                                                                                                                                                            M 0'4 $
  E- 0 E-e                          (a w H>4                                                                        14                                                                                                                                  144
                                    = 4 >                                                                                                                                                                                        >            -      .
     ')4-                                    4r>NN'4)4.)                  .- C
                                                                          NrC                      N
                                                                                                                    -4 ,    N4O                           N
                                                                                                                                                                          . 00N"                                               .U        mC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        41          0)
       C$                                                                      N                                                    N                           O                       N                            w           t   Im' N> 0                    0  4
                                         41)                       en <l         -          nW                      fn                     <4m-                                                                                                             41
                                                                                            .            c .     .        -          .       .       .      .        .n            .       .      .            .Ocn                      U       E    -4
                      (a)               .A CN4-                    r -                >D                                                                 C)D              r                                                              D)) $4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -r,                     0)   4C)0
                                                                                       (A~                                                                                                                                            +                                  44 0.
       4)                                                                      0                         O                       ..                                         .                             .c.
                        0                  -                             r     co                 rCC                 Nn r-                -             m                       r- CD M                                         0- r V)m
                                                                                                                                                               | En
       >                                                                                                                              o
       4M                               4) +1                               . .         . .          . tn                      .        . .           . .                          .       . .          . . n                    a) 4.C a
                                              -~)                   M O)             -I          O                    mo                     o                      O OO          I MO                  MOo        ONI           > .C u w
       >                   'r       C 0 V)I(                                                                                                                                                                                     0' 4>1) 0 '                                 E
                      C-n
                m      1-           t       >                                                                                                                                                                                      4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 >>)4)0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C    to
                             14                 4)1                     )4.-4 .-                                      -                                                   ,-4J
                                                                                                                                                                                       O~                                   ~            G:OO 0     V     .
                                              >) 4)                      '-4 0 O                     n                               NO4                 u-                               N 0               VCO
                        0                                            0. N. . .U                . . O14.4>>.                    . . .                       . .O  C,                . . .                       -.                34 o 4E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -4.-                  1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   >.44
                                              0.-IMCO4)-                            N             m                     N                          m m                             N                    M
                                                          e-4~t4)-               '-C                                    O              ~N4 ~~~
                                                                                                                                    Ln3OOr
                                                                                                                                                        m4rP)da>
                                                                                                                                                        N   90 0 %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     m 0w               O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         :3 4o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   vo5%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.          4)  0
                                                        -                 m         0                                                                                                                                             o     +a
                                                                               a)           a             )                         Ld              c              )                     CD                                             +m)4J  Q
                                                                                                        X                             >                          x                        >                          XDCM'
                                                 I)                    ..           ..                   0                                          C..          =                                     C.    .                   to                A
                                                ,j -4                                     .                                 C                      A          .                   C                                              > >ecC 4)       .14
                                                       a                                                                                         .                                     .r0          C                c             )           4)0
                                                                                               lu                                                                                                                                  4 V)O4)
                                                ro     41C))                                                                m4C                                  C                                                              43>
                                                " )                       a) 41                                             0 uj                                                         4.), -1 ua M -A                                       w 0
                                              Uo 'A                 CE           )  aEa                               a E UnO;P a 2:                                        c           V) CE C m                                (a 41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 :3 -4          -4-C
                                                       Ica4)0        u                                                                               )0                   O
                                                                                                                      96

WO 2009/085778                                                                                                                                                                                 PCT/US2008/087043
                                 4)          41 +                lA                                       N
                          >   0 C E-d+              N           0N                                        0'
                                                                o                       O                    i
                                                              u                                    2             .       .                enU
                                            DiE                  OOC'N                 0OO         i              O        OO
                                 C O               +            r                 I                                                                                                                                    >
                          >      Cm0-4>   f -. . '              C>*                                        -4                                         a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0n
                -4>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 C
                                                                                 min               arO            oNto                        N                   C'no-             os     N
               '0         0          044 W-4                     ON-CN)                            U)      ON4MN
                                                                                                               .               .              U)      ONODN)
                                                                                                                                                          .                 .          U)                         OC
                          m              -N-                    N                                         N                                                                                                       0
              0,U2.C                              tw>                                                                                                                                                                 44X
      0                                      4%0
                                             -ANN-                         o=N                                                                                                    o    '.I
                      Cr    Z-8                                   C        M             O         i'00         OO                  .OO Ni - O                               OOO         I                     -0
     4.               0'-        C      O          >'           Nr                I                        N                 I                         Nr                 I                                            '0
                      D4fl       to    M-
                                       40oC,44C                                    v)M                                       +                                                                             -4.t Cw                 0.c
                C-,                                                              .O+                                                                                A
     H
      E                         U                                               A                                                                     r-                                               -
                                                                                                                                                                                                               .C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  u- -m~.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  O-w
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         E
             -'.4>l   c  C .           5        - 4-
                                                 -4
                                                                 N                      OO-. -        O 4         o-     - OO
                                                                                                                            C;          .     N
                                                                                                                                              -T      o             -
                                                                                                                                                                - mNO          -    -   -O                  00
                                                                                                                                                                                                          C-,4
                                                            0       '       .       .     .   .                                           .O4                   .    .0.                                           .       O
        . C           o Z        r.        4           >.                                                                                                                                                                                        xo
     ,C                                   -                                                             .f)')D                    O4                  i      0',A0               CD                                    .       .
                                                                                                                                                                                                          0> 0
          0 .                                                             in            o                            0 O                            o                    r-                 r
   0      0                                   u) > 4                            r-         I)N                              r    C                           N4I                                                                   4o
  .t                                    w      rl   to                                            )t                                                                                                           ,          )O
                    0~c                                                                                              .                 .       ).           C). .         .            C
     E                 v          )                                                                                                                                                                               0.00
                                                                                 0                 S(o                                                        0                                                                -)OO
      D0                                                                                                                                                                                                  00
          S,                                 >                                                                                                                                                              >4-
     (C.                              -.. 4O                    N     Mm-                                 N                                        on N4n                              r                  0rr'.44t0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  004
                                     -. 4>,'--'                        .                      .                               .    ..
                                                                                                                                          m            N                  o        o                      04 C >
     m                            CnO                                      NomM                          m                                                        N
                     a          CMs 5 .,f
                                      w Nv) .C
                                                                      Mo         OON               i                   -N        o          ,     ;    M,    O;       --      O1 O     CC :     .ml      '>-4O   -(D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      i)i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
              >               0                          +      r                                                                                     rN                                                  O       v
     4->--4                           4j -4                                                                                                                                                               0             v'E
      S-4                                                              .. 04                       m-  2o
                                                                                                   .0.-4-               . .- 4.O                                e    -                         2o                >0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  u >C..OO    0>  at
                                                                          r4                       o                       Q)                                4o-4                                                0        c
                                                       -d                                                 r              .                  *M                                                                           4C              M
                                   444                                                                                                                                                                    1             C
                                                                                         >.                                                                                                                                                    mE
                                             +44                                                                                                                                                               .04           (LH
                                                                     >4AoN OOn               Nn                      N                                      (     N      a     O      N                           v         .C
                                       >-4                --           . M.4.           O. O10      ml, > . 1 n. m O CI.O I                           (n O              .
                                                                                                                                                                       10      t    O  4 N A>             0)
                                                                                                                                                                                                          0+4.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                          |      NC     E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  U... u C   u
     D4                                               w            N             N
                                                                          InCD 4 M      m.C'J4(              N"            N     m                       Nm '-C                IN                   *)    0)
                                                                                                                                                                                                          0             0.0
                 >     0
                                             4.4.
                                                   3       ~
                                                         mC)
                                                                      M) e
                                                                      o
                                                                          0N N M
                                                                           ,-qI      ro
                                                                                        .0 n
                                                                                      .4 .  oi    to      r4NNw 0,
                                                                                                                  C '
                                                                                                                     m        m
                                                                                                                                      .
                                                                                                                                          w
                                                                                                                                         oJMM
                                                                                                                                              L                 .
                                                                                                                                                                  0n      "I
                                                                                                                                                                              -.  .
                                                                                                                                                                                        Sn
                                                                                                                                                                                       . ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                          d          4C C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0_44$ a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N 0 0 )
                                       W 4.(D    4-             1-4       ~            0".-                        04.0'4                                                                                                    4j01.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        c4..10'-
                                              04 c               Mt-          .   I 44 - - >                    -       -I         -      -                         -     1- -                                    >-400
                                                                                                                                x             x>                   >                     xD                          U       >
                                              ,---               0                                                                                                                                       -044    +C          0)
                                  co         4j                 m c           ; <44 r'                                                                                                                                  E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .4.
                                                                           >                       xx
                                                                                                       O~~~t                                   o        C1        O            C                                             w
                                                >                                                                                                                                                                 d) $4
                                                                                       9        -            C         -d          C     a N                  C                         N>                       >4 C r_
                                              to 4j                   ro "v            ''m                                             nG - C                                 V    -.       -)                               C0
                                                      0n                                                                                       CI a/         0     (V)                         0 4%      V(
                                             un I                c:   E V) C             o      OE         a E to          Om            ox            a     E to        Q E       CE                                   4o )
                                                                                                                                                        M-
                                                                                                                                                       to                                                      .1 .1   Q H
                                                    4j                                                    .4                                                   -         Hj                                    >
                                                          -       +                    +                                                               > 1 <G                  >     r
                                Of                          A>                         On                                                  C
                                                                                                           97.

WO 2009/085778                                                                                                                                                  PCT/US2008/087043
                                                                                                                   'C>4
                                     E .14
                                  m $4
                                                                                                                                                                        0(01
                              > r- 0.     0)I~                                                                                 ro                        (              E r
                                         + 0)0
                                    CO
                                              .)
                                                1         0         S40.                                            O O        .4    isr              h4                    u
                                                                                                                                                                            U
                                       .4   N,-.                                                                   r                                       I
                                                      O~~~~:                                                                         .            . . . . - . . .    N  C
                                  &~~~~'
                                  c  0)    4.'      +.                                                                                  .
                                                                                                                                             0. M   .
                                                                                                                                                                       Ln          w ~iai L
                                                E--                                           O                                      -r--*                               Oc
                                        o-4   N                                                                                                                        -ii-rM
                                         tom                                                  r                                r
                                                -ro                                                                 ooCO0                                               0
              a,                           -).-       COr     C)                          >       r-41   N    Wi   r-           a        N                 re
                                        -           C-                                                                  (n                   N
                                                                                                                     n                                                      >mo
 'O4)                                                          .          .      N          .          .                   .                      .                     0)
            --                   .CM A                                                                                                                                  4
                                                                                                                                                                        M
                                  a                                                                                          .     .      .            .                       .
                     t            c       0                                                 1   4          k         M          N I           N           O                 1
                                                                                                                                                                            O
   toC0                                                        -44fl.--40.-IO           0 0t-        00                                        0 ( N0                       C
                    -CU)O U)                >                                                                                                                           + N
                    4           .N        4-'-           M                     V        e-4
                                                                                        OA.-r.4O
                                                                                            n -4                    OA                       O-40        r-4
                                                                                                           N- ~   ~~Neic~ ~nr N                              ~o( ~ ~        D
  ..-                  On
                                         4.1,
                                     r-4 -04.-I-                             N
                                                                                        M
                                                                                            ?-~r-~
                                                                                              O- O
                                                                                                       O
                                                                                                                   rmr
                                                                                                                   rhft~ (n M Nmo'Is% Nen IT OAs:
                                                                                                                         ko        0-o
                                                                                                                                         .   o           -             -r.       e
                                                                                                                                                                                 N
  ga               .c
                                                  W         E              to
                                                                                                           x                -     -      -      -     .
                                                                                                                                                           1
                                                                                                                                                                           .m
                                  E0 w -
      tr-4-ON                     Z                                   tor*-iNe                               -Joi                                 Ie                    aC
                                  C                                                                                                                       r)               >,U
                                                                                                                                M      rN                                U) >
                                                                                                                         -r
                                          M                                                                                                                            >
                                      U.4C4rm~          a                                                                                                    -r        .    to4j
                    0r                   >)                                                                r>            Ny Nvo        D         r       In
                                                                                                                                                         rW                 C
   4x                                                                                                             >                                                              $ 4
   0                                                0                                                                          en OM-1 0 GMA                            U m 0
   w,              .e        M    aW     4..                                                               N.                    .           .     .1-                  0 .c
   41               W)
                    U      -- I     C 0  iCEfl)                E                 E-                                   -n4              V                                    CU
                                     -    -'-+                                                                                                                                              -
                                                                        4J~~~~-                                                                      OC                          >mI
                                               k                                                                                                                        >>
                 m                                                          m                       e      EOn
                                                                                              (N                   14          ("                                                 0a
                                ---                            V          r    VN        NO            0                               w, V
           0                          uU(a                                                                                                                              + 41
                 U>
                                                    3:$    >'>                        >                                                                                 *0 >
                       a,>                                                            x        >            x                   >                         x             CU)
                                                                   0)        C     (a          0i    c        U)                a,              C                           WU 0
           -4                             10                      0                           a)    0      m                    a)            (a 0                               c
           U)                             4jC                     .,N                       C       -4                    c      C          *4                              r.    toCU
                    o                                            z)~       v   Cl E l E        U) 0 x         C                 U )            OM C                         a,
                                                    o                                                                                                                   U)44 u
                                                                                                                                                                        -1    -4   m)
           u                                   41                                                                                                                       >
           0                                   .,1                                      +                           +                                                   M (.0
                                                                                        98

WO 2009/085778                                                                                                                                                                                        PCT/US2008/087043
                                          04           +                                                                                                    k
                                                                 c
                                                                 .44-d>                                  C                                      +           LA
                                                In3,
                                >    r    0       V)
                                               >oCOo  >U                                                       oo                                                 0-                                                    to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1-4
                                                                            O                       N
                                                                            CC  4
                                                                          ) 0O-4O O 'OL                                      0 0            O      D -      L O         LO       ts'      0    a%                  O
                                        -OMlIN .,                   -    M   M M.' N .                         r-          .                                       M.                           Lo                     41
                                     (0l 4    -H               1                                       I         -                                           M
                                   E    '4-4>4                         0       4   5          0                              i    to                                      O (N            - 0C C            O           (a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        43
                                     C Lii      0 En       +      O
                                                                          o 1-                      a-
                                                                                                     wO        or-
                                                                                                                0           o      I                        r-ooc; o0 ro0)r     f0 O            0                  0 cu      s0  O OMr OOmMM.
                                              >.A                   - n                r4    Ir         N        -    n    N            M      ors          r      m                  (m     w  r                         )
                                               +4                                                                                                                                                                -1(5
        >0             E  z-                                            'A~                           o    .         U)r.            .       ID    '.C               -U 0rw0kNak                  o                   4
                                                                                                    0) 4                . .         .     .     .                ....
                                                ur-
                                                  -               O.                   O;
                                                                                       C; C          0           O-4      0 -m             0w                          -0                    mm
                                                                                                                                                                                            .D    O
        (LI                z0.4      r_0o'             >          1         1-1       1                A        r-                 1         .- 4  L           r- .1I                            LO
        44                .,,    1   tj $0 4 -4                   -- 1                                          -                                    I                                            I                r_
        .                             C4-                        ->
        0.                                    -0                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                  D                                  N                      M                   O                  U)>
                                                                                                     \
        -
                                              \                                .      -         .                   - . )O.               --                                      .      - .-       I            -       0
        0)                                     44.,              r       NLA            0            o40          ' e             -N4             C -40            NO          r-         40     0                 w    z
                                                (      -    -4                                                   -44                                                                   (1-4
                                                                        CVOCMV                      M                   N      r   m       rs     co     nM       oi        o           MN\o o,                        0
                                              >
        U      CN                                                                                                         CrN                                            (.                      -4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        G...
                                                                                                                                                                                    .
      C0    E                        C
                                        e         444 +4         r      .    . a.
                                                                             w             .      ..r           r-              r-
                                                                                                                                .        .         0
                                                                                                                                                   .        r- N CD         r-                  CD
    ,.-
  VC4                                        U -                                                                                                                                                                  >V)
   .n                                        >
 .Q                                       (1      a 4)           CO          O                  so                    MN                     r                            oO                   -- O                oq m
       'A            -                                                                        Nr.                         r1                                                                      0                     (
  41)         0                                                                   %040                                 0 -;        n        nmC) C> '             fl         r Lr- u') , a                        41 to
        Icl.                                                              .     .         .                             . .         .     .     ..        .           .     . .          . . .
                                     co        N -C 4         -4     r-      .41                    (M )           '   M-4         N                 M'           0         M(           N   M     L             -'   C Q
 H    4)E-                           (d$4 4 H>                   -4                                             ...                                                                                                4) A.
                                     C- z 4->                                                                                                                                                                      j$4 -- 1
                       In
                                                                            <1
                                                                                        0 (14 0C'
                                                                                                    LA
                                                                                                                     Nr-
                                                                                                                          CV
                                                                                                                                O0COcNC'
                                                                                                                                                   LA
                                                                                                                                                                        ~rCV)0'.0N               LA)               En>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     41
       41        .A                      41               +.Q      "        L)f          'n4L A0                     m           mA"n<>                      m MtA M"                       In             -     ,Q0       or
        -4.                                                                 -4. "M   . .r                                    .     .      .     .               .-                       .0'4-4
         4|
        41                                4   -4                                                                                                                                                                    04C4
                              C)     V E.4                                    -;A-4L                m ma) )I"LAL
                                                                                              & 0)'C"OL                                                                   0                                        (0100-:*"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OC
                              .- 4   rO            )>4           r-                              .-          -.                    ...             ..                   1     .- 4        m       .    .1 .- 4 m   41        0'
                           0
                           m11       4M                                                               I
                                                                                                     O4               O                              I                                            I                     C t
                          -tIZ                                                                                                                                        . .                                          w     1)
                                                    U~                                                                                                                                                                      +)
                                                                                       14           -T                    14                       -M                                              r               0         O.J
                                                                                                     xH                    >>)>.
                                              4j       -         r                M(D>4                         r     om tr             amo  C>r                  som           W            ahi a                 0 41r                      w
                                              .-      :a         r-      Mn        -4 ('N       -w V                                      M C1 0                          -     -4     N"    " N.-4              44 NM (NN3      0
                       O                 O           '--'                                                        -                                                                                                     +
                                         tv4C                                                                                                                                                                      > 4)
                                                I0.)                         0                       C                                 'O          C                      0           'O          C                +     UC
                0)                                                                                                                                                                                                   4.04
                                                                                             44I                                                                                                                            >40.
                   .                                                                          M                                                              --                                                    m 4
                -4-+                                                                                                                                                                                                       Q
                .-                                    >4         >-                                                                                                                                              -         r a
               IdI        0                                                       01         4)1                     a       o.        *0              c                 /                            0a i    C         a
                                      -          1 M                                    d)M-A                         () -1              0(n-                        (1 1q0mw
                                                                                                           99

WO 2009/085778                                                                                                PCT/US2008/087043
                                               0   +             -         1
                                       -                       0
                                                              00.-t'
                                                                                  .1-4                                      4-1
                                                                                  --    4~                                  (c
                                                  4)4
                                                                                                0414
                                 .14  m      -4>                  4
                      (n                                                     If) NZ.
              C:   ~            ~          0     .             -    co0           r    (    3                           1:
           m                              to 4J                                             .
                r-     0                   0-                                                                          to.DC'C         -0     4
               -44                    414H                      -   1                                                     4
    i-I                                                              w         4C)m>       0'                          4     u
                                                   c~0
                                                                                           %n                           U) >
    .1                                                                         .     .    .40                                                   r
                                         -A     C-                                                                    -r-    $,-4     41
                                          U) +                                                                              44>(d
     M                                                                               V)         U'                      4) a      >
     (L)                                                                'Qf        C             0          0                0c
    AtI                       f                      E-)U              0;                               0-%            C.4                4)
                                      4)4  r_0       )                                                                 41               4
          fl4                         0'ldC'                                                                              >1      l)DO0
                                                                                                                       14-4)
                                                 0~~~                                                                       4)JOC) 4.
                                                 4.)~~               1   -                                                     4-            &L
                                               4-               N          ).'J()W                                     0        4.
                 .4+.0                                                                        -T                        44        A04
                                                                                                                        :3       4JH
                          14l                                                                                                         04
                                         1-                                     ('i     m      INV )
             0                            0                         ID')IOj                                            +4)
         0               .0f)                 >-                                              .                              C
                                                         ClO:
                                                                                   4-1-1-14
             2C                                       4                              0am     o       E1               41q w 0
                                               0-              -444-                                                              I+
                                                                                     .014
                                         -4         -4'J)+
                     :3:                           >4>
                                  C))     4)>                                CD4
                                  Cd,                                                                                       .100

WO 2009/085778                                                                                                                                  PCT/US2008/087043
                         C 0                                                                                  0
                                                                                                              O
                    -  ~ 4)       41                                                                          C
                          .)0                                                                      0                 >1    C
                                                                                                                                                               0
                                              r_                  0)                                                                                           0+
                                                                                                                   Go0r                                <> C> O~-0 1:0
                             CU+                                                                               N                                               E
       -4
                       >                                                                                                               N.   C>'    0O     -0C.       044
                                                                               r,   vM. 0   0   0 co               r   -W.000 (
          U)                 Cfl+.0                                                         000                o      "E,
                         0-
                         0)      &J                                 C>Cwva0C                         N..........3        -C     0C
 c            (1..        CM     U))               )V;)               ;C   N                n.4.C).           ND
                                                                                                              r-          -iCD CD 0SC
    4.                               fa4f     1-44~-     04 M                  04         4                   -4                        I7Ntn1
                        0(D     01                                                                                                                         .
                                                                                                                 0              CD      0                  U)>4
                                                                                                o             r-'o M~~o              o                        04Nc
                                                                                                                                                                4A
 m2                                                                                                                    to              V)
 0            0                                                                  D ..       C 0 V. 0                 l w)                           0               0i
 41           41  -       m-4                                               m~0 0       r4' 0O                       a;-4L           nLo a o
 CO           u                             c 0U)000                              r-                (14       r        11 1            (nOC C             L         l
         CU)     Z            4>                                                                                                                               U-4
              a4
   0                            :1-CC)U                                                                                                                                     4.) r_)
                                 4.)                                       (n. 0)               C. <'                 %t    c    )c
                                -4rN1-                                                  U)N-W+                             N -q 1                        44     .)C4
                                                               >)
                                                                                   t0                                  L 0
                                                                                                                     040N                                -4         0
                              ua              (n           ...              0                       ,           M                                         > N.        >E.
        L"                     (f-4-.                                                                                                                    Ni 3O4
              4.                                        >                                                                                                 U) >
                                                                                     a)                                        C:    0    41)   if        1 )5
                 o~~                                                           '.100)       ro                     ('000?                                    u c
     o  )                       4JI UL -4                                   -4                                                                           >4iI       U
                                                                                                                                    fo                    to w w4
                                                                                                      ('I~~-                                                i     M i044.-i
                                                               U)..-                                                                                        -4                   m12
           Li                             C                       Vf)              iC)                   ifn                  C>            )       (D                0n
                      O~~~                                           O                                  m-                      m?~O            ITOO              ITOO)
                      U      i112)              ).       .         .     .  U)101>       .     .N.            U).           .          N.

WO 2009/085778                                                                                                                                                                   PCT/US2008/087043
                                  ICOU)
                                   0)E-                     ('o                                  .-4
                                   C:              0                   0
                                       4       "1)                                               (      LO
                                   >COU>-   ~               1                                                                            C;-
                                                                                                                                         U
                                   rI.4                             0                                  m                                       >1
                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                             ~'~00                   O) .ooo0w4
                                                                                                        .) .~      .               .    .
                                                                                                                                           ~00.
                                                                                                                                            .N..
                                                                                                                                                            0 )
                                                                                                                                                             .   . .
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                   41)
                                        0.14 N              ONNLAoo'.                             ON~rLnooo                              0     NfLn       to00Cfl O
                                      c-40                  r                                                                                                                                      0+
                                                                                 '.0    ~                 "                    a                     .
                                                                0m0W a C> 0 o                              w0              C, m              co )00 0N1L0O                                     =
                                                            0N -'                U C 4'              0-N'           NN-4.4 0'                0 - ; 4N                   '                      00c
                                                       -H            f- q q m - 1 r-                                   N    r            r-Nr-4       ..                                           EN
                                                                             .14                                                                                                               .- Ai
                      E-
                                      z                           - Q0 ,0 0
                                                                                        In4
                                                                                        0
                                                                                                           w)
                                                                                                   %.0.40010%0
                                                                                                                  ~               LO)             I'
                                                                                                                                             co0. ) C>00040
                                                                                                                                                                             LO               41 W.
                                                                                                                                                                                                   4-j
                           0.         4       4J                         ..     '       .             .       .     .     .          .             . .        .     .                          C
                           CN       0,               r    --            0.-oooo                  0-400000                                 04-mooo0000
             4-                          0)-       OU)>        N        ...-            w.'        N-        .4              -4N         N.        r,        14       -1.4'I                       41)
              4.4     -.40          04.44 >                  -                                     4             I               I
                  4-4                                                  N                   0                                   0                                  No       r0                            U)> )CD r r0 >c
                                                         W          0      0000                   OCN000a                                 Omnao0o0                                                            04
                                                                       W a C> CD W1        0         M1 m                                      DrIa              )C                                U)M
          W.(oC                           c4)                  ;,                                                                           .) (.                                 .  . .    .
      0,.4f                                                                        n..           14M1-4           4mJJmI                                                                          4w
                                                                       Nl               C0                co                   .1O                  m                   0                          4
 4)     0                                                         0%%nC00C0CD                        0 co               00)            C. l         40o o 00'C 4 > r                               lu4
            .@0IN                                                      m 00C)0in 0                 (0N             OfLO                   to m(l. > )               L -4 N n 40 004
                              EN to4 C0)) -4                                            CO                .-                                       .1                -1
                                                    44-I-                                                  0-                  00 r4          oI         4                I                    414.
              OH                             +                  1J                                                                                                                                44 M
    C               0                      >                                                                                                                                                         ) 4)
    $-4                                                                                                                                                                                             m m
                   0                                               nC4)       C>0        )           L     40                     a    U)     m U)                          0 1 CoInw>
    (D                    fnOO                                     OO             OO                                     ..                    O)OO....O.O.N                                    0
                       u           c        U).             t-                                      4 I                                   'M r      4        n r-4         I                    0'440
    o                   D           f    $                     -41
                   'U                                                                   %nj                                    in 0)i                      0                        0              &ill
                           0k                                                                                  0              4N04                 4-000                ONOO4 r %        r-r.
                                               w       ~         ~~~~~~                        0m .                .            N.                 .               ..                           0       >)4)N
                                                                   N)   U.-        COO>-            N .- I           N 0(V                 N .- 4         .- 4(       N -I      -4'           4-)        U)
                                         on04       1.4                                                                                                                                                +         -
             0                                                    CN0            C C)      j%4                                                                                                                           4)%CI 4 ,a
                                                                       N1     4      n4    0j(  -       n     N       r)                            Nr        M         401)                   N
                                                                                                                                                                                               U) 4)>
                                              Ljt                   D4              Dm-                                  )M-                   1      i -       a         1                      ) 4
                                                                       C') -0                                              C%0                     N                     0                    -4m        0
             a,                                                                                                                                                                                 044+u.
                                                    -I            ~     >                                                                                                                       -fU
                                                >                                                 >4
                                U)~t                                                                                                                > te)X                X                       U
                              .0                                       4)          C     'U                   )        C         0                  4)102

WO 2009/085778                                                                                                   PCT/US2008/087043
                                 M $ --1
                           G>
                               ,  MC E - 4
                                 C 0 0+                       0O1                                                                w
                              1I     944It >4 a
                                           4J
                                                                 -H
                                                                   ~                          L
                                                                                              10.w
                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                 u
                                     CE- 4 ld                            l      n0
                                 c
                                 10G .4
                                                                   w W
                                                                         M
                                                                            0 O Q
                                                                                                                                 u
                                                                                                                                0o
                                         >
                                    -4)---r4N                                        NH                                        - ro
                                 C)                   O +     rS-I
                                     0       ..                     -                        oN                            C      .
                                                                                                                             0
                                                 04                                            O                           E4 ro4
                                                                       '        00OO0 CX      cD
    (D                                 o        f             .4
                                                                                                                           w z
        OD           Z                              ,                        000.oDn                                            4-0
                                    *C        -        a      r- ('             N    Mw                                    0<
   4-                  Hl           --            -'                             I             I                           C 'H
                                                      >r                                                                  +
       14
        0)                                                                                                                 0
        Q.
   EC cO-                                                          H O0O                                                         4
    0   t     C                           4             0       4      - -I                   M0                               >
 E-                                  M000  I.'E-               010                                                         I-4Z
                          0                        0 440 -                                                               >      m
       0                                                                 .o   C> C. C)
                                              -I
   41
    W E-                            >~ -1 >                                        .   .
                                                                                                                               -4
                                                                                                                                41
 ~0C           -OHCM>00                                                   n.             .N       C>0   ) )                $4-1
                                                                           O                  'n                   -       m>
   Aj
             -a
                                    4J
                                    -4                -
                                                               Men
                                                              r-  Mw            no n o
                                                                          - e" M -w
                                                                                                                           @O 4
                                                                                                                         -r-
                                     0     4.                  M                              Nt.OC                       C
           .0                    0~-HC' ,Q                    r       '4r-400UN 0                                          0>'N
       Sr-C                                                                                                                          >
    w                .O Mn       w         4                        -       . . -            -.                                .
     j                a)
                      Sr-
                          r- 01  C 0
                                      E    --I
                                            0 >*
                                                              M
                                                              r-
                                                                    L r-
                                                                                 I
                                                                                  Ln a 'HLon                             -Co
                                                                                                                                C4
   0HD
    H                              MS-4
                                                                                     c
                                                                                              0
                                                                                              Ln) 05                      0 41
                                                         0D               0) O       0
                                          >e                                                                             4.' c
                                           4J -               OO
                                                              I-                     U;                                    U0+
                                      -                           C -N O O4 O                                                  4(CI4
                                                         co~~                                                                       -As4A
                                     ,>                        M            ---                                           > -H
            O            '-
                                     C
                                     41 e- -OO>    (a          M
                                                              +~.I
                                                                  th     CO
                                                                           l N         ( 'In
                                                                                              O                           0r-
                                                                                                                         'I-
                                                                                                                             4n
                                                                                                                          N* .Q   r-   4J
                                     U to -                                                                               +
                                                                                                                              -      >
                        03>                                                                           xC
            .W                             0
                                            i O 4O                              v
                                                                                     C
                                                                                      G        E
                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                aGt
             --                             1 0N.0                    0                   -1
                                        ' U)                                                                         .. -       W0
            4-                                    40                                                                     >0
            0o                                                +                                                            -     C
                                                                                                       C)     OC O        H
                                                                                                     103

WO 2009/085778                                                                                                                                                      PCT/US2008/087043
                                  .0) r_) E V)+ .-I N
                                      M 0 E.-4 N
                                 -    c     -4-     > e
                                      4)        A.)c0
                                        OE -U')0
                              >       C O0          V)                                                                         >
                                      -                                                     "                                                                M                          U
                                                                            44                     >4
                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                    4oO          UOO                                    4)
                                      01 E -- 4N                                                                                O         'OONO                                         0
                                      C 0 0+                                                                                   r-        -4            I-      m
                                      '4 M -ri
                                         4C >
                                                                    4L)                                                                                     O'a'OE)nu
                                          41                                                                                    O   v     0 Uo LO) 0 O                             0 a
                                         -H    N     -                                                                              ()    N (N                                        0
                                           V)+ .
                                         >                                                                                                                                       -4 r
                        E-                                                                           r                 M                 LO                  M
                  >                                                                               0z   'o n     o o Lr                  0 i41-        n    On                           4
               9         s0           4 WJ          -ri                                                                      .    ..        M  .       .      1                    C
        0.               0a .-0      0          I-      .                                             ajN     .fl     C41t"-0         0oOi
                                                                                                                                         0 C; -C to  r0 WO,                        r.
                                      a)C4)4>-1
                          u                        1.0                                       r-).4N))                          r-                 '-                                   41>
                  EE4                          0,Ltr
                                                                                                             r-
                                                                                                                      OO            t            r0
                                                                                                                                                                                  4 08
                                                                                                                                                                                   w-Z0
                                                                                                                                                                                       <
                              .C                 -   -~m                                                                               .
                        .- 4C0                                                                     -4 r- u)r0        0     In C')00 r-4 w 1 0                     In'0r
                               C~~~~                                                     M                                       - On in         N (n O              n             c  oP
       +-r-                                                                q Z                     Ln 0             Nn                           N In                              -)
 'IT                                       U    (d -                                                                                                                             >-.M
   -    C    to                       4)10 a>            4)      (Z                                                                                                       Z) . . . .U2. . . . . . .
        a.                            0'E.-)0           0         -L              C C)      r       .C    nU         >c             in 4 %nr- c'ico                                V)
     oX                                COO+
                                          41 1-4C                  4MqN'           o         -         4      NV                      nCi         nL                               0Aa
        -      rC
                                           EE..                                                                                          Cv )C 14MC)>
                                                                                                                                          N                                           to
                                                                                                                                         NN                                       fl0>
       E--                                41 -- -)                                                                                       r-E-    r-         0                           0
                                          -4CN.r-M.-4                                                                                        N                             M n             W>
       41)                               >                                                                                                                                         0)
      -00                                d   W      H-                                               'r                0Ln t    sMMNM    'o 0 0 V)r-0    h- U'
        0                 0                                                                                 w )                     In                                                     0
        ..                                                                                                                                                         .    .  .   .    .     -O     .
       4                  4)t-            E -'-                                                      k   N    N
                                                                                                              oI                M \m C10(N@=
                                                                                                                                m                            On
        0)
        fo
                          0,-         11 O7-10 )                                             t' -
                                                                                                      9
                                                                                                       ~--4       4  r_ . N f'-
                                                                                                                        oo
                                                                                                                                           Iq          1-
                                                                                                                                                             wI
                                                                                                                                                                L                41
                                                                                                                                                                                        C>
                                                                                                                                                                                              (A
          )0       .                                                                                 G..                 o                                                                  4
                         S4'-                                                               rN                                           r-      C 4 )                           4n -1
                                                                                                                                                                                  C0        +
                                              -                                                          NN
                                                                        w                             N                                  L'i                         0                      0
                     --                                              tn   O          o O C        N     VC>O C5r-O                     N a%0 Ono                10                    r-r
                                          rm d)                   m   .           -     x      m            -           N        m -----                                          >      0
                           U)            4J-4 cI                            N     LA         MM           NM m                  MMM                   i                           Nm       m oC4 4
                                          u to                                                                                                                                    +      41-.1
                                                                                                                                                                                 -0        >
                                                                                >      x              >                 x                 >                  x                    c
                                                                         0)     C     to              0       C         m                 (1      C          m                     t0 0-o
                                                 Iu                     a       m     E              a        f0       E                 0        0         E                           O c
                                                0 .-1                C         -C                                 .1 1 -r_                       .1 C       -                    > c m
                                                rd"         o                                     (a (.-     -o         a re- 'O C            0     -0       c                          C
                                               41 L            o        (1)   4J-    M  n-A       4)      d4 m-1 1u4                           4)M 4)         M   4 - -4                V) w
                                                    4-J       >1                   C                                C                                       E                    >~C
                                                                                                                                                                                 >1 a~Q 0 C..E
                                                                                                                                                                                           .0
                                                                                                                     1044
                                                                                            104

WO 2009/085778                                                                                                                                                            PCT/US2008/087043
                                  14)          44           Ln                                   kn                               CA.
                                  I4)A4Ea- "                  -s                                                                    l
                           4)      U                  0            W0                                   +     D     n
                                   m4 p2 -It                r                                     N_)
                           M)      Cr.E-a                    44      m
                            >        c 40)-.                                                     Lo                                Nl                                                      m)
                                   4)o4$4 -             4                                        .4                                   1.                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                               0C000tf)-                                                oL0O V           ~  0O It!                         4)
                                             -4     ,4                               N     o       o.      wo.oN               .             .               .N        tn oq -oo
                                   cO0             +        r-       +               4                        r-                  r.-t-          1-     .4     .r      ru
                                     to                    w-i4
                                                4J                                 4000~ o                C .aOOC0                  oJ                                                 001
                                        .r-      N--        rt   m0.4r4           Ln l           f-)            N     U')          r- m NNN                        cq to
  4)                                     .- 4     -     +)4E
                                                                              44
                        'a1        c       0 co 1                                  1-- r,    (            0,                                   .4               1-4%                    4j
                                                                      w Cr- 0L-. O.0 0 r-                        00. -I nON r-               0.w-a4n 0.t                             -
                  4) 4).-4           C00)n                           r-            .4-
                                                                                    0 0-         t
                                                                                                 oN.-4-o   N4          .4           o.-4or                      00
                 44*.41                                     .    -m).4.4 N MLo                    4 en 1- N                 I                   40 nL              Inr
                                              v)Z           1-4                                                                    1
  0.                               U                                                                                                                                                  >.
                                                                  N4 N4~0fo oL~r       r w0           -40Lnr      nc                      .r          )n<
  a)                                         44                            f.0                      L        Ctvlr-        0         0.l,;r0                                           $4
        1..-        -4                                                                           -4
  x
  4)                               c0v)+                    r-m                                                                   r-u
                  Ul                                                                           a) )                        (4)                N    n0      0    0                        4)
             C~                                             r-(n 14 "n0fO k                           O.DO4AO)                          m
                                                                                                                                        Or-DLOX               n-M                     444m
  04                    0>                                       cto         )C     om                    ulu           or                      -tnc          nr
       -4-a->                                                                                                                                                                            4
                                            -4ruzs-4
  0O                                                                                             V)       C)               0 o         ool       )      Oc 0         fl                    0 c     (
                        0                                                                                 C; )      I *)0 ;LI                       I        <Cr- 0t); r-      w ) r--       444  >
              4)
                 QO                            )            ~        .              4-                     4             4"                   -                                        v)( 1)
         u)                             '->                                                                                                                                             4-a
         0)c                                                                                                      ;        O     4c                                                     -a
                                                                 04  N4 1f     Lo 0f    i)                                               m         c)Lo(                               4)>C>
                                              04 44                     -.io   0tr--O0             - o 0 LOr- 0                         Q 0 1 )ll r- 00                                  4)4
         In4j1                                   -aN-                  -N          'n                 nr-(1.4"NMin                      m cM4 " mL)CA                                -rLj
           $4                                 to+.                                                                                                                                     +1 V- .       'A
                   4)                                                           ci                                C)       CCo
                                                                                                                            m                N4)IC
             o~         o                                                                             -iun~n-                                 oLCX Oic-                                  )
             4)~       .0(                                                                             C)             .        .      . C             .           N                        a.. to
             44~t                                  s              (0t- vE-          (11-4'0 c             (10 N         N            (1.4                      4                           wC
             4)         0.coO)                                    Q)- 4              4(         - -        4 -4        a) m 1            d)-       N-1        4am-4                    V 44 4
                L       -4                     .)                                                                                                                                      >i
                                                                                                                                                                  0)                   OSD.-I
     0                                            4          +         A000                        +~)00                                +      A00
         3.                                       >f-       :I-                                    4.4
                     Li)                     >f                                                                                                                                          in$
                                                                                                          C14                                                                            'IT
                               4)                                    0)                  0       105                       0)                0'.                  0

WO 2009/085778                                                                                                    PCT/US2008/087043
                                 14)        .0 '
                                                            In
                             -       C E -4 N
                           -           0 -+ >                m
                                    4) 44
                          d)     0                           0
                         -4         4)       4              tLO
                          m)        0'E -4                  cq
                          >         CO 0)>                  kD
                                                                                                                               u.
                          11
                           I     f 4-4   44 >               0
                                                                                                                              --4
                                                                                                                               0
                                     )                             .          .          .m                                     .
                                         E-AN               0Nr-              0ON 0 3I
                                 c 0                        r-        -+               4D
                                     4)4>w M .1
                                    to                      .4
                                                                                           1
                                                                          C.C)
                                                                     rn                    m or                             C41
                                                                 N    -4000 O D
                                         4.)                o         o rn t            0                                 OC
                                        -,A c ,,                  ms oN N1N LM                                            O
      U3                                 V) +         .E
                               o          1 >.                                     .   .                                       4j
               4)                                                    I                                                   4' 1.0
                         r0          )      -))C                            V C       No                                    -.
           0..       -aurD4      c00a)   O -1-              rs
                                                            r-       .4
                                                                     cl                   Itn
                                                                                      1- ki                               .4
                                                                                                                          c '> 41
                      0                  4-4>                                                                             3 3
                                               4)                                                                       -C40
                                            >)                   t    w     oCLn 0 r
                                                                       e.    ;.        .4 0
               M                                                                 m, o - <1n n ~oo n
                                                4)~~0                                                                    :.
                                                                                                 rx                            m
      u                                                                                   O- D                                 m)
     C                                   11                      N -w C) rn 0 0
 I'Dcc)C                                                           -                                                    -
     a
    .)
          CO
         If .1
                                           3-4 m r          r-   A N:       a    r-: O --
                                                                        en a N en Ln
                                                                                                                          V 'a
                                                                                                                        -,I w
         41                              U to -                                                                          > ul
     Cm                                  f>                                                                                    to
 -A -4 -4                                                                                                                   ) 0)
     mI z                                                                                                                 on
     E C,                                                             WO                  U                              - to
 4)      0                                                       kDko 0oorn                                              4' 4r
                                  4)h                    4'                        ..        -.                           C
                                "        E--N               <m'DOOCN                                                      4>
 m x H                              C 0        )+           r-       .                                                    4)
   -      HQ)E                      o         4>4                                                                           41
     C                                                                                                0444>
                                                                 .1r                      C>r                               )>
      -4-4                                         --       r                   un tn                                   -r-W' 4
       4             .                   Ml+.
                                      .......-...........          .4 ..           --     '                               0 C M.    4
     4)u14Ii                             > 0U)(7
                                            -4)4)                            r-t)( i                                     4     C
                                                                                                                                    Q
                      (4) 0                                                       t        IL                                         r 4)0
     0w                           (d
                                  C- O        E
                                             H >            rq        Nm                                                       C;C 0
       S.1                        4       4
     0                                                               ro      0 >*         co        inooomC              -0
                                                                                                                          0 C    4)OD
                                                                                          CD                              0+-
                  $4                        -4r,               m     14oroC%no                                            O4 EJC
                                            >
                                            -L,         ~         f)N~nMO
                                            14O                                                           CoOOD
                                         r4 )                M . . -                                                      >
              .1NN
              1-
                  L)   ~ ~                   :JZ-
                                                   r1
                                                            r- OeN - )r- 0o
                                                                                                                N
             00                                                                                                          + 41-
                                                      .4~-        4&
                                                                  CD        OIO           D                             -O4>)
                                                                                           xC
                                             to       O>to1                                                                       '
             4                              4-J                      C       C              -4                                         Q  > 4
                  V)                                                                                                      9) U4'r)
                                                   W                                                                     > In E
             0                                   -                         +4.
                                                 ::>           4                                            O
                                                                                                106

WO 2009/085778                                                                                                                                                                          PCT/US2008/087043
                                       4V         4)
                                              00
                               >4      C 0fa       V. +                                                 0'                                   0
                              .1IU          t14 -4>-                                                                                                                                                                 -4
                                                            fu       =                                ON9                                                   in
                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                            ,C                                       4.1
                                                                                                                                                       to         w        .o
                                                          U~4                         '.>.'.                                                 O     -I       m+r,         -1             CN               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                    C)0-C1        4JN-                                                                                                                                            -
                         -'>
                                      C)
                                         0
                                                          MM~~                                                                          O~                        CA                                0>
  o         41 C                                                  O    -. td4    $4ovt
                                                                                  .o                                    .      .T .-    O    .                     0     .    ..  r-4t
                                                                                                                                                                                   .             ..  4 .4'_
                       .               c                           -          -                                         N                                                                                '0
                      -z           C         <>
                              >     ~ ~~                   ~                         m                          M                  C             t    0" oC oo0C C) to ?
                       44)~C                                                                                            L)            ..........                                                     00'<
                                                                                                      '-4     -I
  C   0n                                           LmOJ                                                         D             N              C          D
  C-4                                             .,                                     ;4           r- m4 1           CV                          .   N-T     r     Ic      N-
                                                                                                                                                                              -n     -r             'm>
                                                                                                                                                                                                    C
                                                                                                                    r-~'\~~4                       Nr-4O5thO4                                           0
                                                                                                               L
                                                                                                               rN                  tO                  t)                      A                         UCo
  )   0 ZO)            O               C      Oo
                                              E.  .- I rq'
                                                                                                                    -I       CX1                             .Z C-> r        0-w
                                                                                                                                                                                                      m'
        O                                         -P                                                                                                                                                c
                                                                                                                                                                                                         CnmC
                                       c                                                                                          0                                                                 w
                                                                                                               >-4                                                                             ,      4-4
  OC                                           00o
                                       1.........                                                      C           .         .               e-).            .         .
          O4C         --                 I     -                                         ON                0-lA                     0                 4OA,                                           >-0D
                                     .,                                                                                                           m-                                                'U>r j
  C1                                                                                                                                           M"                  mn                                 0
                                            .--H
           4)>                                                                                                                                                                                      43)4
  0                                                   0                                                         N                  L0 O    M            0 rAC>               ko              r            o  a   0
  w0
  41                      O-r)                           r-
                                                               4  fn            .
                                                                                        o 04          r
                                                                                                            .
                                                                                                       m n r)N
                                                                                                                 .   .     .    .
                                                                                                                                    Ono
                                                                                                                                       ..
                                                                                                                                             M .i
                                                                                                                                                    .
                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                          .     .
                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                     ..
                                                                                                                                                                           M o
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.      0
          0
          w                  -4        c                                      -                            MV)     N                         N                N1 M           N             N                 'U
      0    -             'Ul     m   a       fa     $4   1                                                                                                                                               Q1      m '
          0           14 Z                 4>
                                                                                               C)                                  Ln                                                             +4         0
          C                                 4>m>A0-i
                                                  4j                          O0                      fn (71kD  M                  EO                  %Dr-           OM                              O      C
                                                  '-                    C             --                              . 0    (                   N                      fn                           4 4>CtI
                 o             0                        C-                                     x           C> >           A         x                   >                     X       .n            C .r-D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                         to~r
          0t)                                                     m        .              .NOO          rn       .N .        -  .O           en .
                                              -3                -                     N               r N                                 M                                                                    4
                                                                                                                                                                                                             fl)XC'
          u                                        (d+107 >                                                                                                                                      -
                                                                                          4)      C     0        0        C           to                0             C:         mU0
                                                    IU 400                                        0                     0            2                  a             (a         E                       uC
                                                    1 4.14                                                              -4 -- 4                    r_             .C ---                                 a C(a
                 -.                                 43       w              U         4J 1) C -4              )           -O CH                    'U0            m*t ) . ) C -A0)
          >1                                                      c-4              0J.0l-           co4-0l-                               E a zz oxo axw za--4
          ac                                                                                                                                                                                     -.- 4.44
          L)                                            41                                                                                                                                              aE
                   0I                                                                                  +                                     +4
                                                                                                     107

WO 2009/085778                                                                                                                                                                                PCT/US2008/087043
                                         I r-        h-N            ON                                                                               k
                                           fo4-4                    N                                   '0C
                                  fa        0)                                                          N
                                   >-                  0    4.'     Cla
                                                                      0                                                                                                                                           u.      .
                                   1         (0     24 -   4
                                                                                                           ..    >                                                                                                                 -H4
                                         F.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                  Cl                             l.00            1i Na'f 0                   -)   '.csJ t 0 C )                                   0)
                                           a)         4J                                         -          .                 .            -             .                 .           -                         41
                                          ON E -N                  0                                    0      " f)0          0     0 r-N            0 N v                      r,    "                           (
                                           cO0O)+                  r,          .I                  kO r-              .4 i                 '.0         --           4 .1                 '.0                       u
                                            .)4 w
                                           (a
                                               -H                                                       r           NO
                                                                                                               M)C'A?  ~ ~         lq                      f00l) (              'I                           OCw
        )                                       U)+f               ,-4                                  -4                                            -iE
                 0           -                                             Cl                       ON                                   01                                          (7w                    4-)
          C0         )                                                                                        I-         ..         .      .       .      .         ...            ..                        c
                   or.r-                     tp--                                              00.-                    0-r       -0Cn                  0 1-1r- Ln 0                         lm-.
       0)                   'o 4           CO0O)-                   Ir-            14           0       r-            4 1             1-4LU)           C--                                                        V-I     ~
       z.                   0             0         >
                           '-4                                              .                                                              i .-                     4                04     N                    >
                                                                        r-  M                                      -.    WC      M..    .    .   .    O.      r   M..m               O                         0
                  Ci)                                                   (D %D 000 rO0                   0        0k         0    NN                  0        0 kDNONOl >
       a)                                                                                                                                                                                                   >.
       C                                                                    0 $r        0     4X    C->                     r14                                  01                  C--                          0     )%.    ooV
       a)4C                                    4114m                -           -            r          -4       C-4O'-4 m                40              C-N              0mUa)
                 VU(1)                                   -                                                                                                                                                  > m
                 a                                              44>                                                                                                                                               0
 .- j.-    -4                                                                                          4                                                                                                    A       4
                                     ml                                    (14                                     '0                                             N                   0                      m0
      E 0                                                                Lf00Q                                         l001                                            40~f                                       )
 1-4I~                                     0l         41                                       .                 .....
 oom                                             0                .-- 1      M ClN 0 )C- - -4                  Cln 4mC>C) r-1                        Cl() < ml0 r- r-                                           >
   0ox E                                   C    0    V)+           C--       .                 '.4      r.            '-4                .4          r-            .- 4              '.1                     0
 E- WE-                                      to w-4>'                                            1         4                              1          11                                 1                    0)41
                                          i4C44>                                                                                                                                                             $4 -.4
                                                      '-40
                                                                                     N         '4                   N4                                                  .1             N         4           0 >
       VI)                                                               m t4.          . kl w                 enLO            " C l-'.o D (n V.14-4                             w00                        41
                                                -4N                        rt)i      ,       r+.       r-      1           144lI                     r-     M            Nc
                                                U) +                                                                                                                                                              14
                                                                           OD                                            (n     Cl r            U)               a%                  LO                      OC.
       0.                   0                                           InN01OfN t W                            0N          014D                                       ( '.00''w                             0m0
       a)                 .0C           m                                                                                                                                                                    0) N..........c..         --    0C
                 V             )r-                                  M   E-        W C'10N-W         ID (n        Inr- N0iC              D c           mID Cl.l--N0 f-                O                     .0
                         0) UD'- C a (4>4                          t-                          I .4 r-                 Iq1           -4N             r-          -4 1           1- N                        41         U0
               0          1-4        z          44 >
              to)                                                                                                                                                                                            C: V) :
                                                                                                                        In                      C) 0             )           C1            0 n           0      0-4
      0oo                                                                                                                         0,r
                                                                                                                                         11
                                                                                                                                             >'
                                                                                                                                                              .4 N.
                                                                                                                                                                                 ')rrD In'00C
                                                                                                                                                                                                   .  .
                                                                                                                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                                                                                                         '     .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I~r -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .     .  r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          41) >
               to                                   4-                  O.Cl W'r- 00bO                  Cl01             r- ID         0                    a %l010 C- W0C1                                  oE
                                    u                     .,4f     r- C14-'cl                          r- N -4 .C4                           m      r- N                                           q,-~     4441 N
               Ci)                                                                                      1-~.-          4                                                                                          (a 0+
              .0                                                                                                                                                                                            V)- 00 >.
                                                                                     U)         0                    L         -                                   l                 '                      -4           0
                      C                        '4                           m4Cl-W'U'7               LO a-4C14001a                                         r-Go %n m L41)0 (n(0C
               0                                 00 4                          .                        M............m                                          . ... N C                                   >0
              -- 4                              :)0                r- -W           ch '4ci004O r -70 1 0M O                                            r- d M mLO IM00
               41                              41                       <n -1 -N(n                                 C14 C mL'                            4M            4N rl 1                              C4     3:A4J
                                                             U                         (                  O-+                                                                                                     41J .A
                       C                       '4:>
                                                    to W                               C        0:               s               Ca c00                                               c                           a)
                       U4J-                                              C)                          -'-i        44)-4N a) -'4 _q                            0)f)-.           )     -. a        4 N.         >C w
               >1.U                                      _04                                                              0T x~ Co mt                                    Qx     o a                         &CO)) 0
                                                    U)-.                               '4                                                                                                                  -. . 44)'~~&J)Z~
              a.                                                                                                                                                                                             01440
                                                                                          -.                                                          04(                                                   H
                       0                                              .4     +                          +                                            +                                                       O
                                                               >4i                                             14                      en
                                                                                                       108

WO 2009/085778                                                                                                       PCT/US2008/087043
                             c gCoa+                    ON
                             C$)4
                             m)       .1 >.
                                                                                       -V                                       1H
                             4)f $ 4 -                      -.-                                                                 4-)
                                '44      >                                                                                       "I
                                   C-)w
                                                                                                                                0a
                                                                 en)                                                         Ea
                                                            co 0) ('       -    w- 11)
                                  0n    n+                      r,
                                         a)--                                                                                   4.J0
           V         r        '-H                                                                                            OwJIr001-
   >-             z-                                        (n4                 m D                                          a)>7C
                           '      -    c      >4                                   LO'   C                                      01
    :3                          4-4 >                                              -'
                                                                                                    C147
                                         4)~4                                                                                   u~
                                         o                                         t-                                           U)
              C~                 -41        ~                         cm m ImD
                                     ~~Oa)C~~           0           .          ..                                                m))
    a   0                        :3 z        -         r-44
          41                      U 41 M->
          r-U)     m-                                            ,4                1)a
 4)              0                                                                 LOa
 F       4 Q)E               owH1                                                                                                      4
                                          k&4       >-                                                                          -)>
                                         U)~~01                                                                                 >WDO4.
                                                                                                                            U) E
   -~4                           .)                        (n14                                            r-('04A             4    41
                 $4                 I+                                                        0   1-4                       .044 ((1
    4-)                                                                                                                         r- >))
    w)             a)('NE-I                                                            1    -4 LO                               u)C
    U)4)          .0e-4       c4        )                                                             4.)O                               U
   o      $4       (             W)I        -)4..--                                                                             c4
               o        1-Z     44>
                                                                 0                        If)                               0   0.~
                                      -4 *H.                           C4   r -      cl-                                        44 4JCM
                                                .0      -                                                                   a)4) 0
                    CI)                                            11   U)   n      O                                             r
                                                                        L0 m4                                                        0
          o1q(                                                      IC    (n4 u')                                           >    41
                                 u (0)                                                                                      + 4.3-H
                                < a>                                                                                            a') m
         E.                                                                                                                -o         >
               -4o                                                       4)1                                      a)        a      )
          >1                           I)                        V0c E0                                        4)                    0 I
                                                -H     4j                                                                   -4  C4 .)
                                                                                                                              044    Q~
                                                                                                                           -H -H 4
         u                                                                                                                  > 0
                                          --- 4                       +                                                     W .0
                                           >           >
                                                                                          109

WO 2009/085778                                                            PCT/US2008/087043
         While the present invention has been described in terms of the preferred
 embodiments, it is understood that variations and modifications will occur to those
 skilled in the art.  Therefore, it is intended that the appended claims cover all such
 equivalent variations that come within the scope of the invention as claimed.
                                            110

   WO 2009/085778                                                            PCT/US2008/087043
                                            CLAIMS
    What is claimed is:
    1. A method of treating a condition in a host that is responsive to an agonist, the method
       comprising administering a multi-layer pharmaceutical composition comprising an
 5     agonist and an antagonist thereof that are not in direct contact with one another in the
       intact form of the composition, wherein administration of the intact form of the
       composition to the host effectively treats the condition in a manner more efficacious
       than placebo when measure using the Brief Pain Inventory.
    2. The method of claim I wherein the host is treated for up to twelve weeks.
10  3. A method of treating a condition in a host that is responsive to an agonist, the method
       comprising administering a multi-layer pharmaceutical composition comprising an
       agonist and an antagonist thereof that are not in direct contact with one another in the
       intact form of the composition, wherein administration of the intact form of the
       composition to the host effectively treats the condition in a manner more efficacious
15     than placebo when measured using the WOMAC Osteoarthritis Index.
    4. The method of claim 4 wherein the host is treated for up to twelve weeks.
                                                1ll

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
