 5                                      ABSTRACT
   A direct-current power transmission protection device includes a resistor unit and a
   bidirectional circulation current switch unit connected in parallel, where at least one
   resistor is cascaded to form the resistor unit, and at least one bidirectional circulation
10 current switch is cascaded to form the bidirectional circulation current switch unit. In
   addition, a converter includes the protection device, and at least one protection device
   is connected in series in each phase unit. The protection device and the converter
   provide a protection method for flexible direct-current power transmission, which can
   rapidly and effectively suppress direct-current short circuit current and damp current
15 oscillation, and not only can better protect equipment safety, but also can greatly
   shorten fault current attenuation time, thus shortening direct-current shutdown time
   and further decreasing economic loss and system destabilization risk caused by
   shutdown to the max.

                2/3
Phase A Phase B     Phase C
  I        I           I
L.FIG.
            FIG. 3

   DIRECT-CURRENT POWER TRANSMISSION PROTECTION
        DEVICE, CONVERTER AND PROTECTION METHOD
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001] The present invention relates to the field of direct-current power transmission,
and in particular, to a protection device for a direct-current short circuit fault of
flexible direct-current power transmission, a converter including the protection device
and a protection method therefor.
BACKGROUND ART
[0002] The direct-current power transmission technique (HVDC, High-Voltage Direct
Current) is a transmission technique for transmitting electrical energy in form of
direct current through alternating current/direct current and direct current/alternating
current conversions by means of high-power half-controlled power electronic devices
(such as thyristors) or fully-controlled power electronic devices (such as insulated
gate bipolar transistors (IGBT) and integrated gate commutated thyristors (IGCT)).
The direct-current power transmission using the half-controlled power electronic
devices (thyristors) is called a current source converter-based direct-current power
transmission system (CSC-HVDC), or is also called conventional direct-current
power transmission. The direct-current power transmission using the fully-controlled
power electronic devices (IGBT) is called a voltage source converter-based
direct-current power transmission system (VSC-HVDC), or is also called flexible
direct-current power transmission.
[0003] The direct-current power transmission system is high-voltage, high-current
electrical equipment. Once a fault occurs, the equipment may suffer from loss due to
over-voltage or over-current surges. Therefore, a proper protection measure is an
indispensable part of the safe and reliable operation of the direct-current power
transmission system.
[0004] Among various possible faults, direct-current side faults represented by
direct-current transmission line faults are especially common. Direct-current
transmission lines may probably reach thousands of kilometers and are exposed to the
                                            1

complex natural environment, and therefore have a maximum probability of fault
occurrence. When a fault, such as short circuit, occurs on direct-current transmission
lines, severe over-current may appear in the direct-current power transmission system,
short circuit current needs to be suppressed in time, and the direct-current system
needs to be assisted to be recovered from the fault to operate normally as soon as
possible.
[0005] When a direct-current side short circuit fault occurs, a three-phase bridge type
converter including thyristor devices used by conventional direct current can suppress
direct-current short circuit current by rapidly controlling the firing angle of the
thyristors. The specific method includes: when the direct-current short circuit fault
occurs, the firing angle is controlled to immediately shift phases, so that direct-current
voltage is rapidly reversed and that the direct-current short circuit current is rapidly
suppressed; and after the arc of short circuit points is naturally extinguished, the
normal control on the firing angle is recovered and the normal operation of the
direct-current power transmission system is recovered. If the fault is a one-time
transient fault, the direct-current power transmission system may maintain continuous
normal operation; if the fault is a permanent short circuit fault, after system recovery,
short circuit current may appear again, a direct-current power transmission control
and protection system switches off an alternating-current incoming breaker according
to a protection logic laid down in advance, and thereby the entire direct-current power
transmission system is shut down. Fortunately, such a permanent fault only accounts
for a very small proportion among direct-current transmission line faults, so the
conventional direct-current power transmission system is rarely out of operation due
to the short circuit of the direct-current transmission lines.
[0006] However, such a good protection method is not fully feasible in flexible
direct-current power transmission. The flexible direct-current power transmission
system adopts IGBTs to compose a voltage source converter, direct-current voltage
therefore cannot be reversed by means of the control of the converter, and therefore
the method cannot suppress short circuit current either. Then the measure of the
flexible direct-current power transmission system in coping with the short circuit fault
of direct-current transmission lines is directly switching off an alternating-current
incoming breaker to shut down the entire direct-current power transmission system.
After fault current attenuation is complete, charging and operation are resumed.
                                              2

[0007] In actual projects, coping with the direct-current side short circuit fault at the
cost of shutting down the system is not enough to protect the equipment of the
flexible direct-current power transmission system well from safety threats:
[0008] (1) Diode devices are connected in parallel in the flexible direct-current power
transmission converter, providing a loop for direct-current short circuit current when
the direct-current short circuit fault occurs, the attenuation of the short circuit current
in the direct-current loop is difficult due to the existence of the diodes even if the
alternating-current incoming breaker is switched on, as a result, on one hand, the
equipment will be exposed to high-current surges for a longer time, on the other hand,
the whole system recovery time will be prolonged greatly, and consequently,
economic loss and system destabilization risk will be exacerbated.
[0009] (2) When short circuit occurs, the equipment of the flexible direct-current
power transmission system, such as inductors and capacitors, may oscillate short
circuit current, which further increases the destructive power of the short circuit
current on equipment and peripheral systems.
[0010] A most direct solution is to add a direct-current breaker to the direct-current
loop, and when the short circuit fault occurs, the direct-current breaker immediately
cuts off direct-current short circuit current. However, because the technical maturity
of the equipment is not enough for engineering application, the equipment still cannot
be adopted for a long time. Even if the application technique becomes mature in the
future, the equipment thereof is complex and has a high manufacturing cost, a great
workload of operation and maintenance, and a poor economic efficiency.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0011] An objective of the present invention is to provide a direct-current power
transmission protection device, a converter and a protection method, capable of
effectively resolving the inherent disadvantages of difficult short circuit current
attenuation and oscillation in a flexible direct-current power transmission system and
being easy to implement and good in economic efficiency.
[0012]    In order to achieve the objective, the present invention provides a
direct-current power transmission protection device, characterized by including a
resistor unit and a bidirectional circulation current switch unit, and the resistor unit
                                             3

and the bidirectional circulation current switch unit being connected in parallel to
form the protection device, where at least one resistor is cascaded to form the resistor
unit, and at least one bidirectional circulation current switch is cascaded to form the
bidirectional circulation current switch unit.
[0013] Further, a diode unit and a switching transistor unit are connected in parallel to
form the bidirectional circulation current switch, where an anode of the switching
transistor unit, a cathode of the diode unit and one end of the resistor unit are
connected together, defined as a positive terminal of the protection device;
[0014] a cathode of the switching transistor unit, an anode of the diode unit and the
other end of the resistor unit are connected together, defined as a negative terminal of
the protection device; and
[0015] at least one diode is cascaded to form the diode unit, and at least one switching
transistor is cascaded to form the switching transistor unit.
[0016] Further, the switching transistor is a power semiconductor device with a
tum-off function.
[0017] Further, an IGBT is adopted as the bidirectional circulation current switch, a
collector of the IGBT serves as an anode of the bidirectional circulation current switch,
and an emitter of IGBT serves as a cathode of the bidirectional circulation current
switch;
[0018] or at least one IGCT or at least one GTO is adopted to form the bidirectional
circulation current switch, an anode of the IGCT or GTO serves as an anode of the
bidirectional circulation current switch, and a cathode of the IGCT or GTO serves as a
cathode of the bidirectional circulation current switch;
[0019] or an MOSFET is adopted to form the bidirectional circulation current switch,
a drain of the MOSFET serves as an anode of the bidirectional circulation current
switch, and a source of the MOSFET serves as a cathode of the bidirectional
circulation current switch.
[0020] Further, the protection device is also provided with a corresponding cooling
device.
[0021] Further, the protection device also comprises a parallel-connection voltage
protection element between the anode and cathode of the protection device.
                                            4

[0022] Further, the protection device also comprises a parallel-connection bypass
switch element between the anode and cathode of the protection device.
[0023] Further, a value range of the resistor R is between 0.lohm and 100ohm.
[0024] The present invention also provides a converter including the protection device,
where the converter includes three phases, each phase includes an upper bridge arm
and a lower bridge arm, and a reactor unit and at least one submodule are connected
in series to form each bridge arm; the upper bridge arm and the lower bridge arm of
each phase are combined together to form a phase unit, a joint of the upper bridge arm
and the lower bridge arm is a midpoint, and leading-out terminals of the three upper
bridge arms are connected together to serve as a positive terminal of the converter; the
leading-out terminals of the three lower bridge arms are connected together to serve
as a negative terminal of the converter; and the converter is characterized in that at
least one protection device is connected in series in each phase unit.
[0025] Further, connecting at least one protection device in series specifically means
that the at least one protection device is connected in series between the reactor and
the submodule, or is connected in series between the reactor and the midpoint, or is
connected in series between the two submodules, or is connected in series between the
submodule and the positive terminal of the converter, or is connected in series
between the submodule and the negative terminal of the converter, or is connected in
series at all the foregoing positions on the upper bridge arm and the lower bridge arm.
[0026] Further, the numbers of the protection devices connected in series in each
phase unit are equal.
[0027] Further, the converter is characterized in that the converter is applicable to a
voltage source topology, and may be a modularized multi-level flexible direct-current
system,    a two-level    flexible   direct-current  system or a       three-level  flexible
direct-current system.
[0028] The present invention also provides a protection method of the converter,
characterized by including the following steps: detecting and determining whether a
direct-current side short circuit fault occurs, and if so, applying a turn-off signal to the
bidirectional circulation current switches of all the protection devices connected in
series in the bridge arms; and after fault current attenuation is complete, recovering
system operation. The protection device, the converter and the protection method
                                              5

which are provided for flexible direct-current power transmission can rapidly and
effectively suppress direct-current short circuit current and damp current oscillation,
and not only can better protect equipment safety, but also can greatly shorten fault
current attenuation time, thus shortening direct-current shutdown time and further
decreasing economic loss and system destabilization risk caused by shutdown to the
max. Moreover, the protection device is structurally simple and low in cost, and has
good implementability and economic efficiency.
[0029] The present invention has the beneficial effects that the present invention
provides the protection device, the converter and the protection method for flexible
direct-current power transmission, which can rapidly and effectively suppress
direct-current short circuit current and damp current oscillation, and not only can
better protect equipment safety, but also can greatly shorten fault current attenuation
time, thus shortening direct-current shutdown time and further decreasing economic
loss and system destabilization risk caused by shutdown to the max. Moreover, the
protection   device is structurally     simple   and low in cost, and has good
implementability and economic efficiency.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0030] Fig. 1 is a modularized multi-level flexible direct-current power transmission
topology;
[0031] Fig. 2 is a unit structure diagram of a protection device;
[0032] Fig. 3 is a structural schematic diagram of a converter comprising the
protection devices; and
[0033] Fig. 4 is a schematic diagram of a short circuit fault of the converter
comprising the protection devices.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0034] In reference to the drawings, the technical solution of the present invention is
described in detail below.
[0035] Fig. 1 shows the topological structure of a converter. The converter includes
three phases, each phase comprises an upper bridge arm and a lower bridge arm, and
                                            6

the converter comprises six bridge arms in total. A reactor L and N submodules SM
are connected in series to form each bridge arm, and the upper bridge arm and lower
bridge arm of each phase are combined together to form a phase unit. A joint of the
upper bridge arm and the lower bridge arm is a midpoint. Leading-out terminals of the
three upper bridge arms are connected together to serve as a positive terminal of the
converter; and the leading-out terminals of the three lower bridge arms are connected
together to serve as a negative terminal of the converter.
[0036] The present invention provides a protection device, which comprises a resistor
unit and a bidirectional circulation current switch unit, and the resistor unit and the
bidirectional circulation current switch unit are connected in parallel to form the
protection device. The resistor unit may be one resistor, or may be formed by a
plurality of resistors cascaded in a way of serial connection or parallel connection.
Likewise, the bidirectional circulation current switch unit may also be formed by
cascading at least one bidirectional circulation current switch.
[0037] Further, a diode unit and a switching transistor unit are connected in parallel to
form the bidirectional circulation current switch. An anode of the switching transistor
unit, a cathode of the diode unit and one end of the resistor unit are connected together,
defined as a positive terminal of the protection device. A cathode of the switching
transistor unit, an anode of the diode unit and the other end of the resistor unit are
connected together, defined as a negative terminal of the protection device. At least
one diode is cascaded to form the diode unit, and at least one switching transistor is
cascaded to form the switching transistor unit. The switching transistor is a power
semiconductor device with a tum-off function.
[0038] An IGBT also may be adopted as the bidirectional circulation current switch, a
collector of the IGBT serves as an anode of the bidirectional circulation current switch,
and an emitter of the IGBT serves as a cathode of the bidirectional circulation current
switch.
[0039] Alternatively, at least one IGCT or at least one GTO plus other auxiliary
devices is adopted to form the bidirectional circulation current switch, an anode of the
IGCT or gate-turn-off thyristor (GTO) serves as an anode of the bidirectional
circulation current switch, and a cathode of the IGCT or GTO serves as a cathode of
the bidirectional circulation current switch.
                                             7

[0040] Alternatively, the bidirectional circulation current switch may also be
composed      of an    MOSFET       plus  other   auxiliary devices,   a  drain  of the
metal-oxide-semiconductor field-effect transistor (MOSFET) serves as an anode of
the bidirectional circulation current switch, and a source of the MOSFET serves as a
cathode of the bidirectional circulation current switch.
[0041] In addition, the current of the bridge arms may flow through the switching
transistors of the protection devices, so the protection device may also be provided
with a corresponding cooling device. Preferably, water cooling radiation may be
adopted.
[0042] In addition, a voltage protection element may also be connected in parallel
between the anode and cathode of the protection device to suppress the over-voltage
of both ends of the switch.
[0043] In addition, a bypass switch element may also be connected in parallel
between the anode and cathode of the protection device in order to conveniently cut
off the protection device.
[0044] In addition, a value range of the resistor R in the protection device is between
0.lohm and 100ohm.
[0045] Fig. 2 shows a preferred embodiment of the protection device, which includes
a resistor, a switching transistor and a diode. An anode of a switching transistor T, a
cathode of a diode and one end of a resistor are connected together, defined as a
positive terminal of the protection device, and a cathode of the switching transistor T,
an anode of the diode and the other end of the resistor are connected together, defined
as a negative terminal of the protection device.
[0046] It should be noted that the resistor unit may be one resistor, or may be formed
by a plurality of resistors constructed in a cascading way such as serial connection and
parallel connection, but is not limited to an actual resistor. Likewise, the switching
transistor may be formed by a plurality of cascaded switching transistors, and the
diode may be formed by a plurality of cascaded diodes. Fig. 2 is an equivalent circuit
diagram of the embodiment of the protection device.
[0047] The present invention also provides a converter including the protection device.
The converter includes three phases, each phase includes an upper bridge arm and a
                                              8

lower bridge arm, and a reactor unit and at least one submodule are connected in
series to form each bridge arm. The upper bridge arm and the lower bridge arm of
each phase are combined together to form a phase unit, a joint of the upper bridge arm
and the lower bridge arm is a midpoint, and leading-out terminals of the three upper
bridge arms are connected together to serve as a positive terminal of the converter; the
leading-out terminals of the three lower bridge arms are connected together to serve
as a negative terminal of the converter; and the converter is characterized in that at
least one protection device is connected in series in each phase unit.
[0048] Preferably, the numbers of the protection devices connected in series in each
phase units are equal.
[0049] The protection devices may be connected in series at any positions in the phase
units, and for example, the protection devices may be connected in series between the
reactor and the submodules or is connected in series between the reactor and the
midpoint, or is connected in series between the two submodules, or is connected in
series between the submodule and the positive terminal of the converter, or is
connected in series between the submodule and the negative terminal of the converter.
[0050] Moreover, the protection devices may be separately connected in series in the
upper bridge arms or the lower bridge arms, or may be connected in series at
symmetric or asymmetric positions in the upper bridge arms and the lower bridge
arms.
[0051] The protection devices connected in series in the phase units may be connected
in series at corresponding or non-corresponding positions.
[0052] The converter may be a modularized multi-level flexible direct-current system,
a two-level flexible direct-current system or a three-level flexible direct-current
system.
[0053] A preferred embodiment as shown in Fig. 3 means that the protection devices
are connected in series in the converter given by Fig. 1, and one protection device is
connected in series between the submodule and the reactor of each of the three upper
bridge arms.
[0054] The serial connection mode of the protection devices in the converter provided
in the present invention is a serial connection at the alternating-current side of the
                                            9

converter. Thus, the beneficial effects are as follows: (1) The protection device and
the converter may be designed integrally, having good engineering implementability
and saving spaces. The protection device may adopt a modularized design concept
and may readily adopt standardized design and assembly together with the submodule
of the converter. The shape, size and wiring of the protection device are consistent
with those of the submodule, the protection device is directly installed in the converter,
and therefore does not occupy an extra space, and this advantage is very important in
flexible direct-current power transmission projects highly stressing the compact
design. (2) Separate energy access is not required. The switching transistor in the
protection device and a control loop thereof need proper power supply, and are
installed at the alternating-current side, and the protection devices may share an
energy access loop with a converter valve. (3) The protection device may share a
cooling device with other devices rather than be equipped with a separate cooling
device. The high-power power electronic device in the protection device needs to be
cooled by water cooling circulation, and is installed at the altemating-current side of
the converter valve, and the protection device may share a water cooling device with
the converter valve. (4) The structure is simple, the size is small, and the cost is low.
Compared      with  the   direct-current  side, the   effective current   value   of the
altemating-current side is small, and the switching transistor of the same model in the
converter, rather than a multi-switching transistor parallel structure adopted to
increase the rated current value, may be chosen as the switching transistor of the
protection device. (5) The effect of suppressing current oscillation is better.
Theoretical analysis and an experiment result show that the protection device
connected in series at the altemating-current side of the converter has a good
suppression effect on current oscillation at the initial stage of a fault, and can
effectively suppress the fault current peak of the bridge arms and decrease the current
stress of the submodules of the whole bridge arms.
[0055] For the converter including the protection device provided in the present
invention, when the positive terminal of the converter is short-circuited with the
transmission line or other equipment connected with the cathode, high short circuit
current may flow through the respective bridge arms, plus influences by capacitors
and inductors in the whole loop, the short circuit current may further be oscillated,
and as a result, the safety of the entire system equipment is endangered severely. Fig.
                                             10

4 is a schematic diagram of the occurring short-circuiting.
[0056] Aiming at this problem, the present invention also provides a protection
method for suppressing direct-current short circuit current and damping current
oscillation by utilizing the protection device, which includes the following steps:
[0057] (1) Detect and determine whether a direct-current side short circuit fault occurs,
and if so, go to step (2).
[0058] (2) Apply a turn-off signal to bidirectional circulation current switches of all
protection devices connected in series in the bridge arms.
[0059] (3) Detect and determine whether fault current attenuation is complete, and if
so, go to step (4).
[0060] (4) Recover the operation of the flexible direct-current power transmission
system.
[0061] Cascading connection called in the present invention includes connection
modes such as serial connection and parallel connection.
[0062] The foregoing embodiments are merely intended to illustrate the technical idea
of the present invention, and cannot limit the protection scope of the present invention,
and any modifications which are made on the basis of the technical solution according
to the technical concept put forward by the present invention shall fall into the
protection scope of the present invention.
[0063] Throughout this specification and the claims that follow unless the context
requires otherwise, the words 'comprise' and 'include' and variations such as
'comprising' and 'including' will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated
integer or group of integers but not the exclusion of any other integer or group of
integers.
[0064] The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be
taken as, an acknowledgment or any form of suggestion that such prior art forms part
of the common general knowledge of the technical field.
                                            11

                                          CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
 1.    A converter, wherein the converter comprises three phases, each phase
comprises an upper bridge arm and a lower bridge arm, and a reactor unit and at least
one submodule is connected in series to form each bridge arm; the upper bridge arm
and the lower bridge arm of each phase are combined together to form a phase unit, a
joint of the upper bridge arm and the lower bridge arm is a midpoint, and leading-out
terminals of the three upper bridge arms are connected together to serve as a positive
terminal of the converter; the leading-out terminals of the three lower bridge arms are
connected together to serve as a negative terminal of the converter; and the converter
is characterized in that the at least one protection device is connected in series in each
phase unit;
     wherein the direct-current power transmission protection device, characterized by
comprising a resistor unit and a bidirectional circulation current switch unit, and the
resistor unit and the bidirectional circulation current switch unit being connected in
parallel to form the protection device, wherein at least one resistor is cascaded to form
the resistor unit, and at least one bidirectional circulation current switch is cascaded to
form the bidirectional circulation current switch unit.
2. The converter of claim 1, characterized in that a diode unit and a switching
transistor unit are connected in parallel to form the bidirectional circulation current
switch, wherein an anode of the switching transistor unit, a cathode of the diode unit
and one end of the resistor unit are connected together, defined as a positive terminal
of the protection device;
        a cathode of the switching transistor unit, an anode of the diode unit and the
other end of the resistor unit are connected together, defined as a negative terminal of
the protection device; and
        at least one diode is cascaded to form the diode unit, and at least one switching
transistor is cascaded to form the switching transistor unit.
3. The converter of claim 2, characterized in that the switching transistor is a power
semiconductor device with a tum-off function.
                                              12

4. The converter of claim 2, characterized in that an IGBT is adopted as the
bidirectional circulation current switch, a collector of the IGBT serves as an anode of
the bidirectional circulation current switch, and an emitter of IGBT serves as a
cathode of the bidirectional circulation current switch;
        or at least one IGCT or at least one GTO is adopted to form the bidirectional
circulation current switch, an anode of the IGCT or the GTO serves as an anode of the
bidirectional circulation current switch, and a cathode of the IGCT or the GTO serves
as a cathode of the bidirectional circulation current switch;
        or an MOSFET is adopted to form the bidirectional circulation current switch,
a drain of the MOSFET serves as an anode of the bidirectional circulation current
switch, and a source of the MOSFET serves as a cathode of the bidirectional
circulation current switch.
5. The converter     of claim    1, characterized by also being provided with a
corresponding cooling device.
6. The converter of claim 1, characterized by also comprising a voltage protection
element connected in parallel between the anode and the cathode of the protection
device.
7. The converter of claim 1, characterized by also comprising a bypass switch
element connected in parallel between the anode and the cathode of the protection
device.
8. The converter of claim 1, characterized in that a value range of the resistor R is
between 0.lohm and 100ohm.
9. The converter of claim 1, characterized in that connecting the at least one
protection device in series specifically means that the at least one protection device is
connected in series between the reactor and the submodule, or is connected in series
between the reactor and the midpoint, or is connected in series between the two
submodules, or is connected in series between the submodule and the positive
terminal of the converter, or is connected in series between the submodule and the
negative terminal of the converter, or is connected in series at all the foregoing
positions on the upper bridge arm and the lower bridge arm.
10. The converter of claims, characterized in that the numbers of the protection
                                             13

devices connected in series in each phase units are equal.
11. The converter of claim 1, characterized in that the converter is applicable to a
voltage source topology, and is a modularized multi-level flexible direct-current
system, a two-level flexible direct-current system or a three-level flexible
direct-current system.
12. A protection method of the converter of claim 1, characterized by comprising the
following steps: detecting and determining whether a direct-current side short circuit
fault occurs, and if so, applying a turn-off signal to the bidirectional circulation
current switches of all the protection devices connected in series in the bridge arms;
and after fault current attenuation is complete, recovering system operation.
                                            14

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/3

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/3

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/3

