ABSTRACT
          A heat dissipation device includes a heat dissipation board that is
connected to a display car, and includes a path defined therein which has an
inlet and an outlet formed on the same side of the heat dissipation board. A
base board is connected between the heat dissipation board and the display
car. Multiple screws extend through the display card and are threadedly
connected to the base board. An adapter is connected to the heat dissipation
board and located on the side that has the inlet and the outlet. The adapter
has two rooms defined therein. The adapter has at least one first hole and at
least one second hole defined in the face that is connected next to the face
having two bores. The at least one first hole and the at least one second hole
communicate with the two rooms and the two bores.

         1/10
     LoO
              & CID
coG
  Q&

              HEAT DISSIPATION DEVICE FOR DISPLAY CARD
   Field of the invention
 5            The present invention relates to a heat dissipation device, and
   more particularly, to a heat dissipation device suitable for being connected
   with any display card and cooperated with a liquid heat dissipation unit.
   Descriptions of Prior Art
10
              The conventional way to bring heat from a computer is to install a
   fan beside the CPU and the fan generates air flow to bring away the heat
   from the CPU. For some users who use high performance parts, the
   conventional fan cannot satisfy the requirement of heat dissipation due to
15 high temperature generated from the performance parts. There is a heat
   dissipation device in the market and which is designed specifically for
   certain parts of specific specification. In other words, the users have to buy
   a heat dissipation device according to the specification of the part, different
   parts of different specifications need different heat dissipation devices. This
20 is not convenient for the users and may cost a lot of money.
                                           1

              The present invention is intended to provide a heat dissipation
   device that is cooperated with a liquid heat dissipation unit and can be used
   for any display card.
 5 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
              The present invention relates to a heat dissipation device and
   comprises a heat dissipation board having a first face and a second face
   which is located opposite to the first face, The first face of the heat
10 dissipation board is connected to a display car, and a gap is formed between
   the first face of the heat dissipation board and the display car. The heat
   dissipation board has a path defined therein which includes an inlet and an
   outlet. The inlet and the outlet are located on the same side of the heat
   dissipation board. A base board is connected to the first face of the heat
15 dissipation board and located between the heat dissipation board and the
   display car. The base board has multiple threaded holes, and multiple
   screws extend through the display card and are connected to the threaded
   holes of the base board. An adapter is connected to the heat dissipation
   board and located on the side that has the inlet and the outlet. The adapter
20 has two rooms defined therein, and the adapter has two bores which
   communicate with the two rooms, the inlet and the outlet. The adapter
                                         2

   further has at least one first hole and at least one second hole defined in the
   face that is connected next to the face having the two bores. The at least one
   first hole and the at least one second hole communicate with the two rooms
   and the two bores. The two bores of the adapter are connected with a liquid
 5 heat dissipation unit whose liquid flows into the path of the heat dissipation
   board via the two bores of the adapter to absorb heat from the display card,
   and flows back to the liquid dissipation unit.
              When replacing the display card, the users simply connect the heat
   dissipation board having the adapter to the display card, and use screws to
10 extend through the display card and threadedly connected to the threaded
   holes in the base board to easily combine the display card and the heat
   dissipation board. A liquid heat dissipation unit is then connected to the
   adapter to bring liquid from the liquid heat dissipation unit into the path so
   as to bring the heat generated from the display card. Therefore, the display
15 card is well cooled during operation. Besides, the adapter can be used with
   different display cards of different specifications.
              The present invention will become more obvious from the
   following description when taken in connection with the accompanying
   drawings which show, for purposes of illustration only, a preferred
20 embodiment in accordance with the present invention.
                                           3

   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
             Fig. 1 is a perspective view to show that the heat dissipation
   device of the present invention is connected with a display card;
 5           Fig. 2 is another perspective view to show that the heat dissipation
   device of the present invention is connected with a display card;
             Fig. 3 is an exploded view of the heat dissipation device of the
   present invention and the display card;
             Fig. 4 is another exploded view of the heat dissipation device of
10 the present invention and the display card;
             Fig. 5 is a perspective view, partially removed, of the heat
   dissipation device of the present invention and the display card;
             Fig. 6 shows that a liquid heat dissipation unit is connected to the
   heat dissipation device of the present invention;
15           Fig. 7 shows that the heat dissipation device of the present
   invention is connected to another display card;
             Fig. 8 is a top view to show the second embodiment of the present
   invention that is connected to a liquid heat dissipation unit;
             Fig. 9 is a top view to show the third embodiment of the present
20 invention that is connected to a liquid heat dissipation unit, and
                                          4

             Fig. 10 is a top view to show the third embodiment of the present
   invention that is connected to a liquid heat dissipation unit.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 5
             Referring to Figs. 1 to 6, the heat dissipation device of the present
   invention comprises a heat dissipation board 1 which includes a first face
   and a second face which is located opposite to the first face. The first face
   of the heat dissipation board 1 is connected to the display card 10, and a gap
10 is formed between the first face of the heat dissipation board 1 and the
   display card 10 so as not to touch the electronic parts. The heat dissipation
   board 1 includes a path 11 defined therein which is located corresponding to
   the display card 10. The path 11 has an inlet 111 and an outlet 112, and the
   inlet 111 and the outlet 112 are located on the same side of the heat
15 dissipation board 1. A base board 5 is connected to the first face of the heat
   dissipation board 1 and located between the heat dissipation board 1 and the
   display card 10. The base board 5 has multiple threaded holes 51. Multiple
   screws 6 extend through the display card 10 and are threadedly connected to
   the threaded holes 51 of the base board 5.
20           An adapter 2 is an elongate adapter and connected to the heat
   dissipation board 1. The adapter 2 is located on the side that has the inlet
                                          5

   111 and the outlet 112. The adapter 2 includes two rooms 21 defined therein.
   The adapter 2 has two bores 22 which communicate with the two rooms 21,
   the inlet 111 and the outlet 112. The adapter 2 has at least one first hole 23
   and at least one second hole 24 defined in the face of the adapter 2 that is
 5 connected next to the face having the two bores 22. The at least one first
   hole 23 and the at least one second hole 24 communicate with the two
   rooms 21 and the two bores 22. The two bores 22 of the adapter 2 are
   connected with pipes that are connected to the liquid heat dissipation unit
   20 so as to introduce liquid from the liquid heat dissipation unit 20 to flow
10 into the path 11 of the heat dissipation board 1 via the two bores 22 of the
   adapter 2. The liquid absorbs heat from the display card 10, and flows back
   to the liquid heat dissipation unit 20 so that the display card 10 is cooled
   down during operation. It is noted that the base board 5 can be connected to
   the display cards 10 of different specifications.
15            When replacing the display card 10, the users connect the heat
   dissipation board 1 having the adapter 2 to the new display card 10, and use
   screws 6 to extend through the display card 10 and to be threadedly
   connected to the threaded holes 51 in the base board 5 to the new display
   card 10 and the heat dissipation board 1. The liquid heat dissipation unit 20
20 is then connected to the adapter 2 to bring liquid from the liquid heat
   dissipation unit 20 into the path 11 to bring the heat generated from the
                                          6

   display card 10. Therefore, the users do not need to get a proper adapter 2
   for the new display card 10. The present invention can be used with
   different display cards 10 of different specifications, as shown in Figs, 2, 4
   and 7.
 5           The adapter 2 includes different embodiments so as to be
   cooperated with different display cards 10 that has different temperature
   requirements. As shown in Fig. 8, the at least one first hole 23 and the at
   least one second hole 24 of the adapter 2 are located on the same side of the
   adapter 2. This embodiment includes one first hole 23 and one second hole
10 24. Therefore, the adapter 2 can be cooperated with on liquid heat
   dissipation unit 20.
             As shown in Fig. 9, the at least one first hole 23 and the at least
   one second hole 24 of the adapter 2 are located on two different sides of the
   adapter 2. This embodiment is designed for different arrangements between
15 the display card 10 and the liquid heat dissipation unit 20, for example, the
   cases of the computer is different from each other, and the space for the
   liquid heat dissipation unit 20 connected to the computer.
             As shown in Fig. 10, the requirement of the temperature of the
   display card 10 is higher than the conventional display cards so that the
20 efficiency for heat dissipation has to be high. Therefore, the adapter 2 may
   have at least one or multiple first holes 23 and have at least one or multiple
                                          7

   second holes 24. The embodiment in Fig. 10 shows that there is a first hole
   23 and two second holes 24. As shown In Fig. 1, the adapter 2 may have
   multiple first holes 12 and multiple second holes 24 so as to be connected
   with multiple liquid heat dissipation units 20. The positions of the first
 5 holes 12 and the second holes 24 may vary according to practical needs.
              The at least one first hole 23 and at least one second hole 24 of the
   adapter 2 each are connected with a connector 3. Each connector 3 has a
   receiving end 31 and an engaging end 32. Each connector 3 has a reception
   hole 33 that communicates with the receiving end 31 and the engaging end
10 32. The engaging end 32 of each connector 3 is securely connected with the
   at least one first hole 23 and the at least one second hole 24. The receiving
   end 31 of each connector 3 is protruded beyond the adapter 2. The liquid
   heat dissipation unit 20 further includes two pipes 201, and each pipe 201 is
   connected between the liquid heat dissipation unit 20 and the receiving end
15 31 of the connector 3 corresponding thereto. The liquid such as water is
   circulated between the path 11 of the heat dissipation board 1 and the liquid
   heat dissipation unit 20 to keep the display card 10 at low temperature. As
   shown in Fig. 2, the adapter 2 is connected to the heat dissipation board 1
   by at least two bolts 4. The at least two bolts 4 do not affect the circulation
20 of the water and can easily be removed by the users.
                                            8

            While    we have shown     and described the embodiment in
  accordance with the present invention, it should be clear to those skilled in
  the art that further embodiments may be made without departing from the
  scope of the present invention.
5
                                       9

   WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
             1. A heat dissipation device comprising:
             a heat dissipation board having a first face and a second face
 5 which is located opposite to the first face, the first face of the heat
   dissipation board connected to the display card, a gap formed between the
   first face of the heat dissipation board and the display card, the heat
   dissipation board 1 having a path defined therein, the path having an inlet
   and an outlet, the inlet and the outlet located on the same side of the heat
10 dissipation board;
             a base board connected to the first face of the heat dissipation
   board and located between the heat dissipation board and the display card,
   the base board having multiple threaded holes, multiple screws extending
   through the display card and being connected to the threaded holes of the
15 base board;
             an adapter connected to the heat dissipation board and located on
   the side that has the inlet and the outlet, the adapter having two rooms
   defined therein, the adapter having two bores which communicate with the
   two rooms, the inlet and the outlet, the adapter having at least one first hole
20 and at least one second hole defined in a face that is connected next to a
                                          10

   face having the two bores, the at least one first hole and the at least one
   second hole communicating with the two rooms and the two bores, and
             the two bores of the adapter connected with the liquid heat
   dissipation unit whose liquid flows into the path of the heat dissipation
 5 board via the two bores of the adapter to absorb heat from the display card,
   and flows back to the liquid heat dissipation unit.
             2. The heat dissipation device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the
   at least one first hole and the at least one second hole of the adapter are
   located on the same side of the adapter.
10           3. The heat dissipation device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the
   at least one first hole and the at least one second hole of the adapter are
   located on two different sides of the adapter.
             4. The heat dissipation device as claimed in claim 1, wherein a
   number of each of the at least one first hole 23 and the at least one second
15 hole 24 is one or multiple.
             5. The heat dissipation device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the
   at least one first hole and at least one second hole of the adapter each are
   connected with a connector, each connector has a receiving end and an
   engaging end, each connector has a reception hole that communicates with
20 the receiving end and the engaging end, the engaging end of each connector
   is connected with the at least one first hole and the at least one second hole,
                                           11

  the receiving end of each connector is protruded beyond the adapter, the
  liquid heat dissipation unit includes two pipes, each pipe is connected
  between the liquid heat dissipation unit and the receiving end of the
  connector corresponding thereto, the adapter is connected to the heat
5 dissipation board by at least two bolts.
                                         12

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           7/10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           8/10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           9/10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           10/10

