 :\tId\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\16894253_l.docx-I 05/2018
                                                             ABSTRACT
Methods and systems for filtering variants in data sets comprising genomic information are
provided herein.
                                                                 70

     :\tid\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\16894253_l.docx-I 05/2018
                        Methods and Systems for Identification of Causal Genomic Variants
                                        CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
 5  [0001] This application claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Patent
   Application No. 61/556,599 filed November 7, 2011, entitled "Method and Systems for
   Identification of Causal Genomic Variants;" and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No.
   61/556,758 filed November 7,2011, entitled "Method and Systems for Identification of Causal
   Genomic Variants." which are fully incorporated by reference for all purposes. The disclosure
10 of the complete specification of Australian Patent ApplicationNo. 2012335955, as originally
   filed and as amended, is incorporated herein by reference.
                                                         BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
15 [0002] Full genome sequencing can provide information regarding about six billion base pairs
   in the human genome, yet the analysis of this massive amount of information has proven
   challenging. For example, between genomes there is a large amount variation, but only some
   of the variants actually affect phenotype. Of the variants that affect phenotype, only a subset
   these are relevant to a particular phenotype, for example a disease. At present, a clinician or
20 researcher who obtains full genome sequence information from a subject faces the challenge
   of sifting through the huge amount variant information to try and identify the subset of
   variants which may matter for a particular phenotype. Herein described are systems and
   methods to focus the attention of the researcher or clinician on potentially relevant genomic
   variants.
25  [0002a] It is generally desirable to overcome or ameliorate one or more of the above described
   difficulties, or to at least provide a useful alternative.
                                                             SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   [002b] According to the present invention, there is provided a biological context filter
30 configured to:
                     receive a data set comprising variants, wherein the data set comprises variant data from
   one or more samples from one or more individuals;
                                                                        1

    :\tId\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\16894253_l.docx-1 05/2018
                     communicate with a database of biological information, wherein the database of
   biological information is a knowledge representation system (KRS), wherein the KRS is
   formed from a first database comprising a knowledge base and a second database comprising
   an ontology, wherein the biological information is represented, within the KRS, as nodes
 5 connected by edges, each edge representing an interaction between two nodes, wherein the
   nodes represent biological entities, and wherein two biological entities connected by one edge
   are one hop away from each other; and
                     establish associations between the variants, from the received data set, and a portion of
   the biological information selected by a user, wherein each association includes a relationship
10 defined by a plurality of hops between a variant and the selected biological information; and
                     filter the received data set based on the established associations for variants associated
   with the selected biological information.
   [0003] Methods and systems for filtering variants in data sets comprising genomic
   information are provided herein.
15 [0004] In some embodiment a biological context filter wherein the biological context filter: is
   configured to receive a data set comprising variants, is in communication with a database of
   biological information, and is capable of transforming the data set by filtering the data set by
   variants associated with biological information, wherein the filtering comprises establishing
   associations between the data set and some or all of the biological information. In some
20 embodiments the biological the database of biological information is a knowledge base of
   curated biomedical content, wherein the knowledge base is structured with an ontology. In
   some embodiments the associations between the variants and the biological information
   comprises a relationship defined by one or more hops. In some embodiments a user selects the
   biological information for filtering. In some embodiments the filtering unmasks variants
25 associated with the biological information. In some embodiments the filtering masks variants
   not associated with the biological information. In some embodiments the filtering masks
   variants associated with biological information. In some embodiments the filtering unmasks
   variants not associated with the biological information. In some embodiments biological
   information for filtering is inferred from the data set. In some embodiments biological
30 information for filtering is inferred from study design information previously inputted by a
   user.
                                                                1A

 :\tId\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\16894253_l.docx-I 05/2018
[0005] In some embodiments a biological context filter: is configured to receive a data set
comprising variants wherein the data set comprises variant data from one or more samples
from one or more individuals,
                                                             1B

          WO 2013/070634                                                                    PCT/US2012/063753
is in communication with a database of biological information, and is capable of transforming the data set by
filtering the data set by variants associated with biological information, wherein the filtering comprises
establishing associations between the data set and some or all of the biological information.
[0006] In some embodiments biological context filter is combined with other filters in a filter cascade to
generate a final variant list. In some embodiments the biological context filter is combined with one or more
of the following filters in a filter cascade to reach a final variant list of less than 200 variants: common variant
filter, predicted deleterious filter, cancer driver variants filter, physical location filter, genetic analysis filter,
expression filter, user-defined variants filter, pharmacogenetics filter, or custom annotation filter. In some
embodiments the biological context filter is combined with one or more of the following filters in a filter
cascade to reach a final variant list of less than 50 variants: common variant filter, predicted deleterious filter,
cancer driver variants filter, physical location filter, genetic analysis filter, expression filter, user-defined
variants filter, pharmacogenetics filter, or custom annotation filter.
[0007] In some embodiments stringency of the biological context filter can be adjusted by a user, and
wherein the stringency adjustment from the user alters one or more of the following: the number of hops in an
association used for filtering, the strength of hops in an association used for filtering, the net effect of the hops
in an association used for filtering, and/or the upstream or downstream nature of hops in an association used
for filtering. In some embodiments the stringency of the biological filter is adjusted automatically based upon
the desired number of variants in the final filtered data set, wherein the stringency adjustment alters one or
more of the following: the number of hops in an association used for filtering, the strength of hops in an
association used for filtering, the net effect of the hops in an association used for filtering, and/or the upstream
or downstream nature of hops in an association used for filtering.
[0008] In some embodiments only upstream hops are used. In some embodiments only downstream hops are
used. In some embodiments the net effects of hops are used. In some embodiments the biological information
for filtering is biological function.
[0009] In some embodiments the biological function is a gene, a transcript, a protein, a molecular complex, a
molecular family or enzymatic activity, a therapeutic or therapeutic molecular target, a pathway, a process, a
phenotype, a disease, a functional domain, a behavior, an anatomical characteristic, a physiological trait or
state, a biomarker or a combination thereof. In some embodiments the stringency of the biological context
filter is adjusted by selection of the biological information for filtering. In some embodiments the biological
context filter is configured to accept a mask from another filter previously performed on the same data set.
[0010]     In some embodiments the biological context filter is in communication with hardware for outputting
the filtered data set to a user. In some embodiments a computer program product bearing machine readable
instructions enacts the biological context filter.
[0011] In some embodiments a cancer driver variants filter is provided wherein the cancer driver variants
filter: is configured to receive a first data set comprising variants, and is capable of transforming the first data
set by filtering the first data set by variants associated with one or more proliferative disorders. In some
embodiments the cancer driver variants filter is in communication with hardware for outputting the filtered
data set to a user. In some embodiments the first data set is suspected to contain variants associated with one
                                                           -2-

         WO 2013/070634                                                                     PCT/US2012/063753
or more proliferative disorders. In some embodiments the first data set was derived from a patient with a
proliferative disorder. In some embodiments the proliferative disorder is cancer. In some embodiments a user
specifies one or more proliferative disorders of interest for filtering. In some embodiments the filtering
unmasks variants associated with the one or more proliferative disorders. In some embodiments filtering
masks variants not associated with the one or more proliferative disorders. In some embodiments the filtering
masks variants associated with the one or more proliferative disorders. In some embodiments the filtering
unmasks variants not associated with the one or more proliferative disorders.
[0012] In some embodiments a cancer driver variants filter: is configured to receive a data set comprising
variants wherein said data set comprises variant data from one or more samples from one or more individuals,
and is capable of transforming the data set by filtering the data set by variants associated with one or more
proliferative disorders.
[0013] In some embodiments a cancer driver variants filter: is configured to receive a data set comprising
variants wherein said data set comprises variant data from one or more samples from one or more individuals,
and is capable of transforming the data set by filtering the data set by variants associated with one or more
proliferative disorders.
[0014] In some embodiments the one or more proliferative disorders for filtering is inferred from the data set.
In some embodiments the one or more proliferative disorders for filtering is inferred from study design
information previously inputted by a user.
[0015] In some embodiments the cancer driver variants filter is combined with other filters in a filter cascade
to generate a final variant list. In some embodiments the cancer driver variants filter is combined with one or
more of the following filters in a filter cascade to reach a final variant list of less than 200 variants: common
variant filter, predicted deleterious filter, biological context filter, physical location filter, genetic analysis
filter, expression filter, user-defined variants filter, pharmacogenetics filter, or custom annotation filter. In
some embodiments the cancer driver variants filter is combined with one or more of the following filters in a
filter cascade to reach a final variant list of less than 50 variants: common variant filter, predicted deleterious
filter, biological context filter, physical location filter, genetic analysis filter, expression filter, user-defined
variants filter, pharmacogenetics filter, or custom annotation filter.
[0016] In some embodiments the filtered variants are variants observed or predicted to meet one or more of
the following criteria: are located in human genes having animal model orthologs with cancer-associated gene
disruption phenotypes, impact known or predicted cancer subnetwork regulatory sites, impact cancer
associated cellular processes with or without enforcement of appropriate directionality, are associated with
published cancer literature findings in a knowledge base at the variant- and/or gene-level, impact cancer
associated pathways with or without enforcement of appropriate directionality, and/or are associated with
cancer therapeutic targets and/or upstream/causal subnetworks. In some embodiments the criteria are
restricted to one or more specific cancer disease models.
[0017] In some embodiments the cancer driver variants filter is in communication with a database of
biological information, wherein the database of biological information is a knowledge base of curated
biomedical content, wherein the knowledge base is structured with an ontology.
                                                            -3-

         WO 2013/070634                                                               PCT/US2012/063753
[0018] In some embodiments the stringency of the cancer driver variants filter is user adjustable, wherein the
stringency adjustment from the user alters the number of hops and/or the strength of hops in a relationship
and/or whether or not the variants are observed or predicted to have one or more of the following
characteristics: are located in human genes having animal model orthologs with cancer-associated gene
disruption phenotypes, impact known or predicted cancer subnetwork regulatory sites, impact cancer
associated cellular processes with or without enforcement of appropriate directionality, are associated with
published cancer literature findings in a knowledge base at the variant- and/or gene-level, impact cancer
associated pathways with or without enforcement of appropriate directionality, and/or are associated with
cancer therapeutic targets and/or upstream/causal subnetworks.
[0019] In some embodiments the stringency of the cancer driver variants filter is adjusted automatically
based upon the desired number of variants in the final filtered data set, wherein the stringency adjustment
alters the number of hops and/or the strength of hops in a relationship and/or whether or not the variants are
observed or predicted to have one or more of the following characteristics: are located in human genes having
animal model orthologs with cancer-associated gene disruption phenotypes, impact known or predicted cancer
subnetwork regulatory sites, impact cancer-associated cellular processes with or without enforcement of
appropriate directionality, are associated with published cancer literature findings in a knowledge base at the
variant- and/or gene-level, impact cancer-associated pathways with or without enforcement of appropriate
directionality, and/or are associated with cancer therapeutic targets and/or upstream/causal subnetworks.
[0020] In some embodiments the variants associated with one or more proliferative disorders are variants
which are one or more hops from variants that are predicted or observed to have one or more of the following
characteristics: are located in human genes having animal model orthologs with cancer-associated gene
disruption phenotypes, impact known or predicted cancer subnetwork regulatory sites, impact cancer
associated cellular processes with or without enforcement of appropriate directionality, are associated with
published cancer literature findings in a knowledge base at the variant- and/or gene-level, impact cancer
associated pathways with or without enforcement of appropriate directionality, and/or are associated with
cancer therapeutic targets and/or upstream/causal subnetworks.
[0021] In some embodiments the stringency of the cancer driver variants filter is adjusted by weighting the
strength of the hops. In some embodiments the stringency of the cancer driver variants filter is adjusted by
altering the number of hops. In some embodiments the hops are upstream hops or the hops are downstream
hops. In some embodiments the net effects of the hops are determined and only variants associated with
cancer driving net effects are filtered. In some embodiments the cancer driver variants filter is configured to
accept a mask from another filter previously performed on the same data set.
[0022] In some embodiments a computer program product bearing machine readable instructions to enact the
cancer driver variants filter.
[0023] In some embodiments a genetic analysis filter is provided wherein the genetic analysis filter is
configured to receive a first data set comprising variants, is capable of transforming the first data set by
filtering the first data set according to genetic logic. In some embodiments the genetic analysis filter is in
communication with hardware for outputting the filtered data set to a user. In some embodiments the genetic
                                                          -4-

         WO 2013/070634                                                                  PCT/US2012/063753
analysis filter is further configured to receive one or more additional data sets obtained from samples
genetically related to a source of the first data set.
[0024] In some embodiments the genetics analysis filter is configured to receive information optionally
identifying samples from the same individual or hereditary relationships among individuals with samples in
the data set.
[0025] In some embodiments at least one sample in the data set is a disease case sample and another sample
in the data set is a normal control sample from the same individual, wherein the filtering comprises filtering
variants either observed in both the disease and normal samples or observed uniquely in either the disease
sample or the normal sample.
[0026] In some embodiments the one or more samples in the data set are genetic parents of another sample in
the data set.In some embodiments the filtering comprises filtering variants from the data set that are
incompatible with Mendelian genetics. In some embodiments the filtering comprises filtering variants that are
heterozygous in parents and homozygous in samples from their progeny. In some embodiments the filtering
comprises filtering variants absent in at least one of the parents of a homozygous child. In some embodiments
the filtering comprises filtering variants absent in both of the parents of a child with the variant.
[0027] In some embodiments the data set has been previously filtered and wherein a subset of the data points
in the data set have been masked by the previous filter.
[0028] In some embodiments the filtering comprises filtering variants that are present at a given zygosity in
greater than or equal to a specified fraction of case samples but less than or equal to a specified fraction of
control samples, and/or filtering variants that are present at a given zygosity in less than or equal to a specified
fraction of case samples but greater than or equal to a specified fraction of control samples.
[0029] In some embodiments the filtering comprises filtering variants that are present at a given quality level
in greater than or equal to a specified fraction of case samples but less than or equal to a specified fraction of
control samples, and/or filtering variants that are present at a given quality level in less than or equal to a
specified fraction of case samples but greater than or equal to a specified fraction of control samples.
[0030] In some embodiments the first data set is from a tumor sample and a second data set is from a normal
sample from the same individual, wherein the filtering comprises filtering variants either observed in both the
first and second data sets or observed uniquely in either the tumor sample or the normal sample.
[0031] In some embodiments the genetic logic is configured based on presets from a user for recessive
hereditary disease, dominant hereditary disease, de novo mutation, or cancer somatic variants.
[0032] In some embodiments variants are filtered that are inferred to contribute to a gain or loss of function
of a gene in either (a) greater than or equal to a specified fraction of case samples but less than or equal to a
specified fraction of control samples, or (b) less than or equal to a specified fraction of case samples but
greater than or equal to a specified fraction of control samples.
[0033] In some embodiments the one or more additional data sets comprises data sets from either or both of
the genetic parents of the source of the first data set. In some embodiments the filtering comprises filtering
variants from the first data set that are incompatible with Mendelian genetics. In some embodiments the
filtering comprises filtering variants that are homozygous in both parents of the source of the first data set but
                                                          -5-

         WO 2013/070634                                                                  PCT/US2012/063753
heterozygous in the first data set. In some embodiments the filtering comprises filtering variants absent in at
least one of the parents of the source of the first data set but homozygous in the first data set. In some
embodiments the filtering comprises filtering variants absent in both of the parents of the source of the first
data set but present in the first data set. In some embodiments filtered variants are single copy variants located
in a hemizygous region of the genome.
[0034] In some embodiments the filtering comprises filtering variants that are a) absent in the child when at
least one parent is homozygous, and/or (b) heterozygous in the child if both parents are homozygous.
[0035] In some embodiments the genetic analysis filter is further in communication with a database of
biological information, wherein the database of biological information is a knowledge base of curated
biomedical content, wherein the knowledge base is structured with an ontology, and wherein the variants from
the first data set can be associated with the biological information by hops.
[0036] In some embodiments the biological information comprises information regarding haploinsufficiency
of genes. In some embodiments heterozygous variants associated with haploinsuffucient genes are filtered.
[0037] In some embodiments variants are filtered that occur with zygosity and/or quality settings specified by
the user in either (a) at least a specified number or minimal fraction of case samples and at most a specified
number or maximum fraction of control samples, or (b) at most a specified number or maximum fraction of
case samples and at least a specified number or minimum fraction of control samples. In some embodiments
variants are filtered that affect the same gene in either (a) at least a specified number or minimal fraction of
case samples and at most a specified number or maximum fraction of control samples, or (b) at most a
specified number or maximum fraction of case samples and at least a specified number or minimum fraction
of control samples.
[0038] In some embodiments variants are filtered that affect the same network within 1 or more hops in
either: (a) at least a specified number or minimal fraction of case samples and at least a specified number or
maximum fraction of control samples, or (b) at most a specified number or maximum fraction of case samples
and at least a specified number or minimum fraction of control samples. In some embodiments the stringency
of the genetic analysis filter is adjusted by weighting the strength of the hops.
[0039] In some embodiments the stringency of the genetic analysis filter is adjusted altering the number of
hops. In some embodiments the hops are upstream hops. In some embodiments the hops are downstream
hops.
[0040] In some embodiments the genetic first data set has been previously filtered and wherein a subset of
the data points in the first data set have been masked by the previous filter. In some embodiments the
stringency is adjusted by a user. In some embodiments the filter stringency is adjusted automatically based on
the desired number of variants in the final filtered data set.
[0041] In some embodiments the genetic analysis filter is combined with other filters in a filter cascade to
yield a final filtered data set of interest to a user. In some embodiments the genetic analysis filter combined
with one or more of the following filters in a filter cascade to reach a final variant list of less than 50 variants:
common variant filter, predicted deleterious filter, biological context filter, physical location filter, cancer
driver variants filter, expression filter, user-defined variants filter, pharmacogenetics filter, or custom
                                                            -6-

         WO 2013/070634                                                                    PCT/US2012/063753
annotation filter. In some embodiments genetic analysis filter is with one or more of the following filters in a
filter cascade to reach a final variant list of less than 200 variants: common variant filter, predicted
deleterious filter, biological context filter, physical location filter, cancer driver variants filter, expression
filter, user-defined variants filter, pharmacogenetics filter, or custom annotation filter.
[0042] In some embodiments the stringency adjustment alters a zygosity requirement of the filter. In some
embodiments the stringency adjustment alters a variant quality requirement of the filter. In some
embodiments the stringency adjustment alters the required number or fraction of case samples for filtering.
[0043] In some embodiments the stringency adjustment alters whether the genetic analysis filter is filtering
variants based on whether they (a) occur with zygosity and/or quality settings specified by the user, or (b)
affect the same gene, or (c) affect the same network within 1 or more hops. In some embodiments the
stringency of the genetic analysis filter is adjusted by weighting the strength of the hops. In some
embodiments the stringency of the genetic analysis filter is adjusted by altering the number of hops. In some
embodiments the net effects of the hops are determined and only variants associated with user selected net
effects are filtered. In some embodiments the cancer driver variants filter is configured to accept a mask from
another filter previously performed on the same data set.
[0044] In some embodiments a genetic analysis filter: is configured to receive a data set comprising variants
wherein said data set comprises variant data from one or more samples from one or more individuals, and is
capable of transforming the data set by filtering the data set according to genetic logic.
[0045] In some embodiments a computer program product bearing machine readable instructions enacts the
genetic analysis filter.
[0046] In some embodiments a pharmacogenetics filter is provided wherein the pharmacogenetics filter is
configured to receive a data set comprising variants, is in communication with a database of biological
information, wherein the database of biological information is a knowledge base of curated biomedical
content, wherein the knowledge base is structured with an ontology, wherein the biological information is
information related to one or more drugs, and is capable of transforming the data set by filtering the data set
by variants associated with biological information, wherein the filtering comprises establishing associations
between the data set and some or all of the biological information. In some embodiments the
pharmacogenetics filter is in communication with hardware for outputting the filtered data set to a user. In
some embodiments information related to one or more drugs comprises drug targets, drug responses, drug
metabolism, or drug toxicity. In some embodiments the associations between the variants and the biological
information comprises a relationship defined by one or more hops. In some embodiments a user selects the
biological information for filtering.
[0047] In some embodiments a pharmacogenetics filter: is configured to receive a data set comprising
variants, wherein the data set comprises variant data from one or more samples from one or more individuals;
is in communication with a database of biological information, wherein the database of biological information
is a knowledge base of curated biomedical content, wherein the knowledge base is structured with an
ontology, wherein the biological information is information related to one or more drugs; and is capable of
transforming the data set by filtering the data set by variants associated with biological information, wherein
                                                           -7-

         WO 2013/070634                                                                     PCT/US2012/063753
the filtering comprises establishing associations between the data set and some or all of the biological
information.
[0048] In some embodiments the filtering unmasks variants associated with the biological information. In
some embodiments the filtering masks variants not associated with the biological information. In some
embodiments the filtering masks variants associated with biological information. In some embodiments the
filtering unmasks variants not associated with the biological information.
[0049] In some embodiments biological information for filtering is inferred from the data set. In some
embodiments biological information for filtering is inferred from study design information previously inputted
by a user.          In some embodiments the biological context filter is combined with other filters in a filter
cascade to generate a final variant list.
[0050] In some embodiments the pharmacogenetics filter is combined with one or more of the following
filters in a filter cascade to reach a final variant list of less than 200 variants: common variant filter, predicted
deleterious filter, cancer driver variants filter, physical location filter, genetic analysis filter, expression filter,
user-defined variants filter, biological context filter, or custom annotation filter. In some embodiments the
pharmacogenetics filter is combined with one or more of the following filters in a filter cascade to reach a
final variant list of less than 50 variants: common variant filter, predicted deleterious filter, cancer driver
variants filter, physical location filter, genetic analysis filter, expression filter, user-defined variants filter,
biological context filter, or custom annotation filter.
[0051] In some embodiments the stringency of the pharmacogenetics filter can be adjusted by a user, and
wherein the stringency adjustment from the user alters one or more of the following: the number of hops in an
association used for filtering, the strength of hops in an association used for filtering, whether or not predicted
drug response biological information is used for filtering, whether or not predicted drug metabolism or
toxicity information is used for filtering, whether or not established drug target(s) are used for filtering, the net
effect of the hops in an association used for filtering and/or, the upstream or downstream nature of hops in an
association used for filtering.
[0052] In some embodiments the stringency of the pharmacogenetics filter is adjusted automatically based
upon the desired number of variants in the final filtered data set, wherein the stringency adjustment alters one
or more of the following: the number of hops in an association used for filtering the strength of hops in an
association used for filtering, whether or not predicted drug response biological information is used for
filtering, whether or not predicted drug metabolism or toxicity information is used for filtering, whether or not
established drug target(s) are used for filtering, the net effect of the hops in an association used for filtering
and/or, the upstream or downstream nature of hops in an association used for filtering.
[0053] In some embodiments in the pharmacogenetics filter only upstream hops are used, only downstream
hops are used., and/or the net effects of hops are used.
[0054] In some embodiments stringency of the pharmacogenetic filter is adjustable by the user. In some
embodiments the pharmacogenetics filter is configured to accept a mask from another filter previously
performed on the same data set.
                                                             -8-

          WO 2013/070634                                                                PCT/US2012/063753
[0055] In some embodiments a computer program product bearing machine readable instructions enacts the
pharmacogenetic filter variants filter.
[0056] In some embodiments a predicted deleterious filter is provided wherein the predicted deleterious
filter: is configured to receive a data set comprising variants, and is capable of transforming the data set by
filtering the data by variants predicted to be deleterious or non-deleterious. In some embodiments the
predicted deleterious filter is in communication with hardware for outputting the filtered data set to a user.
[0057] In some embodiments the filtering comprises utilizing at least one algorithm for predicting deleterious
or non-deleterious variants in the data set and then filtering the predicted deleterious or non-deleterious
variants. In some embodiments the at least one algorithm is SIFT, BSIFT, PolyPhen, PolyPhen2, PANTHER,
SNPs3D, FastSNP, SNAP, LS-SNP, PMUT, PupaSuite, SNPeffect, SNPeffectV2.0, F-SNP, MAPP, PhD
SNP, MutDB, SNP Function Portal, PolyDoms, SNP@Promoter, Auto-Mute, MutPred, SNP@Ethnos,
nsSNPanalyzer, SNP@Domain, StSNP, MtSNPscore, or Genome Variation Server.
[0058] In some embodiments conserved variants are filtered. In some embodiments the predicted deleterious
variants are filtered based on a gene fusion prediction algorithm. In some embodiments the predicted
deleterious variants are filtered based on variants creating or disrupting a predicted or experimentally
validated miRNA binding site. In some embodiments the predicted deleterious variants are filtered based on a
predicted copy number gain algorithm. In some embodiments the predicted deleterious variants are filtered
based on a predicted copy number loss algorithm. los the predicted deleterious variants are filtered based on a
predicted splice site loss or splice site gain. In some embodiments the predicted deleterious variants are
filtered based on disruption of a known or predicted miRNA or ncRNA. In some embodiments the predicted
deleterious variants are filtered based on disruption of or creation of a known or predicted transcription factor
binding site. In some embodiments the predicted deleterious variants are filtered based on disruption of or
creation of a known or predicted enhancer site. In some embodiments the predicted deleterious variants are
filtered based on disruption of an untranslated region (UTR).
[0059] In some embodiments the predicted deleterious filter is further in communication with a database of
biological information, wherein the database of biological information is a knowledge base of curated
biomedical content, wherein the knowledge base is structured with an ontology, and wherein the variants from
the first data set can be associated with the biological information either (a) directly based on one or more
mutation findings in the knowledge base, (b) by a combination of gene findings and a functional prediction
algorithm. In some embodiments the biological information comprises a deleterious phenotype, wherein the
variants associated with the deleterious phenotypes are filtered. In some embodiments the deleterious
phenotype is a disease.
[0060] In some embodiments predicted deleterious variants comprise variants which are directly associated
with a mutation finding in the knowledge base, predicted deleterious (or non-innocuous) single nucleotide
variants; predicted or known splice sites, predicted to create or disrupt a transcription factor binding site,
predicted or known non-coding RNAs, predicted or known miRNA targets, or predicted or known enhancers.
[0061] In some embodiments the predicted deleterious variants comprise variants which are directly
associated with a variant finding in the knowledge base, predicted deleterious (or non-innocuous) single
                                                         -9-

         WO 2013/070634                                                                    PCT/US2012/063753
nucleotide variants; predicted to create or disrupt a RNA splice site, predicted to create or disrupt a
transcription factor binding site, predicted to disrupt non-coding RNAs, predicted to create or disrupt a
microRNA target, or predicted to disrupt known enhancers.
[0062] In some embodiments the predicted deleterious filter is combined with other filters in a filter cascade
to yield a final filtered data set of interest to the user. In some embodiments the predicted deleterious filter is
combined with one or more of the following filters in a filter cascade to reach a final variant list of less than
50 variants: common variant filter, biological context filter, physical location filter, genetic analysis filter,
cancer driver variants filter, expression filter, user-defined variants filter, pharmacogenetics filter, or custom
annotation filter. In some embodiments the predicted deleterious filter is combined with one or more of the
following filters in a filter cascade to reach a final variant list of less than 200 variants: common variant filter,
biological context filter, physical location filter, genetic analysis filter, cancer driver variants filter, expression
filter, user-defined variants filter, pharmacogenetics filter, or custom annotation filter.
[0063] In some embodiments a stringency of the predicted deleterious filter is adjustable by the user. In
some embodiments the stringency is adjusted automatically based on the desired number of variants in the
final filtered data set. In some embodiments the predicted deleterious variants are filtered based on a
pathogenicity annotator.
[0064] In some embodiments the predicted deleterious filter is configured to accept a mask from another
filter previously performed on the same data set.
[0065] In some embodiments a predicted deleterious filter: is configured to receive a data set comprising
variants, wherein the data set comprises variant data from one or more samples from one or more individuals;
and is capable of transforming the data set by filtering the data by variants predicted to be deleterious or non
deleterious.
[0066] In some embodiments a computer program product bearing machine readable instructions enacts a
predicted deleterious filter.
[0067] In some embodiments the pathogenicity annotator categorizes variants using a predicted deleterious
filter and a database of biological information, wherein the database of biological information is a knowledge
base of curated biomedical content, and wherein the knowledge base is structured with an ontology.
[0068] In some embodiments the pathogenicity annotator is in communication with hardware for outputting
the categorization to a user. In some embodiments the variants outputted into the following categories:
Pathogenic, Likely Pathogenic, Uncertain, Likely Benign, Benign based upon a combination of the results of
the predicted deleterious filter and the weight of evidence in the knowledge base supporting or refuting each
variant's association with a deleterious phenotype. In some embodiments the terminology is varied or there
are more or less categories, for instance the variants can be outputted into the following categories:
Pathogenic, Presumed Pathogenic, Unknown, Presumed Benign, Benign based upon a combination of the
results of the predicted deleterious filter and the weight of evidence in the knowledge base supporting or
refuting each variant's association with a deleterious phenotype. In some embodiments the categorization
includes one or more of the following catagoties: unknown, untested, non-pathogenic, probable-non
pathogenic, probable-pathogenic, pathogenic, drug-response, histocompatibility, or other. In some
                                                           -10-

         WO 2013/070634                                                                    PCT/US2012/063753
embodiments a) "pathogenic" means <0.07% frequency of the variant in a database of genomes of individuals
free from known genetic disease, and 2 or more findings drawing a causal or associative link between the
variant and a deleterious phenotype from multiple different articles in the biomedical literature; "Presumed
Pathogenic" "Probable Patogenic" or Likely Pathogenic" means <0.07% frequency of the variant in a
database of genomes of individuals free from known genetic disease, and 1 finding drawing a causal or
associative link between the variant and a deleterious phenotype; "Unknown" or "Uncertaion" means
between 0.07% and 0. 1%frequency of the variant in a database of genomes of individuals free from known
genetic disease; "Presumed Benign" or "Likely Benign" or "Probable non-pathogenic" means between 0. 1%
and 1%frequency of the variant in a database of genomes of individuals free from known genetic disease; and
          "benign" means >=1% frequency of the variant in a database of genomes of individuals free from
known genetic disease.
[0069] In some embodiments, the pathogenicity annotator is in communication with a knowledge base of
disease models that define variants, genes, and pathways that are associated with that disease, wherein
pathogenicity annotator utilizes the disease models to provide a pathogenicity assessment for a particular
combination of a specific variant and a specific disease.
[0070] In some embodiments a preconfigurator is the preconfigurator is: configured to receive information
provided by a user related to a data set comprising variants, in communication with one or more filters, in
communication with the data set comprising variants, and capable of controlling the filters at least in part
according to the information provided by the user wherein the preconfigurator selects filters and filter
stringency related to the information provided by the user to yield a final filtered data set.
[0071] In some embodiments the preconfigurator controls the addition, removal, and stringency settings of
one or more of the following filters: common variants filter, predicted deleterious filter, genetic analysis
filter, biological context filter, pharmacogenetics filter, physical location filter, or cancer driver variants filter.
[0072] In some embodiments the preconfigurator optimizes the addition or removal of filters and filter
stringency settings to achieve a final filtered data set of no more than 200 variants
[0073] In some embodiments the preconfigurator optimizes the addition or removal of filters and filter
stringency settings to achieve a final filtered data set of no more than 50 variants.
[0074] In some embodiments the information provided by the user includes the mode of inheritance of a
disease of interest. In some embodiments the information provided by the user includes a user input which can
be recognized by the preconfigurator as an instruction for selecting filtering which: identifies causal disease
variants, identifies cancer driver variants, identifies variants that stratify or differentiate one population from
another, or analyzes a genome to identify variants of interest for health management, treatment, personalized
medicine and/or individualized medicine.
[0075] In some embodiments the preconfigurator is in communication with a knowledge base of curated
biomedical content, wherein the knowledge base is structured with an ontology.
[0076] In some embodiments the information from a user includes biological information including one or
more genes, transcripts, proteins, drugs, pathways, processes, phenotypes, diseases, functional domains,
behaviors, anatomical characteristics, physiological traits or states, biomarkers or a combination thereof.
                                                         -11-

         WO 2013/070634                                                                  PCT/US2012/063753
[0077] In some embodiments a computer program product bearing machine readable instructions enacts the
preconfigurator.
[0078] In some embodiments provided herein are methods for identifying prospective causal variants
comprising: receiving a list of variants, filtering the list of variants with one or more common variants filters,
filtering the list of variants with one or more predicted deleterious filters, filtering the list of variants with
one or more genetic analysis filters, filtering the list of variants with one or more biological context filters,
outputting the filtered list of variants as a list of prospective causal variants.
[0079] In some embodiments the causal outputting step occurs less than 1 day following the receiving step.
[0080] In some embodiments the causal outputting step occurs less that 1 week following the receiving step.
[0081] In some embodiments the list of variants comprises more than 1 million variants and the outputted
filtered list of variants comprises less than 50 variants.
[0082] In some embodiments a graphical user interface is used for displaying the output of a filter cascade,
wherein the filter cascade comprises one or more of the following: a common variants filter, a predicted
deleterious filter, a genetic analysis filter, or a biological context filter.
[0083] In some embodiments provided herein are methods for the delivery of an interactive report method
comprising the steps of: receiving a request for a quotation, wherein the quotation request comprises a
disclosure of a number by a customer, wherein the number is the number of samples the costumer would like
a price quotation on for genomic analysis services; transmitting a price quotation based at least in part upon
the number of samples, wherein the price quotation comprises the cost of an interactive report for the
biological interpretation of variants in the samples using a database of biological information, wherein the
database of biological information is a knowledge base of curated biomedical content, and wherein the
knowledge base is structured with an ontology; receiving an order from a customer, wherein the order
comprises ordering the interactive report for the biological interpretation of variants using a database of
biological information; and providing a hyperlink to the customer, wherein the hyperlink directs the customer
the interactive report for the biological interpretation of variants using a database of biological information.
[0084] In some embodiments provided herein are methods for the delivery of an interactive report method
comprising the steps of: receiving a request for a quotation, wherein the quotation request comprises a
disclosure of a number by a customer, wherein the number is the number of samples the costumer would like
a price quotation on for genomic analysis services; transmitting a price quotation at least in part based upon
the number of samples, wherein the price quotation comprises the cost of an interactive report for the
biological interpretation of variants using a database of biological information; receiving an order from a
customer, wherein the order does not include ordering the interactive report for the biological interpretation of
variants using a database of biological information; and providing a hyperlink to the customer, wherein the
hyperlink directs the customer to a second price quotation for the interactive report for the biological
interpretation of variants using a database of biological information. In some embodiments the interactive
report for the biological interpretation of variants using a database of biological information has been
generated prior to providing the second price quotation. In some embodiments the second price quotation
                                                           -12-

         WO 2013/070634                                                                     PCT/US2012/063753
comprises a preview of the analysis. In some embodiments the preview of the analysis is variants predicted to
be of interest to the customer.
[0085] In some embodiments provided herein are methods for providing an interactive report to a customer
for the biological interpretation of variants using a database of biological information comprising: receiving a
data set comprising genomic information from a partner company, wherein the partner company received the
sample from a customer and generated the data set from the sample, and loading the data set into a software
system for biological interpretation of variants for future access by the user. In some embodiments the
software system comprises one or more of the filters described herein. In some embodiments the methods
further comprise: receiving a confirmation of an order from the customer after the generation of the interactive
report; and providing the interactive report to the customer. In some embodiments the database of biological
information is a knowledge base of curated biomedical content, and wherein the knowledge base is structured
with an ontology.
[0086] In some embodiments the customer is a healthcare provider. In some embodiments the customer is an
individual. In some embodiments the customer is a healthcare consumer. In some embodiments the customer
is an organization.
[0087] In some embodiments the data set delivered by the provider of genomic analysis services and the
interactive report for said data set are delivered to the customer on the same day. In some embodiments the
data set delivered by the provider of genomic analysis services and the interactive report for said data set are
delivered to the customer in the same week. The delivery can, in some embodiments, occur nearly
simultaneous to payment by the customer.
[0088] In some embodiments the genomic analysis services and the interactive report for the data set to be
produced by said genomic analysis services are quoted to the customer on the same day. In some instances
the quote is within an hour, minutes, or is simultaneous.
[0089]    In some embodiments the genomic analysis services and the interactive report for the data set to be
produced by said genomic analysis services are quoted to the customer on the same day.
[0090] In some embodiments the interactive report is generated using a filter cascade, wherein the filter
cascade comprises one or more of: a pharmacogenetics, a common variant filter, a predicted deleterious filter,
a cancer driver variants filter, a physical location filter, a genetic analysis filter, a expression filter, a user
defined variants filter, a biological context filter, or a custom annotation filter.
[0091] In some embodiments a method for displaying genetic information to a user comprises: displaying to
a user a two dimensional grid with samples on one axis and variants occurring in one or more samples on the
other axis, wherein each cell of the grid represents a distinct instance of a variant (or lack thereof) in each
sample, displaying, in each cell one or more colored icons, wherein the color of the one or more icons in each
cell of the grid varies depending upon whether the variant represented by that cell is predicted to cause a gain
of-function, loss-of-function, or result in normal function of a gene or gene network in the sample represented
by that cell.
                                                           -13-

         WO 2013/070634                                                                    PCT/US2012/063753
[0092] In some embodiments a number of visually distinct shapes within a cell representing a particular
variant and a particular sample correlates linearly with zygosity and/or copy number at the position of said
particular variant in said particular sample.
[0093] In some embodiments the icon in a cell is distinct in shape and/or color if the sample represented by
that cell has a genotype that is identical to the reference genome.
[0094] In some embodiments the color intensity is varied according to genotype quality, wherein higher color
intensity indicates a higher quality measurement
[0095] In some embodiments one or more of the icons in a cell change shape and/or color if the variant
represented by that cell is predicted to create a gene fusion in the sample represented by that cell.
[0096] In some embodiments the icon in a cell is distinct in shape and/or color if the location of the variant
represented by that cell has no data or there is an inability to make an accurate genotype call at the position of
that variant in the sample represented by that cell.
[0097] In some embodiments a computer program product bearing machine readable instructions to enacts a
method for displaying genetic information to a user.
[0098] In some embodiments a computer-implemented pedigree builder wherein is configured to utilize input
from the user to identify the sample most likely derived from the mother of the individual from which a given
sample was derived. On other embodiments, the pedigree builder is configured to utilize input from the user
to identify the sample most likely derived from the father of the individual from which a given sample was
derived. In other embodiments, the pedigree builder is configured to construct pedigree information and make
available to a genetic analysis filter of claim 62 for further filtering of variants. In some embodiments, the
pedigree builder may also infers all trios and family relationships within a given study, or identify potential
pedigree inconsistencies such as that between relationships derived from user input, derived from
computational analysis or where inconsistencies may comprise non-paternity, sample mislabeling or sample
mix-up errors.
[0099] In some embodiments, the pedigree builder may assign the same individual identifier to multiple
samples derived from the same individual, such that the program is able to infer a patient's normal genome
and the matched tumor genome(s) from the same patient.
[00100] In some embodiments, a computer-implemented statistical association filter wherein the statistical
association filter is configured to utlilize inputs of a previous filter in a filter cascade as input; filter variants
using a basic allelic, dominant, or recessive model that are statistically significantly different between two or
more sample groups; filter variants that perturb a gene differently between two or more sample groups with
statistical significance using a burden test; and filter variants that perturb a pathway/gene set differently
between two or more sample groups using a pathway or gene set burden test.
[00101] In some embodiments, the statistical filter is able to distinguish between disease affected and
unaffected states using a burden test selected from the following: a case-burden, control-burden, and 2-sided
burden test. In other embodiments, the statistical association filter is able to distinguish between disease
affected and unaffected states using a burden test that utilizes only variants that pass the previous filter in the
filter cascade inputed into the program in computing statistically significant variants.
                                                          -14-

        WO 2013/070634                                                                 PCT/US2012/063753
[00102] In some embodiments, the statistical association filter is able to identify variants that are deleterious
and contribute to inferred gene-level loss of function or inferred gene-level gain-of-function by utilizing the
predicted deleterious filter and the genetic analysis.
[00103] In some embodiments, the statistical association filter, is able to distinguish between disease affected
and unaffected states by utilizing a knowledge base of findings from the literature and to identify genes that
together form a collective interrelated set based upon one or more shared elements selected from one or more
of the following: pathway biology, domain, expression, biological process, disease relevance, group and
complex annotation.
[00104] In some embodiments, the statistical association filter is able to distinguishe between disease affected
and unaffected states by identifying variants that perturb said pathway or gene set significantly more or
significantly less between two or more sample groups.
[00105] In some embodiments, the statistical association filter of claim 187 wherein the pathway or gene set
burden test can be performed across a library of pathways/genesets or a user-specified subset thereof.
[00106] In some embodiments, a computer-implemented Publish Feature wherein the Publish Feature is
configured to enable the use to specify an analysis of interest; enable the user to enter a brief name and/or
description of said analysis; provide the user with a URL internet link that can be embedded by the user in a
publication; provide the user with the ability to release the published analysis for broad access; and upon said
release by the user, provide access to the user's published analysis to other users who access the URL of step
(c) or who browse a list of available published analyses.
[00107] In some embodiments, a computer -implemented Druggable Pathway Feature wherein, given one or
more variants that are causal or driver variants for disease in one or more patient samples, the Druggable
Pathway Feature is configured to: identify drugs that are known to target, activate and/or repress a gene, gene
product, or gene set that co-occurs in the same pathway or genetic network as said one or more variants;
identify the predicted net effect of said one or more variants in the patient sample on the pathway or genetic
network above through causal network analysis; and further identify drugs identified in step (a) that have a net
effect on the pathway or genetic network that is directly opposite of the predicted impact of the variant on the
said pathway or genetic network.
[00108] In some embodiments, the Druggable Pathway Feature is used to to identify patient samples
representing patients likely to respond to one or more specific drugs of interest based on their sequence variant
profiles.
[00109] In some embodiments, a Frequent Hitters Filter is configured to: access a knowledge base of
hypervariable genes and genomic regions that are mutated among a collection of samples derived from
individuals unaffected by the disease or phenotype of interest; filter variants that occur within hypervariable
genes and/or genomic regions; and enumerate trinucleotide repeats through a trinucleotide repeat annotator.
[00110] In some embodiments, the trinucleotide annotator of the Frequency Hitter Filter is configured to:
interact with a knowledge base of known trinucleotide repeat regions that contains information on the number
of repeats that are benign and the number of repeats that are associated with one or more human phenotypes or
severities thereof; assess the number of trinucleotide repeats at one or more genomic regions defined in the
                                                        -15-

         WO 2013/070634                                                                   PCT/US2012/063753
knowledge base in one or more patient whole genome or exome sequencing samples; assess whether the
trinucleotide repeat length calculated in (b) is sufficient to cause a phenotype based on the knowledge base,
for each trinucleotide repeat; and communicate with a predicted deleterious filter to enable filtering of variants
t cause a phenotype based on the results of the trinucleotide repeat annotator.
                                      INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
[00111] All publications and patent applications mentioned in this specification are herein incorporated by
reference to the same extent as if each subject publication or patent application was specifically and
individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.
                                 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[00112] The novel features of the invention are set forth with particularity in the appended claims. A better
understanding of the features and advantages of the present invention will be obtained by reference to the
following detailed description that sets forth illustrative embodiments, in which the principles of the invention
are utilized, and the accompanying drawings of which:
[00113] Figure 1 depicts one embodiment of a user interface representing a filter cascade vertically along the
left hand side comprising one or more filters, in this case consisting of a Common Variants filter, a Predicted
Deleterious filter, a Genetic Analysis filter, and a Biological Context filter. Each filter can "keep", "exclude"
or "add back" variants from the variant data set. Each filter may also optionally take one or more masks from
previous filters as input, which stipulates which variants have been retained and which variants have been
masked out in previous filter steps in the filter cascade. In this non-limiting example, the final filtered variant
data set is presented to the user, and the number of variants and associated genes represented in the final
filtered variant data set is presented to the user at the bottom of the filter cascade in the leftmost vertical bar.
Details on the variants that have not been masked out are shown in the table view on the right for the variants
retained at the selected step of the filter cascade on the left.
[00114] The color-coded "Case Samples" and "Control Samples" columns combine a spectrum of useful
information for the analysis of genetic information into a single multi-color graphical display, with legend for
said display shown at the right. Blue color indicates loss of function at the gene level, orange color indicates
gain-of-function, and black indicates probable normal function of the gene. Graphical icons allow rapid visual
detection by the user of multiple key elements of genetic information for each case sample and each control
sample including: (a) copy number gain, (b) copy number loss, (c) zygosity of the variant, (d) identity to the
reference genome, (e) variant or genotype quality, (f) gene fusion status, (g) uncertainty or lack of ability to
make a genotype call in a given sample at that position, and/or (g) loss of function including by such causes as
a homozygous variant, a heterozygous variant in a hemizygous region, a heterozygous variant in a gene in
which compound heterozygosity or haploinsufficiency occurs.
[00115] Figure 2 depicts (A) views of one embodiment of a Biological Context Filter user interface. Note
that the Biological Context filter user interface on the right shows an example of user adjustment of stringency
of the filter, wherein in this particular example the user has selected 2 hops and is about to specify variants
                                                          -16-

         WO 2013/070634                                                                  PCT/US2012/063753
that "Directly Activate/Cause gain of function in" a biological process of interest. The filter user interface
also allows the user to specify downstream hops and one or more biological concepts of interest with
autocompletion, leveraging a knowledge base organized using an ontology. (B) Filters linked to a knowledge
base structured using an ontology can benefit from autocompletion, wherein the user types all or a portion of
the name of a biological concept and matches to the characters entered, including synonyms from the
ontology, are presented to the user that are dynamically updated with each user keystroke. This allows for
convenient selection of biological information and biological concepts by the user, and for biological
information implicated in concepts subsumed in the ontology by each biological concept of interest to be
automatically included. This non-limiting example shows the application of autocompletion based on a
knowledge base structured using an ontology within the user interface for a Biological Context filter.
[00116] Figure 3 depicts one embodiment of a user interface for a Cancer Driver Variants filter, wherein the
filtered variants are observed or predicted to meet one or more of the following criteria:
1.       in human genes having mouse orthologs with cancer-associated gene disruption phenotypes,
2.       impact cancer-associated cellular processes with or without enforcement of appropriate directionality,
3.       impact cancer-associated pathways with or without enforcement of appropriate directionality,
4.       associated with cancer therapeutic targets and/or upstream/causal subnetworks,.
5.       associated with published cancer literature findings in a knowledge base at the variant- and/or gene
level,
6.       in the COSMIC database of somatic variants at a given frequency, and or
7.       impact known or predicted cancer pathways subnetwork regulatory sites.
[00117] This filter also benefits from selection of a disease model (e.g. "breast cancer") which focuses all of
the other filter elements on the biological information relevant to the specific form of cancer described by the
disease model.
[00118] Figure 4 depicts a knowledge base being utilized to identify cancer driver variants.
[00119] Figure 5 depicts the common variants filter in one embodiment. In this embodiment, the common
variants filter is able to filter variants based on their frequency(ies) in one or more databases of variants. This
allows a fast and convenient mechanism for users to filter (i.e. mask or unmask) variants within a variant data
set that have been observed to occur at, above, or below a given frequency in a given population.
[00120] Figure 6 depicts one embodiment of a Custom Annotation variants filter user interface. In some
embodiments of the invention, users can create custom filters based on alphanumeric annotations of the
variants in the variant dataset, finding variants where the "Chromosome" annotation column equals "X", for
example, would be equivalent to a physical location filter used to identify variants on the X chromosome.
Also in some embodiments, users can import custom columns into the variant data set and can apply the
custom annotation filter to filter on the annotations present in these custom columns. This filter can be used
with columns of imported expression data from RNA-Seq, proteomics, or microarray studies, for example, to
identify variants that are present on exons expressed at greater than or equal to a given level, or to filter for
variants that occur in regions identified in chromatin immunoprecipitation or methylation studies.
                                                           -17-

         WO 2013/070634                                                                  PCT/US2012/063753
[00121] Figure 7 depicts one embodiment of a Genetic Analysis filter user interface, allowing for adjustment
of stringency by altering (a) the case and/or control zygosity and/or (b) the case and/or control variant quality
or genotype quality, and/or (c) the number or fraction of case samples in which the variant (i) occurs with said
case zygosity and case quality and/or (ii) affects the same gene, and/or (iii) affects the same network within 1
or more hops, and/or (d) the number of control samples in which the variant (i) occurs with said control
zygosity and control quality and/or (ii) affects the same gene, and/or (iii) affects the same network within 1 or
more hops. The interface to accomplish (ii) and (iii) are not shown here, but are readily accomplished in the
current invention by modifying, for example, the text at the bottom to "the genotypes selected above
[occurlaffect the same genelaffect the same network (1 hop)] in at least [112] of the 2 case samples (100%)".
The top box shows an example of a simplified Genetic Analysis filter user interface, which could be expanded
to the more complex and richly featured Genetic Analysis filter displayed at the bottom by clicking the
Customize button.
[00122] Figure 8 depicts an embodiment of a Pharmacogenetics filter user interface. This filter, in
communication with a knowledge base of curated biomedical content structured with an ontology, can apply
structured biomedical information related to one or more drugs or drug targets to rapidly identify variants that
are observed or predicted to impact drug response, drug metabolism, drug toxicity, or impact the targets of
one or more drugs. In a preferred embodiment, the default behavior of the filter is to identify variants meeting
one or more of these criteria in relation to any drug, with an optional ability to filter to particular drugs or drug
targets of interest using an autocompletion widget which shows the user with each keystroke matches within
the ontology to biological information of interest, in this case drugs, drug targets, and their established
synonyms, where applicable. Like other filters, the pharmacogenetics filter can be configured to exclude (i.e.
mask or remove the variants that meet the filter criteria), keep only (i.e., mask or remove all variants that do
not meet the filter criteria), or add (i.e. unmask or add back all variants that meet the filter criteria) as part of
the filter's operation.
[00123] Figure 9 depicts one embodiment of a Predicted Deleterious filter user interface, allowing the user to
conveniently configure the stringency of the filter which will mask or unmask variants in the data set based on
whether they are in selected pathogenicity categories of interest based on a pathogenicity annotator, whether
they are predicted or observed to be associated with a gain of function of a gene, or whether they are predicted
or observed to be associated with the loss of function of a gene. Like the other filters, the Predicted
Deleterious filter can interact with other upstream and downstream filters, receiving a variant data set and
optionally one or more masks from previous filters and masking or unmasking variants within the dataset
based on the filter settings.
[00124] Figure 10 depicts one embodiment of a User-Defined Variants filter user interface. In some
embodiments of the invention, users can save user-defined lists of genes and/or variants, and recall those lists
from a computer system for use in an instance of the user defined variants filter. In this non-limiting example,
the user has recalled a set of putative causal variants from a study, and is applying the user defined variants
filter to "keep only" variants that are in this list. This has the effect of masking or removing all other variants
that are not present on the "cranio putative causal" variant list.
                                                          -18-

         WO 2013/070634                                                                   PCT/US2012/063753
[00125] Figure 11 depicts an example flow chart for providing interactive reports for biological interpretation
of variants to a customer. This process involves a customer, a genomic service provider who generates variant
data sets, and a provider of interactive reports for biological interpretation of variants. The quotation for the
interactive report for biological interpretation of variants is provided along with the service provider's
quotations for genomic services and is priced on a per-sample basis. Furthermore, the genomic service
provider uploads the data set generated from a customer's samples directly to the interactive report system
when the data set becomes available, streamlining the customer experience and allowing the customer near
immediate access to the interactive report for their variant data set once it has been generated by the genomic
services provider. Note that this data upload step is performed regardless of whether the customer ordered the
report when she ordered her genomic services. This provides a second opportunity to transact the interactive
report with the customer after the customer receives notification from the genome service provider that their
data set is ready. When the genomic services have been completed and the customer's data set is ready, the
genomic service provider sends the customer a link that directs the customer to the interactive report. The
customer receives this link at about the same time as they receive communication from the service provider
that their sequencing results are available.
[00126] Figure 12 is a block diagram showing a representative example logic device through which reviewing
or analyzing data relating to the present invention can be achieved.
[00127] Figure 13 depicts a flow diagram of an embodiment of a system constructed in accordance with the
present invention is illustrated. The system provides a method for bundling the transaction for gaining access
to a data analysis package with a transaction for a product or service that is used to generate a data set to be
entered into the data analysis package for analysis.
[00128] Figure 14 depicts identification of a prospective causal variant for familial glioblastoma.
[00129] Figure 15 depicts identification of individualized cancer RNA variants.
                               DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
                                                        Definitions
[00130] As used in the description that follows:
[00131] "Disease" means any phenotype or phenotypic trait of concern, including by way of example a
disease or disease state, a predisposition or susceptibility to a disease, or an abnormal drug response.
Illustrative and non-limiting examples of disease states include cancer, high cholesterol levels, congestive
heart failure, hypertension, diabetes, glucose intolerance, depression, anxiety, infectious disease, toxic states,
drug therapy side effects, inefficacy of drug therapy, alcoholism, addiction, trauma, etc.
[00132]A "disease-related pathway" is a series of biochemical reactions in the body that result in disease, i.e.,
it is a series, linear or branched, of biological interactions in the body that collectively have an effect on a
disease state, e.g., initiation, progression, remission, or exacerbation. Such biological interactions, i.e.,
biological effects or functional relationships, are the biological processes that occur within the body, e.g.,
binding, agonizing, antagonizing, inhibiting, activating, modulating, modifying, etc.
                                                           -19-

        WO 2013/070634                                                                  PCT/US2012/063753
[00133] "Therapy" and "therapeutic" include prophylaxis and prophylactic and encompass prevention as well
as amelioration of symptoms associated with a disease state, inhibition or delay of progression of a disease
state and treatment of a disease state.
[00134] "Protein" or "gene product" means a peptide, oligopeptide, polypeptide or protein, as translated or as
may be modified subsequent to translation. A gene product can also be an RNA molecule.
[00135] "Findings" are the data that is used to build an information database. This data may come from public
sources, such as databases and scientific publications, but it may also include proprietary data or a mix of
proprietary and public data. In various embodiments, findings are derived from natural language (e.g., English
language) formalized textual content according to methods outlined in greater detail below.
[00136] "Biological effect" includes the molecular effects of a given biological concept as well as the effects
of such concept at the level of a cell, tissue or organism.
[00137] "Variant" means any particular change in a nucleotide or nucleotide sequence relative to an
established reference nucleotide or nucleotide sequence, such reference including without limitation the public
reference human genome sequences referred to as NCBI36/hg18 and GRCh37/hgl9. This also includes
without limitation nucleic acid modifications such as methylation, as well as abnormal numbers of copies of
the nucleotide or nucleotide sequence in the genome
[00138] "Whole Genome" means the sequence comprising the substantial majority of an subject's
sequenceable genome, including exons, introns, and intergenic regions.
[00139] "Whole Genome Analysis" means the interpretation of data arising from the sequencing of one or
more whole genomes.
[00140] "Subject" generally means a biological organism with associated and sequence information, and
optionally phenotypic information, available for analysis.
[00141] "User" means a person who is using one or more methods described herein to analyze or interpret
nucleotide sequence information.
[00142] A "disease model" is a representation in an ontology of scientifically-established phenomenon
implicated in progression of the disease. These phenomena include: symptoms characteristic of the disease
that afflicted individuals typically present with; cellular processes, or signaling or metabolic pathways that are
typically dysregulated in the disease state; variants, genes, or molecular complexes known to impact disease
progression or that are targets of drugs for the disease. Phenomena in the disease model can be translated into
genes from independent biomedical findings reporting a relationship between those genes and the
phenomenon. Phenomena in the disease model may have an associated directionality in the disease state
(either over-active or under/in-active) and how each gene from the biomedical findings has been established to
impact the phenomenon (increasing/activating or decreasing/inhibiting) can be used to determine if the net
effect variants in a dataset have on the gene (gain or loss of function) is consistent with promoting disease
progression.
[00143] "Filtering" means annotating or altering one or more data sets. Filtering can mean keeping, adding,
subtracting, or adding back data points from a data set. Filtering can mean masking one or more data points
within the data set. Filtering can mean unmasking data points in a data set. In some embodiments filtering is
                                                         -20-

         WO 2013/070634                                                                  PCT/US2012/063753
an iterative process. In some embodiments filtering is performed with one or more filters. In some
embodiments data points removed or masked by one filter are added back or unmasked by a second filter. In
some embodiments filtering is performed on a list of variants. A filtered dataset can be smaller or larger than
the original dataset. In some embodiments the filtered dataset comprises data points not removed from the
original data set. In some embodiments a filtered dataset comprises more information than the original
dataset. For example, a filtered dataset can comprise one or more of the following: the original data set,
information regarding whether each data point is currently masked, information regarding whether each data
point was previously masked, and information regarding previous filtering. The information regarding
previous filters can be the kind of filter that was applied, any variables selected for the application of that
filter, any assumptions made by the filter and or any information relied upon by the filter (e.g. information
from a database).
[00144] "Physical location filter:"A physical location filter is a filter which takes a variant data set as input,
wherein the variant data set comprises variant data from one or more samples from one or more individuals,
that filters variants based upon the chromosome on which each variant occurs and, optionally, the physical
location of each variant on said chromosome. This can be a very useful component of a filter cascade as it
allows the user to identify variants that are at a location consistent with an inherited disease of interest. In one
simple and non-limiting example, a physical location filter could be used to identify those variants that are
located on the X chromosome for use in identifying a causal variant for an X chromosome-linked disorder.
The physical location filter could accept one or more physical locations of interest from a user and identify
variants that are within or overlapping with any or all of those physical locations. A logical "and" or logical
"or" relationship could exist between the physical locations specified for filtering. In another embodiment,
the physical locations could be selected automatically based on study design parameters specified by the user
and/or inferred from the user's data set and study design. The one or more physical locations could each
include a chromosome and an optional numeric coordinate range comprising a start and optional stop
coordinate of interest on said chromosome. The physical location could also be specified as one or more
cytological bands or band ranges (e.g. "13q14.3-q21.1"). The physical location could also be specified as a
coordinate range bounded by two genetic markers, wherein said genetic markers may include one or more of
the following: RFLP (or Restriction Fragment Length Polymorphism), SSLP (or Simple Sequence Length
Polymorphism), AFLP (or Amplified Fragment Length Polymorphism), RAPD (or Random Amplification of
Polymorphic DNA), VNTR (or Variable Number Tandem Repeat), microsatellite polymorphism, SSR (or
Simple Sequence Repeat), SNP (or Single Nucleotide Polymorphism), STR (or Short Tandem Repeat), SFP
(or Single Feature Polymorphism), DArT (or Diversity Arrays Technology), RAD markers (or Restriction site
Associated DNA markers).
[00145] The physical location filter can mask or unmask variants from the data set based on whether the
variants are within (or, optionally overlapping with) the coordinate range specified by the user and located on
the specified chromosome or chromosomes. In some embodiments, the stringency of the physical location
filter could be adjusted by the user, for example, selecting one or more chromosomes and coordinate ranges.
In some embodiments, the stringency of the physical location filter could be automatically configured based
                                                          -21-

          WO 2013/070634                                                                 PCT/US2012/063753
on a desired target number of variants in the final filtered data set, and/or based on aspects of the data set
and/or aspects of the study design. The physical location filter may be combined with other filters into a filter
cascade to transform a variant data set into a final dataset with, for example less than 200 or less than 50
variants. In some embodiments, the function of the physical location filter can be accomplished by a Custom
Annotation filter.
[00146] "Custom Annotation filter": In various embodiments of the invention, the Custom Annotation filter
users can create custom filters based on alphanumeric annotations of the variants in the variant dataset, finding
variants where, for example, a "Chromosome" annotation column equaling "X", would be equivalent to a
physical location filter used to identify variants on the X chromosome. Also, in some embodiments, users are
able to import custom columns into the variant data set and are able to apply the custom annotation filter to
filter on the annotations present in these custom columns or any other columns in the data set. In some
embodiments, the user interface for the Custom Annotation filter provides options to the user for filtering,
which are optimized based upon the contents of a given column of interest in the data set for which a filter is
being created. For example, the Custom Annotation filter could provide "greater than", "greater than or equal
to", "equal to", "less than", "between", or "less than or equal to" as convenient filtering options for a numeric
column. In some embodiments, the filter provides a pick list to the user for selecting among filtering options
for a column with low cardinality contents. In some embodiments, the Custom Annotation filter provides
filtering options such as "contains", "begins with", "ends with" and "is" for filtering on a column containing
textual information. This filter can be used with columns of imported expression data from RNA-Seq,
proteomics, or microarray studies, for example, to filter variants that are present on exons expressed at greater
than or equal to a given level, or, for another example, to filter variants that occur in regions identified in a
chromatin immunoprecipitation study, or, for yet another example, to filter variants that affect or that are
within genes that are expressed at a given level in either absolute or relative terms. The Custom Annotation
filter, like other filters, may mask or unmask, remove or add back variants that meet the filter criteria
specified. In one embodiment, the custom annotation filter allows users to "keep only", "exclude", or "add"
variants that meet the specified filter criteria. The Custom Annotation filter, like all other filters described
herein, may be combined with one or more other filters into a filter cascade to transform a variant data set into
a final dataset. In some embodiments, filters may be automatically or manually configured in combination to
yield a final data set with, for example less than 200 or less than 50 variants for communication to the user.
[00147] "Expression filter": An expression filter is a filter which takes a variant data set as input, wherein the
variant data set comprises variant data from one or more samples from one or more individuals, that filters
variants to "keep", "exclude" or "add" variants based upon the degree to which the exon, transcript, gene,
protein, peptide, miRNA, non-coding RNA or other biological entity is expressed in a given sample. In some
embodiments, the expression filter operates on a differential expression data set that contains relative
expression values from two or more samples. In some embodiments, expression values for various samples
are able to be pre-loaded into a database for use by the expression filter. In some embodiments, said database
is a knowledge base structured according to an ontology. In some embodiments, the expression filter enables
a user to import one or more expression data sets, for example from microarray, RNA-Seq or proteomic
                                                         -22-

         WO 2013/070634                                                                  PCT/US2012/063753
studies. In some embodiments, the data sets imported by the user correspond directly to the invididuals and
samples represented in the variant data set. In some embodiments, expression filter is accomplished by a
custom annotation filter. The Expression filter, like all other filters described herein, may be combined with
one or more other filters into a filter cascade to transform a variant data set into a final dataset. In some
embodiments, filters are automatically or manually configured in combination to yield a final data set with,
for example less than 200 or less than 50 variants for communication to the user.
[00148] Unless otherwise specified, "include" and "includes" mean including but not limited to and "a" means
one or more.
                                            Obtaining Genomic Information
[00149] Researchers and clinicians are able to obtain large amounts of genomics information from subjects.
Generally a subject can be any biological organism with a genome. The subjects can be humans, e.g. a subject
person who pays to have her genome sequenced. The subjects can be patients, e.g. patients with a suspected
genetic disease. The subjects can also be research subjects, e.g. apparently normal individuals or individuals
with a phenotype or disease of interest. The subjects can also be animals, e.g. research animals or
domesticated animals. The subject can also be a bacteria or a plant. In some cases the subject is an
artificially produced series of nucleotides. In some cases genomics information is obtained from multiple
subjects. In some cases genomics information is obtained from related subjects.
[00150] In various embodiments the present invention allows for the analysis and interpretation of genomics
data. To use the system a user can obtain a genomic data set or multiple data sets. The data can be purchased
or given to the user, but typically the user will be a researcher or clinician who performing a biological
experiment or diagnosis. The data can be data which is extracted or outputted from software. For example,
the data can be a data file that is generated from a sequencing experiment. The system can, in some
embodiments, accept data from multiple sources, for example from multiple users or across multiple
experiments. In various embodiments, the content of the data set comprises data related to gene expression,
genotyping, sequencing, single nucleotide polymorphism, copy number variation, haplotyping, genomic
structure, or genomic variation. The data sets can be related to diagnostics or clinical data or the data sets can
be generated for basic scientific research.
[00151] Generally genomics information is obtained through the analysis of a sample from a subject. The
sample can be any material that contains some or all of the genome of the subject. For example, a blood
sample, hair sample, or cheek smear can be obtained from a patient in order to analyze the genome. Multiple
samples can be obtained from the same subject. In some instances a sample is obtained from cancerous tissue
in a subject. In some instances a sample is obtained from the immune system of a subject. In some instances
samples are obtained from the same subject at different points in time; sometimes the timing of the samples is
regular (e.g. once per day or once per week), and sometimes the timing of the samples is directed by the state
of a disease (e.g. a genomic sample can be taken upon the increase in symptoms of a disease or when a patient
responds favorably to a drug treatment).
[00152] Several methods exist to generate genomics information by analyzing the genome. Sequencing can be
accomplished through classic Sanger sequencing methods which are well known in the art. Sequencing can
                                                         -23-

        WO 2013/070634                                                                    PCT/US2012/063753
also be accomplished using high-throughput systems some of which allow detection of a sequenced nucleotide
immediately after or upon its incorporation into a growing strand, i.e., detection of sequence in real time or
substantially real time. In some cases, high throughput sequencing generates at least 1,000, at least 5,000, at
least 10,000, at least 20,000, at least 30,000, at least 40,000, at least 50,000, at least 100,000 or at least
500,000 sequence reads per hour; with each read being at least 50, at least 60, at least 70, at least 80, at least
90, at least 100, at least 120 or at least 150 bases per read.
[00153] In some embodiments, high-throughput sequencing involves reversible terminator-based sequencing
by synthesis chemistry. For example the Illumina's HiSeq 2000 machine can produce 200 billion DNA reads
in eight days.
[00154] In some embodiments, high-throughput sequencing is based on sequential ligation with dye-labeled
oligonucleotides. For example by use of technology available by ABI Solid System. This genetic analysis
platform that enables massively parallel sequencing of clonally-amplified DNA fragments linked to beads.
[00155] In some embodiments, high-throughput sequencing involves the use of technology available by Ion
Torrent Personal Genome Machine (PMG). The PGM can do 10 million reads in two hours.
[00156] In some embodiments, high-throughput sequencing involves the use of technology available by
Helicos BioSciences Corporation (Cambridge, Massachusetts) such as the Single Molecule Sequencing by
Synthesis (SMSS) method. SMSS allows for sequencing the entire human genome in up to 24 hours. This fast
sequencing method also allows for detection of a SNP nucleotide in a sequence in substantially real time or
real time. SMSS is powerful because, like the MIP technology, it does not require a pre-amplification step
prior to hybridization. SMSS does not require any amplification. SMSS is described in part in US Publication
Application Nos. 20060024711; 20060024678; 20060012793; 20060012784; and 20050100932.
[00157] In some embodiments, high-throughput sequencing involves the use of technology available by 454
Lifesciences, Inc. (Branford, Connecticut) such as the Pico Titer Plate device which includes a fiber optic
plate that transmits chemiluninescent signal generated by the sequencing reaction to be recorded by a CCD
camera in the instrument. This use of fiber optics allows for the detection of a minimum of 20 million base
pairs in 4.5 hours.
[00158] Methods for using bead amplification followed by fiber optics detection are described in Marguiles,
M., et al. "Genome sequencing in microfabricated high-density pricolitre reactors", Nature, doi:
10.1038/nature03959; and well as in US Publication Application Nos. 20020012930; 20030058629;
20030100102; 20030148344; 20040248161 ;20050079510, 20050124022; and 20060078909.
[00159] In some embodiments, high-throughput sequencing is performed using Clonal Single Molecule Array
(Solexa, Inc.) or sequencing-by-synthesis (SBS) utilizing reversible terminator chemistry. These technologies
are described in part in US Patent Nos. 6,969,488; 6,897,023; 6,833,246; 6,787,308; and US Publication
Application Nos. 20040106130; 20030064398; 20030022207; and Constans, A., The Scientist 2003,
17(13):36.
[00160] In some embodiments, high-throughput sequencing of RNA or DNA can take place using
AnyDot.chjps (Genovoxx, Germany). In particular, the AnyDot-chips allow for 1Ox - 50x enhancement of
nucleotide fluorescence signal detection. AnyDot.chips and methods for using them are described in part in
                                                          -24-

        WO 2013/070634                                                                 PCT/US2012/063753
International Publication Application Nos. WO02/088382, WO03/020968, WO03/031947, W02005/044836,
PCT/EP05/105657, PCT/EP05/105655; and German Patent Application Nos. DE 101 49 786, DE 102 14 395,
DE 103 56 837, DE 10 2004 009 704, DE 10 2004 025 696, DE 10 2004 025 746, DE 10 2004 025 694, DE
10 2004 025 695, DE 10 2004 025 744, DE 10 2004 025 745, and DE 10 2005 012 301.
[00161] Other high-throughput sequencing systems include those disclosed in Venter, J., et al. Science 16
February 2001; Adams, M. et al, Science 24 March 2000; and M. J, Levene, et al. Science 299:682-686,
January 2003; as well as US Publication Application No. 20030044781 and 2006/0078937. Overall such
systems involve sequencing a target nucleic acid molecule having a plurality of bases by the temporal addition
of bases via a polymerization reaction that is measured on a molecule of nucleic acid, i e., the activity of a
nucleic acid polymerizing enzyme on the template nucleic acid molecule to be sequenced is followed in real
time. Sequence can then be deduced by identifying which base is being incorporated into the growing
complementary strand of the target nucleic acid by the catalytic activity of the nucleic acid polymerizing
enzyme at each step in the sequence of base additions. A polymerase on the target nucleic acid molecule
complex is provided in a position suitable to move along the target nucleic acid molecule and extend the
oligonucleotide primer at an active site. A plurality of labeled types of nucleotide analogs are provided
proximate to the active site, with each distinguishably type of nucleotide analog being complementary to a
different nucleotide in the target nucleic acid sequence. The growing nucleic acid strand is extended by using
the polymerase to add a nucleotide analog to the nucleic acid strand at the active site, where the nucleotide
analog being added is complementary to the nucleotide of the target nucleic acid at the active site. The
nucleotide analog added to the oligonucleotide primer as a result of the polymerizing step is identified. The
steps of providing labeled nucleotide analogs, polymerizing the growing nucleic acid strand, and identifying
the added nucleotide analog are repeated so that the nucleic acid strand is further extended and the sequence
of the target nucleic acid is determined.
[00162] In one embodiment, sequence analysis of the rare cell's genetic material may include a four-color
sequencing by ligation scheme (degenerate ligation) (e.g., SOLiD sequencing), which involves hybridizing an
anchor primer to one of four positions. Then an enzymatic ligation reaction of the anchor primer to a
population of degenerate nonamers that are labeled with fluorescent dyes is performed. At any given cycle,
the population of nonamers that is used is structure such that the identity of one of its positions is correlated
with the identity of the fluorophore attached to that nonamer. To the extent that the ligase discriminates for
complementarity at that queried position, the fluorescent signal allows the inference of the identity of the base.
After performing the ligation and four-color imaging, the anchor primer:nonamer complexes are stripped and
a new cycle begins. Methods to image sequence information after performing ligation are known in the art.
[00163] In some embodiments of the invention the genomics information is obtained by a user or customer.
The genomics information can be transmitted via a network to an entity which receives the genomics
information, analyzes the information, and transmits analysis results back to the user or network. In some
embodiments only a subset of the genomics information is transmitted for analysis.       Once the genomics
information is obtained or transmitted over a network it can be stored electronically.
                                                       -25-

         WO 2013/070634                                                                PCT/US2012/063753
                                     3. Identification of Genomic Variation
[00164] The variation in the genomic information is useful to identify because it may be indicative of the
cause of phenotypic variation among subjects - one theory being that invariant regions of the genomes of
normal subjects are likely important for coding essential components necessary for the development and
survival of those subjects. The variants may account for the normal phenotypic differences between people
and or the variantsmay account for disease related variations.
[00165] Once genomic information is obtained from a subject that genomic information can be investigated to
determine where the subject's genome is different than a standard or control genome or genomes.       In some
instances, the genomic information comprises a genome or partial genome. These areas of differences are
referred to as "variants."  The variants can be single nucleotide differences or can be longer stretches of the
genome, for instance more than 10, 100, or 1000 base pairs or longer. A variant can also comprise a deletion
on one or more chromosomes. A variant can also comprise an insertion on one or more chromosomes. A
variant can comprise an inversion or translocation. In some instances a variant comprises a region of
homozygosity. In some instances a variant comprises a repeated sequence in the genome, for example one or
more trinucleotide repeats (e.g., one or more CAG repeats or one or more CGG repeats). In some instances,
variance comprise a difference in the number of repeat sequences. In some instances a variant is a SNP or a
SNV. In some instances a variant exists on mitochondrial genetic material, plasmid genetic material, or a
chloroplast genetic material. In some instances, a variant is in a specific chromosome, such as a se
chromosome. In some instances, a variant is in a specific location within a chromosome.
[00166] In some instances, system and methods described herein are applied to find and investigate variants in
a transcriptome or partial transcriptome. So, in some instances, a variant is in a mature mRNA, rRNA, tRNA,
or non-coding RNA.
[00167] In some instances a variant exists on an artificially produced nucleotide sequence. Accordingly, in
some embodiments the methods and systems disclosed herein can be used to analyze samples containing an
artificially produced nucleotide sequence.
[00168] The variants can be identified by comparing the genomic information to a database of previously
collected genomic information. Alternatively or in combination, the genomic information can be compared to
samples collected coincident with a test sample to identify variants. Alternatively or in combination, multiple
samples can be collected from a single subject. For example, genomic samples from a family could be
collected. How these samples differ from a database of a large number of previously collected samples can
inform the researcher of the variation from the larger population. The genomic samples from the family can
also be compared to one another to determine the variation between the samples. For another example, a
genomic sample of cancerous cells and a genomic sample of non-cancerous cells can be collected from a
single subject. The variants between the multiple genomic samples from a single subject can be determined,
and optionally compared to previously collected genomic information or to family members. The genomic
comparisons can be performed statistically to determine the variants in a genomic sample.
                                                        -26-

        WO 2013/070634                                                                    PCT/US2012/063753
                                               4. Analysis of Variants
[00169] From a given sample or sample it is likely that many variants will be found, but only some of the
variants will be relevant to the user (e.g. variants related to a disease). Accordingly, there exists a need for
analyzing the importance of variants.
[00170]As described by the systems and methods herein variants can be analyzed.            The methods and systems
for the analysis of variants can be used to sort or filter variants to focus a users attention on the potentially
relevant variants. Automated methods and systems for insuring that a user is presented with a tractable
amount of data are presented.
A) Algorithmic Analysis of Variant Properties
[00171] Variants identified in genomic information can be investigated using algorithms, for example to
predict how the variant may function, how a variant may exert a biological outcome, or to determine whether
a particular variant is associated with a particular phenotype. Various algorithmic methods can be used to
analyze variants. For example, the following can be used alone or in combination to analyze variants: SIFT,
PolyPhen, PolyPhen2, PANTHER, SNPs3D, FastSNP, SNAP, LS-SNP, PMUT, PupaSuite, SNPeffect,
SNPeffectV2.0, F-SNP, MAPP, PhD-SNP, MutDB, SNP Function Portal, PolyDoms, SNP@Promoter, Auto
Mute, MutPred, SNP@Ethnos, nsSNPanalyzer, SNP@Domain, StSNP, MtSNPscore, or Genome Variation
Server. These algorithms all attempt to predict the effect a mutation has on protein function/activity. The
predictions of these algorithms can be outputted to a user. Alternatively the predictions of the algorithms can
serve as part of a system for sorting or filtering variants. In some instances, a variant causes a sequence
change in a gene product, such as an RNA or a protein. In some instances, a variant causes differences in the
transcriptional or translational regulation of a gene product. In some instances, a variant is located in a
promoter, enhancer, silencer or another regulatory sequence regulating one or more genes of interest. In some
instances, a variant causes a change in the splicing of a gene product. In some instances, a variant causes a
change in the post-translational modification or localization of a protein, e.g. a change in phorphorylation,
intercellular transport or secretion. In some instances, a variant causes a difference in the immunogenicity of a
gene product.
B) Common Variants
[00172] By comparing multiple genomic samples it is possible to determine how common individual variants
are across those samples. A number or score can be assigned to a variant that represents, for example, the
distribution of that variant in a given population. For example, the 1000 genome project has collected whole
genomes for over 1000 human subjects. These genomes have been compared to quantify human genetic
variation. Comparison to current research in the US National Library of Medicine or human reference
genome revision 18 (hgl 8) can also be performed. Accordingly, the system of the present invention can
determine how common (or the value of a commonality score) for individual variants in a sample.
[00173] Without being bound by theory, the identification of common variant may be useful in the
identification of disease causing variants. For example, if an subject with a disease has a large number of
                                                          -27-

        WO 2013/070634                                                                    PCT/US2012/063753
variants an investigator can determine which of those variants are common in a population which does not
have the disease. These common variants can be removed from consideration as disease causing variants.
Alternatively, these common variants can be ranked lower in the likelihood of being a disease causing
variants.
[00174] Associations between common and uncommon variants can also be determined. For example the
likelihood of two or more variants appearing in a given subject in a given population can be calculated. A
researcher can use the system of the present invention to determine whether, for example, a subject with a
disease has an unlikely combination of variants. In some instances, haplotype information is utilized in the
analysis in order to, for example, determine the likelihood of carrying two variants simultaneously.
C) Associating Variants with Information
[00175] Variants identified from a subject, and regions of the genome around or associated with the variants,
may have already been studied to some degree. A researcher or clinician will be motivated to collect and
analyze the previously known information related to variants identified in a sample, for example information
in the scientific literature. Collecting this information can be time consuming for all of the identified variants.
The collection may also be difficult because the literature may be inconsistent in using terms to describe a
property which may be associated with a variant. The researcher or clinician may be left with an intractable
amount of information to sift though in a reasonable timeframe. Accordingly, described herein are methods
and systems for identifying information from the scientific literature associated with genomic variants. For
example, once a variant is located in the genome and associated with a particular gene an investigator will
wish to learn as much as possible about that gene, the protein it may encode, the pathways that the protein is
involved in, and any diseases known to be affected by that pathway. This knowledge can help the researcher
or clinician determine whether the variant is likely to be related to a disease or phenotype of interest. So for
each variant a researcher or clinician could use the vast expanse of published scientific literature to attempt to
determine whether a variant is likely to be associated with a disease of interest, and in some embodiments the
present invention has methods and systems for expediting this process. In other embodiments the methods
and systems herein are useful for narrowing down which variants a clinician or researcher should pay
attention to by sorting or filtering the phenotypes according to which are most likely to be of interest to the
researcher or clinician.
[00176] Variants can be investigated by comparing the variant to information known about the variant's
particular region on the genome.      For example, if it is known that a variant exists in a genomic region known
to encode a particular protein or regulate the expression of a particular protein, then that variant can be linked
to that protein, any disease associated with that protein, any pathways that protein may function in, any drugs
known to target the protein, and so on. Because the variants can be located across the genome the amount of
information that might be associated with the variant is very large. In order to make the comparison of a large
number of variants to the huge amount of biological data available various computerized systems and
databases can be used.
                                                          -28-

         WO 2013/070634                                                                 PCT/US2012/063753
[00177] The number of variants in a given sample may be very large, e.g. more than 1,000, 5,000, 10,000,
25,000, 50,000, 100,000, 500,000, 1,000,000 or more. A researcher or clinician may wish to narrow down or
prioritize the number of variants to learn about. Filters can be used to sort the variants. . In some instances,
the application of one or more filters identifies less than 500, 200, 100, 50, 30, 10, 5 or fewer variants for
further inquiry and output the one or more identified variants to a user. For example, a researcher can obtain
a sample from a patient with a disease. The researcher can then obtain the whole genome sequence. The
researcher can then identify the variants in the whole genome sequence. The researcher can then use the
systems and methods described herein to identify the scientific literature associated with the variants. The
researcher can then sort or filter the variants by properties known to be associated with the variants. So, for
example, the researcher could provide an instruction to a computer to identify variants which have a known
relationship with a known property, for example a particular disease, protein, gene, pathway, or patient
population. Accordingly methods and systems for sorting or ranking variants using known information, for
example information in the scientific literature, are described herein.
[00178] The sequence surrounding variants can also be compared to previously collected data to predict the
function of the genomic region surrounding the variant. In various embodiments genes or genomic regions
close to, but not overlapping, with a variant are compared to known information.       The distance between the
variant and a gene or genomic region compared to known information can be a measure of how likely a
variant is to effect or be related to the gene or genomic region. For example a researcher may choose to
instruct a computer to select all variants in a sample located within a particular distance from a gene of
interest. If too many results are retuned the researcher may decrease the distance in order to lower the number
of identified variants. In some cases a computer will automatically adjust the distance between the variants
and the genes of interest in order to output a predetermined number of variants.
D) Databases Useful for Variant Analysis
[00179] Comparing the vast amount of known information to lists of variants is accomplished using the
specialized databases and computer systems described herein. Accordingly, various embodiments of the
invention provide systems and methods to map and/or compare user provided genomic datasets with the
contents of an ontology or knowledge base. In some embodiments, a mapping and/or comparison is performed
between the contents of the user provided dataset and the biological entities represented in the ontology or the
knowledge base. In some embodiments, a subset of the biological entities are selected for comparison and/or
mapping. A comparison may comprise an analysis of the difference between the value of a property of a
biological entity in the knowledge base or ontology. A mapping may comprise the identification or matching
of one or more biological entities in a user provided dataset with one or more biological entities stored in the
knowledge base or ontology. A mapping may also comprise identification of a shared behavior, e.g. increase,
of a property of one or more biological entities in a user provided data set and of one or more biological
entities in a knowledge base or ontology. The user provided data set may comprise a variety of suitable data
types known in the art, for example, gene expression, genotyping, sequencing, single nucleotide
                                                         -29-

         WO 2013/070634                                                                 PCT/US2012/063753
polymorphism, variants, copy number variation, haplotyping, or genomic structure. The data sets can be
related to diagnostics or clinical data or the data sets can be generated for basic scientific research.
[00180] In various embodiments, information, for example scientific findings, is stored in, and accessed using
one or more databases which can interact. For example, a first database can be a knowledge base ("KB") of
scientific findings structured according to predetermined, causal relationships that generally take the form of
effector gene (and/or product) -> object gene (and/or product) type relationships (hereinafter the "Findings
KB"). In some cases, the database structure for this Findings KB is a frame-based knowledge representation
data model, although other database structures may alternatively be used for structuring the scientific findings.
A second database can be an ontology. An ontology is a multiple-hierarchical representation of the taxonomy
and formal concepts and relationships relevant to the domain of interest, preferably organized in a frame
based format. The Findings KB and ontology are herein collectively referred to as a knowledge representation
system ("KRS"). Other database structures, comprising one or more knowledge bases comprising a KRS, may
be employed for representing a body of knowledge when practicing the invention. However, when an
ontology is used together with other KBs to form a KRS, or solely as a KRS, the methods of the invention can
utilize the taxonomy and formal concepts and relationships defined in an ontology for purposes of inferring
conclusions about scientific findings which may not otherwise be readily apparent, especially where findings
form part of a complex, or multi-directional series of causal events. Accordingly, provided below is a further
description of an exemplary ontology that may be used to practice the invention.
[00181] The system described herein can use a structured database to organize data. In some embodiments the
system comprises an ontological database. In some embodiments, an ontological database in the data
analysis package comprises organized information related to the biological content of the data set. Methods
and systems related to ontological databases are described in US 2011-0191286 Al, US 2008-0033819 Al,
US 7,650,339, US 2004-0236740 Al, US 7,577,683, US 2007-0178473 Al, and US 2006-0036368 Alwhich
are herein incorporated by reference.
[00182] In various embodiments, the systems and methods described herein relate to the organization and
analysis of genomic information, which can comprise information relating to genes, their DNA sequences,
mRNA, the proteins that result when the genes are expressed, and one or more biological effects of the
expressed proteins but which can include other, related information. It will be clear to the reader that the
genomics information can also be information relating to other genomics, proteinomics, metabolic and
behavioral information, as well to other biological processes and to biological components other than proteins
and genes, such as cells, including, e.g., the biological effects of cells. An example of an ontology structure
stores its contents in a frame-based format, which allows searching of the ontology to find relationships
between or to make inferences about items stored in the ontology. In this illustrative ontology, the primary
organizational grouping is called a class. A class represents a group of things that share similar properties. For
example, in the ontology described herein, one class is human cells, which class includes lung cells, skin cells,
brains cell and so on. Each of the members of a class is an "instance" of that class, which instances represent
single items or elements belonging within the specified class. Thus, an subject blood cell is an instance of the
class of human cells.
                                                         -30-

         WO 2013/070634                                                                  PCT/US2012/063753
[00183] The relationships between different instances in the ontology are defined by "slots." Slots can be
thought of as the verbs that relate two classes. For example, pancreatic Beta cells have a slot, "produce,"
linking them to insulin. A "facet" represents more detailed information about a "slot" and can in some cases
restrict the values that a slot can have when related to specific instances of a class. The slots and facets define
and structure the taxonomic relationships and partonomic relationships between classes.
[00184] When scientific findings are entered into the ontology, each finding is separated into its discrete
components, or "concepts." So, for example, in the finding: "Human Bax protein accelerated the death by
apoptosis of rat dorsal root ganglion ("DRG") neurons after infection with Sindbis Virus," each of the
following bracketed phrases is a concept: [Human Bax protein] [accelerated] the [death] by [apoptosis] of [rat]
[DRG neurons] after [infection] with [Sindbis Virus]. The actor concepts are the physical biological
components of the pathway that cause or lead to another reaction in the pathway. In the instant example, the
actor concepts are Human Bax protein and Sindbis Virus. Actor concepts are likely to be genes or gene
products (including, e.g., receptors and enzymes) but can also be, e.g., other DNA sequences (including, e.g.,
DNA that is not transcribed or that is not transcribed and translated,) RNA (including, e.g., mRNA
transcripts,) cells, and bacteria, viruses or other pathogens.
[00185] To increase ontology effectiveness, it is useful to develop a common set of terms for like things. It is a
well-recognized problem in fast moving scientific fields, like genomics, for different terms to be applied by
different laboratories to the same genes, proteins or other biological materials, and for terminologies to change
over time as conventions develop. Thus, the storing and accessing of genomics information will preferably be
organized to ensure semantic consistency. For example, data entry could be limited to a pre-set, or glossary of
terms, inclusion of a scientific thesaurus that automatically converts inputted terms into accepted terms, and
human review to update the thesaurus or glossary.
[00186] Regardless of the subject matter captured and described by the ontology, whether genomics or
toxicology, it is necessary to examine closely the body of knowledge that comprises the subject matter so that
the knowledge can be organized into the proper classes and linked by the appropriate slots and facets and
finally stored in a form that will allow the contents and the relationships contained in the ontology to be
properly represented, searched, accessed and maintained.
[00187] The selection of sources for the information or "facts" that will be included in the ontology and the
methods used to digest those sources so that the facts can be supplied to the ontology in proper form are
described inthe commonly assigned US patents : (1) 6,772,160; (2) 6,741,986; and (3) 7,577,683, the contents
of all of which are incorporated by reference herein for all purposes.
[00188] Scientists who read the articles that comprise a data source for the ontology may abstract the facts
contained in those articles by filling in fact templates. An abstracted fact refers to a fact retrieved from an
information source that is rewritten (e.g., by using a template) in the computational information language of
the ontology. A completed fact template is called an instantiated template. The contents of the instantiated
templates are placed in the ontology. The type and format of these fact templates are dictated by the content
and structure of the ontology. The information contained in these facts are also stored in the Findings KB,
which, as mentioned above, is used to store scientific findings. Although all information in the Findings KB is
                                                         -31-

         WO 2013/070634                                                                  PCT/US2012/063753
also contained in the ontology, it may be advantageous to use the Findings KB when specific findings are later
retrieved as this can facilitate computational efficiency for searches of multiple findings where information
about the classification of, e.g., the effector and/or object in the finding within the ontology is not needed.
[00189] Each type of permitted fact of the ontology can also be associated with a fact template that is created
to facilitate the proper entry of the information or data comprising that particular type of fact into the
ontology. These fact templates are presented to scientists as they abstract information from the sources.
Systems described herein for the generation of an ontology and/or knowledge base may provide computer
interfaces for data entry. For example, pull-down menus within a template may present an operator of the
system with the appropriate classes, slots and facets for the particular fact type.
[00190] The process of abstracting information is called structuring knowledge, as it places knowledge into
the structure and architecture of the ontology. The method for structuring the knowledge is based on
formalized models of experimental design and biological concepts. These models provide the framework for
capturing a considerable portion of the loosely articulated findings typically found in academic literature. The
specific level of experimental results that is of greatest value to a user of the systems described herein, for
example an industrial and academic scientist, can be particularly targeted for capture. For example, in the field
of genomics, knowledge that focuses on the effects that both perturbation to genes, gene products (RNA and
proteins) and small molecules and various physical stimuli have upon biological systems can be singled out.
These perturbations and stimuli form the backbone of an exemplary ontology and provide the necessary
framework for developing a more sophisticated representation of complex biological information.
[00191] Examples of the types of facts and biological relationships that can be translated into the ontology are:
a) an increase in the amount of Fadd protein increases apoptosis; b) a decrease in Raf levels increases
activation of Rip2; and c) the allele delta32 of CCR5, compared to the wild-type allele, decreases HIV
transmission. In some embodiments, biological systems are defined in terms of processes and objects. Discrete
objects are physical things such as specific genes, proteins, cells and organisms. Processes are actions that act
on those objects. Examples of processes include phosphorylation, which acts on discrete objects such as
proteins, and apoptosis, which acts on cells. Perturbation of an object can have an effect on a process or on an
object. Using these concepts of objects and processes, the information in the ontology may be represented by a
variety of fact types.
[00192] As mentioned above, templates are associated with each fact type. In some embodiments, there are
five template types used for fact entry into the ontology. The corresponding fact types may be described as
observational facts, comparison facts, case control facts, case control modifier facts, or case-control
comparison facts. Of course, the structure and variety of fact types depend on the field of knowledge of the
ontology, all of which will be known to those skilled in the art.
[00193] Examples of each of the aforementioned fact types of some embodiments follow. Observational facts
(OFs) are observations about something. An example of an OF is "Tyrosine phosporylation of INRS-1 was
observed." Comparison facts (CFs) compare a property of one thing to a property of another thing. An
example of a CF is "The size of a lymphocyte in one organism is greater than the size of a lymphocyte in
another organism." Case control facts (CCFs) describe an alteration in something which causes changes to a
                                                         -32-

         WO 2013/070634                                                                 PCT/US2012/063753
property aspect of something. An example of a CCF is "Mouse-derived Brea-1 increased the rate of apoptosis
of 293 cells." Case control comparison facts (CCCFs) compare the effect that something has in a first fact to
the effect that something has in a second fact. An example of a CCCF is "Fas increases total apoptosis of 293
cells with Brd4 (introduced by vector transformation) more than it increases total apoptosis of 293 cells
without Brd4. "Case control modifier facts (CCPMFs) express an alteration in something that causes changes
to a property of a modifier of a process. An example of a CCPMF is "Mouse-derived BRCA- 1 increased the
rate of the induction of 293 cell apoptosis."
[00194] In some embodiments, a fact verification scheme includes a natural language display of the fact
derived from the template so that a scientist can verify, by reviewing the natural language representation of
the structured fact entered into the template, whether the fact entered into the template was the fact as
intended.
[00195] Alternatively, or additionally, information is extracted automatically by use of a computer to "read"
and analyze papers and to extract data therefrom for inclusion in the ontology. In these embodiments, a natural
language (e.g., English) source text is first interpreted using computational linguistics to determine, to the
extent possible, the precise meaning of the "fact" contained in the natural language source. After this "fact"
has been determined, it may be reviewed and then abstracted according to an automated procedure, manual
procedure (i.e., human involvement) or a combination of both. In some embodiments, a combination manual
and automated procedure is used to verify that the fact extracted from the source text is both a fact of interest,
that it accurately reflects the intended meaning of the source text, and that it is appropriately structured for
storage in the ontology. The data sources are not restricted to journal articles. Other data sources include, e.g.,
public databases, private databases, and proprietary data such as confidential data developed within and
confined to a particular laboratory.
[00196] Findings information may come from informal sources, as well as the more formalized documents and
publication sources discussed above. For example, findings may be extracted using a network search tool that
searches a network and then attempts to extract information contained in pages that seem to be about a
biological concept of interest (e.g., a web-crawler that searches over the internet). Alternately, or additionally,
a search engine may be used to scan corporate email, discussion groups, PowerPoint presentations, etc., to try
to identify and then extract information relating to biological functions. Of course, one should expect a lower
quality of results from these sources, both because the data parsing would be automatic, there would likely be
higher error rates than manually entered content, and the content sources will more likely be informal or
invalidated discussions, rather than peer-reviewed journals and the like.
[00197] Findings need not be limited to literature-based private or public information. For example, findings
could include findings derived from, e.g., a company's microarray chip experiments. In this case, the array
data could be reviewed to try to identify which genes are being co-expressed and/or co-regulated, from which
a "A<-->B" relationship could be deduced. These findings could then go into the KB directly or into a graph
structure directly. The data may also include findings that scientists enter directly, or could be data straight
from experiments (i.e. w/out interpretation by scientists). The findings acquisition process discussed above
may also be useful as a tool for publication, in addition to a data extraction or entry process. Much in the way
                                                         -33-

          WO 2013/070634                                                                  PCT/US2012/063753
that authors need to include abstracts and indexing keywords when proposing a publication for submission,
they might also be required to write down their key conclusions in "findings format". In this contemplated
use, the author or a 3rd party may perform the findings extraction (e.g., as in the way the National Library of
Medicine is currently responsible for approving, if not creating, the keywords associated with paper abstracts).
KRS technology is not required for creating a structured database. While KRS technology may be
advantageous in some cases as it can simplify certain tasks in the data acquisition and data structuring process,
it is also possible to create a KB using existing relational, object or XML database technology.
[00198] With data from multiple sources acquired and stored in the database, such as is described above, it is
possible to determine relationships among variants, genes and gene products that previously would have been
exceedingly difficult or even impossible to identify because, e.g., of the number of sources from which data
are required and the use of inconsistent language (e.g., different names for the same protein are used
simultaneously or over time.) So, while it may be possible for one or a small number of subjects to stay
abreast of all or most publications relating to a very narrowly defined field, it is impractical to think of
scouring public data sources to identify disease pathways that are related to a large number of variants without
the aid of a structured database, such as is described above. Even with respect to particular variant, diseases,
genes or gene products, this task can be enormously difficult and time-consuming without the aid of a
structured database.
[00199] Various embodiments of the invention relate to methods and systems that group biological entities in
a knowledge base or ontology. In some cases, the groupings are constructed using the methodologies to create
profiles described above. The profiles can be generated using process or pathway association of the biological
entities. In some cases, a biological association shared by a statistically significant set of genes in a profile or
grouping will be annotated to the profile or grouping. In some cases, profiles or groupings sharing similar
biological associations, such as a biological process, pathway, or tissue specific expression, will be compiled
into collections of profiles and groupings. However, the underlying reason to generate a collection of profiles
or groupings is not limited to biological association. Collections of profiles and groupings can be formed
using other shared characteristics formulated by the knowledge base or the ontology. In some cases, the
shared characteristics can be formulated by other sources than the knowledge base or the ontology, such as the
administrator of the system or a user. Alternatively, the collections can be generated without any apparent
reason or at the will of a user (e.g. user's favorite profiles and groupings).
[00200] Various embodiments of the invention provide methods and system to filter biological entities in an
ontology or knowledge base to a subset of entities. In some cases, preformed groups or profiles or collections
thereof are used to filter the biological entities to a subset. In some cases, the system allows for a user to
generate a filter or a set of filters through a user interface. Alternatively, the system may provide
preconfigured filters or sets of filters. In some cases, the system uses input provided by a user to generate,
choose and/or modify preconfigured filters. In various embodiments, sequence variants in a user provided data
are filtered through criteria described herein, providing a manageable set of variants to a user. In many cases,
filters are applied in context of the purpose of the study where the data sets have originated.
                                                           -34-

         WO 2013/070634                                                                    PCT/US2012/063753
[00201] A "profile" may include information about, and be defined according to concepts such as a particular
combination of genes or gene products that appear to act in a biologically coordinated manner, e.g., form all
or part of a disease related pathway, cells and/or cellular components, anatomical parts, molecular, cellular or
disease processes, and the relationships between them. A "profile" as used in this discussion refers to a subset
of the data contained in the database that is defined according to criterion(s) suited to the researcher's goals.
As such, criteria (or a criterion) means any attribute of a profile that is determined, at least in part, by the
researcher's needs. This may include criterion defined in terms of one or more biological concepts, the size of
the profile (e.g., graph size), or the findings connectivity in the profile. It should therefore be remembered that
the examples of profile criteria enumerated below are intended only as exemplary embodiments of profile
defining criteria. In general, it is understood and indeed expected that profile defining criteria will vary from
one application of the invention to another since a profile structure according to the invention is driven by
research goals.
[00202] Thus, the effectiveness of one or more profiles in communicating information depends upon the
criterion (or criteria) used to define the profile(s), which naturally depends upon the particular scientific goal
for which information is being sought. For example, if it is believed that information relating to a particular
cellular process would be highly informative of a targeted pathway, then findings relating to this cellular
process would be a factor to consider when selecting a profile criterion. In another situation, the source of the
findings (e.g., tissue type) or the size of the profile (e.g., the size of a graph structure illustrating the profile)
may be effective profile selection criterion.
[00203] Various aspects of the analysis of the present invention generate computational models for biological
pathways. These models, referred to as "profiles", become tools for interrogating and interpreting genomic
data sets, e.g. variants. They are constructed from findings in the KB, and consist of sets of gene (product)
abstractions, together with their known macromolecular interactions, and various biological processes the KB
asserts the genes to play roles in.
[00204] In an exemplary embodiment, gene abstractions comprise official LocusLink gene symbols to which
are mapped known instances of gene and gene products in the KB, potentially from both human and
nonhuman species. The intermolecular interactions consist of specific instances of effector gene (product)           ->
object gene (product) relations; the mapping of gene (product) instances to the more abstract gene symbols
thus allows inferred generalized effector gene symbol        -> object gene symbol relationships (as discussed
earlier). Borrowing concepts from graph theory, the available genes and gene interactions can be represented
computationally as collections of "nodes" (for genes) connected by directed "edges" (for interactions), with
various properties being associated with each node (e.g. gene properties), and various properties associated
with each edge (e.g. molecular process types, direction of process changes, number of findings/publications
asserting the interaction, etc). In addition, various properties can be associated with the entire profile,
including for example, biological processes, the number of genes in the profile, the method of construction,
etc.
[00205] The ability to associate a rich set of node, edge, and graph properties with profiles provides
opportunities to apply a variety of selection criteria on the profiles: Criteria applied during selection of nodes
                                                           -35-

         WO 2013/070634                                                                   PCT/US2012/063753
and/or edges can provide diversity in the composition and structure of the profiles produced. Criteria applied
after profile construction but prior to scoring against user provided data can reduce unproductive false 'hits' or
provide a more focused analysis. Criteria applied after profile construction and after scoring against user
provided data can provide additional ranking of profiles (by criteria other than scoring) for review by
researchers. In various embodiments, the methods and systems described herein use filters to apply criteria on
profiles, groupings or collections thereof, to rank, emphasize, deemphasize or eliminate said profiles,
groupings or collections thereof.
[00206] Profile generation can begin with a dynamic pre-calculation of a master graph (or network) that fits a
certain set of criteria. The criteria may be pre-set by the system or defined by the user and may pertain to any
category in the database, e.g., genes or gene products, chemicals, protein complexes, protein families,
processes, sources of findings, experimental techniques, organism context, or other criteria, e.g., genes that are
absent according to the user's data. Then profiles are created from this graph based on further criteria pre-set
by the system or defined by the user, e.g. genes of particular interest to the user, maximum number of nodes
per profile, etc.
[00207] Conceptually, each profile is a response to a query against the KB to find networks of findings that
meet the criteria. These profiles may be pre-built off of a copy of the KB to optimize performance (producing
a library of pre-built profiles), or the profiles may be built directly against the KRS, so as to allow profiles to
incorporate recently discovered findings as they are stored in the KB. Profiles could also be built using
something of a "bootstrap approach": an initial set of profiles could be built, then tested for sensitivity in
changes in further supplied data, such as expression changes, and the best profiles could be enlarged (by
adding more gene members, by merging profiles, or by otherwise changing the criteria that define the profile
model), and the sensitivity test repeated.
[00208] In an exemplary embodiment, the profiles are generated by first extracting a subset of the KB findings
and then converting findings into a large graph data structure. This is essentially a simplified version of the
KB that is amenable to high-performance graph data structure operations. Part of this simplification may
include converting findings from a literature-based representation, where each finding represents a result from
a performed experiment, to a biology-based representation, where each finding represents a conclusion about
biology. The profile generation algorithm can then process this graph to produce a collection of subnetworks
(profiles) that may be analysis-specific, e.g., user-provided biological data, such as sequencing, variants, or
array expression data, input as parameters to a profile generation algorithm, and that match input criteria.
Examples of input criteria are the size of the profile (number of nodes in each profile), whether they show
differential results in the user's data sets or otherwise flagged as of interest to the user, the processes involved
(e.g., "activation + cleavage" or "phosphorylation"), and/or the source of a finding (e.g., only observed in
human liver cells). Many such collections can be pre-generated given a profile generation algorithm and a set
of parameters. If the profile collections are built upon a copy of the KB, they may be re-built when the KB
changes (e.g. when new findings are added) to keep the profiles up-to-date. The collections may also be
dynamically built, i.e., as the KB changes or as new user-provided biological data becomes available. Either
configuration is contemplated and considered within the scope of invention.
                                                          -36-

         WO 2013/070634                                                                 PCT/US2012/063753
[00209] Various profile generation algorithms can be used to generate the profiles described herein, such as a
gene-centric algorithm. In some embodiments, the algorithm creates one profile for each gene in the KB. Each
gene's profile consists of the gene that "anchors" the profile and a set of "nearby" genes that match a certain
criteria. A "nearby" gene or gene product may refer to those genes or gene products that are most directly
related to the anchor (or "seed") through some association defined by findings linking the gene to the anchor
gene and or the number of such findings. This approach is termed "model-driven" because the profiles are
based on a predefined algorithmic model. Alternatively, a "data-driven" model may be used, where the profile
is not pre-generated but instead is assumed to be the dataset of interest to a user (e.g. variants) together with
their known interactions as revealed by the KB. Essentially all the user genes can be connected in this manner
using findings from the KB.
[00210] In some embodiments, a "nearby" biological entity, most commonly a gene or gene product, most
directly related to a second biological entity, is termed to be one "hop" away from the second biological
entity. In some embodiments, biological entities that are one hop away from each other are nodes connected
by an edge in a knowledge base structured by an ontology. "Hops" as used herein may comprise a relationship
between biological entities (including but not limited to genes/gene products) in a knowledge base structured
according to an ontology. Such relationships may include, but are not limited to: "binds", "activates", or
"represses".
[00211] The strength or quality of hops may be defined in a non-limiting example by degree of literature
support from the knowledge base and/or prioritizing direct interactions over indirect interactions. For
example, a hop is stronger if there are many representations of a particular fact in the knowledge base, and a
hop is weaker if there are contradictory representations of a particular fact in the knowledge base. In another
example, a hop can be stronger if a causative relationship is the source of the hop and weaker if an association
is the source of the hop. In some embodiments, the number of hops can be used at least in part to determine
the strength of a hop. For example, a first hop can be given more weight than a second hop, and the second
hop can be given more weight than a third hop.
[00212] In the previously discussed embodiment, a hybrid model and a data driven approach are used which
determines the nature of the constructed profiles based, at least in part, on a user-prescribed set of data, e.g.,
variants. "Gene" is used herein to describe a gene or gene product interchangeably, as it refers to biological
entities represented in a knowledge base structured by an ontology or in an ontology. Profiles may
alternatively be constructed using a purely model-driven approach. This approach may be regarded as "gene
centric" in nature: A pathway profile is constructed around each of the gene symbols in the KB, using each as
a "seed" gene, and including other genes with which the seed is known to interact in the KB. In this way, the
profiles come to represent the "interaction neighborhood" or "sphere of influence" of the seed gene. Profiles
may alternatively be constructed using non-gene concepts as the "seeds". For example, a cellular process like
apoptosis, can be used to select a number of genes to act as a seeds, in this case, all or some subset of the
genes the KB that are implicated in apoptosis. The seed forming genes can be added to the profile, together
with their known inter-molecular interactions (as edges). The profile can be expanded further by adding a
desired number of "nearby" genes, once, twice or more times, adding more genes that may not be directly
                                                        -37-

         WO 2013/070634                                                                  PCT/US2012/063753
connected with the original seed genes. Regardless of the nature of the "seed" in the profile, profiles can be
used to give further meaning to a data set, if they can be correlated with a user provided data set, such as
genomic data set (e.g. variants), then the "seed" becomes the focus of interpretation.
[00213] Beyond the "seed" node and edges connecting the seed to other nodes, profiles may be constructed in
a myriad of ways. Many of these approaches are driven to handle the following concerns: The complete set of
macromolecular interactions represented by a KRS will usually be too large and too diverse to be compared in
its entirety with a user provided data set, often with a genomic content. Hence, an algorithm is needed to
"carve up" this large "macromolecular interaction space" into numerous practical-sized interaction
neighborhoods to support a finer-grained probing of genomic data sets. This carving up can be done with
considerable gene overlap among the different profiles to minimize the chance that a rare combination of
genes might be missed. On the one hand, profiles that are modest in size can be designed so that the set of
biological functions that might be ascribed to the profile are not too diverse or heterogeneous. Smaller size
profiles also aid significantly in human review and interpretation. On the other hand, profiles should be
sufficiently large (i.e., they should include, e.g., a sufficient number of genes) so that there will be enough
statistical power when computing correlations with genomic data sets and/or with biological associations,
such as molecular, cellular, organismal, and/or disease processes defined in the KB. Another consideration is
the relative symmetry of a profile in the collection of genes connected to the central "seed" gene. In other
words, a highly interconnected "1st tier" gene (i.e., a gene connected directly to the seed) should not swamp
the profile with 2nd-tier genes (i.e., genes one step removed from the seed) because this can change the seed
gene-centricity of the profile. For studies focusing on genes that are one or more hops away from a gene of
interest, the profiles can be designed to allow for a desired amount of hops from a desired gene. For example,
profiles can be generated including genes that are 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 or 10 "hops" away from a target gene.
[00214] An example of an alternative algorithm developed to address the above goals is referred to as a
"spiral" algorithm. In this algorithm, profiles are generated from a fully-extended master graph of all known
interactions. The graph is constructed from a complete set of the pair-wise macromolecular interactions held
in the KB, and will naturally differ in density (i.e., connectedness among nodes) in different parts of it. For
each gene or gene product concept represented by a node in the master graph: 1) Designate the gene (e.g., a
random gene or a gene comprising a variant, or a gene selected by another criterion, for example one of the
genes associated with a particular biological pathway) or its product as the "seed" node. 2) Add all immediate
neighbor nodes (genes known to participate in interactions with the seed gene) as long as the number of
findings supporting the claim that the seed and the neighbor interact is greater than 1, or stop adding if the
maximum number of nodes has been reached. The elimination of interactions based on only a single finding is
thought to weed out unconfirmed or weakly-substantiated findings. These are the 1st tier nodes and the
connections from the seed to the nodes are 1st tier edges. 3) For each 1st tier node, compile a list of nodes and
edges (besides the seed) that are neighbors of the 1st tier node, as long as the number of findings supporting
the interactions is 4 or more. This increases the stringency for scientific confidence in the interactions, which
as explained above is consistent with assumptions about a decrease in the degree of influence of one gene over
another when there are intervening genes between them. These additional nodes and edges are considered
                                                          -38-

        WO 2013/070634                                                                  PCT/US2012/063753
"2nd tier" candidates. 4) Sort the 2nd tier candidate edges by decreasing findings counts. 5) After all 2nd tier
edge candidates have been enumerated and sorted by the findings count, begin adding 2nd tier candidates to
the profile in a round-robin fashion, picking one 2nd tier edge candidate for each of the 1st tier nodes by
selecting the 2nd tier edge with the highest number of findings. 6) Repeat the round-robin edge addition in
step 5) until either the number of 2nd tier edge candidates is exhausted, or the maximum number of nodes for
the profile has been reached. This results in a profile based on edges with the largest number of scientific
findings substantiating the interactions.
[00215] The above "spiral" approach (essentially a breadth-first search of available nodes) aims to enlarge the
profile in a symmetrical fashion. Second tier edges are added from 1st tier nodes with equal opportunity (but
preferentially those with more findings counts), reducing the chance that a highly-connected 1st tier node
(with lots of 2nd tier edges) will swamp the profile with its connections. Thus, the sphere of influence
surrounding the seed gene is optimally represented. Additional profile assembly algorithms may also be used.
[00216] The above algorithm, when applied to each gene or product in the KB, results in a profile library
where a model of each gene's sphere of influence is collected. Profile libraries may be constructed which use
specific edge types / molecular process criterions, cellular process types, disease states, etc (e.g. binding only,
functional interactions only, or all types) when selecting from available edges. Edge directionality can be a
criterion, as well, designating an upstream or downstream role to the nodes in many cases. When analyzing a
genomic data set (e.g. sequence variant data set), each subject model in the profile library (or libraries) can be
available to be used to interrogate the data set. In some cases, a corresponding fit between the model and the
data set is computed. In some cases, the interactions defined in various model profiles can guide the data
analysis. For example, "nearby" genes within a model profile that are a desired number of "hops" away from
one or more "seed" genes can be considered in an analysis. These "nearby" genes can be selected to relate to
the "seed" genes with a selected directionality. The net effect (the concordance of either an
activating/increasing or inhibiting/decreasing effect of one gene known to be either active or inactive on the
activity of other genes) of a change in the "nearby" genes on the "seed" genes can be a criterion. The net
effect of a "seed" gene on the "nearby" genes can also be a criterion when analyzing the user provided data.
[00217] This approach is referred to as "model-driven". As mentioned above, a fundamentally different, "data
driven" approach to profile construction may also be performed.
[00218] Uses of the assembled profiles have focused on interrogating and interpreting large scale genomic
data sets where the profiles are treated as static models. Additional uses of the profiles are also possible. For
example, the pathway profiles could be fed to simulation software that could allow the dynamic behavior of
the interacting genes to be explored. The process nature and directionalities (increases/decreases) of the inter
molecular interactions can be used to track "what if' scenarios regarding the changes (abundance) in one or
more genes in the profile and the consequences of that change on the other members of the profile. Boolean
networks and Petri nets offer some technologies that might be used in such simulations. Another example of
how the pathways could be used is in the generation of testable hypotheses. Computational systems could be
devised to generate experimentally verifiable predictions about the molecular interactions, and perhaps even
report on reagents available (e.g. mouse knockouts in some of the profile's genes) and additional information
                                                        -39-

         WO 2013/070634                                                                PCT/US2012/063753
for performing the experiments. There could also be computational support for the revision/fine-tuning of the
profile models to reflect new knowledge obtained from those experimental verifications.
[00219] In various embodiments, profiles are selected and ranked based on their relationship to the user
supplied biological data sets, e.g. variants. For example, sequence variant data from a number of subjects
sharing a disease can be analyzed. Profiles containing a large number of variants commonly shared by the
subjects can be ranked higher. Ranking can be adjusted further, if the shared variants are not commonly found
in normal subjects. Rankings can be adjusted further considering the statistical significance of finding the said
set of variants in a given profile. Rankings can also be adjusted based on a matching between the profile and
the disease based on a biological concept. Profiles can be scored by computing a P-value that ranks a profile
against the user-supplied data, e.g., sequence variant data or gene expression data. In a particular application,
there may be many profile libraries generated, each of which contains profiles matching the user or system
specified criteria.
[00220] In some embodiments, one may develop an aggregate scoring metric that includes graph-theoretic
metrics, either as a compound score or a coarser ranking for profiles that match based on the existing score.
For example, for N profiles that score equally well using a first metric, rank them further based on, e.g., graph
connectivity metrics under the assumption that the more connected the genes, more likely they are working
together.
[00221] In another embodiment, the system could allow user annotation to indicate (hypothesized)
dependencies within the expression dataset. Specifically, if users have a priori knowledge about dependencies
between the genes (e.g genes comprising a variant or variants) in their experiment, the users can be allowed to
include the a priori knowledge (e.g. as edge annotations, additions of new edges, or removal of edges whose
evidence is hypothesized to be weak) in the set of genes to be analyzed. This feature, may require that the
analysis gene sets have edge drawings (if it is desirable to display this information in graph form) which use
the same semantics of directness as those underlying the profile edges, i.e., a data-driven profile can be
constructed from user-supplied information. Alternatively, forms may be provided to input edges and tables
provided for visual output for the edges. Thus, in addition to findings from the literature, users can add their
own findings, or modify existing ones by, e.g., specifying a confidence measure. These user findings could be
modifications to the KB itself or to the graph itself. Updates to the KB may use templates to enter these new
findings. If these findings are added to the graph, then templates customized for graph edits may be used. This
resulting data or model driven profile (or profiles, if there is more than one hypothesized dependency for a
gene set) may then be used to further rank existing profiles by, e.g., doing an isomorphism comparison with
model-based profiles. Thus, in some embodiments, data- or model-driven profiles are ranked against both the
prior knowledge asserted in the KRS and the user's personal knowledge assumptions about the data.
[00222] The results output may be delivered to the user online as part of an integrated site that makes available
all related KB applications. This can be advantageous because a number of pieces of information generated in
all of the outputs is based on concepts and findings stored in the KB, which can also be made available to
clients located on a network (e.g., the internet) for purposes of interrogating the KB for more detailed
information related to the results. Thus, embodiments of the invention can be tightly integrated with
                                                         -40-

         WO 2013/070634                                                                  PCT/US2012/063753
supporting content, for example by allowing "click-thru" and "drill-down" functionality to take users from the
high-level results to the detailed supporting evidence.
[00223] Biological phenomena from the KB that is associated with the collection of genes in profiles in a
statistically significant fashion can be revealed. Although the 20 or 40 genes in a profile are each likely to be
associated with many biological processes, the ones of most interest are those that are shared by many of the
genes in the profile. To be statistically significant, the shared biological associations should occur at a
frequency that is higher than that expected by chance alone. Further, a measure of statistical significance can
be calculated for these associations, for example using p-values.
[00224] As an example, let's assume that Profile X has 20 genes, and of those 20 genes 12 are known (from
the KB) to be associated with the cellular process "migration". The question to be answered is: could the 12
out of 20 genes linked to "migration" be explained as simply reflecting the frequency of "migration" cellular
processes among the set of genes in the entire KB, or is this concentration of "migration" genes unusual. To
answer this question, one would need to know the probability (p) that any randomly-selected gene in the KB
will be associated with "migration". This probability can be determined by computing the distribution of KB
genes across the various cell processes represented in the KB. This distribution may then be made available
for quick access by the analysis software by storing the information in a database. In one illustrative example,
386 genes are linked to the cellular process of "migration" out of a total of 10,500 genes in this KB. This
means the probability that any randomly selected gene will be a "migration" gene is 386       +  10,500 or 0.0368.
The probability of 12 out of 20 randomly selected genes being linked to "migration" may be computed using
the Binomial Distribution:
          P(k) = n)       k(I - P)(nk)
                                       k                                                       (1),
where n is the number of randomly-selected items, k is the number of observed events of one kind, and p is
                                                                                    n
the probability (frequency) of a single item being of the particular event. The         term is "n Choose k" which
is equivalent to:
            n) _      n!         1   n!
            k     k!(n -k)!     k (n - k)!                                                     (2)
[00225] From the example above, p would be 0.0368. From (1), and p = 0.0368, we can calculate the
probability that 12 out of a random selection of 20 genes would be linked to "migration" as:
          P(12)  =   2 20.036812(1- 0.0368)(20-12) = 5.7567e -13
                                                                                               (3)
[00226] It is important to note that this computes the probability of exactly 12 genes out of 20 being linked to
"migration". In judging the significance of this, we are interested in the cumulative probability of 12 "or
more" genes out of 20. This is computed from (1) by summing the binomial probabilities:
                                                          -41-

        WO 2013/070634                                                                   PCT/US2012/063753
         Significance    =    1      pk
                                  n)(-4)   --
 wherekl =12,n = 20,p = 0.0368
[00227] For the "migration" cellular process, this gives the cumulative probability that any observation of 12
or more genes out of a profile of 20 occuring by chance of 1.9e-12. This is the P-value, and in this case gives
1 in 1.0e12 chance that the results are due to chance.
[00228] This test is commonly referred to as the "Fischer Sign Test", and in the some embodiments is
automatically performed on a profile for any of the cellular, organismal, and disease associations linked to the
genes in the KB.
[00229] Other types of results may be provided to the user, e.g. profiles annotated with drug target information
by visually highlighting those genes (or variants associated with those genes) that are known drug targets (i.e.
for which a targeting molecule has been found or created) or for which there is evidence that suggests that
they may be good drug targets based on e.g. gene family membership. Drug target information may be
integrated into the results by simply highlighting the genes on a profile diagram, or drug target information
could be taken into account when scoring the profiles. The biological entities that triggered the identification
of a profile can also be highlighted. Profiles can be further displayed with annotations related to unwanted
side effects for a drug. Biological contexts, such as tissue specificity related to the focus of a study, can be
considered in the scoring of a profile. Scoring of profiles can further be at least partially based on the number
of patented biological entities in the profile.
[00230] With an ontology such as described above, it is practical to query the knowledge representation
system for actor concepts, e.g., variants, genes, and gene products, related to a disease and thereby to
construct a disease-related pathway that extends back several steps, and that branches out to identify
overlapping disease-related pathways, as described above. Each gene or gene product in the pathway can be
associated with one or more variants, and the variants from a given sample which are related to the disease
related pathway can be identified.
[00231] It will be clear to persons of skill in the art that further validation may be appropriate. Such further
validation, if any, can be done in an number of ways including by correlating the variants with other relevant
data, such as differential gene expression data as described herein, or by use of animal models.
[00232] In general, the database is queried to identify pathways to a phenotypic trait, e.g., a disease state or a
predisposition to a disease state or other phenotypic trait of interest, by constructing a query designed to
produce a response, following computational analysis of the database (or ontology), that reveals all concepts
that are biologically related to the phenotypic trait state or to a biological component of the body that is
already known to be biologically related to the phenotypic trait. The query can also fix the number of steps
removed from the phenotypic trait or other biological component.
[00233] The means for storing and accessing, genomics information and the means for computational analysis
of complex relationships among the stored concepts will typically comprise a computer system, i.e., any type
of system that comprises stored, e.g., digitized, data and a means to query the stored data. Such computer
                                                          -42-

        WO 2013/070634                                                                    PCT/US2012/063753
system can be a stand alone computer, a multicomponent computer, e.g., one in which the stored data are
physically remote from the user interface, networked computers, etc. Any known means for querying the
database will also be useful, e.g., software and hardware for electronically searching fields, categories or
whole databases.
[00234] Thus, in one aspect, the systems and the methods described herein are used for identifying a disease
associated variant by (a) providing a means for storing and accessing genomics information wherein said
means permits computational analysis of complex relationships among the stored concepts; (b) querying the
database to identify a disease-related pathway; and (c) identifying the biochemical reactions in the disease
related pathway whereby one or more of the actor concepts involved the biochemical reactions comprise a
variant associated with the disease. The disease associated variants can further be used for diagnostic
purposes. For example, a subject can be screened for the presence or other related biological properties, such
as expression profiles, associated with a sequence variant found in a disease associated target.
[00235] In some embodiments, a model of transcript (e.g. gene) activity is inferred for each physical sample in
the data set. A physical sample refers to the variants found in one individual's genome taken from a particular
location (e.g. a tissue or a tumor) at a particular point in time (e.g. before or after therapy). Based on default
(or customized) predicted deleterious filter settings, biological knowledge of gene function and structure from
the database of biological information, and genetic principles, each gene in a physical sample is inferred to
either have the ability to function normally, or be overactive (gain of function), or be inactive (loss of
function). This permits identification of genes (and corresponding deleterious variants) with abnormal
function in one physical sample that are not present in another sample from the same individual (e.g. tumor
and normal tissues). This also enables causal analytics to compute the "net effect" variants within a disrupted
gene have on genes (e.g. disease-implicated) that are one or more regulatory hops downstream. Further, this
enables causal inferences to be made in a a whole-genome scale, given the inferred ability of each gene in the
physical sample and how each gene is known to exert activating/inhibiting effects on phenomena from
biomedical findings, to determine how multiple deleterious variants in multiple genes within a physical
sample are inferred to impact any or every phenomena represented in the data base.
[00236] In some embodiments computer systems or logic devices are used to implement the systems and
methods provided herein. Figure 12 is a block diagram showing a representative example logic device through
which reviewing or analyzing data relating to the present invention can be achieved. Such data can be in
relation to a disease, disorder or condition in an individual. Figure 12 shows a computer system (or digital
device) 800 connected to an apparatus 820 for use with the scanning sensing system 824 to, for example,
produce a result. The computer system 800 may be understood as a logical apparatus that can read
instructions from media 811 and/or network port 805, which can optionally be connected to server 809 having
fixed media 812. The system shown in Figure 12 includes CPU 801, disk drives 803, optional input devices
such as keyboard 815 and/or mouse 816 and optional monitor 807. Data communication can be achieved
through the indicated communication medium to a server 809 at a local or a remote location. The
communication medium can include any means of transmitting and/or receiving data. For example, the
communication medium can be a network connection, a wireless connection or an internet connection. Such a
                                                          -43-

         WO 2013/070634                                                                  PCT/US2012/063753
connection can provide for communication over the World Wide Web. It is envisioned that data relating to
the present invention can be transmitted over such networks or connections for reception and/or review by a
party 822. The receiving party 822 can be but is not limited to a user, a scientist, a clinician, patient, a health
care provider or a health care manager. In one embodiment, a computer-readable medium includes a medium
suitable for transmission of a result of an analysis of a biological sample. The medium can include a result
regarding a disease condition or state of a subject, wherein such a result is derived using the methods
described herein.
                                      4. Prioritizing and Filtering Variants
[00237] For a variety of reasons user may desire to prioritize or filter a number of variants identified in a
genomic sample. For example, genomics information from a patient can be obtained and a large number of
variants can be identified. The researcher or clinician can sort or filter the variants according to properties
associated with those variants. These properties can be, for example, related to a disease of the patient. In the
end the clinician will thereby identify variants with association to the patient's disease. The clinician can then
assess whether the variant is causative or whether a certain treatment regime is preferred. The systems and
methods described herein identify the associations and perform the prioritization and/or filtering of the
variants.
[00238] A computer can be configured to aid in the prioritization or filtering of the variants. In some cases a
number of variants can be rank ordered by a computer according to properties selected by a user. For
example, a user may input a genomic data set, identify the variants within that data set, select properties of
interest, command a computer to identify which variants are associated with the properties of interest, and
receive information in the form of a ranking of how strongly associated each variant is with the selected
properties. In some embodiments a computer is configured to receive one or more genomic data sets, identify
the variants within that data set, receive selections of properties of interest, and calculate an association
between the property or properties of interest and each variant. The computer can be further configured to
output the information in the form of a ranking or filtering based upon how strongly associated each variant is
with the selected properties. Alternatively, a list of variants that are associated with the selected properties
above a threshold level can be provided by the system. In some cases, a measure of association can also be
provided for each variant.
[00239] In some embodiments, variants are prioritized based upon the kind of relationship the variant has with
biological facts. Some relationships with facts may indicate that a variant is likely to be causative of or
correlated with a disease or phenotype while other relationships might mean that a variant is less likely to be
involved with a disease or phonotype. For example, variants associated with gene products that phosphorylate
or activate a second gene product may be of special interest because the phosphorylation relationship is likely
to be biologically relevant. Similarly, variants associated with gene products that are involved in particular
pathways, processes, disease phenotypes, or biomarkers may be of particular interest. These variants could be
prioritized highly. On the other hand, variants that are commonly observed in the population, are poorly
evolutionarily conserved, are not expected to perturb a biological process, or whose associated gene
                                                         -44-

         WO 2013/070634                                                                 PCT/US2012/063753
product(s) are not associated with relevant pathways, processes, disease phenotypes, or biomarkers may have
a lower likelihood of representing causal or driver variants for a phenotype of interest. Similarly, genes that
have highly redundant links, i.e., are involved in multiple other pathways, may be deprioritized because as
targets their disruption may be expected to disrupt a number of pathways, which may be expected to not cause
a particular disease. Similarly, associations that are established by methods or experiments with high false
positive rates may be deprioritized.
[00240] In addition to or in combination with prioritizing, filtering can be used to identify variants of interest.
Filters can enable a user to start with a large number of variants and eliminate variants that do not satisfy a
filter. Accordingly, various filters are described herein. Filters can be used alone or in combination. The
filters can be activated in a variety of ways. At a most basic level a user could filter the results manually. For
example, a clinician can obtain a list of variants from a sample and then look at each variant one by one and
exclude variants based upon a property of interest. For example, the researcher could exclude variants that are
not located near a gene of interest. Such a manual approach is cumbersome and time consuming. In
preferred embodiments the filters are activated on a computer. The filters can be enacted by a user on a
computer selecting from a variety of predetermined filters. The number of variants that survive the filter can
be displayed coincident with the selection of the filter to provide a user near instantaneous feedback regarding
the degree to which a set of variants is reduced by the application of a filter. In other embodiments the filters
are enacted automatically according to a predetermined or predicted need of the user.
A) Common Variant Filter
[00241] As described herein the likelihood of a given variant can be calculated in a given population. The
given population can, for example, be a population that is not known to be affected by a particular disease or
phenotype. A computer can be configured to filter a set of variants by removing, keeping only, or adding
back the common variants. Such a filter is referred to herein as a common variant filter. Without being bound
by theory the common variant filter may be useful because if a variant is common in a normal population it
may be less likely to be causative of a disease. Alternatively, keeping common variants could be useful to a
researcher interested in commonly observed alleles impacting a given pathway. The stringency of a common
variant filter can be adjusted by filtering for more or less common variants. So, for example, in some
embodiments, a computer is configured to receive a set of variants. The computer then queries a database of
common variants and removes the common variants list of variants to be outputted to a user. In some
embodiments the computer removes variants or deprioritizes that appear one or more time in a sample of
about 1000 subjects known not to have a disorder of interest. In some embodiments variants that appear in 2
or fewer of more than 1000, more than 2000, more than 5000, more than 20,000, or more than 50,000
randomly obtained genomes. In some embodiments the threshold for the common variant filter is
approximately the known or predicted distribution of a phenotype or disease in a population. For example, if
a disorder is known to occur in 1 in 100,000 subjects in a population then common variant filter can be set to
remove or deprioritize variants that occur in, for example, in 5 or more in 100,000 subjects in that population.
In some embodiments the computer is configured to compare an inputted list of variants to a statistical map of
                                                         -45-

        WO 2013/070634                                                                 PCT/US2012/063753
the genome, wherein the statistical map of the genome reflects a calculated level of statistical variability for
genomic regions.
B) Cancer Driver Variant Filter
[00242] Various filters can be applied to focus the attention of a user on variants that are more likely to be
involved in cancer or other proliferative disorders. Such filters are herein referred to collectively as the cancer
driver variant filter.
[00243] Genomic samples obtained from normal cells and from test cells (e.g., cancerous cells or suspected
cancerous cells) in a subject can be obtained, the variants can be determined, and the variants in the samples
can be analyzed. In some embodiments, a computer is configured to perform the analysis and comparison.
For example, variants that are homozygous in the normal cells can be filtered from a list of variants obtained
from the test sample. One rationale for this filter is that a cancerous sample has likely acquired a mutation
that should not be found in the normal sample. Therefore, a variant that is in the cancerous cells and
homozygous in the normal cell, is likely not to be the acquired mutation driving the cancer.
[00244] In some embodiments the cancer driver variant filter uses information stored in a database, for
example a knowledge base of biomedical content curated using a knowledge base structured with an ontology,
to predict and enrich for variants most likely to drive cancer phenotypes by identifying: a) variants impacting
known or predicted cancer subnetwork regulatory sites, b) variants impacting cancer-associated cellular
processes (e.g. DNA Repair, Apoptosis), c) variants impacting cancer-associated pathways with appropriate
directionality, and/or d) cancer therapeutic targets & upstream/causal subnetworks.
[00245] In some embodiments the cancer driver filter is configured to use a combination of the above
strategies. In some embodiments the combination is selected based upon a hypothesis generated by a user. In
various embodiments, cancer driver variant filter uses information from multiple layers of information
associated with the study. In some cases, one or more of patient level information (e.g. drug response), disease
mechanism level information (e.g. information related to the course of prostate cancer), cellular mechanism
level information (e.g. information related to apoptosis or angiogenesis), and molecular mechanism level
information (e.g. information related to Fas pathway) can be incorporated into the analysis. In some
embodiments the combination is selected automatically by a system to output a tractable number of variants
for follow-up study by the user, when used alone or in combination with other filters to form a filter cascade.
[00246] The cancer driver variant filter can have its stringency adjusted to filter more or fewer variants.
Various ways of adjusting the stringency of the cancer driver variant filter are discussed herein, for example
adjusting the stringency by altering the number of hops between a variant and a biological function associated
to cancer. To adjust the stringency, it may also be desirable to enable or disable whether the filter looks for
variants that meet one or more of the following criteria: (a) affect human genes having animal model
orthologs with cancer-associated gene disruption phenotypes, (b) impact known or predicted cancer
subnetwork regulatory sites, (c) impact cancer-associated cellular processes with or without enforcement of
appropriate directionality, (d) associated with published cancer literature findings in a knowledge base at the
variant- and/or gene-level, or (e) impact cancer-associated pathways with or without enforcement of
                                                         -46-

         WO 2013/070634                                                                PCT/US2012/063753
appropriate directionality, and/or (f) associated with cancer therapeutic targets and/or upstream/causal
subnetworks.
C) Predicted Deleterious Filter
[00247]A user may wish to keep, remove from, or add back to a list of variants those variants which either are
or are not predicted to be deleterious. For example, a clinician investigating the genome of a patient with a
suspected genetic disorder might wish to only examine variants predicted to have a negative effect on the
biology of the patient. Accordingly, one aspect of the present invention is a predicted deleterious filter.
In some embodiments the predicted deleterious filter comprises algorithms based on a sequence or sequences
associated with the variants to be filtered. These algorithms can, for example, predict whether a single
nucleotide variant (SNV) is predicted to be innocuous (e.g., using a functional prediction algorithm such as
SIFT or Polyphen). The following algorithms can be used alone or in combination as a part of the predicted
deleterious filter: SIFT, PolyPhen, PolyPhen2, PANTHER, SNPs3D, FastSNP, SNAP, LS-SNP, PMUT,
PupaSuite, SNPeffect, SNPeffectV2.0, F-SNP, MAPP, PhD-SNP, MutDB, SNP Function Portal, PolyDoms,
SNP@Promoter, Auto-Mute, MutPred, SNP@Ethnos, nsSNPanalyzer, SNP@Domain, StSNP, MtSNPscore,
or Genome Variation Server. These algorithms and other suitable algorithms known in the art thatattempt to
predict the effect a mutation has on protein function, activity, or regulation may be utilized. For example,
predicted transcription factor binding sites, ncRNAs, miRNA targets, enhancers and UTRs can be
incorporated into filters to carry out the data analysis. Variants associated with coding vs. non-coding regions
can be treated differently. Similarly, variants associated with exons vs. introns can be treated differently.
Further, synonymous vs. non-synonymous variants in a coding region can be treated differently. In some
cases, the translational machinery of the subject can be considered when analyzing codon changes.
[00248] In some embodiments the predicted deleterious filter determines whether a sequence associated with a
variant is evolutionarily conserved. Variants occurring in those sequences which have been highly conserved
evolutionarily may be expected to be more deleterious, and accordingly in some embodiments the predicted
deleterious filter can keep (or remove) these, depending on the application.     One measure that can be used to
quantify the degree of nucleotide-level evolutionary conservation is Genomic Evolutionary Rate Profiling
(GERP).
[00249] In some embodiments the predicted deleterious filter assesses the nature of the amino-acid
replacement associated with a variant. For example a Grantham matrix score can be calculated. In some
instances variants associated with a high or low score are filtered. Similarly, in some embodiments variants
are filtered according to Polymorphism Phenotyping or Sorting Intolerant from Tolerant algorithms.
[00250] In some embodiments the predicted deleterious filter uses information stored in a database, for
example a knowledge base of biomedical content curated using a knowledge base structured with an ontology,
to predict and enrich for variants most likely to be pathogenic. Conversely, the predicted deleterious filter can
filter variants not likely to be pathogenic. The likelihood of pathogenicity can be established, for example, by
identifying a connection between a variant and a known disease causing element.
[00251] The predicted deleterious filter can, in some embodiments, give more weight to information regarding
whether a variant is likely to be pathogenic based upon the context of the information. For example, a single
                                                         -47-

         WO 2013/070634                                                                 PCT/US2012/063753
case or single observation that links a variant to a pathogenic phenotype can be weighed less than when there
are multiple unrelated cases or controlled studies reported in the literature and stored in the knowledge base.
Similarly data that is generated from a single family can be given less weight than data from multiple families.
The weight of the evidence can contribute to whether a filter is applied. The stringency of the filter can be
adjusted by including or excluding the weighted evidence. Another variable which in some instances can be
used to give more weight to information regarding whether a variant is likely to be pathogenic for the
predicted deleterious filter is the extent to which a particular fact has been validated. For example,
information regarding a predicted loss of function mutation will be weighted more heavily if there is a
reported experiment that demonstrates a change in phenotype or gene product function associated with the
mutation. If the same mutation is re-created in an animal model to demonstrate causality even more weight
may be given to the fact.
[00252] Other factors which can be used to weigh the context of the information related to a variant include
but are not limited to the penetrance of a mutation associated with the variant, the statistical power of the
studies underlying the information, the number and type of controls involved the studies underlying the
information, whether therapeutics are known to act predictably based upon the information, whether multiple
mutations in a pathway are known to cause predictable phenotypes, whether there is contradictory evidence in
the knowledge base and the volume/credibility of such evidence, whether the variant or variants disrupting the
same gene/pathway are frequently observed in healthy individuals, whether or not the position or region in
which the variant occurs is highly evolutionarily conserved, and/or whether phenocopies exist and act
predictably which are related to the variant.
[00253] In some embodiments information related to a predicted deleterious filter can be used to categorize
variants according to whether the variants are likely to be pathogenic. This categorization can be performed
by a pathogenicity annotator. In some embodiments the strength of data predicting the pathogenicity or non
pathogenicity of a property associated with a biological entity, expressed as likelihood based on entries in the
ontology and/or knowledge base. Therefore in some embodiments the pathogenicity annotator expresses a
numerical likelihood as a categorization protocol.
[00254] In another embodiment the pathogenicity annotator puts variants into categories that resonate with
clinical & human genetics researchers that provide a convenient mechanism to get at those variants that have
most compelling causal links to disease. This can be accomplished, for example, by leveraging a knowledge
base of curated findings from the literature, structured using an ontology, and combining independent lines of
literature evidence with analysis of evolutionary conservation and observed allele frequencies in "normal"
human populations. In some embodiments the pathogenicity annotator annotates variants that have multiple
independent lines of literature evidence supporting a causal association with a deleterious phenotype as a
"pathogenic" variant. On the other hand, a variant that is cited by a single article as causal for a rare disease,
but found to be present in a high percentage of a population that lacks the rare disease phenotype is more
likely to be benign.
[00255] For example, variants can be categorized an annotated with the pathogenicity annotator as
"Pathogenic," "likely Pathogenic," "uncertain," "Likely Benign," or "Benign," wherein "pathogenic" means
                                                         -48-

        WO 2013/070634                                                                  PCT/US2012/063753
<0.07% frequency of the variant in a database of genomes of individuals free from known genetic disease, and
2 or more findings drawing a causal or associative link between the variant (and/or optionally the gene or
pathway disrupted by the variant) and a deleterious phenotype from multiple different articles in the
biomedical literature; "Presumed Pathogenic" means <0.07% frequency of the variant in a database of
genomes of individuals free from known genetic disease, and 1 finding drawing a causal or associative link
between the variant (and/or optionally the gene or pathway disrupted by the variant) and a deleterious
phenotype; "Unknown" means between 0.07% and 0.1% frequency of the variant in a database of genomes of
individuals free from known genetic disease; "Presumed Benign" means between 0.1% and 1% frequency of
the variant in a database of genomes of individuals free from known genetic disease; and "benign" : means
>=1% frequency of the variant in a database of genomes of individuals free from known genetic disease.
[00256] In some embodiments, the pathogenicity annotator is in communication with a knowledge base of
disease models that define variants, genes, and pathways that are associated with that disease. The
Pathogenicity Annotator utilizes the disease models to provide a pathogenicity assessment for a particular
combination of a specific variant and a specific disease.
[00257] In some embodiments evolutionary conservation is also used in this prediction. In some embodiments
a predicted filter will infer pathogenic status for any variant that does not have variant-level literature
finding(s) in the knowledge base to compute clinical significance. In such cases if the variant is in and/or
predicted to be deleterious to (one of a few thousand) genes known from the knowledge base to be implicated
in a disease, and if the variant is not synonymous and not predicted to be innocuous by a functional prediction
algorithm (e.g. frameshift without SIFT prediction or nonsynonymous with no or damaging/activating SIFT
prediction), then based on the 1000 Genomes frequencies used for variant-level findings it will be inferred to
be pathogenic, presumed pathogenic, uncertain, likely benign, or benign as outlined above. The public SIFT
analytic evaluates coding changes observed relative to degree of evolutionary divergence of protein and
severity of biochemical change (e.g. hydrophilic to hydrophobic amino acid change) predicted to be caused by
a given variant.
D) Biological Context Filter
[00258] As described in the cancer driver variant filter and the predicted deleterious filter, biological context
can serve as a variable to screen variants. The biological context filter can use information stored in a
database, for example a knowledge base of biomedical content curated using a knowledge base structured
with an ontology, to predict and enrich for variants most likely to be related to a biological function. The
biological function can be for example a phenotype, a disease, a functional domain, a cellular process, a
metabolic or signaling pathway, a behavior, an anatomical characteristic, a physiological trait or state, or a
biomarker of one or more of the foregoing. The biological function can also be inferred from effects of gene
disruptions in other species, for example phenotypes of mice that have a disruption in a particular gene may be
used to identify human variants in the human orthologous gene that may give rise to a related phenotype in
humans.
[00259] The stringency of a biological context filter can be adjusted so more or fewer variants are allowed to
pass the filter. In some embodiments the stringency is adjusted by the user. In some embodiments the
                                                         -49-

         WO 2013/070634                                                                   PCT/US2012/063753
stringency is adjusted by a computer and is driven by a predetermined target number of variants surviving the
filter or filter cascade.
[00260] Selection of a biological function is one way to alter the stringency of a biological context filter. For
example a rather low stringency filter would be if a data set of variants is filtered for variants with a known
relationship to autoimmune disease. A higher stringency screen would be to filter for the variants with a
known relationship to Diabetes mellitus type 1.
[00261]Another way to alter the stringency of a biological context filter is to alter the number of hops
between a variant and a biological function. Generally, the more hops that are required the less stringent a
filter will be. Addition of hops in a biological context filter helps enable discovery of novel causal variants
and genes that, when disrupted, can cause human disease.
[00262] In a situation where a variant is related to an entity, such as a gene or gene product with a known
biological function, through a series of hops it is possible to filter for variants that only work downstream or
upstream of a given entity. Accordingly a user can filter, for example, for variants likely to act upstream of
one or more known biological processes or entities.
[00263] Additionally, a biological context filter can be used to filter for variants that have a specific net effect.
For example a screen can be established to screen for variants that, after one or more hops, are likely to result
in causal loss of function in one or more particular biological entities or processes. This can be accomplished
in some embodiments, by examining the causality between hops. In one non-limiting example, if a user is
seeking variants in genes (or gene products) that are within two hops upstream of a biological entity, Gene C,
that are known or predicted to cause a net loss-offunction of Gene C or its product, and Gene B is known to
activate Gene C, and Gene A is known to activate Gene B, variants that are known or predicted to cause a
loss-offunction (but not gain-offunction) in Gene A would be identified as meeting this filter criterion. In
another non-limiting example, if a user were looking for variants that are within 2 hops upstream that are
known or predicted to cause a net loss-of-function of Gene C or its product, and Gene B is known to repress
Gene C, and Gene A is known to activate Gene B, variants that are known or predicted to cause a gain-of
function (but not loss-of- function) in Gene A would can be identified.
E) Genetic Analysis Filter
[00264] Variants can be filtered using genetic logic, for instance by whether they display characteristics
consistent with Mendelian inheritance, whether they are frequently observed in one population (e.g. patients
affected with a rare hereditary disease, or patients who fail to respond to a particular course of therapy) but not
in another (e.g. individuals without disease, or patients who respond to the same course of therapy), whether
they frequently perturb the same gene in one population but not in another, and/or whether they frequently
perturb the same pathway in one population but not in another. Such a filter is referred to herein as a genetic
analysis filter. A genetic analysis filter can involve obtaining genomic information from genetically related
subjects. For example, if a researcher or clinician is interested in a genetic disease segregating in one or more
families he or she can filter out variants that are not consistent with Mendelian inheritance. In this example
the researcher or clinician can obtain genomic information regarding members of a family, wherein some
family members have a disease which is following a Mendelian inheritance pattern, but the cause is unknown.
                                                         -50-

         WO 2013/070634                                                                 PCT/US2012/063753
The variants can be identified for each family member. Variants which do not satisfy the rules of Mendelian
inheritance can be filtered. For example, a variant that is homozygous in one or both parents, but not present
in an affected child can be filtered out. A variant present in an affected child, but not present in either of the
parents can also be filtered. A variant that is homozygous in child, but absent in one of the parents could also
be filtered out. Copy number analysis of the genomic information can be useful for the genetic analysis filter.
Single-copy variants that would normally be insufficient to cause loss-of-function could be filtered out, but
the same variants occurring in a hemizygous region of the genome could be retained as potentially causal for
disease. Likewise, multiple samples from the same individual, such as tumors from different tissue locations
or times post-therapeutic treatment, can be compared with the individual's normal genome to filter out
variants that are unlikely to be disease-causing due to presence in both the control and matched disease
samples for each individual in the data set.
[00265] A genetic analysis filter can also utilize known information to include or exclude variants. This can
be accomplished by using data contained in the knowledge base regarding human genes and network
relationships with other genes. For example, a heterozygous variant that is predicted to perturb a
haploinsufficient gene can be included by the genetic analysis filter as potentially giving rise to a disease
causing loss-of-function. A heterozygous variant that is predicted to perturb a gene that is not considered to
be haploinsufficient can be excluded by the genetic analysis filter as unlikely to be disease-causing in
isolation. The genetic analysis filter can also identify variants that consistently cause loss of function. Often
hereditary diseases can have multiple genetic causes that can all give rise to the same or very similar clinical
disorder. For example, the disease craniosynostosis can be caused by mutations in Fibroblast Growth Factor
Receptor (FGFR) 1, FGFR2, FGFR3, TWIST and EFNBl. New genes that, when mutated, cause
craniosynostosis continue to be discovered. For such hereditary diseases that can be caused by mutations in
more than one gene, and for those where it is unknown whether or not they can be caused by mutations in
more than one gene, it is powerful for the genetic analysis filter to use the Knowledge Base to identify
variants that are expected to disrupt function in either the same gene or genes that are within 1-hop or 2-hops
away from the gene consistently across one population (e.g. individual(s) with the disease or phenotype of
interest) and consistently absent from another population (e.g. individual(s) without the disease or phenotype
of interest). Some variants are mutations that cause a single copy of a gene to become overactive, for example
by losing a self-inhibitory regulatory sequence. The genetic analysis filter can retain these known or predicted
dominant-acting variants regardless of the number of copies found in a genome.
[00266] A genetic analysis filter can also determine whether multiple different variants are predicted to disrupt
the same gene (or a transcript of a gene) across a population of one or more samples. For example, the genetic
analysis filter can determine whether two heterozygous variants might combine in the same sample to disrupt
function of a given gene (i.e. compound heterozygous variants) or pathway, and thereby determine whether
that same gene (or pathway) is disrupted consistently across one population of individuals (e.g. individual(s)
with disease or phenotype of interest), but not in another population (e.g. individuals without the disease or
phenotype of interest). This capability can, for example, retain deleterious variants that are heterozygous in
                                                        -51-

         WO 2013/070634                                                                   PCT/US2012/063753
both a tumor and a matched normal sample, but are inferred to only cause a loss of gene function in the tumor
due to copy number changes or additional (compound) mutations in the gene.
[00267] A genetic analysis filter can also take into account the quality of the sequence information. For
example a genetic analysis filter may have information regarding the quality or number of representations in a
database. Low quality or low representation sequences may be filtered. The stringency of this filter can be
adjusted according to metric of data quality. For example, a low stringency version of a genetic analysis filter
would allow the inclusion of data with low quality while a high stringency filter could include only high
quality data. The genetic analysis filter can include estimates of whether a particular variant is likely to be
high quality. For example if a genome is sequenced and a particular variant is only represented one time in
the sequencing then the probability of that variant being a sequencing error is higher than if the same variant
was sequenced multiple times. The genetic analysis filter can, in some instances, filter sequences that have
fewer representations in the database. The genetic analysis filter can also take into account regions of the
genome which are more likely to be difficult to acquire quality data for. When a variant is located on or near
a genomic feature known to lower sequencing quality and/or to artificially increase the incidence of variants
(i.e. a "frequent hitter" region), the genetic analysis filter may filter out such variants. Stringency can be
adjusted by inclusion or exclusion of variants that are closer or further from potentially problematic genomic
features. For example if a given variant is on or near a highly repetitive region of the genome the genetic
analysis filter may exclude that variant.
[00268] Accordingly traits such as gain/loss of function, copy number, compound hetereozygosity,
haploinsufficiency, frequency in control populations, consistency with Mendelian inheritance patterns, and the
consistency of the presence and/or absence of an observation within 2 or more populations at the allele-level,
gene-level, and/or pathway-level can all be incorporated into a genetic analysis filter. For example, a genetic
analysis filter may identify variants that are consistently enriched or increased in frequency over time at the
allele-level, gene-level and/or pathway level over time as a tumor is treated with drug therapy.
F) Pharmacogenetic Filter
[00269] In some instances a user may desire to filter variants based upon known or predicted relationships of
the variants to drug targets or proteins involved in drug processing and metabolism. Accordingly, in some
embodiments a pharmacogenetic filter filters a list of variants to identify, for example, variants that impact
one or more potential drug targets or variants that have been observed or are predicted to impact drug
response, metabolism, and/or toxicity. For example, instead of selecting all drugs, a user could select a drug
of interest, drug A. The knowledge base can identify that drug A targets gene Z, and the knowledge base can
indentify that a loss-offunction of gene Z reduces the effectiveness of drug A in patients. Therefore, the
Pharmacogenetic filter can identify that a variant in user's data set that causes or is predicted to cause a loss
of-function in gene Z is expected to have a pharmacogenetic effect relevant to drug A entered by user.
G. Preconfigurator
[00270] Various embodiments of the invention provide systems and methods to analyze sequence variant data
from large data sets, including whole genome and whole exome sequencing data. In some cases, the analysis
involves searching for sequence variants that may be implicated with a disease or another phenotype of
                                                          -52-

         WO 2013/070634                                                                       PCT/US2012/063753
interest. One or more such data sets can be provided by a user and analyzed by the system. Various filtering
methods are described above to eliminate sequence variants that are likely unrelated to the studied disease. In
various embodiments of the invention, a set of filters can be preconfigured to analyze a desired type of data
and identify the most likely interesting variants given the study type. For example, a set of filters can be pre
configured to eliminate sequence variants in the user provided data set based on biological context (e.g. tissue
type, disease association, phenotypes, pathways, or processes) while expanding the allowed set of gene
variants to one or more hops from those identified by the filters. Sets of filters can be suggested by the system
and the user may be allowed to review and modify them. Alternatively, a set of filters can be combined by a
user and in some cases saved as a set in the system.
[00271] Reducing the number of variants can increase approachability of the application and help users
quickly get to, for example, <200 or <50 variants of interest from among thousands, tens of thousands,
hundreds of thousands or millions or more variants without manual configuration of the various filters.
Whatever the method of combining filters, they can be preconfigured to reduce the number of variants down
to a desired number, for example, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 15, 20, 25, 50, 100, 200 or more variants.
Alternatively, filters can be preconfigured to reduce the number of variants down to less than a desired
number, for example, less than 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 15, 20, 25, 50, 100, 200 or more variants. In some
cases, filters can be preconfigured to reduce the number of variants, but not return less than a threshold
number, for example, not less than 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 15, 20, 25, 50, 100, 200 or more variants.
[00272] Various embodiments of the invention provide methods to reduce the number of sequence variants
using preconfigured filter sets to a target range. In some embodiments, the method is iterative, for example, an
initial setting for the set of filters is used to reduce the user provided data set. If the returned number of
variants is lower than desired, in some cases, one or more of the filters can be switched to a less stringent
setting. In some cases, one or more of the filters can be removed from the set. On the other hand, if the
returned number of variants is higher than desired, in some cases, one or more of the filters can be switched to
a more stringent setting. In some cases, one or more filters can be added to the set.
[00273] In some embodiments filter questions are posed to a user in order to instruct the computer regarding
which set of filters to use for a preconfigurator. For example the following questions can be posed to the user:
                          (1) What best describes what you're trying to accomplish? (radio buttons on an
                              interface can allow user selection - indicated by brackets)
                                    a.[] Genetic Disease: Identify causal or driver variants for a given disease.
                                         (Default)
                                    b.[] Cancer: Identify cancer driver variants
                                    c. [] Stratification: Identify variants that differentiate one group (case) from
                                         another (control) group. (Disabled if <1 case or <1 control sample)
                                    d.[] Personal Genome: Find variants that are potentially associated with
                                         disease or phenotypes. (Disabled if >1 sample)
                                    e. [] Other: [Describe]
                                    f. [Next>>]
                          (2) Is there a particular disease or biological process of interest?
                                    a. Outlook-like "contains" search on all diseases and processes in the
                                         Knowledge Base with autocomplete, user can select 1 or more.
                                    b. [<<Back] [No, not really.>>] [Yes, selected above>>] (disabled if none
                                         selected)
                                                             -53-

       WO 2013/070634                                                                     PCT/US2012/063753
                         (3) [If "Disease" selected above] What best describes the disease's inheritance
                             pattern? (radio buttons)
                                  a.[] Dominant
                                  b.[] Recessive
                                  c. [] X-linked
                                  d.[] De novo mutation
                                  e. [] Other/Not known
                                  f. [<<Back] [Next>>] (Disabled if none selected)
                         (4) [<<Back] [Start Analysis>>]
[00274] Depending on the answers to the questions posed to the user a filter logic can select appropriate filters
to output a tractable number of variants for follow-up study. An example of a filter logic is:
                      (1) Automatically add Common Variants filter with default parameters.
                      (2) Automatically add Predicted Deleterious filter
                               a. If Personal Genome is selected AND no specific disease is selected, check
                                     only "Pathogenic" & "Possibly Pathogenic"
                               b. ELSE, use default parameters except as modified by (4).a.iii.1 below.
                      (3) If a disease/process is selected, add the Biological Context filter with "Keep only", 2
                           hops upstream (with "effects" option selected) and 2-hops downstream, with the
                           selected disease/process in the box.
                      (4) If "Cancer" is selected, add the Genetic Analysis filter with "Keep only" for 100%
                           cases and "Exclude" the same categories of variants present in "1 or more" control
                           samples. Preset options for "Cancer: somatic only (limited to functional impact)"
                               a. If all samples are matched, select "Pair/match samples from the same
                                     subject" option, and add "nullzygous" and "hemizygous" options. Also, need
                                     to add/check "copy number gain", "nullzygous", and "hemizygous" options
                                     in the Predicted Deleterious filter.
                               b. Add Cancer Driver Variants filter with "Keep only", all options selected.
                                            i. If disease selected has a cancer disease model, populate Cancer
                                               Driver Variants filter with that disease model.
                      (5) If "Disease" or "Stratification" is selected AND there are 1 or more case and 1 or
                           more control samples: add the Genetic Analysis filter with "Keep only" for 100%
                           cases and "Exclude" the same categories of variants present in "1 or more" control
                           samples.
                               a. If "recessive" selected above: set options for "Recessive hereditary disease"
                               b. If "dominant" or "other/not known" selected above: set options for
                                     "Dominant hereditary disease"
                               c. If "X-linked" is selected above, add a physical location filter to keep only
                                     those variants that are on the X chromosome.
                               d. If "De novo mutation" selected above: set options for "De novo mutation"
                                     (i.e., "Restrict to variants consistent with mendelian inheritance" option in
                                     Genetic Analysis filter = unchecked.)
                      (6) If disease selected is a Cancer, add Cancer Driver Variants filter with "Keep only", all
                           options selected.
                               a. If disease selected has a cancer disease model, populate Cancer Driver
                                     Variants filter with that disease model.
                      (7) If the result of the bottom-most filter is zero variants
                               a. Reduce #/cases required in Genetics filter by 1. If still zero, repeat this step
                                     until #/cases in Genetics filter is =1.
                               b. Increase Common Variants 1000 Genomes frequency from default to 2%.
                               c. If Cancer: Change Genetic Analysis filter from "Cancer: Somatic only
                                     (limited to functional impact)" to "Cancer: Somatic only" setting.
                               d. Delete the bottom-most filter until result is 1 or more variants.
                      (8) If the result of the bottom-most filter is >50 variants
                               a. reduce Biological context filter downstream hops from 2 to 1. If still >50...
                                                            -54-

         WO 2013/070634                                                                PCT/US2012/063753
                               b. turn off Biological context filter downstream genes. If still >50...
                               c. reduce Biological Context filter upstream hops from 2 to 1. If still >50...
                               d. Change Biological Context filter upstream setting from "Affects"i"Directly
                                  Affects" If still >50...
                               e. Turn off Biological context filter upstream genes. If still >50...
                               f. Change Predicted Deleterious filter options to remove non-coding variants. If
                                  still >50...
                               g. Change Predicted Deleterious filter options to keep only variants in the
                                  "Pathogenic" category.
[00275] In some embodiments the preconfigurator takes into account the context of a user's experiment to
adjust relevant content in the computation (eg. what type of cell line did they use, whether they know that
certain genes are knocked out or transfected in, etc.). This can allow one to score profiles based on how well
they matched up against this background knowledge about the experiment. In other embodiments the
preconfigurator preconfigures or provides default selections based on data-driven properties of the variants
observed in the user's datasets, for example prespecifying "male" or "female" based on the presense or
absence of variants in a given individual's dataset on the Y-chromosome, or prespecifying "cancer" or a
cancer type based upon presence (or absence) of certain variants in the dataset. In other embodiments the
preconfigurator takes into account medium-throughput data to refine expectations of what is 'normal' for
different cells, what proteins potentially can interact, etc. This can provide a normalized baseline across
various biological contexts and refine the sensitivity with which one can distinguish statistically significant
results.
H. Pedigree Builder
[00276] Various embodiments of the invention provide systems and methods to determine relationships
between samples with sequence variations. Taking into account variances or measures of relatedness between
samples, some embodiments of the invention may allow pedigrees, or schematics of relationships between
samples, to be assembled de novo. This may be achieved by pedigree builder.
[00277] In some cases, the pedigree builder may be used to provide phase information about sequence variants
identified from sequencing data. Phasing analysis involves searching for the parental source of sequence
variants that may be implicated with a disease or another phenotype of interest. In some embodiments for
example, a pedigree builder is configured to infer or accept input from the user to identify if a sample is most
likely derived from the mother of the individual from whom a given sample was derived. In other
embodiments, a pedigree builder is configured to infer or accept input from the user to identify the sample
most likely derived from the father of the individual from which a given sample was derived. Phasing
information may be important in determining whether one or more variants exist in cis, (i.e a single strand of
DNA), or in trans (i.e. across multiple strands of DNA). This information may be important in assessing the
severity of disease of phenotype associated with the variant sequences.
[00278] Phasing information about sequence variants may also be utilized by the genetic analysis filter
described herein. The genetic filter analysis may utilize phase information to filter variants that are consistent
a Mendelian inheritance pattern. This information may also be useful in allowing the pedigree builder to infer
                                                          -55-

         WO 2013/070634                                                                    PCT/US2012/063753
trios and family relationships within a given study. For example, this may include but is not limited to clinical
trial sample processing.
[00279] Further, the pedigree builder is configured to recognize and assign an individual identifier to multiple
samples that are taken from a single individual. The pedigree builder is configured to distinguish genetic
differences between individuals based on the construction of a genetic pedigree, while retaining the ability to
assign the same identifiers to samples that may come from the same individual but reflect some genetic
variation. In some embodiments of the invention, this may be useful for the pedigree builder to infer a
patient's normal genome from one sample, from tumor genome(s) taken from additional samples taken from
the same patient.
[00280] In some instances, the pedigree builder may also be configured to indentify inconsistencies between
relationships derived from user input and inferred relationships that are derived entirely from computational
analysis of the patients' sequence data. In one example, this may include but is not limited to, the
identification of cases which may involve non-paternity, sample mislabeling or sample mix-up issues. These
issues may otherwise confound analysis and interpretation of a sequence dataset.
I. Statistical Association Filter
[00281] In some instances a user may desire to filter variants based upon statistical association between two or
more samples groups and a disease or phenotype of interest. In one embodiment of the invention, a statistical
association filter is configured to take the inputs of a previous filter in a filter cascade, and filter variants using
a basic allelic, dominant or recessive model. Variants that show a statistically significant difference to one
another can be further filtered using a case burden, control burden, or 2-sided burden test. This may indicate
how different statistically significant variants perturb a gene differently between two or more sample groups
(e.g. phenotype affected vs. unaffected).
[00282] In one example, the statistical association filter may be configured to identify variants that are
deleterious and contribute to inferred gene-level loss of function and inferred gene-level gain-of-function.
This analysis may also utilize the predicted deleterious and genetic analysis filters described herein.
[00283] In other embodiments of the invention, the statistical association filter may also be used to filter
variants that perturb a whole pathway or gene set. Variants that show statistically significant differences
between two or more sample groups may be further filtered using a burden test. In some cases, the burden test
may utilize a knowledge base of findings from the literature to identify genes that together form a collective
interrelated set based upon shared pathway biology, domain, expression, biological process, disease relevance,
group or complex annotation. In some cases the statistical association filter may identify variants that perturb
pathways or gene sets significantly more or significantly less between two or more sample groups. In other
cases, the burden test may be performed across a library of pathways or gene sets that may be further defined
by the user.
J. Publish Feature
[00284] In some embodiments of the invention, a user may want to share or publish results of an analysis. A
publish feature may be configured to enable a user to specify an analysis of interest, describe the analysis, and
link the details of the analysis to a URL internet link. The URL may be embedded by the user in a publication
                                                         -56-

         WO 2013/070634                                                                 PCT/US2012/063753
or other type of disclosure. The publish feature may also be configured such that the user retains the ability to
release the published analysis for broad access when the users desires it. In other embodiments of the
invention, the publish feature may provide access to the user's published analysis to other users who access
the aforementioned URL or who browse a list of available published analyses.
[00285] After a given variant has been filtered and identified, various embodiments of the invention provide
systems and methods to identify drugs and possible effects on pathways affected by such variants. In some
cases, variants are causal variants for diseases or phenotypes. In other cases, variants are drivers of diseases
or phenotypes. The druggable pathway feature may be configured to first identify drugs that are known to
target, activate and/or repress a gene, gene product, or gene set that co-occurs in the same pathway or genetic
network as one or more variants. In some embodiments of the invention, this feature is further configured to
predict the net effect of one or more variants in the patient sample on the pathway or genetic network through
causal network analysis. In other embodiments, the druggable pathway feature may also further identify drugs
that have a net effect on the pathway or genetic network that is directly opposite of the predicted impact of the
variant on the pathway or genetic network previously identified.
[00286] In some cases, the druggable pathway feature may be used to identify patient samples representing
patents likely to respond to one or more specific drugs of interest based on their sequence variant profiles. In
some cases the druggable pathway feature may be important in the recruitment, selection or enrollment of
patients in pharmaceutical clinical trials. In other cases, the druggable pathway feature may be used in
providing novel treatment options for patients.
[00287] Various embodiments of the invention also provide systems and methods to identify hypervariable
genes or genomic regions. In some embodiments, the the Frequent Hitters filter is configured to access a
knowledge base of hypervariable genes and genomic regions that are frequently mutated among a collection
of samples derived from individuals unaffected by the disease or phenotype of interest. The Frequent Hitters
filters may also filter variants that occur within hypervariable genes or genomic regions. Additionally, the
Frequent Hitters filter may also allow annotation of highly repetitive trinucleotide repeats through the
Trinucelotide Annotator.
[00288] In some cases, the Trinucleotide Annotator is configured to interact with a knowledge base of known
trinucleotide repeat regions that contains information on the number of repeats that are benign and the number
of repeats that are associated with one or more human phenotypes or severities. In other cases, the Frequent
Hitters filter is configured to assess the number of trinucleotide repeats at one or more genomic regions
defined in the knowledge base in one or more patient whole genome or exome sequencing samples. In other
cases, the Frequency Hitter filter is configured to assess whether the trinucleotide repeat length calculated
previously is sufficient to cause a phenotype based on the knowledge base, for each trinucleotide repeat. This
information may then be communicated such that the use associated with the trinucleotide repeat length
calculated previously may become aware of potential diseases or phenotypes associated with the trinucleotide
repeat. Information obtained from the Frequent Hitters filter may also be shared the predicted deleterious
filter to enable filtering of variants likely or unlikely to cause a phenotype based on the results of the
trinucleotide repeat annotator.
                                                           -57-

         WO 2013/070634                                                                 PCT/US2012/063753
[00289] In one example, use of the Frequent Hitter filter may useful for patients with a familial history of
Huntington's disease. This neurodegenerative disease is caused by variable length trinucleotide repeats in the
Huntingtin gene (HTT). The length of this repeat may vary between individuals as well as between
generations. The length of the repeat is thought to affect the severity of Huntington's disease itself. The
Frequency Hitter may provide information regarding the length of the tri nucleotide repeat and the severity of
the disease known to be associated with that variant length to an individual suspect of having Huntington's
disease.
                                           5. Applications of the Variants
[00290] The invention can be used to aid personalized medicine by elucidating subjects who are more or less
likely to respond to a therapy or preventative regimen, or who are more or less likely to experience toxicologic
endpoints or adverse events due to a particular treatment regimen, or who are more or less sensitive to a given
treatment and therefore may require an alternative dosing, duration of treatment and/or treatment intensity.
These discoveries made through use of this invention could manifest, for example, in new companion
diagnostics for existing or future treatments to target these treatments to patient populations who will benefit
the most and have lowest risk of adverse events.
[00291] The invention can also be used to develop individualized cancer treatments by identifying cancer
specific driver variants in specific patients that would be most attractive targets for such therapies as
individualized immunotherapy.
[00292] The invention can also be used to identify novel variants that are causal, alone or in combination with
other variants and/or environmental stimuli, for human diseases or other phenotypes of interest.
[00293] In another aspect, this invention comprises a method for identifying diagnostic markers for a given
disease. In this aspect, the invention comprises: (a) providing a means for storing and accessing genomics
information wherein said means permits computational analysis of complex relationships among the stored
concepts and (b) querying the database to identify markers that are associated with the disease. The markers
that are associated with the disease can be variants.
[00294] The present invention is also useful in the field of pharmacogenomics. For example, in another aspect,
the invention provides a method for identifying diagnostic markers specifically for drug response, e.g.,
unwanted side effects or non-responsiveness. By identifying variants predictive for side-effects or non
responsiveness, a population of patients having a given disease can be stratified into sub-populations based on
likelihood of having a serious adverse event or for not responding to a given therapy, for purposes of
enrollment in clinical trials or for treatment.
[00295] The method of the invention for predicting disease pathways and targets for drug discovery may be
enhanced by leveraging the information obtained by querying a database with data obtained from other
methods for identifying disease pathways or targets for drug discovery. For example, the method of the
invention may include, additionally, the use of absolute and/or differential expression data in conjunction with
relationships asserted in the database.
              6. Providing the data to the system/Accessing the system and Transaction model
                                                         -58-

        WO 2013/070634                                                                 PCT/US2012/063753
[00296] The user will provide data to the system in order to analyze or otherwise interpret the data. The data
can be uploaded to a local computer running software or the uploading can occur over a network. There can
be a combination of both local software and a network or "cloud" based aspect of the system which allows the
user to provide the data. In some instances the providing of the data is merely the user allowing the system
access to the biological data wherever it is already located, for example the user may allow the system to
access a hard drive already containing the data.
[00297] The user may repeatedly provide data to the system. In some embodiments, the data is on a computer
readable medium, which is provided to the system. For instance the user might buy software which would
allow the user to analyze a new dataset at the user's convenience with or without access to a network.
Alternatively, the user may access the analysis tools via a network. For instance the user may obtain a
password which allows access to the analysis tools over a network. In another embodiment, the user stores
data on computer readable media that is operatively linked to the system. The linking can be permitting access
to the system.
[00298] In one embodiment, the user's ability to provide data to the system is enabled when the user purchases
a component necessary for generating the data. For example, the user may be given a code for accessing the
system over a network when the user purchases a sequencing instrument or consumable, or purchases
sequencing services. In some embodiments, such a transaction comprises the purchase of one or more
product(s) or service(s) for the generation of one or more data set(s). Permission to access the data analysis
package is optionally provided in a manner that is linked to the transaction. In some embodiments, access to
the system and/or payment status is linked to a user's e-mail address. In some embodiments, the access to the
data analysis package comprises an access code or partial code. In some embodiments, access is given to the
entirety of the data analysis package. In some embodiments, partial access is provided to specific portions of
the analysis package. In some embodiments, the access is limited in time, for example, access may be
terminated after 3, 6, 9, 12, 25, 24 months or more. In some cases, the access can be extended for periods of
time, for example access can be extended for 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 months or more. Additional payment may be
required for extensions. In some cases, the data is kept in the system regardless of payment status for the
extensions. In various embodiments, the data is loaded to the system regardless of the payment status for
access into the system or to any reports generated by the system. The data set is generated using the product or
service purchased at the first transaction. In some embodiments, the data collection is at least partially
performed by the user. In some embodiments, the data set is shared with the service provider. In some
embodiments, the data collection is performed at least partially by a service provider. In some embodiments,
the data set is shared with the user. In some embodiments, the first transaction is between the user and the
service provider. In some embodiments, the data set is entered into the data analysis package after the data
collection. In some embodiments, the data set is entered into the data analysis package during the data
collection. In some embodiments, the data is entered to the system by the service provider. In some
embodiments, the system provides an output or report to the service provider. In some embodiments, the
system provides an output or report to the user. In some embodiments a quote or an option to purchase access
to the analysis package is communicated to the user prior to or during the first transaction. A user may be
                                                        -59-

         WO 2013/070634                                                                PCT/US2012/063753
provided with a quote detailing the price for the product or service only, such as the price for sequencing a
genome, or a user may be provided a bundled price for gaining access to a data analysis/reporting package
and/or any output/reports generated by the package/system, in addition to obtaining the product or service In
some embodiments, a second transaction comprises purchasing permission to gain access or partial access to
the analysis package. In some embodiments, the first and the second transactions are independent events.
[00299] In some embodiments of the invention, the data analysis package accepts one or more user provided
data sets in various formats as an input. A user may be the purchaser of the product or service or a secondary
entity providing the product or service, such as a sequencing facility. In some embodiments, the data set
comprises unprocessed/raw data from an experiment. In various embodiments, the user provided data set is a
biological data set. In some embodiments, the user generated data set comprises a whole or partial genome
sequence. In some embodiments, the user generated data set comprises RNA sequences or gene expression
data.
[00300] FIG 11 illustrates an example of a bundled transaction system linking the purchase of a sequencing
service to the purchase of an analysis and/or report of the generated sequencing data. In this example, a
customer communicates with a service provider and a quote for the sequencing service is generated. The quote
includes a bundled option comprising a reporting service resulting from the analysis of the sequencing service,
in addition to the sequencing service. An order is placed based on this quote and samples are sent to the
sequencing service provider. The generated data is processed. In many cases, the data processing will
comprise aligning the sequencing data to other sequencing data in the system, e.g. in a database as described
elsewhere in this application, and calling the user data differs, thus identifying sequencing variants. In various
cases, a quality control function is performed. Variant Call Files (VCFs) are generated as a result of the data
processing. In many cases, the service provider provides the results of the sequencing service to the customer,
e.g. by uploading the results into a hard drive and shipping it to the customer. Alternative suitable ways of
data transfer, for example by internet, are envisioned and are known to those skilled in the art. In some cases,
the VCFs will also be provided to the customer. The VCFs are uploaded to the reporting service, such as a
Variant Analysis Report system using suitable methods known in the art, such as via an application
programming interface (API) or a user interface (UT). In some implementations, the data is transferred to the
reporting system regardless of whether a payment is made for the reporting system. A report can then be
generated without further transactions. If the user provided payment or an order for the reporting system, the
service provider can send a commission for the report to the report service provider. In various cases, the
service provider will communicate to the user the status of the service. A link to access the results of the
reporting service can be included during this communication or in a separate communication. The user can use
this link to access the report system. If payment is already made for the reporting system, the user can access
the report. If payment has not been made an option to make payment to gain access to the system can be
provided. In many cases, the user is given permission to manipulate the analysis and generate alternative
reports. In some cases, add-on features can be included with the reporting system for fee or for free, such as
call support for assisted use of the system.
                                                        -60-

          WO 2013/070634                                                                   PCT/US2012/063753
[00301] In FIG. 13 a flow diagram of an embodiment of a system constructed in accordance with the present
invention is illustrated. The system is designated generally by the reference numeral 100. The system 100
provides a method for bundling the transaction for gaining access to a data analysis package with a transaction
for a product or service that is used to generate a data set to be entered into the data analysis package for
analysis. The flow diagram illustrating system 100, shows a product or service transaction or discounted
transaction 102 and an access or partial access transaction or discounted transaction 103 for the use of the data
analysis package. The transaction 102 and 103 are either offered as a selection or a single transaction option
including both 102 and 103 is offered. In some embodiments, a price or value is associated with the combined
transaction is lower than the sum of two prices or values associated with the subject transactions 102 and 103.
In some embodiments, the price value associated with transaction 102 is zero. In some embodiments, the price
value associated with transaction 103 is zero. The system 100, includes a product or service 110, which is
purchased during the transaction 102. One or more data sets 111 are generated using the product or service
110. An access or partial access to the data analysis package 120 is purchased during the transaction 103. The
access or partial access 120 grants permission to use the data analysis package under specified terms. In some
embodiments, the transaction 102 grants the purchase of a plurality of products or services 110. In some
embodiments, the transaction 103 grants the purchase of a repeated access or partial access to the data analysis
package. In some embodiments, the number of products or services 110 and the number of accesses or partial
accesses 120 are linked. In some embodiments, the access or partial access 120 is granted for a specific time
period or a specific amount of time.
[00302] The system 100 facilitates the generation of data 111 using the product or service 110. The access or
partial access 120 permits the entry of the data 111 into the data analysis package. A first analysis 130 is
performed using the data analysis package. The system 100 offers one or more supplementary transactions
140. An enhanced access or partial access to the data analysis package 150 is purchased during the
supplementary transaction 140. In some embodiments, the supplementary transaction 140 is adjusted for an
enhanced partial access 150 to specific parts or functionalities of the data analysis package. An enhanced
analysis 160 is performed using the parts and functionalities of the data analysis package purchased during the
transaction 150. In some embodiments an enhanced access or partial access transaction 140 is bundled in an
initial transaction 101.
[00303] In some embodiments, an access or partial access to the data analysis package is given through a user
registration for the product or service 101. In some embodiments an access or partial access to the data
analysis package is given to a service provider. In some embodiments, the service provider performs all or
part of the experiments associated with the prodict or service 110. In some embodiments, the core lab
performs the data analysis.
[00304] In some embodiments, a user registration for the product or service 101 comprises an e-mail address
and a password. In some embodiments, the password comprises alphanumeric characters. In some
embodiments, the password comprises all printable characters. In various embodiments, the password is 1, 2,
3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20 characters long or longer.
                                                           -61-

        WO 2013/070634                                                                PCT/US2012/063753
[00305] In some embodiments, a right to access parts or all of the data analysis package is provided on a one
time or multiple-time basis. In some embodiments, the right to access is limited within a time period. In some
embodiments, the right to access parts or all of the data analysis package is provided with the product or
service 110. In some embodiments a code or serial number accompanies the product or service 110, which can
be used to gain partial or full access to the data analysis package. In some embodiments, the code or serial
number accompanying the product or service 101 codifies the type of product or service 101 to the data
analysis package. In some embodiments, a user purchases access to the product on a per-sample basis, after
which the user is permitted to perform analyses and share that sample and the resulting analyses with other
users at no additional charge for prespecified time period. In some embodiments, a user may also run
analyses and share analyses of sample collections where such sample collections contain only samples for
which access has been previously purchased.
[00306] In some embodiments, a computer readable access recognition software recognizes a user.
Accordingly, the system grants access to users who have a right to access. In some embodiments, the access
recognition software is installed in the user's computer. In some embodiments, the access recognition
software is installed remotely. In some embodiments, the access recognition is informed by the user's
purchase of a service or product. In various embodiments, the service or product is used to generate a data set
that the user analyzes using the data analysis package. In some embodiments, the recognition is based on
recognizing a user's computer. In some embodiments, the recognition is based on recognizing a registered e
mail address, IP address, or software (e.g. cookie) stored on the user's computer.
[00307] In various embodiments, the product or service 110 is equipped to generate biological data and the
generated data 111 comprises a biological data set.
                                                    7. Examples
Example 1: Identification of the role of ILIJRA in craniosyntosisby analyzing comparative whole genome
sequencing results using the Ingenuity Knowledge Base
[00308] Variants are identified. The complete human genome sequence of four subjects is loaded into the
system: two genomes from children with a hereditary form of craniosynostosis, and two from their parents
who are both unaffected by the disease. The genome of affected Child1 includes 3,714,700 variants, the
genome of affected Child2 includes 3,607,874 variants, the genome of the unaffected father includes
3,677,130 variants and the genome of the unaffected mother includes 3,779,223 variants. A total of 5,394,638
variants are found in the combination of the four genomes.
[00309]A common variant filter is applied. Variants observed in one or more of the subjects in the
Complete Genomics 69 Genomes database or the 1000 genome project subjects not observed to have the
disease in question are subtracted, reducing the total number of variants to 330,302. The eliminated DNA
variants tend to be common in the population and are therefore thought to be unlikely to cause a rare
hereditary disease.
                                                         -62-

        WO 2013/070634                                                                  PCT/US2012/063753
[00310] A predicted deleterious filter is applied. Variants that are not observed to disrupt a biological
function or not predicted to do so are identified using the Knowledge Base and are also subtracted, reducing
the number of remaining variants to 2,734. For example, coding variants that are synonymous or otherwise
predicted to not disrupt protein function by one or more mutation functional prediction algorithms e.g. SIFT
and/or Polyphen are removed. Additionally, non-coding variants are removed unless they disrupt a predicted
or known splice site, miRNA target, enhancer site, ncRNA, or transcription factor binding site.
[00311]A genetic analysis filter is applied. The included variants meet the following criteria reducing the
number of remaining variants to 12: They must be either (1) homozygous (or possibly homozygous) in both of
the affected kids (and neither of the unaffected parents), or (2) expected to otherwise cause loss-of-function in
both copies of a given gene (e.g. compound heterozygous) in both of the affected kids (and neither of the
unaffected parents), or (3) expected to cause loss-of-function in one or both copies of a given gene that is
known by the Ingenuity Knowledge Base to be haploinsufficient in both of the affected kids (and neither of
the unaffected parents), or (4) expected to cause loss-of-function in both copies of a gene genenl ") in the first
affected child, and expected to cause loss-of-function in both copies of a different gene ("gene2") in the other
affected child where gene2 is in the same pathway or within 1- or 2- network hops of gene.        Optionally, the
variants are also filtered such that only variants that are consistent with Mendelian inheritance are retained.
[00312] A biological context filter is applied.
[00313] Variants that were not related to the biological context of the disease by network analysis using the
knowledge base are filtered out, for example:
              Variants that do not alter the function of genes that are either one or two hops upstream (and/or
              downstream) of other genes previously known to be mutated to cause craniosynostosis based on
              the knowledge base and ontology, or
              Variants that do not alter the function of genes that are within either one or two hops upstream (or
              downstream) of other genes previously known to be associated with bone formation, a biological
              process related to craniosyntosis based on the knowledge base and ontology.
[00314] The total number of variants is reduced after the final round of filtering to include only one coding
variant, in the IL1 IRA gene, which was confirmed to be the causal variant for the disease in this family.
Example 2: Identifving prospective driver variantsfor glioblastoma
[00315] A complete or partial human genome sequence of a glioblastoma patient's tumor and another similar
genome sequence from the patient's healthy tissue is loaded into the system.
[00316] Variants that are observed in one or more of the subjects in the Complete Genomics 69 Genomes
database or one or more of the subjects in the 1000 genome project not observed to have the disease in
                                                         -63-

        WO 2013/070634                                                                    PCT/US2012/063753
question are subtracted, reducing the total number of variants to 933,866 (Figure 14). These eliminated DNA
variants tend to be common in the population and are therefore thought to be unlikely to cause a rare
hereditary disease.
[00317] Variants that were not previously observed to disrupt a biological function or not predicted to do so
are identified using the knowledge base and also subtracted, reducing the number of remaining variants to
10,527. The excluded variants meet one or more of the following criteria:
                   *   Not directly associated with a mutation phenotype finding in the Ingenuity Knowledge
                       Base
                   *   Not synonymous or otherwise innocuous (i.e. not deleterious) based on predictions from
                       one or more mutation functional prediction algorithms e.g. SIFT and/or Polyphen
                   *   Not protein-coding and not known or predicted to occur in splice sites, transcription
                       factor binding sites, ncRNAs, miRNA targets, and/or enhancers
[00318] Variants that are homozygous in the healthy tissue are removed, leaving those variants that were
picked up by the cancer with the following genetics:
                   *   Homozygous (or possibly homozygous) in the tumor sample(s), or
                   *   would be expected to cause loss-of-function in both copies of a given gene in the tumor
                       sample(s) (e.g., compound heterozygous), or
                   *   would be expected to cause gain-offunction in one or more copies of a given gene in the
                       tumor sample(s), or
                   *   (optionally) would be expected to cause loss-of-function in one or both copies of a given
                       gene that is known by the Ingenuity Knowledge Base to be haploinsufficient
[00319] Further, another filter is applied, keeping only variants that are heterozygous in the patient's normal
tissue, considering the extremely early onset of the patient's disease in this case suggesting that one of the two
copies of a deleterious allele might have been present at birth. Following the application of these genetic
analysis filters, the remaining number of variants is reduced to 107.
[00320] This patient appears to accumulate mutations at a higher rate than usual, suggesting the biological
context of the disease could be related to DNA repair. Thus, all variants that are not related to the biological
context of the disease by network analysis using the knowledge base are removed. In this example, only
variants meeting one or both of the following criteria are kept, the rest are removed, reducing the remaining
number of variants to 2:
                   *   Variants that alter the function of genes that are either 1- or 2-hops upstream (and/or
                       downstream) of other genes previously known to be mutated to cause glioblastoma based
                       on the knowledge base and ontology,
                   *   variants that alter the function of genes that are within either 1- or 2-hops upstream (or
                       downstream) of other genes previously known to be associated with the process of "DNA
                       repair" based on the knowledge base and ontology.
                                                          -64-

         WO 2013/070634                                                                  PCT/US2012/063753
Example 3: Identifving DNA Variants Toward Development of an Individualized Cancer TherapeuticRNA
Cocktail
[00321] Figure 15 illustrates the use of a cascade of filters to identify variants for use in a cancer therapeutic
RNA cocktail. The complete human genome of a patient's tumor and the patient's normal tissue is loaded into
the system providing ~25,000 variants between the two data sets.
[00322] The variants that are unique to the tumor and not present in the normal tissue are kept and the rest are
removed, reducing the number of variants to ~2,000.
[00323] Variants that are not synonymous are candidates to yield a protein-coding difference that the patient's
immune system could potentially use to identify tumor cells as different from normal cells and therefore
"foreign". These non-synonymous variants are kept and the rest are removed, reducing the number of variants
to ~700.
[00324] Tumor-specific antigens that can be recognized by a patient's immune system present likely
candidates for the immune system to fight the tumor. Thus, variants that are not known to be expressed in the
tumor are filtered out, reducing the number of remaining variants to -150. Variants that are not well-expressed
in the tumor are less likely to be presented on the surface of tumor cells at a sufficient abundance to be
detected by the immune system.
[00325] Variants that would be predicted to be critical to the tumor, i.e. cancer driver variants, are summarized
herein. Focusing on these variants reduces the likelihood that the cancer will be able to evolve to "escape" a
future immunotherapy treatment. Using the cancer driver variants filter, the number of remaining variants is
reduced to ~40.
[00326] Variants that are most likely to elicit an immune response can be predicted based on measures from
the IEDB database. An additional immunogenicity filter reduces the number of variants to ~30.
During the application of successive filters described in this example, the stringencies of the filters above is
adjusted such that fewer than 50; ideally fewer than 30 variants survive the filters. This range provides a
desired number of variants for inclusion in an RNA vaccine. An RNA vaccine can be developed using the
variant information obtained in this example and can be delivered, e.g. to the patient's lymph nodes, where it
will be taken up by dendritic cells which will effectively "train" the patient's T-cells to attack the patient's
tumor cells.
[00327] While preferred embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described herein, it will
be obvious to those skilled in the art that such embodiments are provided by way of example only. Numerous
variations, changes, and substitutions will now occur to those skilled in the art without departing from the
invention. It should be understood that various alternatives to the embodiments of the invention described
herein may be employed in practicing the invention. It is intended that the following claims define the scope
of the invention and that methods and structures within the scope of these claims and their equivalents be
covered thereby.
                                                        -65-

    :\tId\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\16894253_l.docx-I 05/2018
   WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
    1.              A biological context filter configured to:
                    receive a data set comprising variants, wherein the data set comprises variant data from
 5 one or more samples from one or more individuals;
                     communicate with a database of biological information, wherein the database of
   biological information is a knowledge representation system (KRS), wherein the KRS is
   formed from a first database comprising a knowledge base and a second database comprising
   an ontology, wherein the biological information is represented, within the KRS, as nodes
10 connected by edges, each edge representing an interaction between two nodes, wherein the
   nodes represent biological entities, and wherein two biological entities connected by one edge
   are one hop away from each other; and
                     establish associations between the variants, from the received data set, and a portion of
   the biological information selected by a user, wherein each association includes a relationship
15 defined by a plurality of hops between a variant and the selected biological information; and
                     filter the received data set based on the established associations for variants associated
   with the selected biological information.
   2.                The biological context filter of claim 1, wherein the knowledge base includes curated
20 biomedical content.
   3.                The biological context filter of claim 2, wherein the filtering comprising unmasking
   variants associated with the biological information.
25 4.                The biological context filter of claim 2, wherein the filtering comprises masking
   variants not associated with the biological information.
   5.                The biological context filter of claim 2, wherein the filtering comprises masking
   variants associated with biological information.
30
   6.                The biological context filter of claim 2, wherein the filtering comprises unmasking
                                                                66

    :\tId\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\16894253_l.docx-1 05/2018
   variants not associated with the biological information.
   7.                The biological context filter of claim 2, further configured to:
                     infer the biological information for filtering based on the data set.
 5
   8.                The biological context filter of claim 2, further configured to:
                     infer the biological information for filtering is inferred from study design information
   previously inputted by a user.
10 9.                The biological context filter of claim 2, wherein the biological context filter is
   combined with one or more filters in a filter cascade to generate a final variant list.
   10.               The biological context filter of claim 9 wherein the biological context filter is
   combined with one or more of the following filters in the filter cascade to reach the final
15 variant list of less than 200 variants: common variant filter, predicted deleterious filter, cancer
   driver variants filter, physical location filter, genetic analysis filter, expression filter, user
   defined variants filter, pharmacogenetics filter, or custom annotation filter.
   11.               The biological context filter of claim 2, wherein the biological context filter is
20 combined with one or more of the following filters in a filter cascade to reach a final variant
   list of less than 50 variants: common variant filter, predicted deleterious filter, cancer driver
   variants filter, physical location filter, genetic analysis filter, expression filter, user-defined
   variants filter, pharmacogenetics filter, or custom annotation filter.
25 12.               The biological context filter of claim 1 wherein a stringency of the biological context
   filter can be adjusted by a user to adjust how many variants pass the biological context filter,
   and wherein the stringency adjustment from the user alters one or more of the following:
                     (a)           a number of the plurality of hops in an association used for filtering;
                     (b)           a strength of the plurality of hops in an association used for filtering;
30                   (c)           a net effect of the plurality of the hops in an association used for filtering;
   and/or
                                                                   67

    :\tId\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\16894253_l.docx-1 05/2018
                     (d)           an upstream or a downstream nature of the plurality of hops in an association
   used for filtering.
    13.              The biological context filter of claim 1 wherein a stringency of the biological context
 5 filter is adjusted automatically based upon the desired number of variants in the final filtered
   data set to adjust how many variants pass the biological context filter, wherein the stringency
   adjustment alters one or more of the following:
                     (a)           a number of the plurality of hops in an association used for filtering;
                     (b)           a strength of the plurality of hops in an association used for filtering;
10                   (c)           a net effect of the plurality of the hops in an association used for filtering;
   and/or
                     (d)           an upstream or a downstream nature of the plurality of hops in an association
   used for filtering.
15  14.              The biological context filter of claims 2 to 13 wherein only upstream hops are used.
    15.              The biological context filter of claims 2 to 13 wherein only downstream hops are used.
    16.              The biological context filter of claims 2 to 13 wherein the net effects of hops are used.
20
    17.              The biological context filter of claim 2, wherein the biological information for filtering
   comprises biological function.
    18.              The biological context filter of claim 17, wherein the biological function is a gene, a
25 transcript, a protein, a molecular complex, a molecular family or enzymatic activity, a
   therapeutic or therapeutic molecular target, a pathway, a process, a phenotype, a disease, a
   functional domain, a behavior, an anatomical characteristic, a physiological trait or state, a
   biomarker or a combination thereof.
30  19.              The biological context filter of claim 2, wherein the biological context filter is further
   configured to:
                                                                   68

    :\tId\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\16894253_l.docx-1 05/2018
                     adjust a stringency of the filtering based on a selection of the biological information for
   filtering.
   20.               The biological context filter of claim 2, wherein the biological context filter is further
 5 configured to accept a mask from another filter previously performed on the same data set.
   21.               The biological context filter of claim 2, wherein the biological context filter is in
   communication with hardware for outputting the filtered data set to a user.
10 22.              A computer program product bearing machine readable instructions to enact the
   biological context filter of any of claims 2 to 21.
   23.               The biological context filter of claim 1, wherein a hop in the plurality of hops
   represents a transition across an edge in the knowledge base.
15
   24.                The biological context filter of claim 1, wherein the ontology comprises a multiple
   hierarchical representation of a taxonomy, and formal concepts and relationships relevant to a
   domain of interest.
20 25.               The biological context filter of claim 24, wherein the ontology is stored in a frame
   based format.
                                                                69

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
