1002081275
ABSTRACT
         In one embodiment smart reminders allow a user to decline an incoming phone or
messaging call and to set a smart reminder about the call. In one embodiment, a system's
current state or context determines the type of reminder options to present to the user. In
one embodiment a method includes receiving an incoming call on a wireless handheld
device, offering a user of the device an option to accept the call and simultaneously
launch an application of the device. In another embodiment different options are
presented to a user of the device for handling a call based on different directions that the
user swipes a display of the device.

                                     2/10
Wireless device receives signal indicating an incoming call (e g. phone is
                          ringing from phone call)                             - 20
  Wireless device presents to user an option for a reminder upon declining
 that will trigger the reminder based on observance of one or more of: (1)
the device's operational configured state; (2) the front most application; (3)   22
                specific user activity; (4) the device's location
   Device receives user selection of reminder option and call is declined        24
    Device observes one or more of: (1) change in state of the device's
 operational configured state; (2) change in the front most application; (3)     26
          specific user activity; (4) change in the device's location
  No                                                        28
                                  Criteria met
                                  for triggering
                                  reminder?
                                          Yes
                             Reminder Triggered.              1    2
                                      FIG. 2

 1002081275
  OPTIONS PRESENTED ON A DEVICE OTHER THAN ACCEPT AND DECLINE
                                 FOR AN INCOMING CALL
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
 [0001]     The present invention relates to the computing sciences generally, and, more
specifically, to options presented on a device, such as a smart phone, other than accept
and decline for an incoming call.
 [0001A]     This application is related to Australian Patent Application No. 2015255311,
filed on 13 November 2015, the contents of which are incorporated herein in their entirety.
This application is also a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
<removed-apn>, filed on 20 December 2017.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
 [0002]     A common disadvantage with current incoming call screens on handheld
devices is that a user can only accept the call, decline the call, or send the caller directly
to voicemail. Fig. 1 shows a prior art incoming call display in which a handheld device
displays to the user only the options to accept the call or decline the call. If the user
instead wants to perform another action, such as to reply to the caller with an email
instead of accepting the call, or be reminded to call the caller back, the user has to first
decline the call and then separately access other features of the device, which consists of
more steps and is more time consuming.
 [0003]     Published references directed to incoming call and/or reminder processing
include Pub. U.S. App. 2009/0290696, Pub. U.S. App. 2005/0041793, U.S. Pat. No.
7,145,998 and U.S. Pat. No. 7,647,042.
 [0003A]    Reference to any prior art in the specification is not an acknowledgment or
suggestion that this prior art forms part of the common general knowledge in any
jurisdiction or that this prior art could reasonably be expected to be understood, regarded
as relevant, and/or combined with other pieces of prior art by a skilled person in the art.
 SUMMARY OF THE DESCRIPTION
 [0003B]    As used herein, except where the context requires otherwise, the term
 "comprise" and variations of the term, such as "comprising", "comprises" and
 "comprised", are not intended to exclude further features, components, integers or steps.
                                                -1-

1002081275
[0003C]     According to a first aspect of the invention there is provided a method,
comprising: receiving an incoming call on a device; presenting an option to decline the
call and launch an electronic messaging application of the device; detecting a user
selection of the option; and launching, in response to detecting the user selection, the
electronic messaging application of the device.
[0003D]     According to a second aspect of the invention there is provided a handheld
device, comprising: a radio frequency transceiver to receive an incoming call, a
touchscreen display to present an option to decline the call and launch an electronic
messaging application of the device, and one or more processors to perform one or more
steps of the first aspect.
[0003E]     According to a third aspect of the invention there is provided a machine
readable medium having instructions stored thereon, which when processed by one or
more processors of a device cause the device to perform the method of the first aspect.
[0004]      A data processing system of a handheld device is described that presents a
triggered reminder for display on a touchscreen display, e.g., for an incoming call that
was declined. The triggering of the triggered reminder can be based on information of
one or more of a change to the device's currently configured operational state, a change to
the front most application, a change to the device's location, and specific user looked for
activity. A change in the state of the operational configured state can include a change to
the networked state of the device. A change of the front most application can include a
change of the front most application of the device between active and inactive. A change
to the device's location, wherein GPS information is used by the device to understand the
device's location, can include a future potential destination of the user, or the entering or
leaving a feature on a map. The information can also include a change in specific user
activity of pausing or stopping a movie currently playing in a media player.
[0005]      A data processing system of a handheld device, in one embodiment, is
described that offers a user of the device an option to accept an incoming call while
simultaneously launching an application of the device. In one embodiment, this
application can be a notes application.
[0006]      A data processing system of a handheld device, in one embodiment, is
described that presents different options to a user of the device for handling an incoming
call based on different directions that the user swipes a display of the device.
[0007]      A data processing system uses smart reminders, in one embodiment, to allow a
user to decline an incoming call and to cause the system to set a smart reminder. In one
                                              -2-

1002081275
embodiment, the system determines a current state of the device, such as the device is in a
car or a media playing application is playing media (e.g., a movie) on the device, and
presents an option for a reminder based on that current state, and when the state of the
device changes, the reminder can be triggered. For example, if the device determines
from an existing, established Bluetooth connection with the user's car that the device is in
the car, when the user selects to be reminded, the system provides an option of "Remind
Me When I Leave the Car"; when this option is selected, the system sets a reminder to
occur when the device's pertinent state (in car) changes to another pertinent state (device
is out of car based on loss of Bluetooth connection). In another embodiment, the device's
GPS (Global Positioning System) receiver can be used to determine that, due to the high
velocity of the GPS receiver, the device is in a car and act in the matter described herein
even if Bluetooth connectivity is absent (or the device was not paired with the car's
Bluetooth system).
[0008]       In one embodiment, the nature and presentation of the reminder options
depend upon the device's state or context. For example, if the device determines it is not
in a car, then the reminder options relating to or referring to the car are not presented to
the user. Similarly, if the device determines that a media player application (e.g. iTunes)
is not playing media (e.g., a movie), then the reminder options relating to or referring to
the media are not presented to the user.
[0009]       The above summary does not include an exhaustive list of all aspects of the
present invention. It is contemplated that the invention includes all systems and methods
that can be practiced from all suitable combinations of the various aspects summarized
above, and also those disclosed in the Detailed Description below.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0010]       The present invention is illustrated by way of example and not limitation in
the figures of the accompanying drawings in which like references indicate similar
elements.
[0011]       Fig. 1 (prior art) shows a GUI (Graphical User Interface) for handling an
incoming call;
[0012]       Fig. 2 shows an improved method for handling an incoming call;
[0013]       Figs 3A - 3C show an exemplary sequence of GUI screens that illustrate an
embodiment of the methodology of Fig. 2;
                                               -3-

1002081275
[0014]      Fig. 4 shows another improved method for handling an incoming call;
[0015]      Fig. 5 shows an exemplary GUI that illustrates an embodiment of the
methodology of Fig. 4;
[0016]      Fig. 6 shows another method for handling an incoming call;
[0017]      Fig. 7 shows an exemplary GUI that illustrates an embodiment of the
methodology of Fig. 7;
[0018]      Fig. 8 shows a sequence of GUI screens illustrating another improved call
handling method;
[0019]      Fig. 9 shows an architecture for a device having smart reminder logic;
[0020]      Fig. 10 shows an example of a data processing system which can be used with
one or more embodiments of the present invention.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0021]      Various embodiments and aspects of the inventions will be described with
reference to details discussed below, and the accompanying drawings will illustrate the
various embodiments. The following description and drawings are illustrative of the
invention and are not to be construed as limiting the invention. Numerous specific details
are described to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments of the present
invention. However, in certain instances, well-known or conventional details are not
described in order to provide a concise discussion of embodiments of the present
inventions.
[0022]      Reference in the specification to "one embodiment" or "an embodiment"
means that a particular feature, structure, or characteristic described in conjunction with
the embodiment can be included in at least one embodiment of the invention. The
appearances of the phrase "in one embodiment" in various places in the specification do
not necessarily all refer to the same embodiment. The processes depicted in the written
discussion and figures that follow are performed by processing logic that comprises
hardware (e.g. circuitry, dedicated logic, etc.), software, or a combination of both.
Although the processes are described below in terms of some sequential operations, it
should be appreciated that some of the operations described may be performed in a
different order. Moreover, some operations may be performed in parallel rather than
sequentially.
[0023]      Figure 2 shows an example of a method according to one embodiment which
reminds the user of an incoming call. Initially, as in operation 20, a wireless device
                                              -4-

1002081275
receives a signal indicating an incoming call (e.g. phone is ringing from a phone call).
After the incoming call has been received (but before it is accepted/answered by the user),
the wireless device presents to the user, as in operation 22, an option for a reminder that
will be triggered, after the call is declined, based on the device's observance of one or
more of: (1) the device's operational configured state; (2) the front most application; (3)
specific user activity; (4) the device's location; or (5) observed user or device behavior
after the call is declined. In operation 24, the device receives the user's selection of the
reminder option in lieu of accepting the call. In operation 26, the device observes of one
or more of: (1) a change in the device's operational configured state; (2) a change in the
front most application; (3) specific user activity; (4) a change in the device's location; or
(5) observed user or device behavior after the call is declined. If, based on this
observation, a determination is made that certain criteria are met in order for the reminder
to the user to be triggered 28, the reminder is triggered 29. If the criteria have not been
met, then the device continues to observe until the appropriate trigger condition occurs.
[0024]      The currently configured operational state of the device corresponds to the set
of the device's currently enabled tasks. Thus, any change to the device's currently enabled
set of tasks corresponds to a change to the device's currently configured operational
state. The establishment or disestablishment of network connectivity, such as coupling to
or de-coupling from a PAN, is an example of an event that corresponds to a change in the
device's currently configured operational state. Also, any change made by the user or the
device to the device's configuration corresponds to a change in configured operational
state. Examples include the installation of a new application, the un-installation of a
previously installed application or the turning on, or turning off network connectivity
(such as the enablement/disablement of a WiFi function (e.g., by placing the device into
or out of "airplane mode")).
[0025]      However, the normal operation of an enabled application, such as the updating
or otherwise changing of data within a currently executing application, for example, or an
internal change in state of a dormant but enabled application, such as a background
calendar, does not, in one embodiment, correspond to a change in the device's currently
configured operational state.
[0026]      Another basis for a reminder, apart from a change in the device's configured
operational state, is a change in the device's "front loaded" or front most
application. Examples include the launching or exiting of an application on a device
designed to display a "front loaded" or front most application and no other application.
                                                -5-

1002081275
The front most application typically has at least one input focus such as a focus for an
input of text characters through an input device such as a keyboard. Examples include the
closing of a movie application after the movie is finished playing.
[0027]       Even another basis for the reminder, is specific user activity with the
device. For example, a reminder may be based on a looked for act a user takes within a
running application_(front loaded or otherwise). For example, the reminder is triggered
when a user "mutes" the device's front loaded music playing application, or, pauses or
stops a currently playing movie.
[0028]       Even another basis for the reminder is the current or future location of the
device, which may be determined based on GPS and/or other coordinate tracking
information.
[0029]       Figures 3A-3C show a first embodiment of a Graphical User Interface (GUI)
that presents a user with more extensive options than the prior art approach upon the
receipt of an incoming call. This GUI can be a touch input user interface on a handheld
wireless device such as a smart phone (e.g. an iPhone@ from Apple Inc. of Cupertino,
California), and each word "ACCEPT" or "DECLINE".
[0030]       As shown in Figures 3A-3B, the improved incoming call display gives the
user, according to one embodiment, the added ability to access an option UI 301. For
example, the option UI 301 can be selected by being slid upwards by the user, enlarging
the portion of the screen devoted to presenting various options to the user, as in Figure
3B. This option UI contains options for the user to select, such as, in one embodiment,
"Reply With Email" or "Remind Me Later" 303; these options can be selected by a user
tapping on one of the options.
[0031]       In an embodiment, if the "Remind Me Later" option 303 is selected, a
reminder UI 305 is presented to the user as shown in Figure 3C. The reminder UI 305
presents different reminders to the user, such as, in an embodiment, "Remind Me When I
Get in the Car," 307 "Remind Me When The Movie is Exited," 309 "Remind Me When
the Movie is Paused or Stopped" 311 and "Remind Me When I Get to Work" 313. The
order of these options may be intuitive, or smart. According to one embodiment this
means the most frequently selected reminder option floats to the first position of the list,
the second most frequently selected reminder option floats to the second position of the
list, and so on. According to other embodiments, the reminder options that are presented
to the user are based on the device's understanding of its current state at the moment the
call arrives. For example, if the device detects (from its personal area network connection
                                             -6-

1002081275
with a car) that it is within the user's car it will present a "Remind Me When 1 Leave the
Car", by contrast, if the device detects that it is outside the user's car it will present a
"Remind Me When 1 Get In the Car". Notably, according to this approach, both options
would not nominally be presented simultaneously. According to the embodiment of
Figure 3C, the "Remind Me When I Get in the Car" option 307 is presented when the
device detects beforehand or at least concurrently with the incoming call that the device is
not within a car, and, upon the incoming call, presents an option 307 to remind the user
after the user gets into the car. Here, automobiles are understood to be capable of having
personal area network technology with binding and/or pairing technology that can
functionally bind or pair a specific handheld device with a specific car; Bluetooth is a
known example of such technology. Said another way, the car and/or device can
determine when the user of the device is within (or proximate to) the same user's car, and,
if the user's device is within (or proximate to) the same user's car, the user's automobile
and device can exchange information. In this embodiment, initially, the device detects
that it is not within the user's car. That is, at this point in time, the device detects that it is
not connected by way of a network, such as a personal area network connection (PAN) to
the user's car.
[0032]       After the incoming call has been detected but before being accepted or
declined, the wireless device presents the user with a set of menu options to process the
call: (1) accept; (2) decline; and (3) remind. The device receives the user's selection to
remind the user of the call when the user/device is in the user's car 307. As a result of this
selection, thereafter, the device can determine when to remind the user by (1) sensing
when a PAN connection, such as Bluetooth, is established between his device and his car.
As such, note that the basis for triggering the reminder is an observed detected state of the
device (or change in the configured operational state of the device) after the call is
declined.
[0033]       Another embodiment, such as, "Remind Me When I Leave the Car" (not
shown) can be presented when the device detects beforehand, or at least concurrently with
the incoming call, that the device is within a car, and, upon the incoming call, presents an
option to remind the user after the user leaves the car. In this case, for example, the
device detects that it is connected by way of a PAN to the user's car. After the incoming
call has been detected but before being accepted or declined, the wireless device presents
the user with a set of menu options to process the call: (1) accept; (2) decline; and (3)
remind. The device receives the user's selection to remind the user when the user leaves
                                                -7-

1002081275
the car. As a result of this selection, the device can determine when to remind the user by
sensing when a PAN connection, such as Bluetooth, that is associated with the user's car
is no longer established between his device and his car. This is an example of the
reminder being triggered in response to a change in the device's configured operational
state.
[0034]       According to the embodiment of Figure 3C, the "Remind Me When the
Movie is Exited" option 309 is presented if a movie application is currently playing a
movie when the incoming call is made. Again, note that an option 309 is triggered based
on the device's understanding/awareness of a presence of a front loaded application
currently playing a movie. Specifically, the device is aware that it is currently playing a
movie and therefore offers a reminder option 309 to remind when the front loaded movie
application is exited. In various embodiments, different combinations of reminder
options are presented to the user based on the device's understanding of its current
configured operational state, front loaded application, specific user activity, or its
location. For example, if the device understands it is currently playing a movie and is
outside the user's car when the call arrives, the device can be smart enough to present
options 307 and 309.
[0035]       If option 309 is selected by the user, the user will be reminded of a declined
incoming call upon the front most movie application being exited. To more fully explain
this particular embodiment, a wireless device receives a signal indicating an incoming
call (e.g. phone is ringing from phone call). At this point in time, the device is aware that
is has a media player playing content on the device. After the incoming call has been
detected but before accepted, the device therefore offers to the user the "Remind Me
When the Movie is Exited" option 309. If the user selects this option 309, the device can
determine when to remind the user of the declined incoming call by sensing when the
front loaded application playing the movie is exited. Thus the device observes the current
state of the front loaded application after the call is declined and then decides to present a
reminder upon a looked-for state (or looked for change in the front loaded application
playing a movie) being detected.
[0036]       According to the embodiment of Figure 3C, the "Remind Me When the
Movie is Paused or Stopped" option 311 is presented if a movie application is currently
playing a movie when the incoming call is made. Again, note that an option 311 is
triggered based on the device's understanding/awareness of certain specific user activity,
such as pausing or stopping the currently playing a movie, that could take place.
                                               -8-

1002081275
Specifically, the device is aware that it is currently playing a movie and therefore offers a
reminder option 311 to remind when the movie is paused or stopped by the user. This
differs from the front loaded movie application being exited. Here, the front loaded
movie application need not be exited in order for a movie to be paused or stopped.
[0037]       If option 311 is selected by the user, the user will be reminded of a declined
incoming call upon the movie being played in a front loaded movie application being
paused or stopped by the user. To more fully explain this particular embodiment, a
wireless device receives a signal indicating an incoming call (e.g. phone is ringing from
phone call). At this point in time, the device is aware that is has a media player playing
content on the device. After the incoming call has been detected but before accepted, the
device therefore offers to the user the "Remind Me When the Movie is Paused or
Stopped" option 311. If the user selects this option 311, the device can determine when
to remind the user of the declined incoming call by sensing when the movie in the front
loaded application playing the movie is paused or stopped by the user. Thus the device
observes the current state of the movie playing in the front loaded application after the
call is declined and then decides to present a reminder upon a looked-for specific user
activity being detected.
[0038]       According to the embodiment of Figure 3C, the "Remind Me When I Get to
Work" option 313 is presented when the device detects beforehand or at least
concurrently with the incoming call that the device is not within or proximate to the user's
workplace location, and, upon the incoming call, presents an option 313 to remind the
user after the device's location is within the location designated as the user's
workplace. Here, handheld devices are understood to-be capable of having GPS mapping
technology to determine the location of the device and compare that location to
preprogrammed locations, such as "work," "home," etc. Said another way, the device can
determine when the user of the device is within (or proximate to) a preprogrammed
destination, and, if the user's device is within (or proximate to) the preprogrammed
destination, the device has the ability to recognize this. In this embodiment, initially, the
device detects that its location is not at the user's workplace.
[0039]       After the incoming call has been detected but before being accepted or
declined, the wireless device presents the user with a set of menu options to process the
call: (1) accept; (2) decline; and (3) remind. The device receives the user's selection to
remind the user of the call when the user/device is at the user's workplace 313. As a
result of this selection, thereafter, the device can determine when to remind the user by
                                                -9-

1002081275
sensing when the device is within (or proximate to) the user's workplace. As such, note
that the basis for triggering the reminder is an observed detected location of the device
after the call is declined.
[0040]       If option 313 is selected by the user, the user will be reminded of a declined
incoming call upon the device recognizing where the user's workplace is and arriving at
the user's workplace. The location of the user's workplace, in this embodiment, is already
stored in the device and labeled "work." To more fully explain this particular
embodiment, a wireless device receives a signal indicating an incoming call (e.g. phone is
ringing from call). At this point in time, the device is aware that its current location is not
at the work. After an incoming call has been detected but before accepted, the device
therefore offers to the user the "Remind Me When I Get to Work" option 313. If the user
selects this option 313, the device can determine when to remind the user of the declined
incoming call by sensing when the location of the device within or proximate to the user's
workplace. Thus the device observes the current location of the device after the call is
declined and then decides to present a reminder upon a looked-for location of the device
being detected.
[0041]       The reader will appreciate that a large number of different types of detected
device states before/during/after an incoming call, and/or associated device state changes
or user activity after the call is declined can be used as a basis for generating and
triggering a reminder. For example, another type of reminder embodiment consists of
offering a reminder option that is based on the device's understanding of relationships
between contacts within the device's contact list. For example, the device may offer the
user a "Remind Me to Call Dad After I Speak to Mom" option upon detecting an
incoming call from "mom" and recognizing a strong relationship for a "dad" entry in the
user's contact information to the user's "mom" entry in the user's contact information.
Upon the selection of this option, the device detects when the call to "Mom" has
terminated. The device then presents the reminder to the user based upon this event to
call "Dad." Here, the device detects the networked state of the device concurrently with
the incoming call (i.e., incoming call is from mom), and observes device state subsequent
to the call to trigger the call (call with mom is terminated). In this example, moreover,
the reminder is offered as part of accepting rather than declining the call.
[0042]       Apart from detected device state, state change and/or user activity, the reader
will further appreciate that the current location of the device can also be used as a basis
for intelligent reminders (either separately or in combination with detected device state).
                                               -10-

1002081275
For example, GPS information can be used to formulate appropriate reminder options and
corresponding reminder triggers. An example includes screening GPS information
against map coordinate information to understand where the device currently is and offer
reminder options and reminder triggers accordingly (e.g., "Remind After You Are
Outside The Train Station ?", "Remind After You AreOff The Road ?", "Remind When
You Are Inside The Airport?", "Reminder After You Are Outside the Airport?", "Remind
When You Are [5 mile/10 miles/15 miles] From Home?").
[0043]       Changes in GPS information can also be monitored to understand where the
user is actually traveling or not. That is, rapid changes in GPS information over time
correspond to the movement of some velocity. If the device detects that the user is
traveling at the moment the call arrives the device may present a "Remind When You
Have Stopped Traveling?" reminder and trigger the reminder when the post declined call
observed GPS information indicates that the user has been in substantially the same
location for some threshold of time. Awareness of traveling in combination with map
information can be integrated to form smart reminders in the form of destinations that
reside ahead should the device continue on its present path (e.g., "Reminder at Exit
 117?"; "Reminder When You Get To New York City"?).
[0044]       Similarly, the device can utilize its GPS location settings and map coordinates
to determine the location and travel of the device and offer a time based reminder ahead
of its possible destination. For example, in an embodiment, the device can offer the
option to "Remind Me When I Am 20 Minutes From Home." Assuming the device has
stored the address of the user's home, the device can remind the user of the incoming call
when the device senses that the user is 20 minutes, for example, from home by
determining the proximity the device is to the user's home and current rate of speed the
device is travelling. Further embodiments can be "Remind Me at the Time I am Usually
Going Home" etc. More locations can be stored, such as, and as described previously, the
user's workplace location. If a business contact were to call the user, the user can be
presented with the option to "Remind Me When I Get to Work." The device would then,
as in the examples above, use the GPS to detect when the device is at work and upon
detecting this, would then offer to the user a reminder of the incoming call from the
business contact.
[0045]       Figure 4 shows an example of another method according to one embodiment
of the present invention which presents an option for launching an application
commensurate with the acceptance of an incoming call. Initially, as in operation 40, a
                                              -11-

1002081275
wireless device receives a signal indicating an incoming call (e.g. phone is ringing from a
phone call). After the incoming call has been received (but before it is accepted/answered
by the user), the wireless device presents to the user, as in operation 42, an option for
launching (or otherwise transitioning the device's active screen to) an application
commensurate with the acceptance of the incoming call. In operation 44, the device
receives the user's selection of the option. In operation 46, the call is accepted and an
application is simultaneously launched or otherwise actively transitioned to. In one
embodiment, the device senses who the caller is by matching the caller's phone number
with a contact, if available, in the stored contact list. The device can launch, in an
embodiment, a notes or other text presentation application with information about the
caller so that the user is better informed about the caller.
[0046]      Figure 5 shows an embodiment of a Graphical User Interface (GUI) for the
above described approach.
[0047]      As shown in Figure 5, the improved incoming call display gives the user the
added ability to accept a call while simultaneously exercising another option. For
example, if option 501 is selected, the call will be accepted and a notes application, in an
embodiment, will be launched and presented to the user. This application does not have
to be limited to the notes application, as one skilled in the art can appreciate but can be
any one of a set of available applications.
[0048]      Figure 6 shows an example of another method according to one embodiment
of the present invention which presents an option for the launch of a specific application
upon the declining of an incoming call. Initially, as in operation 60, a wireless device
receives a signal indicating an incoming call (e.g. phone is ringing from a phone call).
After the incoming call has been received, the wireless device presents to the user, as in
operation 62, one or more options that will decline the incoming call and perform any of:
i) respond to the caller with an email; ii) launch a web browsing application; or, iii)
launch notes that could contain, for example, specific information about the caller. In
operation 64, the device receives the user's selection to accept an option while
simultaneously declining the call. In operation 66, after the call has been declined, the
device can trigger the launch of either an email application, a web browsing application,
or a notes application.
[0049]      Figure 7 shows an embodiment of a Graphical User Interface (GUI) for the
embodiment of Figure 6 described above.
                                              -12-

1002081275
[0050]       As shown in Figure 7, the improved incoming call handling interface gives
the user, according to one embodiment, the added ability to access options 701-703, each
of which pertain to the launching or transitioning to a specific application commensurate
with the user's decline of the call. If the user selects the option to decline the call and
respond with an email 701, the incoming call is declined and the email application is
launched. In a further embodiment, if the caller's information is stored in the device, the
caller's email address will already be preloaded in email address field of the email
application. This permits ease of response, wherein the user only has to type the message
and hit send, as opposed to first declining the call, manually launching the email
application, and then entering the caller's email address. If the user selects the option to
decline the call and launch a web browsing application 702, the incoming call is declined
and the device launches a web browsing application. If the user selects the option to
decline the call and launch the notes application 703, the incoming call is declined and a
notes application is launched. In a further embodiment, notes specifically pertaining to
the caller can be presented to the user in the notes application so that the user can brush
up on facts about the caller, before, say, returning the caller's call.
[0051]       Figure 8 shows another embodiment of a Graphical User Interface (GUI) flow
for handling an incoming call.
[0052]       As shown in Figure 8, upon the receipt of an incoming call, options can be
presented to the user when the user, in one embodiment, swipes the incoming call screen
to the left or to the right by using a swipe gesture with a finger or stylus on a touch
sensitive input device. In this case, the user proactively swipes the incoming call screen
803 to change the screen to various option screens. In one embodiment, one swipe to the
right can present the user with a screen 804 to quickly send a text message to the caller.
Two swipes to the right can present the user with a screen 805 to bring up notes about the
caller so that the user can quickly brush up about details of the caller. One swipe to the
left can bring up a screen 802 to enable the user to quickly reply to the caller with an
email, wherein the caller's email address is automatically populated if that address is
stored in the device. Two swipes to the left can bring up a screen 801 that will enable the
user to respond to the incoming call by posting a blog event, like a tweet.
[0053]       Another reminder embodiment that can be included with the displayed
offering of any of the other reminders discussed above is a reminder option to remind the
user when the user's calendar is free ("Remind When My Calendar is Free"). Upon the
selection of this option, the device accesses the calendar application with the user's
                                              -13-

1002081275
decline of the incoming call and locates the next available spot that the user's calendar is
free from an obligation. The device then stores the incoming call reminder at this next
available free slot. When the reminder is stored in the calendar can also be modified if,
for example, the user decides to he wants to be reminded in a preset time, such as in 5, 10,
or 15 minutes, etc. or in a time that the user enters manually.
[0054]      Apart from reminders, call transfers may also be effected with logic that
detects the device's state. In this case the device is not used to accept/reject the call but
rather to forward the incoming call to another device. For example if the device detects
that the device is coupled to or bound to another device, such as another computer or a
landline phone, the device can cause the call to be transferred to one of these other
devices. The device may be the user's device or another user's device. In the latter case,
the offer to forward the call may be identify the other user rather than the other device
(e.g., "Transfer Call to Bob?").
[0055]      Figure 9 shows an architecture of a data processing system for implementing
the smart options as discussed above. According to the embodiment of Figure 9, the
device includes smart reminder logic 901 that includes either or both observed current
device and/or user activity logic 902 and observed current device position and/or motion
logic 903. Logic 902 is used to detect the device's current state and/or user activity. As
such, as one possibility, logic 902 accepts as input information an understanding of the
device's currently active application(s) 904 and/or currently engaged uses and/or
networked state 905 (e.g., connection to PAN, no connection to PAN). Device
configuration information may also be accepted (e.g., to offer a reminder that relies on
detection of device state with a unit that is configurably enabled/disabled by the user).
Logic 903 accepts input information in the form of GPS information 906 from a GPS
receiver and map information 907.
[0056]      Either or both of logic units 902, 903 can be used by offered reminder
determination logic 908 to determine an appropriate set of reminders 909 for offering on
the display 910 to the user upon the detection of an incoming call 911. Upon the user
selecting 912 a particular one of these reminder options, reminder trigger logic 913 looks
to appropriate ones of the detected awareness logic units 902, 903 to sense that the post
observed state/activity condition has been met to display the reminder 914 on the display
910 at the proper moment. The reader willunderstand that any/all of the portions of the
smart reminder logic 901 can be implemented in software (e.g., embedded in the
                                              -14-

1002081275
operating system or as an application) or as semiconductor logic circuitry disposed on a
semiconductor chip or in various combinations of the two.
[0057]       Although the above embodiments have been described with reference to a
smart phone with a touch input device that is integrated with a display for communication
between the user and the device, other devices can use the various embodiments
described herein. The reader will understand that voice technology where the user speaks
to the device and the device likewise "speaks" to the user can be used instead partially or
wholly. Moreover, devices with keyboards can be used with the embodiments described
herein.
[0058]       Note that any/all reminder options and associated triggered reminders may be
presented to the user in various combinations which are too numerous to list here. Also,
all of the above described embodiments can be interchanged, such as an option to respond
to an incoming call by email can be offered after a movie finishes, or after the user leaves
his car, etc. Therefore, both reminder options and other options can be presented to the
user based on observance of one or more of: (1) the device's operational configured state;
(2) the front most application; (3) specific user activity; and (4) the device's location.
[0059]       Although the above described features were described in reference to a
handheld device such as a smartphone, these same features may be incorporated onto
other computing systems (mobile or otherwise) such as tablet computers (e.g., Apple,
Inc.'s iPad), netbook computers, notebook computers, laptop computers, personal desktop
computers, etc.). In cases where the above description described user interoperability in
terms of a touch screen, for systems not having a touch screen, such interoperability could
be readily achieved with some form of cursor control (e.g., as with a mouse) and
keyboard keystrokes.
[0060]       Figure 9 shows an example of data processing system 900 which may be used
with one embodiment of the present invention. For example and in one embodiment,
system 900 may be implemented as a portable data processing device such as a
smartphone or tablet (e.g., iPad) device or a laptop or an entertainment system. The data
processing system 900 shown in Figure 9 includes a processing system 911, which may
be one or more microprocessors or which may be a system on a chip (integrated circuit)
and the system also includes memory 901 for storing data and programs for execution by
the processing system. The memory 901 can store, for example, the software components
described in conjunction with one or more of the embodiments described herein and
memory 901 can be any known form of a machine readable non-transitory storage
                                              -15-

1002081275
medium, such as semiconductor memory (e.g., flash; DRAM; SRAM; etc.) The system
900 also includes an audio input/output subsystem 905 which may include a microphone
and a speaker for, for example, playing back music or providing telephone functionality
through the speaker and microphone.
[0061]      A display controller and display device 909 can provide a visual user interface
for the user; this interface may include a graphical user interface which is similar to that
shown on a Macintosh computer when running OS X operating system software or iOS
software on an iPhone or iPad. The system 900 can also include one or more wireless
transceivers 903 to communicate with another data processing system. A wireless
transceiver may be a WLAN transceiver (e.g. WiFi), an infrared transceiver, a Bluetooth
transceiver, and/or a wireless cellular telephony transceiver. It will be appreciated that
additional components, not shown, may also be part of the system 900 in certain
embodiments, and in certain embodiments fewer components than shown in Figure 9
may also be used in a data processing system. The system 900 further can include one or
more communications ports 917 to communicate with another data processing system.
The communications port may be a USB port, Firewire port, Bluetooth interface, a
docking port, etc.
[0062]      The data processing system 900 can also include one or more input devices
913 which are provided to allow a user to provide input to the system. These input
devices may be a keypad or a keyboard or a touch panel or a multi-touch panel which is
overlaid and integrated with a display device such as display device 909. The data
processing system 900 can also include an optional input/output device which may be a
connector for a dock. It will be appreciated that one or more buses, not shown, may be
used to interconnect the various components as is well known in the art. The data
processing system shown in Figure 9 may be a desktop computer, a handheld computer
or a personal digital assistant (PDA), or a cellular telephone with PDA-like functionality,
or a handheld computer which includes a cellular telephone, or a media player, such as an
iPod, or a game or entertainment device, or devices which combine aspects or functions
of these devices, such as a media player combined with a PDA and a cellular telephone in
one device or an embedded device or other consumer electronic devices. In other
embodiments, the data processing system 900 may be a network computer or an
embedded processing device within another device, or other types of data processing
systems which have fewer components or perhaps more components than that shown in
Figure 9.
                                             -16-

1002081275
[0063]      Data processing system 900 can optionally include one or more hardware
devices designed to digitize and store human speech received by the microphone in Audio
I/O 905.
[0064]      At least certain embodiments of the inventions may be part of a digital media
player, such as a portable music and/or video media player, which may include a media
processing system to present the media, a storage device to store the media and may
further include a radio frequency (RF) transceiver (e.g., an RF transceiver for a cellular
telephone) coupled with an antenna system and the media processing system. In certain
embodiments, media stored on a remote storage device may be transmitted to the media
player through the RF transceiver. The media may be, for example, one or more of music
or other audio, still pictures, or motion pictures. Moreover, the software which is
obfuscated using one or more embodiments described herein can be software that is used
to play the music or motion pictures or other content.
[0065]      While Figure 10 shows that the memory 901 in the data processing system in
Figure 10 is a local device coupled directly to the rest of the components in the data
processing system, it will be appreciated that the present invention may utilize storage
which is remote from the system, such as a network storage device which is coupled to
the data processing system through a network interface. Each bus in Figure 10 may
include one or more buses connected to each other through various bridges, controllers
and/or adapters as is well known in the art.
[0066]      It will be apparent from this description that aspects of the present invention
may be embodied, at least in part, in software. That is, the techniques may be carried out
in a handheld device in response to its processor/processing core, executing sequences of
instructions contained in a machine readable non-transitory storage medium such as a
memory (e.g., one or more memories in the data processing system shown in Figure 10,
such as flash memories, DRAM memory, SRAM memory, etc.). In various
embodiments, hardwired circuitry may be used in combination with software instructions
to implement the present invention. Thus, the techniques are not limited to any specific
combination of hardware circuitry and software nor to any particular source for the
instructions executed by the data processing system. In addition, throughout this
description, various functions and operations are described as being performed by or
caused by software code to simplify description. However, those skilled in the art will
recognize what is meant by such expressions is that the functions result from execution of
the code by a processor, such as the processing system shown in Figure 10.
                                              -17-

1002081275
[0067]      In the foregoing specification, the invention has been described with reference
to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will be evident that various modifications
may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention
as set forth in the following claims. The specification and drawings are, accordingly, to
be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense.
                                              -18-

1002081275
CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1.       A method, comprising:
         receiving an incoming call on a device;
         presenting an option to decline the call and launch an electronic messaging
application of the device;
         detecting a user selection of the option; and
         launching, in response to detecting the user selection, the electronic messaging
application of the device.
2.       The method of claim 1 further comprising declining the incoming call, in response
to detecting the user selection, wherein the electronic messaging application is launched
after declining the incoming call.
3.       The method of claim 2, wherein the electronic messaging application preloads, in
response to launching, an electronic message having a caller of the incoming call as an
addressee of the electronic message.
4.       A handheld device, comprising:
         a radio frequency transceiver to receive an incoming call, a touchscreen display to
present an option to decline the call and launch an electronic messaging application of the
device, and one or more processors to perform one or more of the operations of claims 1
3.
5.       A machine readable medium having instructions stored thereon, which when
processed by one or more processors of a device cause the device to perform a method as
claimed in any of claims 1-3.
                                              -1 Q-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
