                                          ABSTRACT
The present invention provides a VWF fragment comprising the D' domain and D3 domain of
VWF, a chimeric protein comprising the VWF fragment and a heterologous moiety, or a
chimeric protein comprising the VWF fragment and a FVIII protein and methods of using the
same. A polypeptide chain comprising a VWF fragment of the invention binds to or is
associated with a polypeptide chain comprising a FVIII protein and the polypeptide chain
comprising the VWF fragment can prevent or inhibit binding of endogenous VWF to the FVIII
protein. By preventing or inhibiting binding of endogenous VWF to the FVIII, which is a half
life limiting factor for FVIII, the VWF fragment can induce extension of half-life of the FVIII
protein. The invention also includes nucleotides, vectors, host cells, methods of using the VWF
fragment, or the chimeric proteins.

                                                     1
                  CHIMERIC FACTOR VIII POLYPEPTIDES AND USES THEREOF
                                       RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]           This is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn>, which is a
divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2013205647. Australian Patent Application No.
2013205647 is related to International Patent Application No. PCT/US2013/021330,                   filed on
12 January 2013 and claims priority to United States Provisional Patent Application No. 61/586,099,
filed 12 January 2012, United States Provisional Patent Application No. 61/586,654, filed 13 January
2012, United States Provisional Patent Application No. 61/667,901, filed 3 July 2012, and United
States Provisional Patent Application No. 61/734,954, filed 7 December 2012. All of the above
applications are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.
                                  BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0001a]          Coagulation is a complex process by which blood forms clots. It is an important part of
hemostasis, the cessation of blood loss from a damaged vessel, wherein a damaged blood vessel wall is
covered by a platelet and fibrin-containing clot to stop bleeding and begin repair of the damaged
vessel. Disorders of coagulation can lead to an increased risk of bleeding (hemorrhage) or obstructive
clotting (thrombosis).
[0002]           Coagulation begins almost instantly after an injury to the blood vessel has damaged the
endothelium lining of the vessel. Exposure of the blood to proteins such as tissue factor initiates
changes to blood platelets and the plasma protein fibrinogen, a clotting factor. Platelets immediately
form a plug at the site of injury; this is called primary hemostasis. Secondary hemostasis occurs
simultaneously: Proteins in the blood plasma, called coagulation factors or clotting factors, respond in
a complex cascade to form fibrin strands, which strengthen the platelet plug. Non-limiting coagulation
factors include, but are not limited to, factor I (fibrinogen), factor II (prothrombin), Tissue factor,
factor V (proaccelerin,       labile factor), factor VII    (stable  factor, proconvertin),    factor VIII
(Antihemophilic factor A), factor IX (Antihemophilic factor B or Christmas factor), factor X (Stuart
Prower factor), factor XI (plasma thromboplastin antecedent), factor XII (Hageman factor), factor XIII
(fibrin-stabilizing factor), VWF, prekallikrein (Fletcher factor), high-molecular-weight kininogen
(HMWK) (Fitzgerald factor), fibronectin, antithrombin III, heparin cofactor II, protein C, protein S,
protein Z, plasminogen, alpha 2-antiplasmin, tissue plasminogen              activator (tPA), urokinase,
plasminogen      activator  inhibitor-  1 (PAIl),    and   plasminogen     activator  inhibitor-2    (PAI2).

                                                    la
[00031          Haemophilia A is a bleeding disorder caused by defects in the gene encoding
coagulation factor VIII (FVIII) and affects 1-2 in 10,000 male births. Graw et al., Nat. Rev. Genet.
6(6): 488-501 (2005). Patients affected with hemophilia A can be treated with infusion of purified or
recombinantly produced FVIII. All commercially available FVIII products, however, are known to
have a half-life of about 8-12 hours, requiring frequent intravenous administration to the patients. See
Weiner M.A. and Cairo, M.S., Pediatric Hematology Secrets, Lee, M.T., 12. Disorders of Coagulation,
Elsevier Health Sciences, 2001; Lillicrap, D. Thromb. Res. 122 Suppl 4:S2-8 (2008). In addition, a
                                       [text continues on page 2]

                                               2
       number of approaches have been tried in order to extend the FVIII half-life. For example,
       the approaches in development to extend the half-life of clotting factors include
       pegylation, glycopegylation, and conjugation with albumin.      See Dumont et al., Blood.
       119(13): 3024-3030 (Published online Jan. 13, 2012).           Regardless of the protein
       engineering used, however, the long acting FVIII products currently under development
       have improved half-lives, but the half-lives are reported to be limited - only to about 1.5
       to 2 fold improvement in preclinical animal models. See Id. Consistent results have been
       demonstrated in humans, for example, rFVIIIFc was reported to improve half-life up to ~
       1.7 fold compared with ADVATE@ in hemophilia A patients. See Id. Therefore, the
       half-life increases, despite minor improvements, may indicate the presence of other T1/2
       limiting factors. See Liu, T. et al., 2007 ISTH meeting, abstract #P-M-035; Henrik, A. et
       al., 2011 ISTH meeting, abstract #P=MO-181; Liu, T. et al., 2011 ISTH meeting abstract
       #P-WE-131.
[0004]          Plasma von Willebrand Factor (VWF) has a half-life of approximately 12 hours
       (ranging               from              9            to             15              hours).
       http://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/guidelines/vwd/2_scientificoverview.htm      (last visited October
       22, 2011). The VWF half-life may be affected by a number of factors: glycosylation
       pattern, ADAMTS-13 (a disintegrin and metalloprotease with thrombospondin motif-13),
       and various mutations in VWF.
[00051          In plasma, 95-98% of FVIII circulates in a tight non-covalent complex with full
       length VWF.       The formation of this complex is important for the maintenance of
       appropriate plasma levels of FVIII in vivo. Lenting et al., Blood. 92(11): 3983-96 (1998);
       Lenting et al., J. Thromb. Haemost. 5(7): 1353-60 (2007).         The full-length wild-type
       FVIII is mostly present as a heterodimer having a heavy chain (MW 200kd) and a light
       chain (MW 73kd). When FVIII is activated due to proteolysis at positions 372 and 740 in
       the heavy chain and at position 1689 in the light chain, the VWF bound to FVIII is
       removed from the activated FVIII. The activated FVIII, together with activated factor IX,
       calcium, and phospholipid ("tenase complex"), involves in the activation of factor X,
       generating large amounts of thrombin. Thrombin, in turn, then cleaves fibrinogen to form
       soluble fibrin monomers, which then spontaneously polymerize to form the soluble fibrin
       polymer. Thrombin also activates factor XIII, which, together with calcium, serves to

                                               3
       crosslink and stabilize the soluble fibrin polymer, forming cross-linked (insoluble) fibrin.
       The activated FVIII is cleared fast from the circulation by proteolysis.
[00061         Due to the frequent dosing and inconvenience caused by the dosing schedule,
       there is still a need to develop FVIII products requiring less frequent administration, i.e., a
       FVIII product that has a half-life longer than the 1.5 to 2 fold half-life limitation.
                         BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[00071         The present invention is drawn to a chimeric protein comprising a Factor VIII
       ("FVIII") protein and an adjunct moiety ("AM"), wherein the adjunct moiety inhibits or
       prevents endogenous VWF from binding to the FVIII protein. The FVIII protein and the
       adjunct moiety are linked to each other by a covalent bond in order to prevent
       dissociation of the adjunct moiety in the presence of endogenous VWF.                    In one
       embodiment, the covalent bond is a peptide bond, a disulfide bond, or a linker, which is
       strong enough to prevent dissociation of the adjunct moiety from the FVIII protein in the
       presence of endogenous VWF. In another embodiment, the adjunct moiety prevents the
       FVIII protein from being cleared through a VWF clearance pathway.                      In other
       embodiments, the adjunct moiety inhibits or prevents endogenous VWF from binding to
       the FVIII protein by shielding or blocking a VWF binding site on the FVIII protein. For
       example, VWF binding site is located in the A3 domain or the C2 domain of the FVIII
       protein or both the A3 domain and the C2 domain.
[00081         In some embodiments, the chimeric protein includes a construct comprising a
       FVIII protein and an adjunct moiety linked to each other by a covalent bond, wherein the
       chimeric protein does not comprise a FVIII half-life limiting factor, which induces a half
       life limitation of the FVIII protein, e.g., a full-length VWF protein or a mature VWF
       protein.    Therefore, in some embodiments, the half-life of the FVIII protein of the
       chimeric protein is extendable beyond the half-life limitation of the FVIII protein in the
       presence of endogenous VWF.
[0009]         In certain embodiments, the adjunct moiety has at least one VWF-like FVIII
       protecting property. Examples of the VWF-like FVIII protecting property include, but are
       not limited to, protecting the FVIII protein from one or more protease cleavages,
       protecting the FVIII protein from activation, stabilizing the heavy chain and/or the light
       chain of the FVIII protein, or preventing clearance of the FVIII protein by one or more

                                                4
       scavenger receptors. In one embodiment, the adjunct moiety comprises a polypeptide, a
       non-polypeptide moiety, or both. In another embodiment, the adjunct moiety can be a
       polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence of at least about 40, at least about 50, at
       least about 60, at least about 70, at least about 80, at least about 90, at least about 100, at
       least about 110, at least about 120, at least about 130, at least about 140, at least about
       150, at least about 200, at least about 250, at least about 300, at least about 350, at least
       about 400, at least about 450, at least about 500, at least about 550, at least about 600, at
       least about 650, at least about 700, at least about 750, at least about 800, at least about
       850, at least about 900, at least about 950, or at least about 1000 amino acids in length. In
       certain embodiments, the adjunct moiety comprises a VWF fragment, an immunoglobulin
       constant region or a portion thereof, albumin or a fragment thereof, an albumin binding
       moiety, a PAS sequence, a HAP sequence, transferrin or a fragment thereof, or any
       combinations thereof. In other embodiments, the adjunct moiety is a non-polypeptide
       moiety comprising polyethylene glycol (PEG), polysialic acid, hydroxyethyl starch
       (HES), a derivative thereof, or any combinations thereof.
[0010]         In certain embodiments, the adjunct moiety comprises               a VWF fragment
       comprising a D' domain and a D3 domain of VWF, wherein the VWF fragment is
       associated with the FVIII protein by a non-covalent bond in addition to the covalent bond
       between the FVIII protein and the adjunct moiety (VWF fragment). In one example, the
       VWF fragment is a monomer. In another example, the VWF fragment comprises two,
       three, four, five, or six VWF fragments linked to one or more of each other.
[0011]         In one aspect, the chimeric protein comprises an adjunct moiety, e.g., a VWF
       fragment, and at least one heterologous moiety (HI) and an optional linker between the
       adjunct moiety, e.g., VWF fragment, and the heterologous moiety (HI).                  In one
       embodiment, the heterologous moiety (HI) can comprise a moiety that extends the half
       life of the FVIII protein, e.g., a polypeptide selected from the group consisting of an
       immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof, albumin or a fragment thereof, an
       albumin binding moiety, a PAS sequence, a HAP sequence, transferrin or a fragment
       thereof, and any combinations thereof or a non-polypeptide moiety selected from the
       group consisting of polyethylene glycol (PEG), polysialic acid, hydroxyethyl starch
       (HES), a derivative thereof, and any combinations thereof.          In one embodiment, the
       heterologous moiety (HI) comprises a first Fc region.           In another embodiment, the

                                                5
       heterologous moiety (HI) comprises an amino acid sequence comprising at least about 50
       amino acids, at least about 100 amino acids, at least about 150 amino acids, at least about
       200 amino acids, at least about 250 amino acids, at least about 300 amino acids, at least
       about 350 amino acids, at least about 400 amino acids, at least about 450 amino acids, at
       least about 500 amino acids, at least about 550 amino acids, at least about 600 amino
       acids, at least about 650 amino acids, at least about 700 amino acids, at least about 750
       amino acids, at least about 800 amino acids, at least about 850 amino acids, at least about
       900 amino acids, at least about 950 amino acids, or at least about 1000 amino acids. In
       other embodiments, the chimeric protein comprises a linker between the adjunct moiety,
       e.g., a VWF fragment, and the heterologous moiety (HI), which is a cleavable linker.
[0012]         In another aspect, the FVIII protein in the chimeric protein comprises FVIII and at
       least one heterologous moiety (H2). In one embodiment, the heterologous moiety (H2) is
       capable of extending the half-life of the FVIII protein, e.g., a polypeptide selected from
       the group consisting of an immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof, albumin
       or a fragment thereof, an albumin binding moiety, a PAS sequence, a HAP sequence,
       transferrin or a fragment thereof, and any combinations thereof or a non-polypeptide
       moiety comprising polyethylene glycol (PEG), polysialic acid, hydroxyethyl starch
       (HES), a derivative thereof, and any combinations thereof. In a particular embodiment,
       the heterologous moiety (H2) comprises a second Fc region.
[0013]         In some embodiments, the chimeric protein comprises a first polypeptide chain
       comprising the VWF fragment, a first heterologous moiety, and a linker and a second
       polypeptide chain comprising the FVIII protein and a second heterologous moiety,
       wherein the first polypeptide chain and the second polypeptide chain are linked to each
       other by a covalent bond. In one example, the first heterologous moiety and the second
       heterologous moiety are linked to each other by the covalent bond, e.g., a disulfide bond,
       a peptide bond, or a linker, wherein the covalent bond prevents replacement of the VWF
       fragment in the first polypeptide chain with endogenous VWF in vivo.              In some
       embodiments, the linker between the FVIII protein and the second heterologous moiety is
       a cleavable linker.
[0014]         In certain embodiments, the first heterologous moiety (HI) linked to the VWF
       fragment and the second heterologous moiety (H2) linked to the FVIII protein are linked
       by a linker, e.g., a scFc linker, which is a processable linker.

                                              6
[00151          In yet other embodiments, the FVIII protein in the chimeric protein further
       comprises a third heterologous moiety (H3), a fourth heterologous moiety (H4), a fifth
       heterologous moiety (H5), a sixth heterologous moiety (H6), or any combinations thereof.
       In one embodiment, one or more of the third heterologous moiety (H3), the fourth
       heterologous moiety (H4), the fifth heterologous moiety (H5), the sixth heterologous
       moiety (H6) are capable of extending the half-life of the FVIII protein.         In another
       embodiments, the third heterologous moiety (H3), the fourth heterologous moiety (H4),
       the fifth heterologous moiety (H5), and the sixth heterologous moiety (H6) are linked to
       the C terminus or N terminus of FVIII or inserted between two amino acids of FVIII. In
       other embodiments, one or more of the third heterologous moiety (H3), the fourth
       heterologous moiety (H4), the fifth heterologous moiety (H5), or the sixth heterologous
       moiety (H6) comprises an amino acid sequence comprising at least about 50 amino acids,
       at least about 100 amino acids, at least about 150 amino acids, at least about 200 amino
       acids, at least about 250 amino acids, at least about 300 amino acids, at least about 350
       amino acids, at least about 400 amino acids, at least about 450 amino acids, at least about
       500 amino acids, at least about 550 amino acids, at least about 600 amino acids, at least
       about 650 amino acids, at least about 700 amino acids, at least about 750 amino acids, at
       least about 800 amino acids, at least about 850 amino acids, at least about 900 amino
       acids, at least about 950 amino acids, or at least about 1000 amino acids.
[00161          In some embodiments, the linker between the FVIII protein and the second
       heterologous moiety or the linker between the VWF fragment and the first heterologous
       moiety further comprises a first cleavage site (P1) at the N-terminal region of the linker, a
       second cleavage site (P2) at the C-terminal region of the linker, or both.          In other
       embodiments, one or more of the linker between the FVIII protein and the adjunct
       moiety, the linker between the FVIII protein and the second heterologous moiety, and the
       linker between the VWF fragment and the first heterologous moiety have a length of
       about 1 to about 2000 amino acids.
[00171          In other embodiments, the chimeric protein comprises a FVIII protein and an
       adjunct moiety, which are linked by a linker between the FVIII protein and the adjunct
       moiety, wherein the linker further comprises a sortase recognition motif, e.g., the
       sequence of LPXTG (SEQ ID NO: 106 ).

                                               7
[00181          The present invention is directed to a von Willebrand Factor (VWF) fragment
       comprising the D' domain and the D3 domain of VWF, wherein the VWF fragment binds
       to Factor VIII (FVIII) and inhibits binding of endogenous VWF to a FVIII protein. In
       one embodiment, the VWF fragment of the invention is not amino acids 764 to 1274 of
       SEQ ID NO: 2. In one embodiment, the FVIII protein, without the VWF fragment, has a
       half-life comparable to wild-type FVIII. In another embodiment, the FVIII protein is a
       fusion protein comprising FVIII and a heterologous moiety that is capable of extending
       half-life of FVIII.   The heterologous moiety can be a polypeptide, a non-polypeptide
       moiety, or both. The heterologous polypeptide moiety can be selected from the group
       consisting of an immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof, albumin or a
       fragment thereof, an albumin binding moiety, a PAS sequence, a HAP sequence,
       transferrin or a fragment thereof, and any combination thereof. In other embodiments, the
       heterologous moiety is an immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof, e.g., an
       Fc region. In still other embodiments, the non-polypeptide moiety is selected from the
       group consisting of polyethylene glycol (PEG), polysialic acid, hydroxyethyl starch
       (HES), a derivative thereof, and any combinations thereof. In certain embodiments, The
       FVIII protein comprises a first polypeptide chain and a second polypeptide chain,
       wherein the first polypeptide chain comprises FVIII and a first Fc region and the second
       polypeptide chain comprises a second Fc region without FVIII.
[0019]          In another embodiment, the VWF fragment extends a half-life of FVIII.       The
       amino acid sequence of the D' domain can be at least 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99%,
       or 100% identical to amino acids 764 to 866 of SEQ ID NO: 2. Also, the amino acid
       sequence of the D3 domain can be at least 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99%, or 100%
       identical to amino acids 867 to 1240 of SEQ ID NO: 2. In certain embodiments, the VWF
       fragment contains at least one amino acid substitution at a residue corresponding to
       residue 1099, residue 1142, or both of SEQ ID NO: 2. In a particular embodiment, a
       VWF fragment comprises, consisting essentially of, or consists of amino acids 764 to
       1240 of SEQ ID NO: 2. The VWF fragment can further comprise the D1 domain, the D2
       domain, or the Dl and D2 domains of VWF.       In some embodiments, the VWF fragment
       further comprises a VWF domain selected from the group consisting of the Al domain,
       the A2 domain, the A3 domain, the D4 domain, the B 1 domain, the B2 domain, the B3
       domain, the Cl domain, the C2 domain, the CK domain, one or more fragments thereof,

                                               8
       and any combinations thereof.      In other embodiments, the VWF fragment is pegylated,
       glycosylated, hesylated, or polysialylated.
[0020]         The present invention is also directed to a chimeric protein comprising a VWF
       fragment described herein, a heterologous moiety, and an optional linker between the
       VWF fragment and the heterologous moiety.            The heterologous moiety can be a
       polypeptide, a non-polypeptide moiety, or both.     In one embodiment, the heterologous
       polypeptide moiety is selected from the group consisting of an immunoglobulin constant
       region or a portion thereof, albumin or a fragment thereof, an albumin binding moiety, a
       PAS sequence, a HAP sequence, transferrin or a fragment thereof, and any combination
       thereof. In another embodiment, the heterologous non-polypeptide moiety is selected
       from group consisting of polyethylene glycol (PEG), polysialic acid, hydroxyethyl starch
       (HES), a derivative thereof, and any combinations thereof. In a particular embodiment,
       the heterologous moiety is a first Fc region. The chimeric protein can further comprise a
       second Fc region, wherein the second Fc region is linked to or associated with the first Fc
       region or linked to or associated with the VWF fragment.
[0021]         In one aspect, a chimeric protein of the invention comprises a formula selected
       from the group consisting of:
       (aa)    V-LI-HI-L2-H2,
       (bb)    H2-L2-HI-LI-V,
       (cc)    HI-LI-V-L2-H2, and
       (dd)    H2-L2-V-L1-Hi,
               wherein the V is one or more of the VWF fragments described herein,
               each of L I and L2 is an optional linker;
               HI is a first heterologous moiety;
               (-) is a peptide bond or one or more amino acids; and
               H2 is an optional second heterologous moiety.
[0022]         In one embodiment, HI is a first heterologous moiety, e.g., a half-life extending
       molecule which is known in the art. In one embodiment, the first heterologous moiety is
       a polypeptide.     The first heterologous polypeptide moiety is selected from the group
       consisting of an immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof, albumin or a
       fragment thereof, an albumin binding moiety, a PAS sequence, a HAP sequence,
       transferrin or a fragment thereof, and any combinations thereof. In another embodiment,

                                              9
       HI is a non-polypeptide moiety selected from the group consisting of polyethylene glycol
       (PEG), polysialic acid, hydroxyethyl starch (HES), a derivative thereof, and any
       combinations thereof. H2 is an optional second heterologous moiety, e.g., a half-life
       extending molecule which is known in the art.           In one embodiment, the second
       heterologous moiety can be selected from the group consisting of an immunoglobulin
       constant region or a portion thereof, albumin or a fragment thereof, an albumin binding
       moiety, a PAS sequence, a HAP sequence, transferrin or a fragment thereof, and any
       combination thereof. In another embodiment, H2 is a non-polypeptide moiety, which is
       selected from the group consisting of polyethylene glycol (PEG), polysialic acid,
       hydroxyethyl starch (HES), a derivative thereof, and any combinations thereof. In certain
       embodiments, HI is a first Fc region and H2 is a second Fc region. The first Fc region
       and the second Fc region can be the same or different and can be linked to each other by a
       linker or a covalent bond, e.g., a disulfide bond. In another embodiment, the second Fc
       region is linked to or associated with a Factor VIII protein. Optionally, there could be a
       third heterologous moiety, H3, which is a half-life extender, which is linked to the VWF
       fragment, the first heterologous moiety, or the second heterologous moiety. Non-limiting
       examples of the third heterologous moiety can include a polypeptide or a non-polypeptide
       moiety or both. In one embodiment, the third heterologous polypeptide moiety can be
       selected from the group consisting of an immunoglobulin constant region or a portion
       thereof, albumin or a fragment thereof, an albumin binding moiety, a PAS sequence, a
       HAP sequence, transferrin or a fragment thereof, or any combinations thereof. In another
       embodiment, H2 is a non-polypeptide moiety, which is be selected from the group
       consisting of polyethylene glycol (PEG), polysialic acid, hydroxyethyl starch (HES), a
       derivative thereof, and any combinations thereof. In some embodiments, H3 is linked to
       the VWF fragment or the first or the second heterologous moiety by a cleavable linker,
       e.g., a thrombin cleavable linker. Non-limiting examples of the linkers are disclosed
       elsewhere herein.
[0023]         In another aspect, the invention provides a chimeric protein comprising a VWF
       fragment described herein, a FVIII protein, and an optional linker between the VWF
       fragment and the FVIII protein. The VWF fragment can be bound to the FVIII protein.
       In one embodiment, a chimeric protein comprises a VWF fragment described herein,
       which is linked to a heterologous moiety. The heterologous moiety can be a moiety that

                                               10
       extends the half-life of the protein, which comprises a polypeptide, a non-polypeptide
       moiety, or both. Examples of such a heterologous polypeptide moiety include, e.g., an
       immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof, albumin or a fragment thereof, an
       albumin binding moiety, a PAS sequence, a HAP sequence, any derivatives or variants
       thereof, or any combinations thereof. Examples of a non-polypeptide moiety include,
       e.g., polyethylene glycol (PEG), polysialic acid, hydroxyethyl starch (HES), a derivative
       thereof, or any combinations thereof. In another embodiment, the heterologous moiety is
       a first Fc region linked to the VWF fragment. In other embodiments, the chimeric protein
       further comprises a second Fc region linked to the FVIII protein. The VWF fragment or
       the FVIII protein can be linked to the first Fc region or the second Fc region, respectively,
       by a linker.   In still other embodiments, a chimeric protein comprises a VWF fragment
       described herein linked to a first heterologous moiety, e.g., first Fc region, and a FVIII
       protein linked to a second heterologous moiety, e.g., second Fc region, wherein the VWF
       fragment is further linked to the second heterologous moiety (e.g., second Fc region) or
       the FVIII protein by a linker or by covalent bond or the first heterologous moiety (e.g., Fc
       region) is further linked to the FVIII protein or the second heterologous moiety (e.g.,
       second Fc region) by a linker or a covalent bond. In some embodiments, the FVIII of the
       chimeric protein has a partial B-domain. In some embodiments, the FVIII protein with a
       partial B-domain is FV111198 (SEQ ID NO: 105). In other embodiments, the chimeric
       protein further comprises a sortase recognition motif.
[0024]          In some embodiments, as a result of the invention the half-life of the FVIII protein
       is extended compared to a FVIII protein without the VWF fragment or wildtype FVIII.
       The half-life of the FVIII protein is at least about 1.5 times, at least about 2 times, at least
       about 2.5 times, at least about 3 times, at least about 4 times, at least about 5 times, at
       least about 6 times, at least about 7 times, at least about 8 times, at least about 9 times, at
       least about 10 times, at least about 11 times, or at least about 12 times longer than the
       half-life of a FVIII protein without the VWF fragment. In one embodiment, the half-life
       of FVIII is about 1.5-fold to about 20-fold, about 1.5 fold to about 15 fold, or about 1.5
       fold to about 10 fold longer than the half-life of wild-type FVIII. In another embodiment,
       the half-life of the FVIII is extended about 2-fold to about 10-fold, about 2-fold to about
       9-fold, about 2-fold to about 8-fold, about 2-fold to about 7-fold, about 2-fold to about 6
       fold, about 2-fold to about 5-fold, about 2-fold to about 4-fold, about 2-fold to about 3-

                                              11
       fold, about 2.5-fold to about 10-fold, about 2.5-fold to about 9-fold, about 2.5-fold to
       about 8-fold, about 2.5-fold to about 7-fold, about 2.5-fold to about 6-fold, about 2.5-fold
       to about 5-fold, about 2.5-fold to about 4-fold, about 2.5-fold to about 3-fold, about 3-fold
       to about 10-fold, about 3-fold to about 9-fold, about 3-fold to about 8-fold, about 3-fold to
       about 7-fold, about 3-fold to about 6-fold, about 3-fold to about 5-fold, about 3-fold to
       about 4-fold, about 4-fold to about 6 fold, about 5-fold to about 7-fold, or about 6-fold to
       about 8 fold as compared to wild-type FVIII or a FVIII protein without the VWF
       fragment. In other embodiments, the half-life of FVIII is at least about 17 hours, at least
       about 18 hours, at least about 19 hours, at least about 20 hours, at least about 21 hours, at
       least about 22 hours, at least about 23 hours, at least about 24 hours, at least about 25
       hours, at least about 26 hours, at least about 27 hours, at least about 28 hours, at least
       about 29 hours, at least about 30 hours, at least about 31 hours, at least about 32 hours, at
       least about 33 hours, at least about 34 hours, at least about 35 hours, at least about 36
       hours, at least about 48 hours, at least about 60 hours, at least about 72 hours, at least
       about 84 hours, at least about 96 hours, or at least about 108 hours. In still other
       embodiments, the half-life of FVIII is about 15 hours to about two weeks, about 16 hours
       to about one week, about 17 hours to about one week, about 18 hours to about one week,
       about 19 hours to about one week, about 20 hours to about one week, about 21 hours to
       about one week, about 22 hours to about one week, about 23 hours to about one week,
       about 24 hours to about one week, about 36 hours to about one week, about 48 hours to
       about one week, about 60 hours to about one week, about 24 hours to about six days,
       about 24 hours to about five days, about 24 hours to about four days, about 24 hours to
       about three days, or about 24 hours to about two days.
[00251         In some embodiments, the average half-life of the FVIII protein per subject is
       about 15 hours, about 16 hours, about 17 hours, about 18 hours, about 19 hours, about 20
       hours, about 21 hours, about 22 hours, about 23 hours, about 24 hours (1 day), about 25
       hours, about 26 hours, about 27 hours, about 28 hours, about 29 hours, about 30 hours,
       about 31 hours, about 32 hours, about 33 hours, about 34 hours, about 35 hours, about 36
       hours, about 40 hours, about 44 hours, about 48 hours (2 days), about 54 hours, about 60
       hours, about 72 hours (3 days), about 84 hours, about 96 hours (4 days), about 108 hours,
       about 120 hours (5 days), about six days, about seven days (one week), about eight days,

                                               12
       about nine days, about 10 days, about II days, about 12 days, about 13 days, or about 14
       days.
[0026]        In another aspect, a chimeric protein of the invention comprises a formula selected
       from the group consisting of:
       (a)    V-Li-Hi- L3- C-L2-H2,
       (b)    H2-L2-C- L3- H1-L1-V,
       (c)    C-L2-H2- L3- V-Li-Hi,
       (d)    HI-LI-V- L3-H2-L2-C,
       (e)    HI-LI-V-L3-C-L2-H2,
       (f)    H2-L2-C- L3- V-Li-Hi,
       (g)    V-LI-HI-L3- H2-L2-C,
       (h)    C-L2-H2- L3- HI-LI-V,
       (i)    H2-L3-H1-L1-V-L2-C,
       ()     C-L2-V-LI-HI-L3-H2,
       (k)    V-L2-C-LI-HI-L3-H2, and
       (1)    H2-L3-H1-L1-C-L2-V,
              wherein V is a VWF fragment described herein;
              each of LI or L2, is an optional linker, e.g., a thrombin cleavable linker;
              L3 is an optional linker, e.g., scFc linker, e.g., a processable linker;
              each of HI or H2 is an optional heterologous moiety; and
              C is a FVIII protein; and
              (-) is a peptide bond or one or more amino acids.
[0027]        In other aspects, a chimeric protein of the invention comprises a formula selected
       from the group consisting of:
       (m)    V-Li-Hi: H2-L2-C,
       (n)    V-Li-Hi:C-L2-H2,
       (o)    HI-LI-V:H2-L2-C,
       (p)    HI-LI-V:C-L2-H2,
       (q)    V:C-LI-Hi:H2,
       (r)    V:Hi-LI-C:H2,
       (s)    H2:Hi-LI-C:V,
       (t)    C:V-LI-Hi:H2, and

                                        13
(u)     C:H1-L1-V:H2,
        wherein V is a VWF fragment described herein;
        each of LI or L2, is an optional linker, e.g., a thrombin cleavable linker;
        each of HI or H2 is an optional heterologous moiety; and
        C is a FVIII protein;
        (-) is a peptide bond or one or more amino acids; and
        (:) is a chemical or physical association between HI and H2, between V and C,
and between V and HI and C and H2. (:) represents a chemical association, e.g., at least
one non-peptide bond. In certain embodiments, the chemical association, i.e., (:) is a
covalent bond. In some embodiments, the association between HI and H2 is a covalent
bond, e.g., a disulfide bond. In other embodiments, the chemical association, i.e., (:) is a
non-covalent interaction, e.g., an ionic interaction, a hydrophobic interaction, a
hydrophilic interaction, a Van der Waals interaction, a hydrogen bond.              In certain
embodiments, the association between the FVIII protein and the VWF fragment is a non
covalent bond. In other embodiments, (:) is a non-peptide covalent bond. In still other
embodiments, (:) is a peptide bond. In one embodiment, HI is a first heterologous
moiety. In one embodiment, the first heterologous moiety is capable of extending half
life of the FVIII activity. In another embodiment, the first heterologous moiety is a
polypeptide, a non-polypeptide moiety, or both.              In one embodiment, the first
heterologous polypeptide moiety can be selected from the group consisting of an
immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof, albumin or fragment thereof, an
albumin binding moiety, a PAS sequence, a HAP sequence, transferrin or a fragment
thereof, and any combinations thereof. In another embodiment, the non-polypeptide
moiety is selected from the group consisting of polyethylene glycol (PEG), polysialic
acid, hydroxyethyl starch (HES), a derivative thereof, and any combinations thereof. In
some embodiments, H2 is a second heterologous moiety.              The second heterologous
moiety can also be a half-life extender known in the art and can be a polypeptide, a non
polypeptide moiety, or a combination of both.              In one embodiment, the second
heterologous moiety is selected from the group consisting of an immunoglobulin constant
region or a portion thereof, albumin or fragment thereof, an albumin binding moiety, a
PAS sequence, a HAP sequence, transferrin or a fragment thereof, and any combinations
thereof. In certain embodiments, the non-polypeptide moiety is selected from the group

                                               14
       consisting of polyethylene glycol (PEG), polysialic acid, hydroxyethyl starch (HES), a
       derivative thereof, and any combinations thereof.       In a particular embodiment, HI is a
       first Fc region. In some embodiments, H2 is a second Fc region. Optionally, there could
       be a third heterologous moiety, H3, which is a half-life extender. H3 can be linked to one
       or more of V, C, HI, or H2 by an optional linker, e.g., a cleavable linker, e.g., a thrombin
       cleavable linker. Non-limiting examples of the third heterologous moiety can include an
       immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof, albumin or a fragment thereof,
       polyethylene glycol (PEG), a PAS sequence, and hydroxyethyl starch (HES) or a
       derivative thereof.
[00281         In certain embodiments, one or more of the linkers used to connect the VWF
       fragment, the FVIII protein, the first heterologous moiety, and/or the second heterologous
       moiety of formulas (a) to (u) to each other is a cleavable linker.       One or more of the
       cleavage sites used in the chimeric protein can be cleaved by a protease selected from the
       group consisting of factor XIa, factor XIIa, kallikrein, factor VIIa, factor IXa, factor Xa,
       factor Ila (thrombin), Elastase-2, Granzyme-B, TEV, Enterokinase, Protease 3C, Sortase
       A, MMP-12, MMP-13, MMP-17, and MMP-20.                 In other embodiments, one or more
       linkers used in formulas (a) to (1) (e.g., L3) comprise a processable linker.             The
       processable linkers can be cleaved by an intracellular enzyme upon secretion.             The
       processable linker can comprise a first cleavage site (P1) at the N-terminal region of the
       linker, a second cleavage site (P2) at the C-terminal region of the linker, or both.
[0029]         In some embodiments, one or more of the linkers used in the invention have a
       length of at least about 1 to 2000 amino acids. In a specific embodiment, one or more of
       the linkers used in the invention have a length of at least about 20, 35, 42, 48, 73, 98, 144,
       288, 324, 576, or 864 amino acids. In a particular embodiment, one or more of the linkers
       comprise a gly/ser peptide. The gly/ser peptide can be (Gly4 Ser)3 or (Gly4 Ser)4 .
[00301         In other aspects, a FVIII protein in a chimeric protein is a functional Factor VIII
       protein. The FVIII protein can comprise one or more domains of FVIII selected from the
       group consisting of the Al domain, the A2 domain, the B domain, the A3 domain, the C1
       domain, the C2 domain, one or more fragment thereof, and any combinations thereof. In
       one embodiment, the FVIII protein comprises the B domain or a portion thereof. In
       another embodiment, the FVIII protein is SQ B domain deleted FVIII.                  In other
       embodiments,     the FVIII protein comprises single chain FVIII.               In still other

                                               15
       embodiments, the FVIII protein comprises a heavy chain of FVIII and a light chain of
       Factor VIII, wherein the heavy chain and the light chain are associated with each other by
       a metal bond. In certain embodiments, the FVIII protein has a low affinity to or does not
       bind to a low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein (LRP).    For example, a FVIII
       protein useful for the invention can contain at least one amino acid substitution that
       lowers the affinity to or eliminates the binding to the LRP. Non-limiting examples of the
       at least one amino acid substitution is at a residue corresponding to residue 471, residue
       484, residue 487, residue 490, residue 497, residue 2092, residue 2093 or two or more
       combinations thereof of full-length mature FVIII.        In some embodiments, the FVIII
       protein in a chimeric protein of this invention contains at least one amino acid
       substitution, which induces the FVIII protein to be more stable than a FVIII protein
       without the substitution. In other embodiments, the FVIII protein contains at least one
       amino acid substitution in the A2 domain and at least one amino acid substitution in the
       A3 domain, wherein the A2 domain and the A3 domain are associated to each other by a
       covalent bond. Non-limiting examples of the amino acid substitution in the A2 domain is
       at a residue corresponding residue 662 or 664 of full-length mature FVIII. In addition,
       non-limiting examples of the amino acid substitution in the A3 domain is at a residue
       corresponding to residue 1826 or 1828 of full-length mature FVIII is polysialylated.
[0031]         In further aspects, the invention provides a polynucleotide encoding a VWF
       fragment    described herein or a chimeric protein described herein, or a set of
       polynucleotides comprising a first nucleotide chain and a second nucleotide chain,
       wherein the first nucleotide chain encodes the VWF fragment and the second nucleotide
       chain encodes the second Fc region or the clotting factor or fragment thereof of the
       chimeric protein. In one embodiment, the set of polynucleotides further comprises a third
       polynucleotide chain, which encodes a proprotein convertase belongs to the subtilisin-like
       proprotein convertase family.       Non-limiting examples of the proprotein convertase
       include proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 3 (PACE or PCSK3), proprotein
       convertase subtilisin/kexin type 5 (PCSK5 or PC5), proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin
       type 7 (PCSK7 or PC7), or a yeast Kex 2. In still other aspects, the invention includes a
       vector comprising the polynucleotide or the set of polynucleotides and one or more
       promoters operably linked to the polynucleotide or the set of polynucleotides or a set of
       vectors comprising a first vector and a second vector, wherein the first vector encodes the

                                                16
       first polynucleotide chain of the set of polynucleotides and the second vector encodes the
       second polynucleotide chain of the set of polynucleotides. The set of vectors can further
       comprise a third vector, which comprises a third polynucleotide chain encoding PC5 or
       PC7. In some embodiments, the vector further comprises PACE. In some embodiments,
       PACE cleaves the D1D2 domains of the VWF fragment.
[0032]          In some aspects, the invention is directed to a pharmaceutical composition
       comprising the VWF fragment, the chimeric protein, the polynucleotide, the set of
       polynucleotides, the vector, or the set of vectors, and a pharmaceutically acceptable
       carrier.   The composition of this invention can extend the half-life of Factor VIII.     In
       other aspects, the invention includes a host cell comprising the polynucleotide, the set of
       polynucleotides, the vector, or the sets of vectors.
[00331          In other aspects, the present invention is drawn to a chimeric protein comprising a
       FVIII protein, an adjunct moiety and an optional linker, wherein the adjunct moiety
       inhibits or prevents endogenous VWF from binding to the FVIII protein and has at least
       one VWF-like FVIII protecting property.          The VWF-like FVIII protecting property
       comprises protecting the FVIII protein from one or more protease cleavages, protecting
       the FVIII protein from activation, stabilizing the heavy chain and/or the light chain of the
       FVIII protein, or preventing clearance of the FVIII protein by one or more scavenger
       receptors.
[0034]          The adjunct moiety in the chimeric protein can inhibit or prevent endogenous
       VWF from binding to the FVIII protein by shielding or blocking a VWF binding site on
       the FVIII protein.    In some embodiments, the VWF binding site is located in the A3
       domain or the C2 domain of the FVIII protein or both A3 domain and C2 domain of the
       FVIII protein. In another embodiment, the VWF binding site is the amino acid sequence
       corresponding to amino acids 1669 to 1689 and 2303 to 2332 of SEQ ID NO: 16. In
       some embodiments, the adjunct moiety is a polypeptide, a non-polypeptide moiety, or
       both. The polypeptide useful as the adjunct moiety can comprise an amino acid sequence
       of at least 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 100, 110, 120, 130, 140, 150, 200, 250, 300, 350, 400,
       450, 500, 550, 600, 650, 700, 750, 800, 850, 900, 950, or 1000 amino acids in length. For
       example, the polypeptide useful as an adjunct moiety can be selected from the group
       consisting of a VWF fragment, an immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof,
       albumin or a fragment thereof, an albumin binding moiety, a PAS sequence, a HAP

                                               17
       sequence, other half-life extending technologies, and any combinations thereof. The non
       polypeptide moiety useful as an adjunct moiety can be selected from the group consisting
       of polyethylene glycol (PEG), polysialic acid, hydroxyethyl starch (HES) or a derivative
       thereof, and any combinations thereof. In one embodiment, the adjunct moiety is the
       VWF fragment described herein. The adjunct moiety and the FVIII protein can be linked,
       e.g., by a linker, or associated with each other.     The linker can comprise a cleavable
       linker, e.g., a thrombin cleavable linker.
[00351         In one aspect, the invention provides a method of preventing or inhibiting binding
       of a FVIII protein with endogenous VWF comprising adding an effective amount of the
       VWF fragment, the chimeric protein, the polynucleotide, or the set of polynucleotides to a
       cell comprising a FVIII protein or a polynucleotide encoding the FVIII protein, wherein
       the VWF fragment binds to the FVIII protein. In another aspect, the invention includes a
       method of preventing or inhibiting binding of the FVIII protein with endogenous VWF
       comprising adding an effective amount of the chimeric protein, the polynucleotide, or the
       set of polynucleotides to a subject in need thereof, wherein the VWF fragment binds to
       the FVIII protein and thus prevents or inhibits binding of the FVIII protein. In some
       aspects, the invention includes a method of extending or increasing half-life of a FVIII
       protein, wherein the method comprises adding an effective amount of the VWF fragment,
       the chimeric protein, the polynucleotide, or the set of polynucleotides to a cell comprising
       a FVIII protein or a polynucleotide encoding the FVIII protein or to a subject in need
       thereof, wherein the VWF fragment binds to the FVIII protein.          In other aspects, the
       invention is drawn to a method of preventing or inhibiting clearance of a FVIII protein
       from a cell, wherein the method comprises adding an effective amount of the VWF
       fragment, the chimeric protein, the polynucleotide, or the set of polynucleotides to a cell
       comprising a FVIII protein or a polynucleotide encoding the FVIII protein or to a subject
       in need thereof, wherein the VWF fragment binds to the FVIII protein.
[0036]         In another aspect, the invention is directed to a method of treating a bleeding
       disease or disorder in a subject in need thereof comprising administering an effective
       amount of the VWF fragment, the chimeric protein, the polynucleotide , or the set of
       polynucleotides, wherein the bleeding disease or disorder is selected from the group
       consisting of a bleeding coagulation disorder, hemarthrosis, muscle bleed, oral bleed,
       hemorrhage, hemorrhage into muscles,           oral hemorrhage, trauma, trauma capitis,

                                                 18
       gastrointestinal   bleeding,  intracranial   hemorrhage,    intra-abdominal    hemorrhage,
       intrathoracic hemorrhage, bone fracture, central nervous system bleeding, bleeding in
       the retropharyngeal space, bleeding in the retroperitoneal space, and bleeding in the
       illiopsoas sheath. In other embodiments, the treatment is prophylactic or on-demand. In
       still other embodiments, the invention is a method of treating a disease or disorder
       associated with Type 2N von Willebrand's disease to a subject in need thereof,
       comprising administering an effective amount of the VWF fragment, the chimeric
       protein, the polynucleotide, or the set of polynucleotides, wherein the disease or disorder
       is treated.
[0036a]         The term "comprise" and variants of the term such as "comprises" or
       "comprising" are used herein to denote the inclusion of a stated integer or stated integers
       but not to exclude any other integer or any other integers, unless in the context or usage
       an exclusive interpretation of the term is required.
[0036b]         Any reference to publications cited in this specification is not an admission that
       the disclosures constitute common general knowledge.
                    BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS/FIGURES
[00371          Figure lA-F. Schematic diagrams of VWF proteins. Fig. 1A shows two VWF
        fragments containing amino acids I to 276 of SEQ ID NO: 73 (amino acids 764 to 1039
        of SEQ ID NO: 2). VWF-001 is synthesized without the pre/propeptide sequences of
        VWF, while VWF-009 is synthesized with the pre/propeptide sequences (Dl and D2
        domains).    The prepeptide of VWF-009 is cleaved during synthesis, and VWF-009
        contains the propeptide with the D' and D3 domain sequences. Fig. lB shows three
        VWF fragments containing amino acids 1 to 477 of SEQ ID NO: 73 (amino acids 764 to
        1240 of SEQ ID NO: 2).           VWF-002 is synthesized without the pre/propeptide
        sequences. VWF-010 contains the DID2 domains in addition to the D'D3 domains.
        VWF-013 contains the DID2D'D3 domains in addition to alanine residues substituting
        cysteines at residues 336 and 379 of SEQ ID NO: 72.            Fig. IC shows two VWF
        fragments containing the D'D3 domains and a portion of the Al domain. VWF-003 has
        amino acids 764 to 1274 of SEQ ID NO: 2). VWF-01 1 contains the D1D2 domains in
        addition to the D'D3 domains. Fig. ID shows two constructs, VWF-004 and VWF-012.
        VWF-004 contains the D'D3 domains and the complete sequence of Al domain.

                                      18a
VWF-012 contains the D1D2D'D3 domains and the complete sequence of Al domain.
Fig. 1E shows three constructs. VWF-006 contains the DID2D'D3 domains and the CK
domain of VWF (cysteine knot domain). VWF-008 is the full-length VWF. VWF-031
(VWF-Fc) shows a construct containing the D1D2D'D3 domains linked to a single Fc
region by a cleavable linker. VWF-053 is the D1D2 domains. Fig. IF shows full-length
VWF protein comprising propeptide (the D1 and D2 domains) and mature subunits (the
D', D3, Al, A2, A3, D4, B1-3, Cl-2 domains). The VWF protein is about 250 kDa
protein and forms
                          [Text continues on page 19]

                                             19
       multimers (> 20 MDa) by disulfide bonding. The VWF protein associates with FVIII
       (95-98%) in non-covalent complex and then extends half-life of FVIII by protecting
       FVIII from protease cleavage/activation, stabilizing heavy & light chain, and preventing
       clearance of FVIII by scavenger receptors. The VWF protein also can limit half-life of
       FVIII by clearance of FVIII-VWF complex through VWF receptors and preventing
       pinocytosis and recycling of rFVIIIFc.
[0038]         Figure 2. Schematic diagrams of examples of VWF:FVIII heterodimer constructs.
       The left construct shows a VWF fragment having the D'D3 domains of full-length VWF
       (amino acids 1-477 of SEQ ID NO: 73) and containing alanine substitutions at residues
       336 and 379 of SEQ ID NO: 72.           The chimeric protein construct (FVIII 064/065)
       comprises the C-terminus of a VWF fragment linked to a first Fc region by a linker and
       FVIII is linked to a second Fc region, wherein the second Fc region is further linked to
       the N-terminus of a VWF fragment by a linker (e.g., formula C-HI-LI-V-L2-H2, wherein
       V is a VWF fragment, C is FVIII, HI and H2 are Fc regions, and LI and L2 are cleavable
       linkers).   The construct in Figure 2b is an intracellularly processed VWF:FVIII
       heterodimer construct where the linker between the second Fc and the N-terminus of the
       VWF fragment has been cleaved. FVIII-064 contains the D'D3 domains of VWF (amino
       acids I to 477 of SEQ ID NO: 73 with C336A and C379 substitutions).             FVIII-065
       contains the D'D3 domains of VWF (amino acids I to 276 of SEQ ID NO: 73). FVIII
       136 contains FVIIIFc linked to the D'D3 fragment-Fc by a linker that can be processed
       by an intracellular protease enzyme. When FVIII-136 is expressed, the enzyme cleaves
       the linker between the second Fc (fused to FVIII-LC) and the VWF D'D3 fragment
       (fused to the first Fc), while the Fc region fused to (or linked to) FVIII-LC forms a
       covalent bond (e.g., a disulfide bond) with the first Fc fused to (or linked to) the VWF
       fragment.   FVIII-148 is single chain FVIIIFc with the D'D3 fragment (a single chain
       FVIII by introducing R1645A/Ri648A mutation into FVIII gene).
[00391         Figure 3. Schematic diagrams of examples of VWF:FVIII heterodimer constructs
       containing examples of variable linkers between VWF and Fc. The constructs (FVIII
       064, FVIII-159, FVIII-160, FVIII-178, and FVIII-179) have the common structure
       represented as formula C-Hi-Li-V-L2-H2, but contain examples of different linkers or
       amino acid substitutions. The constructs shown contain the same VWF fragment, which
       is the D' and D3 domains of VWF (i.e., amino acids I to 477 of SEQ ID NO: 73 with

                                               20
       amino acid substitutions C336A and C379A).             Construct FVIII 64 has a thrombin
       cleavable linker (i.e., L2) between the VWF fragment and the Fe (i.e., H2), which has 20
       amino acids. Construct FVIII 159 has a thrombin cleavable linker (i.e., L2) between the
       VWF fragment and the Fc (i.e., H2), which has 35 amino acids. Construct FVIII 160 has
       a thrombin cleavable linker (i.e., L2) between the VWF fragment and the Fc (i.e., H2),
       which has 48 amino acids.          Constructs FVIII-180, FVIII-181, and FVIII-182 are
       derivatives of FVIII-160 containing K2092A mutation in FVIII Cl domain, K2093A
       mutation in FVIII Cl domain, and K2092A/K2093A mutations in FVIII Cl domain,
       respectively. Construct FVIII-178 has a thrombin cleavable linker (i.e., L2) between the
       VWF fragment and the Fc (i.e., H2), which has 73 amino acids. Construct FVIII-179 has
       a thrombin cleavable linker (i.e., L2) between the VWF fragment and the Fc (i.e., H2),
       which has 98 amino acids.
[0040]          Figure 4: Schematic diagrams of examples of FVIII-VWF constructs, in which
       VWF is D1D2D'D3 fragment of VWF, the Linker is a variable length linker containing a
       cleavage site, e.g., a thrombin cleavage site, SC FVIII is a single chain FVIII, which
       contains the R1645A/R1648A substitutions, H is a heterologous moiety, e.g., an
       immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof, a moiety for conjugating
       polyethylene glycol (PEG) and/or PEG, an albumin or albumin fragment, an albumin
       binding moiety, a HAP sequence, a moiety for polysialylation and/or polysialic acid, a
       moiety for hydroxyethyl starch (HES) and/or HES, or a PAS sequence, etc., HC FVIII is
       a heavy chain of FVIII, LC FVIII is a light chain of FVIII, and Fc is an Fc region of an
       immunoglobulin constant region. Figure 4A has a formula of VWF-Linker-SC FVIII.
       Figure 4B has a formula of VWF-Linker-H-Linker-SC FVIII. The linkers (the first linker
       between VWF and H and the second linker between H and SC FVIII) can be identical or
       different. Figure 4C has a formula of VWF-Linker-SC FVIII-Linker-H. The linkers (the
       first linker between VWF and SC FVIII and the second linker between SC FVIII and H)
       can be identical or different.    Figure 4D has a formula of VWF-Linker-HC FVIII-H
       Linker-LC FVIII.       The linkers (the first linker between VWF and HC FVIII and the
       second linker between H and LC FVIII) can be identical or different. Figure 4E has a
       formula of HC FVIII-H-LC FVIII-Linker-first Fc-Linker-VWF-Linker-second Fc. The
       linkers (the first linker between LC FVIII and first Fc, the second linker between first Fc
       and VWF, and the third linker between VWF and second Fc) can be identical or different.

                                              21
       The linkers can be a cleavable linker. For example, the linker between first Fe and VWF
       can be a cleavable linker comprising a cleavage site at the N-terminus and/or the C
       terminus of the linker. The first Fc and the second Fc can be identical or different. Figure
       4F has a formula of HC FVIII-H-LC FVIII-Linker-first Fc-Linker-VWF-Linker-second
       Fc. The linkers (the first linker between LC FVIII and first Fc, the second linker between
       first Fc and VWF, and the third linker between VWF and second Fc) can be identical or
       different. One or more linkers can be a cleavable linker. For example, the linker between
       the first Fc and VWF can be a cleavable linker comprising a cleavage site at the N
       terminus and/or the C-terminus of the linker.      The first Fc and the second Fc can be
       identical or different. Figure 4G has a formula of SC FVIII-Linker-Fc-Linker-VWF-H
       Linker-Fc.    Figure 4H has a formula of Pegylated or Hesylated SC FVIII-Linker-Fc
       Linker-VWF-H-Linker-Fc.       The linkers (the first linker between SC FVIII and first Fc,
       the second linker between first Fc and VWF, and the third linker between H and second
       Fc) can be identical or different. One or more linkers can be a cleavable linker. For
       example, the linker between the first Fc and VWF can be a cleavable linker comprising a
       cleavage site at the N-terminus and/or the C-terminus of the linker. The first Fc and the
       second Fc can be identical or different.
[0041]         Figure 5. Schematic diagrams of FVIII-VWF heterodimer co-transfection system.
       Construct FVIII-155 contains the full-length FVIII sequence (with an alanine residue
       substituting the arginine residues at 1645 and 1648) linked to an Fc region. VWF-031
       contains the D1D2D'D3 fragment (with an alanine residue substituting the Cysteine
       residues at 336 and 379) which is linked to another Fc region with a 48 thrombin
       cleavable linker.    After intracellular processing, construct FVIII-155 produces a full
       length single chain FVIII (SCFVIII) fused to one Fc fragment, construct VWF-031
       produces a 477 amino acids D'D3 fragment linked to another Fc fragment. Two covalent
       bonds can be formed between the Fc fragments that are linked to the SC FVIII or the
       D'D3 fragment, this in turn allows a covalent association of FVIII and D'D3, which is the
       main character of the desired final product.
[0042]         Figure 6 is the non-reducing and reducing SDS PAGE of VWF-009 (D1D2D'D3
       1-276 aa x 6 HIS), which shows VWF-009 exists as a monomer. Unprocessed means
       VVF-009 with the propeptide (the D1D2 domains).

                                             22
[00431         Figure 7 is the non-reducing and reducing SDS PAGE of VWF-002 (D'D3 1-477
       aa x 6 his) or VWF-010 (D1D2D'D3 1-477 aa x 6 his), which shows VWF-002 exists as a
       monomer and VWF-0 10 exists as a dimer.
[0044]         Figure 8 shows thrombin digestion of FVIII-VWF heterodimer shown in Figure
       2(b). Lane 1 shows marker. Lane 2 is rFVIII-Fc without thrombin. Lane 3 is rFVIII-Fc
       with thrombin. Lane 5 is FVIIIFc-VWF. Lane 6 shows FVIIIFc-VWF and thrombin. Al
       indicates Al domain of FVIII, A2 indicates A2 domain of FVIII, and Aa3 LC indicates
       the light chain of FVIII.
[0045]         Figure 9A-B shows the FVIII activity measured by a FVIII chromogenic assay.
       Fig. 9A shows pharmacokinetic profile of rFVIII and rFVIIIFc in HemA mouse. Fig. 9B
       shows PK profile of rFVIII and rFVIIIFc in FVIII/VWF Double knockout (DKO) mouse.
       The Y axis shows FVIII activity in mIU/mL, and the X axis shows time.
[00461         Figure 10A-B shows FVIII protection by the D'D3 fragments as shown by
       mFVIII plasma level (mIU/mL) and VWF expression level (nM/mL) 48 hours post
       plasmid injection.    The VWF fragments used to show FVIII protection are VWF-001
       (276aa, monomer), VWF-009 (276aa, monomer), VWF-002 (477aa, monomer), VWF
       010 (477aa,dimer), VWF-003 (511aa, monomer), VWF-011 (511aa, dimer), VWF-004
       (716aa, monomer), VWF-012 (716aa, dimer), VWF-006, and VWF-008.
[0047]         Figure 11 shows the pharmacokinetic profile of rBDD-FVIII in FVIII-VWF DKO
       mice when co-administered with D'D3 fragments.         Figure 11 A shows FVIII activity
       (mIU/mL) measured by a FVIII chromogenic assay after co-administration of rBDD
       FVIII and VWF-002 or rBDD-FVIII and VWF-0 10 or rBDD-FVIII alone in FVIII/VWF
       DKO mice.       Fig. 11B shows VWF-002 and VWF-010 plasma level (ng/mL) after
       administration.   The X axis represents time in hours.
[0048]         Figure 12 shows pharmacokinetic profile of rFVIIIFc in VWF D'D3 expressing
       mice.   Figure 12A shows the timeline of hydrodynamic injection (HDI) of the D'D3
       domain encoding plasmid DNA (day -5), intravenous dosing of rFVIIIFc (day 0), and PK
       sample collection (dayO - day3). Figure 12B shows post rFVIIIFc infusion plasma FVIII
       activity (mIU/mL) measured by a FVIII chromogenic assay in FVIII/VWF DKO mice
       with HDI of the DlD2D'D3 domains (477aa) (circle) and the DlD2D'D3 domains
       (477aa) with cysteine substitutions (rectangle) in FVIII/VWF DKO mice.        The FVIII
       activity in control mice without HDI of the D'D3 domains is shown as triangle. Fig. 1OC

                                               23
       show the D'D3 plasma level (ng/mL) after HDI administration of the D1D2D'D3 dimer
       or the D1D2D'D3 monomer DNA construct. The X axis represents time in hours.
[0049]         Figure 13 shows D'D3-Fc linker selection by HDI in FVIII/VWF DKO mice.
       Different lengths of the linkers (20aa (FVIII-064), 35aa (FVIII-159), or 48aa (FVIII-160))
       were inserted between the D'D3 domains and the Fc region. The FVIII activity (mIU/ml)
       was measured by a FVIII chromogenic assay after HDI in FVIII/VWF DKO mice.
[0050]         Figure 14 shows HDI of Single Chain FVIIIFc/D'D3 heterodimer in FVIII/VWF
       DKO mice. The FVIII activities of processed (dual chain) rFVIIIFc-D'D3 (pSYN-FVIII
       136) and Single Chain rFVIIIFc-D'D3 (pSYN-FVIII-148) were measured 24 hours and
       48 hours after HDI.
[0051]         Figure   15 shows binding affinity of FVIII-155/VWF-031              heterodimer to
       immobilized hVWF by Octet assay. FVIIIFc, FVIII, and IgG were also used as controls.
       The x-axis shows time in seconds, and the y-axis shows the binding in nanometer (nm).
[0052]         Figure 16 shows FVIII-155/VWF-031 pharmacokinetics in FVIII/VWF deficient
       (FVIII/VWF DKO) mice. The x-axis indicates time in hours, and the y-axis indicates
       FVIII recovery v. input in percent.
[00531         Figure 17: Schematic diagrams of examples of VWF fragment constructs, in
       which VWF is D1D2D'D3 fragment of VWF; the Linker is a variable length linker
       containing a cleavage site, e.g., a thrombin cleavage site; H is a heterologous moiety, e.g.,
       an immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof, a moiety for conjugating
       polyethylene glycol (PEG) and/or PEG, an albumin or albumin fragment, an albumin
       binding moiety, a HAP sequence, a moiety for polysialylation and/or polysialic acid, a
       moiety for hydroxyethyl starch (HES) and/or HES, or a PAS sequence, etc.; and Fc is an
       Fc region of an immunoglobulin. Figure 17A has a formula of D1D2-D'partial D3-H
       Partial D3-Linker-Fc.    Figure 17B has a formula of D1D2-Partial D'-H- partial D'D3
       Linker-Fc. Figure 17C has a formula of D1D2-Pegylated or Hesylated D'D3- Linker-Fc.
       The linker can be optionally cleaved.
[0054]         Figure 18: A) shows FVIIIFc loses FVIII activity in both HemA (diamond) and
       DKO (square) plasma over time. FVIII activity is measured by chromogenic assay. X
       axis shows time in hours, and y-axis shows relative activity. B) shows that the loss in
       FVIII activity is due to the dissociation or degradation of the heavy chain (HC). The left
       panel shows an immuno-precipitation assay using sheep anti-FVIII polyclonal antibody in

                                               24
       Bio-rad 4-15% gel. The gel was reduced and imaged by Bio-rad system. Lane 1 shows
       Bio-rad unstain marker; lane 2 shows FVIIIFc and PBS; lane 3 shows FVIIIFc and DKO
       plasma; and lane 5 shows sheep anti-FVIII polyclonal antibody alone. The right panel
       shows Western analysis of the gel using FVIII anti-heavy chain antibody (GMA012).
       Lane 1 shows Bio-rad unstain marker; lane 2 shows FVIIIFc and PBS; lane 3 shows
       FVIIIFc and DKO plasma; and lane 4 shows sheep anti-FVIII polyclonal antibody alone.
[0055]         Figure 19: shows FVIII activity of wild type FVIIIFc (circle), scFVIIIFc (single
       chain FVIII) (filled triangle), or FVIII:VWF heterodimer (e.g., FV111155NWF31) (empty
       triangle) by chromogenic assay in DKO mouse plasma (left panel) and HemA mouse
       plasma (right panel) as a function of time. Y axis shows relative FVIII activity. Wild
       type FVIIIFc contains dual chain of FVIII (i.e., FVIII heavy chain and FVIII light chain
       held together non-covalently) and thus has three chains, a FVIII heavy chain, a FVIII
       light chain fused to an Fc, and an Fc alone. ScFVIIIFc contains a FVIII single chain and
       thus has two chains, one with a single chain FVIII fused to an Fc and another with an Fc
       alone.   The FVIII:VWF heterodimer (e.g., FV111155NWFO31) contains single chain
       FVIII fused to an Fc and a VWF fragment (D'D3) fused to an Fc.
[00561         Figure 20 shows processing of D1D2 domain from VWF fragment (e.g., VWF
       031(D1D2D'D3Fc)) by PC5 or PACE (Furin) at different concentrations.          The D1D2
       processing is shown on a Bio-rad 4-15% gel at a reduced condition by Bio-rad imager.
       Lane 1 shows VWF031 alone; lane 2 shows PC5 alone; lane 3 shows PACE alone; lane 4
       shows VWF031 and PC5 at 2.5%; lane 5 shows VWF031 and PC5 at 5%; lane 6 shows
       VWF031 and PC5 at 7.5%; lane 7 shows VWF031 and PC5 at 10%; lane 8 shows
       VWF031 and PACE at 2.5%; lane 9 shows VWF031 and PACE at 5 %; lane 10 shows
       VWF031 at 7.5 %; and lane 11 shows VWF031 and PACE at 10%.
[0057]         Figure 21: A) shows that a binding assay of a FVIII:VWF heterodimer (e.g.,
       FVIII-155NWF-031) by ForteBio octet instrument. For the assay, full length VWF was
       captured by using APS sensor. The binding of FVIIIFc and FVIII to the full-length VWF
       is shown at the lower left panel. The lack of binding of FVIIIY1680 (a mutant having no
       affinity for VWF) and FVIII:VWF heterodimer (FV111155NWFO31) is shown at the
       lower right panel. B) shows another binding assay of a FVIII:VWF heterodimer (e.g.,
       FVIII-155NWF-031).          In this assay, the constructs   (VWF031 construct, FVIII-

                                              25
       155/VWFO31, or FVIII) were immobilized on protein G sensor.            The binding of the
       constructs to FVIII was measured.
[0058]         Figure 22 shows binding affinity of VWF D'D3 domains with FVIII molecule
       measured by a surface plasma resonance experiment. The VWF031 construct (100RU)
       was captured by 1000RU anti-human IgG. B-domain deleted FVIII was applied in single
       cycle kinetics mode in 1:1 fit. The total number was 4.
[00591         Figure 23 shows effects of different linker length in the FVIIIFc/VWF
       heterodimer constructs on pharmacokinetics when administered in FVIII/VWF DKO
       mice. Three different linkers (48 aa, 73aa, or 98aa) were inserted between the D'D3 and
       the Fc, i.e., VWF031, VWF035, and VWF036. The FVIII activity normalized to 5 min
       value (%) is shown in Y-axis.
[00601         Figure 24 shows examples of sortase ligation of a VWF fragment with FVIII. A)
       shows two ligation constructs, (1) a VWF fragment fused to a sortase recognition motif
       (e.g., LPXTG) at the C-terminus and (2) FVIII having glycine (n) at the N-terminus.
       After reaction with sortase, the VWF fragment and the sortase recognition motif are
       ligated to the N-terminus of FVIII. B) shows two ligation constructs, (1) FVIII fused to a
       sortase recognition motif at its C-terminus and (2) a VWF fragment having glycine (n) at
       its N-terminus. After reaction with sortase, FVIII and the sortase recognition motif are
       fused to the VWF fragment at the N-terminus of the VWF fragment.            C) shows two
       ligation constructs, (1) a VWF fragment fused to a sortase recognition motif by a variable
       length linker and (2) FVIII fused to glycine (n) at its N-terminus. After reaction with
       sortase, the VWF fused by a linker to the sortase recognition motif is ligated to the N
       terminus of FVIII. D) shows two ligation constructs, (1) FVIII fused by a variable length
       linker to a sortase recognition motif and (2) a VWF fragment fused to glycine (n) at its N
       terminus. After reaction with sortase, FVIII fused by a linker to the sortase recognition
       motif is ligated to the N terminus of VWF fragment. E) shows a ligation construct
       containing a VWF fragment fused by a variable length linker to a sortase recognition
       motif, which is also fused to a protease cleavage site (e.g., Thrombin cleavage site) fused
       by a variable length linker to an Fc.
[0061]         Figure 25 shows a schematic comparison of FVIII55 and FV111198.          FVIII55
       encodes a single chain FVIIIFc protein. FV111198 is a partial B-domain containing single

                                               26
       chain FVIIIFc molecule-226N6.         226 represents the N-terminus 226 amino acid of the
       FVIII B-domain, and N6 represents six N-glycosylation sites in the B-domain.
[0062]         Figure 26 A) shows a stability assay measuring the relativity activity of FVIII55
       and FV111198 in DKO plasma as a function of time. As can be seen in the figure, the
       presence of the partial B-domain in FV111198 increased the stability of single chain
       FVIIIFc in comparison to FVIII155; B) shows a comparison of the half-lives of FVIII198,
       FVIII155, and dual chain (dcFVIIIFc) in DKO mice. As can be seen in the figure, single
       chain FVIII (FVIII155) has a 1.5 fold increase in half life in comparison to dual chain
       FVIII. Single chain FVIII with the 266N6 B-domain (FV111198) had a further 1.5 fold
       increase in half life. The graph shows the FVIII recovery v. the 5 minute value (%) as a
       function of time.
                           DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
       DEFINITIONS
[0063]         It is to be noted that the term "a" or "an" entity refers to one or more of that entity;
       for example, "a nucleotide sequence," is understood to represent one or more nucleotide
       sequences. As such, the terms "a" (or "an"), "one or more," and "at least one" can be used
       interchangeably herein.
[0064]         The term "polynucleotide" or "nucleotide" is intended to encompass a singular
       nucleic acid as well as plural nucleic acids, and refers to an isolated nucleic acid molecule
       or construct, e.g., messenger RNA (mRNA) or plasmid DNA (pDNA).                      In certain
       embodiments, a polynucleotide comprises a conventional phosphodiester bond or a non
       conventional bond (e.g., an amide bond, such as found in peptide nucleic acids (PNA)).
       The term "nucleic acid" refers to any one or more nucleic acid segments, e.g., DNA or
       RNA fragments, present in a polynucleotide. By "isolated" nucleic acid or polynucleotide
       is intended a nucleic acid molecule, DNA or RNA, which has been removed from its
       native environment. For example, a recombinant polynucleotide encoding a Factor VIII
       polypeptide contained in a vector is considered isolated for the purposes of the present
       invention.      Further examples of an isolated polynucleotide           include recombinant
       polynucleotides     maintained    in heterologous    host cells     or purified (partially    or
       substantially) from other polynucleotides in a solution. Isolated RNA molecules include
       in vivo or in vitro RNA transcripts of polynucleotides of the present invention. Isolated

                                               27
       polynucleotides or nucleic acids according to the present invention further include such
       molecules produced synthetically.      In addition, a polynucleotide or a nucleic acid can
       include regulatory elements such as promoters, enhancers, ribosome binding sites, or
       transcription termination signals.
[00651         As used herein, a "coding region" or "coding sequence" is a portion of
       polynucleotide which consists of codons translatable into amino acids. Although a "stop
       codon" (TAG, TGA, or TAA) is typically not translated into an amino acid, it may be
       considered to be part of a coding region, but any flanking sequences, for example
       promoters, ribosome binding sites, transcriptional terminators, introns, and the like, are
       not part of a coding region. The boundaries of a coding region are typically determined
       by a start codon at the 5' terminus, encoding the amino terminus of the resultant
       polypeptide, and a translation stop codon at the 3'terminus, encoding the carboxyl
       terminus of the resulting polypeptide.       Two or more coding regions of the present
       invention can be present in a single polynucleotide construct, e.g., on a single vector, or in
       separate polynucleotide constructs, e.g., on separate (different) vectors. It follows, then,
       that a single vector can contain just a single coding region, or comprise two or more
       coding regions, e.g., a single vector can separately encode a binding domain-A and a
       binding domain-B as described below. In addition, a vector, polynucleotide, or nucleic
       acid of the invention can encode heterologous coding regions, either fused or unfused to a
       nucleic acid encoding a binding domain of the invention. Heterologous coding regions
       include without limitation specialized elements or motifs, such as a secretory signal
       peptide or a heterologous functional domain.
[0066]         Certain proteins secreted by mammalian cells are associated with a secretory
       signal peptide which is cleaved from the mature protein once export of the growing
       protein chain across the rough endoplasmic reticulum has been initiated.            Those of
       ordinary skill in the art are aware that signal peptides are generally fused to the N
       terminus of the polypeptide, and are cleaved from the complete or "full-length"
       polypeptide to produce a secreted or "mature" form of the polypeptide. In certain
       embodiments, a native signal peptide, e.g., an immunoglobulin heavy chain or light chain
       signal peptide is used, or a functional derivative of that sequence that retains the ability to
       direct the secretion of the polypeptide that is operably associated with it. Alternatively, a
       heterologous mammalian signal peptide, e.g., a human tissue plasminogen activator

                                               28
       (TPA) or mouse B-glucuronidase signal peptide, or a functional derivative thereof, can be
       used.
[00671          The term "downstream" refers to a nucleotide sequence that is located 3' to a
       reference nucleotide      sequence.    In certain embodiments, downstream        nucleotide
       sequences relate to sequences that follow the starting point of transcription. For example,
       the translation initiation codon of a gene is located downstream of the start site of
       transcription.
[0068]          The term "upstream" refers to a nucleotide sequence that is located 5' to a
       reference nucleotide sequence. In certain embodiments, upstream nucleotide sequences
       relate to sequences that are located on the 5' side of a coding region or starting point of
       transcription.    For example, most promoters are located upstream of the start site of
       transcription.
[0069]          As used herein, the term "regulatory region" refers to nucleotide sequences
       located upstream (5' non-coding sequences), within, or downstream (3' non-coding
       sequences) of a coding region, and which influence the transcription, RNA processing,
       stability, or translation of the associated coding region. Regulatory regions may include
       promoters, translation leader sequences, introns, polyadenylation recognition sequences,
       RNA processing sites, effector binding sites and stem-loop structures. If a coding region
       is intended for expression in a eukaryotic cell, a polyadenylation signal and transcription
       termination sequence will usually be located 3' to the coding sequence.
[00701          A polynucleotide which encodes a gene product, e.g., a polypeptide, can include a
       promoter and/or other transcription or translation control elements operably associated
       with one or more coding regions. In an operable association a coding region for a gene
       product, e.g., a polypeptide, is associated with one or more regulatory regions in such a
       way as to place expression of the gene product under the influence or control of the
       regulatory region(s).     For example, a coding region and a promoter are "operably
       associated" if induction of promoter function results in the transcription of mRNA
       encoding the gene product encoded by the coding region, and if the nature of the linkage
       between the promoter and the coding region does not interfere with the ability of the
       promoter to direct the expression of the gene product or interfere with the ability of the
       DNA template to be transcribed.           Other transcription control elements, besides a
       promoter, for example enhancers, operators, repressors, and transcription termination

                                                29
       signals, can also be operably associated with a coding region to direct gene product
       expression.
[00711          A variety of transcription control regions are known to those skilled in the art.
       These include, without limitation, transcription control regions which function in
       vertebrate cells, such as, but not limited to, promoter and enhancer segments from
       cytomegaloviruses (the immediate early promoter, in conjunction with intron-A), simian
       virus 40 (the early promoter), and retroviruses (such as Rous sarcoma virus).             Other
       transcription control regions include those derived from vertebrate genes such as actin,
       heat shock protein, bovine growth hormone and rabbit B-globin, as well as other
       sequences capable of controlling gene expression in eukaryotic cells. Additional suitable
       transcription control regions include tissue-specific promoters and enhancers as well as
       lymphokine-inducible       promoters     (e.g.,  promoters   inducible   by    interferons   or
       interleukins).
[0072]          Similarly, a variety of translation control elements are known to those of ordinary
       skill in the art. These include, but are not limited to ribosome binding sites, translation
       initiation and termination codons, and elements derived from picornaviruses (particularly
       an internal ribosome entry site, or IRES, also referred to as a CITE sequence).
[0073]          The term "expression"       as used herein refers to a process by which a
       polynucleotide produces a gene product, for example, an RNA or a polypeptide. It
       includes without limitation transcription of the polynucleotide into messenger RNA
       (mRNA), transfer RNA (tRNA), small hairpin RNA (shRNA), small interfering RNA
       (siRNA) or any other RNA product, and the translation of an mRNA into a polypeptide.
       Expression produces a "gene product." As used herein, a gene product can be either a
       nucleic acid, e.g., a messenger RNA produced by transcription of a gene, or a polypeptide
       which is translated from a transcript.        Gene products described herein further include
       nucleic acids with post transcriptional modifications, e.g., polyadenylation or splicing, or
       polypeptides with post translational modifications, e.g., methylation, glycosylation, the
       addition of lipids, association with other protein subunits, or proteolytic cleavage.
[0074]          A "vector" refers to any vehicle for the cloning of and/or transfer of a nucleic acid
       into a host cell. A vector may be a replicon to which another nucleic acid segment may
       be attached so as to bring about the replication of the attached segment. A "replicon"
       refers to any genetic element (e.g., plasmid, phage, cosmid, chromosome, virus) that

                                               30
       functions as an autonomous unit of replication in vivo, i.e., capable of replication under its
       own control. The term "vector" includes both viral and nonviral vehicles for introducing
       the nucleic acid into a cell in vitro, ex vivo or in vivo. A large number of vectors are
       known and used in the art including, for example, plasmids, modified eukaryotic viruses,
       or modified bacterial viruses. Insertion of a polynucleotide into a suitable vector can be
       accomplished by ligating the appropriate polynucleotide fragments into a chosen vector
       that has complementary cohesive termini.
[00751         Vectors may be engineered to encode selectable markers or reporters that provide
       for the selection or identification of cells that have incorporated the vector. Expression of
       selectable markers or reporters allows identification and/or selection of host cells that
       incorporate and express other coding regions contained on the vector.            Examples of
       selectable marker genes known and used in the art include: genes providing resistance to
       ampicillin, streptomycin, gentamycin, kanamycin, hygromycin, bialaphos herbicide,
       sulfonamide, and the like; and genes that are used as phenotypic markers, i.e.,
       anthocyanin regulatory genes, isopentanyl transferase gene, and the like. Examples of
       reporters known and used in the art include: luciferase (Luc), green fluorescent protein
       (GFP), chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT), -galactosidase (LacZ), -glucuronidase
       (Gus), and the like. Selectable markers may also be considered to be reporters.
[0076]         The term "plasmid" refers to an extra-chromosomal element often carrying a gene
       that is not part of the central metabolism of the cell, and usually in the form of circular
       double-stranded DNA molecules.           Such elements may be autonomously replicating
       sequences, genome integrating sequences, phage or nucleotide sequences, linear, circular,
       or supercoiled, of a single- or double-stranded DNA or RNA, derived from any source, in
       which a number of nucleotide sequences have been joined or recombined into a unique
       construction which is capable of introducing a promoter fragment and DNA sequence for
       a selected gene product along with appropriate 3' untranslated sequence into a cell.
[00771         Eukaryotic viral vectors that can be used include, but are not limited to,
       adenovirus vectors, retrovirus vectors, adeno-associated virus vectors, poxvirus, e.g.,
       vaccinia virus vectors, baculovirus vectors, or herpesvirus vectors.        Non-viral vectors
       include plasmids, liposomes, electrically charged lipids (cytofectins),         DNA-protein
       complexes, and biopolymers.

                                               31
[00781         A "cloning vector" refers to a "replicon," which is a unit length of a nucleic acid
       that replicates sequentially and which comprises an origin of replication, such as a
       plasmid, phage or cosmid, to which another nucleic acid segment may be attached so as
       to bring about the replication of the attached segment.         Certain cloning vectors are
       capable of replication in one cell type, e.g., bacteria and expression in another, e.g.,
       eukaryotic cells. Cloning vectors typically comprise one or more sequences that can be
       used for selection of cells comprising the vector and/or one or more multiple cloning sites
       for insertion of nucleic acid sequences of interest.
[00791         The term "expression vector" refers to a vehicle designed to enable the expression
       of an inserted nucleic acid sequence following insertion into a host cell. The inserted
       nucleic acid sequence is placed in operable association with regulatory regions as
       described above.
[0080]         Vectors are introduced into host cells by methods well known in the art, e.g.,
       transfection, electroporation, microinjection, transduction, cell fusion, DEAE dextran,
       calcium phosphate precipitation, lipofection (lysosome fusion), use of a gene gun, or a
       DNA vector transporter.
[0081]         "Culture," "to culture" and "culturing," as used herein, means to incubate cells
       under in vitro conditions that allow for cell growth or division or to maintain cells in a
       living state. "Cultured cells," as used herein, means cells that are propagated in vitro.
[0082]         As used herein, the term "polypeptide" is intended to encompass a singular
       "polypeptide" as well as plural "polypeptides," and refers to a molecule composed of
       monomers (amino acids) linearly linked by amide bonds (also known as peptide bonds).
       The term "polypeptide" refers to any chain or chains of two or more amino acids, and
       does not refer to a specific length of the product. Thus, peptides, dipeptides, tripeptides,
       oligopeptides, "protein," "amino acid chain," or any other term used to refer to a chain or
       chains of two or more amino acids, are included within the definition of "polypeptide,"
       and the term "polypeptide" can be used instead of, or interchangeably with any of these
       terms. The term "polypeptide" is also intended to refer to the products of post-expression
       modifications of the polypeptide, including without limitation glycosylation, acetylation,
       phosphorylation,    amidation,    derivatization  by known      protecting/blocking   groups,
       proteolytic cleavage, or modification by non-naturally occurring amino acids.              A
       polypeptide can be derived from a natural biological source or produced recombinant

                                               32
       technology, but is not necessarily translated from a designated nucleic acid sequence. It
       can be generated in any manner, including by chemical synthesis.
[0083]         An "isolated" polypeptide or a fragment, variant, or derivative thereof refers to a
       polypeptide that is not in its natural milieu. No particular level of purification is required.
       For example, an isolated polypeptide can simply be removed from its native or natural
       environment. Recombinantly produced polypeptides and proteins expressed in host cells
       are considered isolated for the purpose of the invention, as are native or recombinant
       polypeptides which have been separated, fractionated, or partially or substantially purified
       by any suitable technique.
[0084]         Also included in the present invention are fragments or variants of polypeptides,
       and any combination thereof.        The term "fragment" or "variant" when referring to
       polypeptide binding domains or binding molecules of the present invention include any
       polypeptides which retain at least some of the properties (e.g., FcRn binding affinity for
       an FcRn binding domain or Fc variant, coagulation activity for an FVIII variant, or FVIII
       binding activity for the VWF fragment) of the reference polypeptide.             Fragments of
       polypeptides include proteolytic fragments, as well as deletion fragments, in addition to
       specific antibody fragments discussed elsewhere herein, but do not include the naturally
       occurring full-length polypeptide (or mature polypeptide).          Variants of polypeptide
       binding domains or binding molecules of the present invention include fragments as
       described above, and also polypeptides with altered amino acid sequences due to amino
       acid substitutions, deletions, or insertions. Variants can be naturally or non-naturally
       occurring.     Non-naturally occurring variants can be produced              using art-known
       mutagenesis techniques.        Variant polypeptides can comprise conservative or non
       conservative amino acid substitutions, deletions or additions.
[00851         The term "VWF fragment" or "VWF fragments" used herein means any VWF
       fragments that interact with FVIII and retain at least one or more properties that are
       normally provided to FVIII by full-length VWF, e.g., preventing premature activation to
       FVIIIa, preventing premature proteolysis, preventing association with phospholipid
       membranes that could lead to premature clearance, preventing binding to FVIII clearance
       receptors that can bind naked FVIII but not VWF-bound FVIII, and/or stabilizing the
       FVIII heavy chain and light chain interactions. The term "VWF fragment" as used herein
       does not include full length-or mature VWF protein. In a particular embodiment, the

                                               33
       "VWF fragment" as used herein comprises a D' domain and a D3 domain of the VWF
       protein, but does not include the Al domain, the A2 domain, the A3 domain, the D4
       domain, the BI domain, the B2 domain, the B3 domain, the Cl domain, the C2 domain,
       and the CK domain of the VWF protein.
[00861         The term "half-life limiting factor" or "FVIII half-life limiting factor" as used
       herein indicates a factor that prevents the half-life of a FVIII protein from being longer
       than 1.5 fold or 2 fold compared to wild-type FVIII (e.g., ADVATE* or REFACTO*).
       For example, full length or mature VWF can act as a FVIII half-life limiting factor by
       inducing the FVIII and VWF complex to be cleared from system by one or more VWF
       clearance pathways.      In one example, endogenous VWF is a FVIII half-life limiting
       factor.   In another example, a full-length recombinant VWF molecule non-covalently
       bound to a FVIII protein is a FVIII-half-life limiting factor.
[00871         The term "endogenous VWF" as used herein indicates VWF molecules naturally
       present in plasma.      The endogenous VWF molecule can be multimer, but can be a
       monomer or a dimer.        Endogenous VWF in plasma binds to FVIII and forms a non
       covalent complex with FVIII.
[0088]         A "conservative amino acid substitution" is one in which the amino acid residue is
       replaced with an amino acid residue having a similar side chain. Families of amino acid
       residues having similar side chains have been defined in the art, including basic side
       chains (e.g., lysine, arginine, histidine), acidic side chains (e.g., aspartic acid, glutamic
       acid), uncharged polar side chains (e.g., glycine, asparagine, glutamine, serine, threonine,
       tyrosine, cysteine), nonpolar side chains (e.g., alanine, valine, leucine, isoleucine, proline,
       phenylalanine, methionine, tryptophan), beta-branched side chains (e.g., threonine, valine,
       isoleucine) and aromatic side chains (e.g., tyrosine, phenylalanine, tryptophan, histidine).
       Thus, if an amino acid in a polypeptide is replaced with another amino acid from the
       same side chain family, the substitution is considered to be conservative.          In another
       embodiment, a string of amino acids can be conservatively replaced with a structurally
       similar string that differs in order and/or composition of side chain family members.
[00891         As known in the art, "sequence identity" between two polypeptides is determined
       by comparing the amino acid sequence of one polypeptide to the sequence of a second
       polypeptide. When discussed herein, whether any particular polypeptide is at least about
       50%, 60%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 99%, or 100% identical to another

                                               34
       polypeptide can be determined using methods and computer programs/software known in
       the art such as, but not limited to, the BESTFIT program (Wisconsin Sequence Analysis
       Package, Version 8 for Unix, Genetics Computer Group, University Research Park, 575
       Science Drive, Madison, WI 53711).         BESTFIT uses the local homology algorithm of
       Smith and Waterman, Advances in Applied Mathematics 2:482-489 (1981), to find the
       best segment of homology between two sequences. When using BESTFIT or any other
       sequence alignment program to determine whether a particular sequence is, for example,
       95% identical to a reference sequence according to the present invention, the parameters
       are set, of course, such that the percentage of identity is calculated over the full-length of
       the reference polypeptide sequence and that gaps in homology of up to 5% of the total
       number of amino acids in the reference sequence are allowed.
[0090]          As used herein, an "amino acid corresponding to" or an "equivalent amino acid"
       in a VWF sequence or a FVIII protein sequence is identified by alignment to maximize
       the identity or similarity between a first VWF or FVIII sequence and a second VWF or
       FVIII sequence. The number used to identify an equivalent amino acid in a second VWF
       or FVIII sequence is based on the number used to identify the corresponding amino acid
       in the first VWF or FVIII sequence.
[0091]          A "fusion" or "chimeric" protein comprises a first amino acid sequence linked to a
       second amino acid sequence with which it is not naturally linked in nature. The amino
       acid sequences which normally exist in separate proteins can be brought together in the
       fusion polypeptide, or the amino acid sequences which normally exist in the same protein
       can be placed in a new arrangement in the fusion polypeptide, e.g., fusion of a Factor VIII
       domain of the invention with an immunoglobulin Fc domain. A fusion protein is created,
       for example, by chemical synthesis, or by creating and translating a polynucleotide in
       which the peptide regions are encoded in the desired relationship. A chimeric protein can
       further comprises a second amino acid sequence associated with the first amino acid
       sequence by a covalent, non-peptide bond or a non-covalent bond.
[0092]          As used herein, the term "half-life" refers to a biological half-life of a particular
       polypeptide in vivo.     Half-life may be represented by the time required for half the
       quantity administered to a subject to be cleared from the circulation and/or other tissues in
       the animal. When a clearance curve of a given polypeptide is constructed as a function of
       time, the curve is usually biphasic with a rapid a-phase and longer P-phase. The a-phase

                                               35
       typically represents an equilibration of the administered Fe polypeptide between the intra
       and extra-vascular space and is, in part, determined by the size of the polypeptide. The 0
       phase typically represents the catabolism of the polypeptide in the intravascular space. In
       some embodiments, FVIII and chimeric proteins comprising FVIII are monophasic, and
       thus do not have an alpha phase, but just the single beta phase. Therefore, in certain
       embodiments, the term half-life as used herein refers to the half-life of the polypeptide in
       the -phase. The typical    P phase half-life of a human antibody in humans is 21 days.
[0093]         The term "heterologous" as applied to a polynucleotide or a polypeptide, means
       that the polynucleotide or polypeptide is derived from a distinct entity from that of the
       entity to which it is being compared. Therefore, a heterologous polypeptide linked to a
       VWF fragment means a polypeptide chain that is linked to a VWF fragment and is not a
       naturally occurring part of the VWF fragment.                 For instance, a heterologous
       polynucleotide or antigen can be derived from a different species, different cell type of an
       individual, or the same or different type of cell of distinct individuals.
[0094]         The term "linked" as used herein refers to a first amino acid sequence or
       nucleotide sequence covalently or non-covalently joined to a second amino acid sequence
       or nucleotide sequence, respectively. The term "covalently linked" or "covalent linkage"
       refers to a covalent bond, e.g., a disulfide bond, a peptide bond, or one or more amino
       acids, e.g., a linker, between the two moieties that are linked together. The first amino
       acid or nucleotide sequence can be directly joined or juxtaposed to the second amino acid
       or nucleotide sequence or alternatively an intervening sequence can covalently join the
       first sequence to the second sequence. The term "linked" means not only a fusion of a
       first amino acid sequence to a second amino acid sequence at the C-terminus or the N
       terminus, but also includes insertion of the whole first amino acid sequence (or the second
       amino acid sequence) into any two amino acids in the second amino acid sequence (or the
       first amino acid sequence, respectively).        In one embodiment, the first amino acid
       sequence can be joined to a second amino acid sequence by a peptide bond or a linker.
       The first nucleotide sequence can be joined to a second nucleotide sequence by a
       phosphodiester bond or a linker.       The linker can be a peptide or a polypeptide (for
       polypeptide chains) or a nucleotide or a nucleotide chain (for nucleotide chains) or any
       chemical moiety (for both polypeptide and polynucleotide chains). The covalent linkage
       is sometimes indicated as (-) or hyphen.

                                               36
[00951         As used herein the term "associated with" refers to a covalent or non-covalent
       bond formed between a first amino acid chain and a second amino acid chain. In one
       embodiment, the term "associated with" means a covalent, non-peptide bond or a non
       covalent bond. In some embodiments this association is indicated by a colon, i.e., (:). In
       another embodiment, it means a covalent bond except a peptide bond. In other
       embodiments, the term "covalently associated" as used herein means an association
       between two moieties by a covalent bond, e.g., a disulfide bond, a peptide bond, or one or
       more amino acids (e.g., a linker). For example, the amino acid cysteine comprises a thiol
       group that can form a disulfide bond or bridge with a thiol group on a second cysteine
       residue.    In most naturally occurring IgG molecules, the CHI and CL regions are
       associated by a disulfide bond and the two heavy chains are associated by two disulfide
       bonds at positions corresponding to 239 and 242 using the Kabat numbering system
       (position 226 or 229, EU numbering system). Examples of covalent bonds include, but
       are not limited to, a peptide bond, a metal bond, a hydrogen bond, a disulfide bond, a
       sigma bond, a pi bond, a delta bond, a glycosidic bond, an agnostic bond, a bent bond, a
       dipolar bond, a Pi backbond, a double bond, a triple bond, a quadruple bond, a quintuple
       bond, a sextuple bond, conjugation, hyperconjugation,           aromaticity, hapticity, or
       antibonding. Non-limiting examples of non-covalent bond include an ionic bond (e.g.,
       cation-pi bond or salt bond), a metal bond, an hydrogen bond (e.g., dihydrogen bond,
       dihydrogen complex, low-barrier hydrogen bond, or symmetric hydrogen bond), van der
       Walls force, London dispersion force, a mechanical bond, a halogen bond, aurophilicity,
       intercalation, stacking, entropic force, or chemical polarity.
[0096]         The term "monomer-dimer hybrid" used herein refers to a chimeric protein
       comprising a first polypeptide chain and a second polypeptide chain, which are associated
       with each other by a disulfide bond, wherein the first chain comprises a clotting factor,
       e.g., Factor VIII, and an Fc region and the second chain comprises, consists essentially of,
       or consists of an Fc region without the clotting factor.       The monomer-dimer hybrid
       construct thus is a hybrid comprising a monomer aspect having only one clotting factor
       and a dimer aspect having two Fc regions.
[00971         As used herein, the term "cleavage site" or "enzymatic cleavage site" refers to a
       site recognized by an enzyme. Certain enzymatic cleavage sites comprise an intracellular
       processing site. In one embodiment, a polypeptide has an enzymatic cleavage site cleaved

                                                 37
       by an enzyme that is activated during the clotting cascade, such that cleavage of such sites
       occurs at the site of clot formation. Exemplary such sites include e.g., those recognized
       by thrombin, Factor XIa or Factor Xa.             Exemplary FXIa cleavage sites include, e.g,
       TQSFNDFTR (SEQ ID NO: 47) and SVSQTSKLTR (SEQ ID NO: 48).                                 Exemplary
       thrombin cleavage sites include, e.g, DFLAEGGGVR (SEQ ID NO: 49), TTKIKPR
       (SEQ ID NO: 50), LVPRG (SEQ ID NO: 55)                  and ALRPR (amino acids 1 to 5 of SEQ
       ID NO: 51). Other enzymatic cleavage sites are known in the art.
[0098]          As used herein, the term "processing site" or "intracellular processing site" refers to
       a type of enzymatic cleavage site in a polypeptide which is the target for enzymes that
       function after translation of the polypeptide. In one embodiment, such enzymes function
       during transport from the Golgi lumen to the trans-Golgi compartment.                   Intracellular
       processing enzymes cleave polypeptides prior to secretion of the protein from the cell.
       Examples of such processing sites include, e.g., those targeted by the PACE/furin (where
       PACE is an acronym for Paired basic Amino acid Cleaving Enzyme) family of
       endopeptidases. These enzymes are localized to the Golgi membrane and cleave proteins
       on the carboxy terminal side of the sequence motif Arg-[any residue]-(Lys or Arg)-Arg.
       As used herein the "furin" family of enzymes includes, e.g., PCSK1 (also known as
       PC1/Pc3), PCSK2 (also known as PC2), PCSK3 (also known as furin or PACE), PCSK4
       (also known as PC4), PCSK5 (also known as PC5 or PC6), PCSK6 (also known as PACE4),
       or PCSK7 (also known as PC7/LPC, PC8, or SPC7). Other processing sites are known in
       the art.
[0099] The term "Furin" refers to the enzymes corresponding to EC No. 3.4.21.75. Furin is subtilisin
       like  proprotein    convertase,  which     is   also   known     as   PACE     (Paired   basic Amino
       acid Cleaving Enzyme). Furin deletes sections of inactive precursor proteins to convert them into
       biologically active proteins. During its intracellular transport, pro-peptide is cleaved from mature
       VWF molecule by a Furin enzyme in the Golgi.
[0100]          In constructs that include more than one processing or cleavage site, it will be
       understood that such sites may be the same or different.
[0101]          Hemostatic disorder, as used herein, means a genetically inherited or acquired
       condition characterized by a tendency to hemorrhage, either spontaneously or as a result
       of trauma, due to an impaired ability or inability to form a fibrin clot. Examples of such
       disorders include the hemophilias. The three main forms are hemophilia A (factor VIII
       deficiency), hemophilia B (factor IX deficiency or "Christmas disease") and hemophilia C

                                                38
       (factor XI deficiency, mild bleeding tendency).          Other hemostatic disorders include,
       e.g.,Von Willebrand disease, Factor XI deficiency (PTA deficiency), Factor XII
       deficiency, deficiencies or structural abnormalities in fibrinogen, prothrombin, Factor V,
       Factor VII, Factor X or factor XIII, Bemard-Soulier syndrome, which is a defect or
       deficiency in GPIb. GPIb, the receptor for VWF, can be defective and lead to lack of
       primary clot formation (primary hemostasis) and increased bleeding tendency), and
       thrombasthenia of Glanzman and Naegeli (Glanzmann thrombasthenia). In liver failure
       (acute and chronic forms), there is insufficient production of coagulation factors by the
       liver; this may increase bleeding risk.
[0102]          The chimeric molecules of the invention can be used prophylactically. As used
       herein the term "prophylactic treatment" refers to the administration of a molecule prior to
       a bleeding episode. In one embodiment, the subject in need of a general hemostatic agent
       is undergoing, or is about to undergo, surgery. The chimeric protein of the invention can
       be administered prior to or after surgery as a prophylactic. The chimeric protein of the
       invention can be administered during or after surgery to control an acute bleeding
       episode. The surgery can include, but is not limited to, liver transplantation, liver
       resection, dental procedures, or stem cell transplantation.
[0103]          The chimeric protein of the invention is also used for on-demand (also referred to
       as "episodic") treatment. The term "on-demand treatment" or "episodic treatment" refers
       to the administration of a chimeric molecule in response to symptoms of a bleeding
       episode or before an activity that may cause bleeding. In one aspect, the on-demand
       (episodic) treatment can be given to a subject when bleeding starts, such as after an
       injury, or when bleeding is expected, such as before surgery. In another aspect, the on
       demand treatment can be given prior to activities that increase the risk of bleeding, such
       as contact sports.
[0104]          As used herein the term "acute bleeding" refers to a bleeding episode regardless of
       the underlying cause. For example, a subject may have trauma, uremia, a hereditary
       bleeding disorder (e.g., factor VII deficiency) a platelet disorder, or resistance owing to
       the development of antibodies to clotting factors.
[01051          Treat, treatment, treating, as used herein refers to, e.g., the reduction in severity of
       a disease or condition; the reduction in the duration of a disease course; the amelioration
       of one or more symptoms associated with a disease or condition; the provision of

                                              39
       beneficial effects to a subject with a disease or condition, without necessarily curing the
       disease or condition, or the prophylaxis of one or more symptoms associated with a
       disease or condition. In one embodiment, the term "treating" or "treatment" means
       maintaining a FVIII trough level at least about 1 IU/dL, 2 IU/dL, 3 IU/dL, 4 IU/dL, 5
       IU/dL, 6 IU/dL, 7 IU/dL, 8 IU/dL, 9 IU/dL, 10 IU/dL, 11 IU/dL, 12 IU/dL, 13 IU/dL, 14
       IU/dL, 15 IU/dL, 16 IU/dL, 17 IU/dL, 18 IU/dL, 19 IU/dL, or 20 IU/dL in a subject by
       administering a chimeric protein or a VWF fragment of the invention.              In another
       embodiment, treating or treatment means maintaining a FVIII trough level between about
       1 and about 20 IU/dL, about 2 and about 20 IU/dL, about 3 and about 20 IU/dL, about 4
       and about 20 IU/dL, about 5 and about 20 IU/dL, about 6 and about 20 IU/dL, about 7
       and about 20 IU/dL, about 8 and about 20 IU/dL, about 9 and about 20 IU/dL, or about 10
       and about 20 IU/dL. Treatment or treating of a disease or condition can also include
       maintaining FVIII activity in a subject at a level comparable to at least about 1%, 2%,
       3%, 4%, 5%, 6%, 7%, 8%, 9%, 10%, 11%, 12%, 13%, 14%, 15%, 16%, 17%, 18%, 19%,
       or 20% of the FVIII activity in a non-hemophiliac subject. The minimum trough level
       required for treatment can be measured by one or more known methods and can be
       adjusted (increased or decreased) for each person.
       Chimeric proteins
[0106]         The present invention is directed to extending the half-life of a Factor VIII protein
       by preventing or inhibiting a FVIII half-life limiting factor (e.g. endogenous VWF) in
       vivo from associating with the FVIII protein. Endogenous VWF associates with about
       95% to about 98% of FVIII in non-covalent complexes. The endogenous VWFs bound to
       a FVIII protein are known to protect FVIII in various ways. For example, full length
       VWF (as a multimer having about 250 kDa) can protect FVIII from protease cleavage and
       FVIII activation, stabilize the FVIII heavy chain and/or light chain, and prevent clearance
       of FVIII by scavenger receptors. However, at the same time, endogenous VWF limits the
       FVIII half-life by preventing pinocytosis and by clearing FVIII-VWF complex from the
       system through the VWF clearance pathway. It is believed, as shown in the examples,
       that endogenous VWF is the half-life limiting factor that prevents the half-life of a FVIII
       protein fused to a half-life extender from being longer than about two-fold of wild-type
       FVIII.    Therefore, the present invention prevents or inhibits interaction between
       endogenous VWF and a FVIII protein using an adjunct moiety, thereby preventing the

                                             40
       FVIII protein from being cleared through the VWF clearance pathway and/or inducing
       pinocytosis. In one embodiment, the adjunct moiety is capable of preventing or inhibiting
       binding of the FVIII protein with endogenous VWF and has at least one VWF-like FVIII
       protecting property. In addition, the adjunct moiety reduces clearance of FVIII from the
       system by preventing or inhibiting interaction with endogenous VWF.           The adjunct
       moieties of the present invention bind to or are associated with (e.g., via non-covalent
       bonding) a FVIII protein and/or physically or chemically block the VWF binding site on
       the FVIII protein. The FVIII protein associated with the adjunct moiety is thus cleared
       from the circulation more slowly by one or more VWF clearance receptors, as compared
       to wild type FVIII or FVIII not associated with an adjunct moiety.
[01071         Examples of the adjunct moieties of the present invention include, e.g.,
       polypeptides or chemical or physical modifications, additions, deletions, or variations of
       the FVIII protein. The adjunct moiety useful in the present invention can comprise a
       polypeptide, a non-polypeptide      moiety, or both.     Non-limiting examples of the
       polypeptide useful as an adjunct moiety include, e.g., a VWF fragment described herein,
       an immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof, transferrin or a fragment thereof,
       albumin or a fragment thereof, an albumin binding moiety, a HAP sequence, a PAS
       sequence, or any combinations thereof. Non-limiting examples of the non-polypeptide
       moiety includes polyethylene glycol (PEG), polysialic acid, hydroxyethyl starch (HES), a
       derivative thereof, or any combination thereof. Other such moieties useful in present
       invention are known in the art.
[0108]         In one embodiment, the adjunct moiety is associated (or linked) with the FVIII
       protein by a covalent or a non-covalent bond. In some instances, however, the physical
       blockage or chemical association (e.g., non-covalent bonding) between the adjunct
       moiety and the FVIII protein may not be strong enough to provide a stable complex
       comprising the FVIII protein and the adjunct moiety in the presence of endogenous VWF.
       For example, a VWF fragment forming a non-covalent bond with a FVIII protein without
       any other connections may readily be dissociated in vivo from the FVIII protein in the
       presence of endogenous VWF, replacing the VWF fragment (e.g., recombinant VWF, i.e.,
       rVWF) with endogenous VWF. Therefore, the FVIII protein non-covalently bound to
       endogenous VWF would undergo the VWF clearance pathway and be cleared from the
       system. In order to prevent the dissociation of the adjunct moiety with the FVIII protein,

                                               41
       in some embodiments, the linkage between the FVIII protein and the adjunct moiety is a
       covalent bond, e.g., a peptide bond, one or more amino acids, or a disulfide bond. In
       certain embodiments, the association (i.e., linkage) between the adjunct moiety and the
       FVIII protein is a peptide bond or a linker between the FVIII protein and the adjunct
       moiety ("FVIII/AM linker"). Non-limiting examples of the linker is described elsewhere
       herein. In some embodiments, the adjunct moiety is a polypeptide comprising, consisting
       essentially of, or consisting of at least about 10, 100, 200, 300, 400, 500, 600, 700, 800,
       900, 1000, 1100, 1200, 1300, 1400, 1500, 1600, 1700, 1800, 1900, 2000, 2500, 3000, or
       4000 amino acids. In other embodiments, the adjunct moiety is a polypeptide comprising,
       consisting essentially of, or consisting of about 100 to about 200 amino acids, about 200
       to about 300 amino acids, about 300 to about 400 amino acids, about 400 to about 500
       amino acids, about 500 to about 600 amino acids, about 600 to about 700 amino acids,
       about 700 to about 800 amino acids, about 800 to about 900 amino acids, or about 900 to
       about 1000 amino acids. In some embodiments, the adjunct moiety covalently associated
       with the FVIII protein is a VWF fragment described elsewhere herein.
[0109]         In certain embodiments, the adjunct moiety chemically (e.g., non-covalently)
       binds to or physically blocks one or more VWF binding sites on a FVIII protein. The
       VWF binding site on a FVIII protein is located within the A3 domain or the C2 domain of
       the FVIII protein. In still other embodiments, the VWF binding site on a FVIII protein is
       located within the A3 domain and C2 domain. For example, the VWF binding site on a
       FVIII protein can correspond to amino acids 1669 to 1689 and/or 2303 to 2332 of SEQ
       ID NO: 16 [full-length mature FVIII].
[0110]         In other embodiments, a chimeric protein of the invention comprises a FVIII
       protein linked to an adjunct moiety, wherein the adjunct moiety is a VWF molecule, e.g. a
       VWF fragment comprising a D' domain and a D3 domain, but not containing the VWF
       clearance receptor binding site, and shields or protects the VWF binding site on the FVIII
       protein, thereby inhibiting or preventing interaction of the FVIII protein with endogenous
       VWF.     In certain embodiments, the adjunct moiety is a VWF fragment.           The VWF
       fragment useful for the present invention contains the D' domain and the D3 domain, still
       providing one or more advantages of VWF-like property to the FVIII protein, but the
       VWF fragment does not undergo the VWF clearance pathway. The FVIII protein and the
       adjunct moiety can be covalently associated by a linker (e.g., FVIII/AM linker). In one

                                              42
       embodiment, the linker can be a cleavable linker. Non-limiting examples of the linkers
       are disclosed elsewhere herein.
[0111]         In still other embodiments, a chimeric protein of the invention comprises a FVIII
       protein and an immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof (i.e., an adjunct
       moiety), wherein the immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof shields or
       protects the VWF binding site on the FVIII protein, thereby inhibiting or preventing
       interaction of the FVIII protein with endogenous VWF. In yet other embodiments, the
       immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof is an Fc region.
[0112]         In one aspect, the present invention is directed to a chimeric or fusion protein or
       hybrid comprising one or more of the VWF fragments disclosed herein and uses of the
       same. The chimeric or fusion protein can be fused or linked to one or more heterologous
       moiety (sometimes indicated herein as H or HI). In one embodiment, the heterologous
       moiety (HI) is a heterologous peptide or a heterologous polypeptide that would not
       naturally occur with and/or is linked to the VWF fragment. In another embodiment, the
       heterologous moiety (HI) is a non-polypeptide moiety, e.g., chemical modification or a
       combination of a peptide or polypeptide and a non-polypeptide moiety.             In some
       embodiments, the VWF fragments are linked or connected to the heterologous moiety
       (HI) by a linker (also referred to herein as "VWF linker"). In one embodiment, the VWF
       linker is a cleavable linker. Non-limiting examples of the linker between the VWF
       fragment and the heterologous moiety (HI) are disclosed elsewhere herein.
[01131         In one embodiment, the heterologous moiety (HI) useful in the invention
       improves one or more pharmacokinetic properties of the VWF fragments without
       significantly affecting the VWF fragments' biological activity or function (e.g., its
       binding to or association with a FVIII protein). In another embodiment, the heterologous
       moiety (HI) linked to the VWF fragment can extend the half-life of the VWF fragments.
       Non-limiting     examples   of the heterologous      polypeptide   moiety   comprises an
       immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof, albumin or a fragment thereof, an
       albumin binding moiety, a PAS sequence, a HAP sequence, transferrin or a fragment
       thereof, or two or more combinations thereof. Non-limiting examples of the heterologous
       non-polypeptide moiety include polyethylene glycol (PEG), polysialic acid, hydroxyethyl
       starch (HES), a derivative thereof, or any combinations thereof.

                                             43
[01141          In some embodiments, a heterologous moiety (HI) can be used to connect the
       VWF fragment and the FVIII protein by a covalent bond. Examples of the heterologous
       moiety that can provide the covalently linkage include, but are not limited to, an
       immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof comprising a hinge region, e.g., an
       Fc region or an FcRn binding partner. In a specific example, the FVIII protein is linked
       to a first Fc region, and the VWF fragment is linked to a second Fc region, wherein the
       first Fc region and the second Fc region form one or more disulfide bond.
[01151          In some embodiments, the heterologous moiety (sometimes indicated herein by
       "H" or "HI") is an immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof. Non-limiting
       examples of the immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof can be selected
       from the group consisting of a CHI domain, a CH2 domain, a CH3 domain, a CH4
       domain, a hinge domain, and two or more combinations thereof. In one embodiment, the
       immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof comprises at least one CHI domain,
       at least one CH2 domain, at least one CH3 domain, at least one CH4 domain, or the
       functional fragments thereof.     In another embodiment, the immunoglobulin constant
       region or a portion thereof comprises at least one hinge domain or a portion thereof and at
       least one CH2 domain or a portion thereof (e.g., in the hinge-CH2 orientation). In other
       embodiments, the immunoglobulin constant domain or a portion thereof comprises at
       least one CH2 domain or a portion thereof and at least one CH3 domain or a portion
       thereof (e.g., in the CH2-CH3 orientation.) Examples of the combination include, but are
       not limited to, a CH2 domain, a CH3 domain, and a hinge domain, which are also known
       as an Fc region (or Fc domain), e.g., a first Fc region.      In other embodiments, the
       heterologous moiety (HI) is linked to the VWF fragment by a linker.              In certain
       embodiments, the heterologous moiety (HI) is an FcRn binding partner as described
       elsewhere herein. In other embodiments, the heterologous moiety (HI) is a hinge region.
[0116]          In certain embodiments, the chimeric protein further comprises a second (or
       additional) heterologous moiety (sometimes indicated herein by "H2"). It is noted that
       the first heterologous moiety (HI) and the second heterologous moiety (H2) can be used
       interchangeably and can be the same or different. The second heterologous moiety (H2)
       can be linked to the FVIII protein or elsewhere in the chimeric protein by a peptide bond,
       one or more amino acids, or by a linker (e.g., FVIII linker if linked to FVIII).      Such
       constructs can sometimes be referred to as FVIII/VWF heterodimer. In one embodiment,

                                              44
       the heterologous moiety (H2) comprises          a heterologous polypeptide. In another
       embodiment, the heterologous moiety (H2) comprises a non-polypeptide moiety. In other
       embodiments, the heterologous moiety (H2) comprises a combination of a heterologous
       moiety and a non-polypeptide moiety. The second heterologous moiety (H2) can be a
       half-life extender. Non-limiting examples of the second heterologous polypeptide moiety
       (H2) include an immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof, albumin or a
       fragment thereof, an albumin binding moiety, a PAS sequence, a HAP sequence,
       transferrin or a fragment thereof, or two or more combinations thereof. Non-limiting
       examples of the heterologous non-polypeptide moiety include polyethylene glycol (PEG),
       polysialic acid, hydroxyethyl starch (HES), a derivative thereof, or any combinations
       thereof.    In certain embodiments, the first heterologous moiety (HI) and the second
       heterologous moiety are the same or different. Either or both of the first heterologous
       moiety (HI) and the second heterologous moiety (H2) can confer half-life extension to
       the FVIII protein in a chimeric protein, provide a connection stronger than non-covalent
       association, i.e., by one or more covalent bonds between the FVIII protein and the VWF
       fragment in a chimeric protein, or both. Once the VWF fragment fused or linked to the
       first heterologous moiety (HI) removes the half-life ceiling by preventing or inhibiting
       interaction between the FVIII protein and the endogenous VWF protein, the FVIII protein
       fused to the heterologous moieties can reach to its full potential and can have a half-life of
       longer than two-fold compared to wild type FVIII.
[01171          In certain embodiments, the first heterologous moiety (e.g., a first Fc region)
       linked to the VWF fragment and the second heterologous moiety (e.g., a second Fc
       region) linked to the FVIII protein are associated with each other such that the association
       prevents replacement of the VWF fragment by endogenous VWF in vivo.                   In one
       embodiment, the second heterologous moiety is a second Fc region, wherein the second
       Fc region is linked to or associated with the first heterologous moiety, e.g., the first Fc
       region, by a covalent bond, e.g., disulfide bond, a peptide bond, or a linker (one or more
       amino acids). For example, the second heterologous moiety (e.g., the second Fc region)
       linked to the FVIII protein at one end can be further linked to the first heterologous
       moiety (e.g., the first Fc region) linked to the VWF fragment by a linker (e.g., scFc
       linker) or associated with the first heterologous moiety by a covalent or non-covalent
       bond.     In another embodiment, the second heterologous moiety (e.g., the second Fc

                                              45
       region) is linked to the VWF fragment that is already linked to first heterologous moiety.
       In some embodiments, the chimeric protein comprises a first polypeptide chain
       comprising a VWF fragment and a first heterologous moiety and a second polypeptide
       chain comprising a FVIII protein and a second heterologous moiety, wherein the first
       polypeptide chain and the second polypeptide chain are associated, wherein the
       association between the first polypeptide chain comprising the first heterologous moiety
       and the second polypeptide chain comprising the second heterologous moiety is a
       covalent bond, thus allowing the VWF fragment and the FVIII protein maintain its
       interaction with each other. At the same time, endogenous VWF, which can form a non
       covalent bond with the FVIII protein cannot replace the covalently linked polypeptide
       chain comprising the VWF fragment.
[0118]         The linker between the first heterologous moiety (HI) and the VWF fragment
       (e.g., VWF linker) can be a cleavable linker, e.g., a thrombin cleavable linker.       The
       cleavable linkers can be cleaved by a protease selected from the group consisting of factor
       XIa, factor XIIa, kallikrein, factor VIIa, factor IXa, factor Xa, factor Ila (thrombin),
       Elastase-2, Granzyme-B, TEV, Enterokinase, Protease 3C, Sortase A, MMP-12, MMP
       13, MMP-17, MMP-20, and any combinations thereof. These cleavable linkers allow the
       VWF fragment to be cleaved and dissociated from the FVIII protein upon activation of
       the clotting cascade, resulting in a FVIII protein with full activity potential.
[0119]         In other embodiments, the chimeric protein is produced as a single polypeptide
       chain comprising a VWF fragment, a cleavable linker, a first heterologous moiety (HI), a
       processable linker, a FVIII protein, and a second heterologous moiety (H2) in any order.
       After synthesis, the processable linker can be cleaved by an intracellular protease enzyme
       before secretion, thus making two polypeptide chains as described above. In the single
       chain construct before secretion, the second heterologous moiety (e.g., the second Fc
       region) can be linked to the VWF fragment by a processable linker. In certain
       embodiments, one or more linkers can comprise one or more cleavage sites.
[0120]         In some embodiments, the chimeric protein of the invention further comprises a
       third heterologous moiety (sometimes indicated herein by "H3"). The third heterologous
       moiety (H3) can be a half-life extender. The heterologous moiety (H3) can comprise a
       heterologous polypeptide, a non-polypeptide moiety, or a combination of both. Non
       limiting examples of the third heterologous moiety (H3) include an immunoglobulin

                                              46
       constant region or a portion thereof, albumin or a fragment thereof, an albumin binding
       moiety, a PAS sequence, a HAP sequence, transferrin or a fragment thereof, any
       derivatives or variants thereof, or two or more combinations thereof.          Non-limiting
       examples of the non-polypeptide moiety include polyethylene glycol (PEG), polysialic
       acid, hydroxyethyl starch (HES), a derivative thereof, or any combinations thereof. The
       first heterologous moiety (HI) linked to the VWF fragment, the second heterologous
       moiety (H2) linked to the FVIII protein, and the third heterologous moiety (H3) can be
       the same or different. In one embodiment, the first heterologous moiety (HI) is identical
       to the second heterologous moiety (H2), but is different from the third heterologous
       moiety (H3).     In another embodiment, the third heterologous moiety (H3) is fused or
       linked to a FVIII protein or a VWF fragment of the chimeric protein.              In some
       embodiments, the third heterologous moiety is inserted within one or more domains of the
       FVIII protein or between two domains of the FVIII protein.
[0121]         In one embodiment, a chimeric protein comprises a first polypeptide chain and a
       second polypeptide chain, wherein the first chain comprises a FVIII protein linked to a
       first heterologous moiety (HI), e.g., a first Fc region, by an optional linker (e.g., FVIII
       linker) and the second chain comprises a VWF fragment linked to a second heterologous
       moiety (H2), e.g., a second Fc region, by an optional linker (e.g., VWF linker).        The
       FVIII protein can further comprise a third heterologous moiety (H3), e.g., any half-life
       extending moiety, e.g., albumin, or a PAS sequence, between FVIII heavy chain and
       FVIII light chain (i.e., amino acid residue 1648 of SEQ ID NO: 16), thus being a single
       chain FVIII protein. Alternatively, the FVIII protein can be a dual chain protein, i.e., the
       FVIII heavy chain and the FVIII light chain associated with each other by a covalent or
       non-covalent bond (e.g., a metal bond), wherein the heavy chain is further linked to a
       third heterologous moiety (H3), e.g., a non-structural half-life extending polypeptide,
       albumin or a fragment thereof or a PAS sequence. In another embodiment, a chimeric
       protein comprises a first polypeptide chain and a second polypeptide chain, wherein the
       first chain comprises a FVIII protein linked to a first heterologous moiety (HI), e.g., a
       first Fc region, by an optional linker (e.g, FVIII linker) and the second chain comprises a
       VWF fragment linked to a third heterologous moiety (H3), e.g., a non-structural half-life
       extending polypeptide, albumin or a PAS sequence, which is linked to a second
       heterologous moiety (H2), e.g., a second Fc region, by an optional linker.         In some

                                             47
       embodiments, the third heterologous moiety (H3) (e.g., a half-life extending polypeptide)
       can be linked to the C-terminus or N-terminus of the FVIII protein or inserted between
       two domains of the FVIII protein or between two amino acids in a domain of the FVIII
       protein.
[0122]         In other embodiments, the chimeric protein of the invention further comprises a
       fourth heterologous moiety (sometimes indicated herein by "H4") and/or a fifth
       heterologous moiety (sometimes indicated herein by "H5").            The fourth or fifth
       heterologous moiety can also be a half-life extender.    The fourth heterologous moiety
       and/or the fifth heterologous moiety can be the same or different from the third
       heterologous moiety. The heterologous moiety can comprise a heterologous polypeptide,
       a non-polypeptide moiety, or a combination of both. Non-limiting examples of the fourth
       or fifth heterologous moiety include an immunoglobulin constant region or a portion
       thereof, albumin or a fragment thereof, an albumin binding moiety, a PAS sequence, a
       HAP sequence, transferrin or a fragment thereof, any derivatives or variants thereof, or
       two or more combinations thereof. Non-limiting examples of the non-polypeptide moiety
       include polyethylene glycol (PEG), polysialic acid, hydroxyethyl starch (HES), a
       derivative thereof, or any combinations thereof.      The first heterologous moiety, the
       second heterologous moiety, the third heterologous moiety, the fourth heterologous
       moiety, and the fifth heterologous moiety can be the same or different.          In some
       embodiments, the fourth heterologous moiety (e.g., a half-life extending polypeptide) can
       be linked to the C-terminus or N-terminus of the FVIII protein or inserted between two
       domains of the FVIII protein or between two amino acids in a domain of the FVIII
       protein. In other embodiments, the fifth heterologous moiety (e.g., a half-life extending
       polypeptide) can also be linked to the C-terminus or N-terminus of the FVIII protein or
       inserted between two domains of the FVIII protein or between two amino acids in a
       domain of the FVIII protein.
[01231         In certain embodiments, the chimeric protein comprises a FVIII protein, a VWF
       fragment, a first heterologous moiety, a second heterologous moiety, a third heterologous
       moiety, a fourth heterologous moiety, and a fifth heterologous moiety, wherein the first
       heterologous moiety and the second heterologous moiety forms a bond (e.g., a covalent
       bond) between the chain comprising the FVIII protein and the chain comprising the VWF
       fragment, and the third heterologous moiety, the fourth heterologous moiety, and the fifth

                                             48
       heterologous moiety are half-life extenders, and wherein the bond between the chain
       comprising the FVIII protein and the chain comprising the VWF fragment is stronger
       than the non-covalent interaction between the FVIII and the VWF fragment, thereby
       preventing binding of endogenous VWF to the FVIII protein in vivo, in vitro, or ex vivo.
[0124]         In other embodiments, the chimeric protein comprises a FVIII protein, a VWF
       fragment, a first heterologous moiety, a second heterologous moiety, a third heterologous
       moiety, a fourth heterologous moiety, a fifth heterologous moiety, and a sixth
       heterologous moiety (sometimes indicated herein as "H6"), wherein the first heterologous
       moiety and the second heterologous moiety forms a bond between the chain comprising
       the FVIII protein and the chain comprising the VWF fragment, and the third heterologous
       moiety, the fourth heterologous moiety, the fifth heterologous moiety, and the sixth
       heterologous moiety are half-life extenders, and wherein the bond between the chain
       comprising the FVIII protein and the chain comprising the VWF fragment is stronger
       than the interaction between the FVIII and the VWF fragment, thereby preventing
       binding of endogenous VWF to the FVIII protein in vivo, in vitro, or ex vivo.
[01251         In some embodiments, a chimeric protein comprises a formula selected from the
       group consisting of:
       (aa)    V-LI-HI-L2-H2,
       (bb)    H2-L2-HI-LI-V,
       (cc)    HI-LI-V-L2-H2, and
       (dd)    H2-L2-V-L1-Hi,
               wherein V comprises a VWF fragment described herein;
               Each of LI and L2 comprises an optional linker; and
               HI comprises a first heterologous moiety; and
               H2 comprises an optional second heterologous moiety. Either or both of the first
       heterologous moiety and the second heterologous moiety can be a half-life extending
       moiety. In one embodiment, HI comprises a polypeptide, a non-polypeptide moiety, or
       both. The polypeptide useful as HI can comprise an immunoglobulin constant region or
       a portion thereof, albumin or a fragment thereof, an albumin binding moiety, a PAS
       sequence, a HAP sequence, any derivatives or variants, or any combinations thereof. The
       non-polypeptide moiety can comprise polyethylene glycol (PEG), polysialic acid, and
       hydroxyethyl starch (HES), a derivative or variant thereof, or any combinations thereof.

                                             49
       In another embodiment, H2 comprises a polypeptide, a non-polypeptide moiety, or both.
       The polypeptide useful as H2 can comprise an immunoglobulin constant region or a
       portion thereof, albumin or a fragment thereof, an albumin binding moiety, a PAS
       sequence, a HAP sequence, any derivatives or variants, or any combinations thereof. The
       non-polypeptide moiety can comprise polyethylene glycol (PEG), polysialic acid,
       hydroxyethyl starch (HES), a derivative or variant thereof, or any combinations thereof.
       In certain embodiments, the linker between HI and H2 in formulas (aa) and (bb) is a
       processable linker. In other embodiments, the linker between the VWF fragment and HI
       in formulas (aa) and (bb) is a cleavable linker, e.g., a thrombin cleavable linker that can
       be cleaved by thrombin.
[0126]         The orientation of the polypeptide formulas herein is listed from N-terminus (left)
       to C-terminus (right). For example, formula H-L-V means formula NH2-H-L-V-COOH.
       In one embodiment, the formulas described herein can comprise additional sequences
       between the two moieties. For example, formula V-LI-HI-L2-H2 can further comprise
       sequences at the N-terminus of V, between V and L1, between LI and H1, between HI or
       L2, between L2 or H2, or at the C-terminus of H2 unless otherwise specified. In another
       embodiment, the hyphen (-) indicates a peptide bond or one or more amino acids.
[01271         In specific embodiments, a chimeric protein comprises, consists essentially of, or
       consists of one or more formulas selected from the group consisting of (al) V-H, (a2) H
       V, (a3) V-L-H, (a4) H-L-V, (a5) V-Li-Hi-H2, (a6) H2-Hi-Li-V, (a7) V-Li-Hi:H2, (a8)
       H2:Hi-Li-V, (a9) V-Hi:H2, (bl) H2:Hi-V, (b2) V-Li-Hi-L2-H2, (b3) H2-L2-Hi-Li-V,
       (b4) Hi-V-H2, (b5) Hi-Li-V-L2-H2, and (b6) H2-L2-V-Li-Hi, wherein V comprises
       one or more of the VWF fragments described herein, L, LI, or L2 comprises a linker, H
       or HI comprises a first heterologous moiety. In one embodiment, the first heterologous
       moiety (HI) can be a polypeptide, a non-polypeptide moiety, or both. The heterologous
       polypeptide moiety can comprises an immunoglobulin constant region or a portion
       thereof, albumin or a fragment thereof, an albumin binding moiety, a PAS sequence, a
       HAP sequence, or any combinations thereof.           Non-limiting examples of the non
       polypeptide moiety useful as HI include polyethylene glycol (PEG), polysialic acid,
       hydroxyethyl starch (HES), a derivative thereof, or any combinations thereof. In another
       embodiment, H2 comprises a second heterologous moiety.           The second heterologous
       moiety can be a polypeptide, a non-polypeptide moiety, or both.          The heterologous

                                               50
       polypeptide moiety can comprises an immunoglobulin constant region or a portion
       thereof, albumin or a fragment thereof, an albumin binding moiety, a PAS sequence, a
       HAP sequence, or any combinations thereof.            Non-limiting examples of the non
       polypeptide moiety useful as HI include polyethylene glycol (PEG), polysialic acid,
       hydroxyethyl starch (HES), a derivative thereof, or any combinations thereof. In certain
       embodiments,     the linker between the first heterologous moiety and the second
       heterologous moiety is a processable linker. In other embodiments, the linker between
       the VWF fragment and the first heterologous moiety or the second heterologous moiety is
       a cleavable linker, which comprises one or more cleavage sites, e.g., a thrombin cleavable
       linker.
[01281         The chimeric protein of the present invention comprises a formula selected from
       the group consisting of (aa), (bb), (cc), (dd), (al), (a2), (a3), (a4), (a5), (a6), (a7), (a8),
       (a9), (bl), (b2), (b3), (b4), (b5), and (b6) and a FVIII protein, which is covalently linked
       to or covalently associated with the VWF fragment, the first heterologous moiety (e.g., a
       first Fc region), or the second heterologous moiety (e.g., a second Fc region) of the
       formula. In one embodiment, the FVIII protein is linked to or associated with the VWF
       fragment by a covalent or non-covalent bond or by a linker. In another embodiment, the
       FVIII protein can be linked to the first heterologous moiety or the second heterologous
       moiety by a covalent or non-covalent bond or by a linker.
[0129]         In one embodiment, a chimeric protein of the present invention comprises a VWF
       fragment described herein covalently linked to or covalently associated with a FVIII
       protein. For example, the chimeric protein can comprise a VWF fragment and a FVIII
       protein, wherein the VWF fragment and the FVIII protein are bound by a covalent non
       peptide bond, a peptide bond, a non-covalent bond, or by a linker, e.g., a cleavable linker.
       In a specific embodiment, the VWF fragment and the FVIII protein are bound to or
       interact with each other by one or more disulfide bonds. In another specific embodiment,
       the VWF fragment is bound to or interacts with the FVIII protein at the A3 domain of
       FVIII, the C2 domain of FVIII, or both the A3 domain and the C2 domain of FVIII by a
       non-covalent bond. In another embodiment, the VWF fragment bound to or interacting
       with the FVIII protein is linked or fused to a first heterologous moiety.             In other
       embodiments, the FVIII protein bound to or interacting with the VWF fragment is further
       linked to a second heterologous moiety. In some embodiments, the VWF fragment bound

                                              51
       to or interacting with the FVIII protein is further linked to a first heterologous moiety and
       the FVIII protein is further linked to a second heterologous moiety.                 In certain
       embodiments, the first polypeptide chain comprising the VWF fragment and the first
       heterologous moiety and the second polypeptide chain comprising the FVIII protein and
       the second heterologous moiety are associated with each other such that the association
       does not allow interaction of the FVIII protein with other moieties, e.g., endogenous
       VWF. In one embodiment, the association is a covalent bond, e.g., a disulfide bond.
[01301         Each of the VWF fragment or the FVIII protein can be joined or connected to the
       first and second heterologous moiety by a linker, e.g., a cleavable linker, e.g., a thrombin
       cleavable linker. The linker between the VWF fragment and the first heterologous moiety
       can be denoted herein as a VWF linker. The linker between the FVIII protein and the
       second heterologous moiety can be denoted herein as a FVIII linker.            Or, both of the
       VWF fragment or the FVIII protein can be joined or connected to the first and second
       heterologous moiety by a linker, e.g., a cleavable linker, e.g., a thrombin cleavable linker.
       In certain embodiments, the first heterologous moiety linked to the VWF fragment
       comprises a polypeptide, a non-polypeptide moiety, or both. Non-limiting examples of
       the first heterologous polypeptide moiety includes an immunoglobulin constant region or
       a portion thereof, albumin or a fragment thereof, an albumin binding moiety, a PAS
       sequence, a HAP sequence, transferrin or a fragment thereof, or two or more
       combinations thereof. Non-limiting examples of the non-polypeptide moiety includes
       polyethylene glycol (PEG), polysialic acid, hydroxyethyl starch (HES or HAES), a
       derivative or variant thereof, or any combinations thereof. In other embodiments, the
       second heterologous moiety linked to the FVIII protein comprises a polypeptide, a non
       polypeptide moiety, or both. Non-limiting examples of the second heterologous moiety
       includes an immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof, albumin or a fragment
       thereof, an albumin binding moiety, a PAS sequence, a HAP sequence, transferrin or a
       fragment thereof, or two or more combinations thereof. Non-limiting examples of the
       non-polypeptide     moiety   includes    polyethylene    glycol     (PEG),    polysialic  acid,
       hydroxyethyl starch (HES or HAES), a derivative or variant thereof, or any combinations
       thereof. In some embodiments, the VWF fragment is attached to FVIII using sortase
       mediated in vitro protein ligation. In some embodiments, a sortase recognition motif is
       used.

                                                52
[01311         In one embodiment, the first heterologous moiety is an immunoglobulin constant
       region or a portion thereof. In a particular embodiment, the first heterologous moiety is a
       first Fe region.      In some embodiments, the second heterologous moiety is an
       immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof. In a specific embodiment, the
       second heterologous moiety is a second Fc region.           In a particular embodiment, the
       chimeric protein comprises a VWF fragment described herein and a FVIII protein,
       wherein the VWF fragment is linked to an immunoglobulin constant region or a portion
       thereof, which is an Fc region. In another embodiment, the chimeric protein comprises a
       VWF fragment described herein and a FVIII protein, wherein the FVIII protein is linked
       to an immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof, which is an Fc region.         In
       other embodiments, a chimeric protein comprises a VWF fragment described herein and a
       FVIII protein, wherein the VWF fragment is linked to a first immunoglobulin constant
       region, which is a first Fc region, and the FVIII protein is linked to a second
       immunoglobulin constant region, which is a second Fc region, and wherein the VWF
       fragment and the FVIII protein is bound to or interact with each other by a non-covalent
       bond or the first Fc region or the second Fc region are associated with each other by a
       covalent bond.      In still other embodiments, the VWF fragment linked to the first
       heterologous moiety is further linked to the second heterologous moiety, e.g., a second Fc
       region, by a linker, e.g., a processable linker. In one aspect, the VWF fragment is linked
       to the first heterologous moiety by a linker, e.g., VWF linker, e.g., a cleavable linker. In
       another aspect, the FVIII protein is linked to the second heterologous moiety by a linker,
       e.g., FVIII linker, e.g., a cleavable linker. Non-limiting examples of the heterologous
       moieties are disclosed elsewhere herein, e.g., immunoglobulin constant region or a
       portion thereof at paragraphs [0165] - [0193], albumin, fragment or variant thereof at
       paragraphs [0194]-[0198], HAP sequences at paragraph [0293], transferrin, fragments, or
       variants thereof at paragraphs [0204]-[0205], polymer, e.g., polyethylene glycol, at
       paragraphs [0206] - [0213], HES at paragraphs [0214]-[0219], or PSA at paragraph
       [0220]- and PAS sequences at paragraphs [0199]-[0202].
[0132]         In some embodiments, a chimeric protein of the present invention comprises
       consists essentially of, or consists of a formula selected from the group consisting of:
       (a)     V-Li-Hi- L3- C-L2-H2,
       (b)     H2-L2-C- L3- H1-L1-V,

                                                 53
       (c)      C-L2-H2- L3- V-Li-Hi,
       (d)      Hi-Li-V- L3-H2-L2-C,
       (e)      Hi-Li-V-L3-C-L2-H2,
       (g)      H2-L2-C- L3- V-Li-Hi,
       (g)      V-LI-HI-L3- H2-L2-C,
       (g)      C-L2-H2- L3- Hi-Li-V,
       (i)      H2-L3-H1-L1-V-L2-C,
       (j)      C-L2-V-LI-HI-L3-H2,
       (k)      V-L2-C-LI-HI-L3-H2, and
       (1)      H2-L3-H1-L1-C-L2-V,
                wherein V is a VWF fragment described herein;
                each of LI or L2 is an optional linker, e.g., a cleavable linker, e.g., a thrombin
       cleavable         linker;
                L3 is an optional linker, e.g., a processable linker
                each of HI and H2 is an optional heterologous moiety;
                C is a FVIII protein; and
                (-) is a peptide bond or one or more amino acids.
[0133]          In other aspects, a chimeric protein of the invention comprises a formula selected
       from the group consisting of:
       (m)      V-Li-Hi: H2-L2-C,
       (n)      V-Li-Hi:C-L2-H2;
       (o)      Hi-Li-V:H2-L2-C;
       (p)      Hi-Li-V:C-L2-H2;
       (q)      V:C-Li-Hi:H2;
       (r)      V:Hi-Li-C:H2;
       (s)      H2:Hi-Li-C:V,
       (t)      C:V-Li-Hi:H2, and
       (u)      C:Hi-Li-V:H2.
       wherein V is a VWF fragment described herein;
       each of LI or L2, is an optional linker, e.g., a thrombin cleavable linker;
       each of HI or H2 is an optional heterologous moiety;
       (-) is a peptide bond or one or more amino acids; and

                                               54
       C is a FVIII protein; and (:) is a chemical or physical association between HI and H2.
[0134]           In one embodiment, one or more of the heterologous moieties are a half-life
       extender.     Half-life extenders are known in the art, and non-limiting examples of such
       half-life extenders include an immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof,
       albumin or fragment thereof, an albumin binding moiety, a PAS sequence, a HAP
       sequence, transferrin or a fragment thereof, a derivative or variant thereof, or two or more
       combinations thereof. The non-polypeptide moiety can comprise polyethylene glycol
       (PEG), polysialic acid, hydroxyethyl starch (HES), a derivative thereof, or any
       combinations thereof.
[01351           In one embodiment, (:) in formulas (m) to (u) represents a chemical association,
       e.g., at least one non-peptide bond. In certain embodiments, the chemical association,
       i.e., (:) is a covalent bond. In other embodiments, the chemical association, i.e., (:) is a
       non-covalent interaction, e.g.,      an ionic interaction, a hydrophobic       interaction, a
       hydrophilic interaction, a Van der Waals interaction, a hydrogen bond. In other
       embodiments, (:) is a non-peptide covalent bond. In still other embodiments, (:) is a
       peptide bond. In yet other embodiments, (:) in formulas (m) to (u) represents a physical
       association between two sequences, wherein a portion of a first sequence is in close
       proximity to a second sequence such that the first sequence shields or blocks a portion of
       the second sequence from interacting with another moiety, and further that this physical
       association is maintained without allowing the second sequence to interact with other
       moieties.
[01361            Formulas (a) - (u) are included herein merely as non-limiting examples of
       constructs of the present invention. The orientation of the polypeptide formulas is shown
       from N-terminus (left) to C-terminus (right). For example, formula V-LI-HI-L3-C-L2
       H2 means formula NH2-V-L1-H1-L3-C-L2-H2-COOH.                   In addition, (:) can be an
       association or interaction between two polypeptide chains by a covalent bond or a non
       covalent bond between any part of the first chain and any part of the second chain unless
       otherwise noted. For example, formula V-Hi:H2-C has two polypeptide chains, the first
       chain being V-HI and the second chain being C-H2, wherein V in the first chain interacts
       or associates with C in the second chain and/or HI in the first chain interacts or associates
       with H2 in the second chain. In some embodiments, (:) means a covalent, non-peptide
       bond or non-covalent bond.

                                             55
[01371         In certain embodiments, a chimeric protein comprises, consists essentially of, or
       consists of a formula selected from the group consisting of:
       (1)     V:C,                          (2)    H-V:C or C:V-H,
       (3)     V:C-H or H-C:V,               (4)    V-Hi:H2-C or H1-V:C-H2,
       (5)     V:C-H1:H2 or H2:H1-C:V,       (6)    H2:H1-V:C or C:V-H1:H2,
       (7)     H-L-V:C or C:V-L-H,           (8)    V:C-L-H or H-L-C:V,
       (9)     V-C or C-V,                   (10)   H-V-C or C-V-H,
       (11)    V-H-C or C-H-V,               (12)   V-C-H or H-C-V,
       (13)    V-H1-C-H2 or H2-C-H1-V,       (14)   H1-V-C-H2 or H2-C-V-H1,
       (15)    H1-V-H2-C or C-H2-V-H1,       (16)   V-H1-H2-C or C-H2-H1-V,
       (17)    V-L-C or C-L-V,               (18)   H-L-V-C or C-V-L-H,
       (19)    H-V-L-C or C-L-V-H,           (20)   V-L-H-C or C-H-L-V,
       (21)    V-H-L-C or C-L-H-V,           (22)   V-L-C-H or H-C-L-V,
       (23)    V-C-L-H or H-L-C-V,           (24)   H-L1-V-L2-C or C-L2-V-L1-H,
       (25)    V-L-Hi:H2-C or C-H2:Hi-L-V,
       (26)    V-Hi:H2-L-C or C-L-H2:Hi-V,
       (27)    V:C-H1-H2 or H2-H1-C:V,
       (28)    H2-HI-V:C or C:V-H1-H2,
       (29)    V:C-L-Hi:H2 or H2:H1-L-C:V,
       (30)    H2:Hi-L-V:C or C:V-L-Hi:H2,
       (31)    V-LI-Hi :H2-L2-C or L-L2-H2:HI-LI-V,
       (32)    V:C-L-H 1-H2 or H2-H 1-L-C:V,
       (33)    V:C-H 1-L-H2 or H2-L-H I-C:V,
       (34)    V:C-LI-HI-L2-H2 or H2-L2-HI-LI-C:V,
       (35)    H2-HI-V:C or C:V-HI-H2,
       (36)    H2-HI-L-V:C or C:V-L-HI-H2,
       (37)    H2-L-HI-V:C or C:V-HI-L-H2,
       (38)    H2-L2-HI-LI-V:C or C:V-LI-HI-L2-H2,
       (39)    V-LI-H-L2-C or C-L2-H-LI-V,
       (40)    V-LI-C-L2-H or H-L2-C-LI-V,
       (41)    V-L-HI-C-H2 or H2-C-HI-L-V,
       (42)    V-H I-C-L-H2 or H2-L-C-HI-V,

                                              56
       (43)    V-H I-L-C-H2 or H2-C-L-HI-V,
       (44)    HI-L-V-C-H2 or H2-C-V-L-HI,
       (45)    HI-V-L-C-H2 or H2-C-L-V-HI,
       (46)    Hi-V-C-L-H or H-L-C-V-Hi,
       (47)    Hi-L-V-H2-C or C-H2-V-L-Hi,
       (48)    Hi-V-L-H2-C or C-H2-L-V-Hi,
       (49)    Hi-V-H2-L-C or C-L-H2-V-Hi,
       (50)    V-L-H1-H2-C or C-H2-H1-L-V,
       (51)    V-Hi-L-H2-C or C-H2-L-Hi-V,
       (52)    V-Hi-H2-L-C or C-L-H2-Hi-V,
       (53)    V-Li-Hi-L2-C-H2 or H2-C-L2-H1-Li -V,
       (54)    V-LI-Hi -C-L2-H2 or H2-L2-C-H I-L 1-V,
       (55)    V-LI-Hi -L2-C-L3-H2 or H2-L3-C-L2-H I-Li -V,
       (56)    V-HI-Li -C-L2-H2 or H2-L2-C-L I-Hi -V,
       (57)    HI-Li -V-L2-C-H2 or H2-C-L2-V-L I-H1,
       (58)    HI-Li -V-C-L2-H2 or H2-L2-C-V-L I-H1,
       (59)    HI-Li -V-L2-C-L3-H2 or H2-L3-C-L2-V-L I-H1,
       (60)    HI-V-LI-C-L2-H2 or H2-L2-C-L I-V-H1,
       (61)    HI-Li -V-L2-H2-C or C-H2-L2-V-L I-H1,
       (62)    HI-LI-V-H2-L2-C or C-L2-H2-V-LI-H1,
       (63)    Hi-Li-V-L2-H2-L3-C or C-L3-H2-L2-V-Li-Hi,
       (64)    HI-V-LI-H2-L2-C or C-L2-H2-LI-V-H1,
       (65)    V-LI-Hi -L2-H2-C or C-H2-L2-H I-Li -V,
       (66)    V-LI-HI-H2-L2-C or C-L2-H2-HI-LI-V,
       (67)    V-Li-Hi-L2-H2-L3-C or C-L3-H2-L2-Hi-Li-V, and
       (68)    V-HI-Li -H2-L2-C or C-L2-H2-L I-Hi -V,
       V is a VWF fragment described herein;
       C is a FVIII protein;
       H or HI is a heterologous moiety or a first heterologous moiety;
       H2 is a second heterologous moiety; the first and second heterologous moieties can be the
same or        different;
       Each of L, L I or L2 is an optional linker;

                                                57
       (-) is a peptide bond or one or more amino acids; and
                (:) is a chemical or physical association. The linkers can each be the same or
       different and each can be a cleavable linker, comprising one or more enzymatic cleavage
       site. The heterologous moieties can be a half-life extension technology that is known in
       the art, a polypeptide, a non-polypeptide moiety, or both. A polypeptide moiety can
       comprise an immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof, albumin or a fragment
       thereof, an albumin binding moiety, a PAS sequence, a HAP sequence, any derivatives or
       variants thereof, or any combinations thereof (e.g., an Fc region). A non-polypeptide
       moiety can comprise polyethylene glycol (PEG), polysialic acid, hydroxyethyl starch
       (HES), a derivative or variant thereof, or any combinations thereof. Each of the H, HI, or
       H2 can be individually selected based on the characteristics and can be all the same, or
       each one different. Non-limiting examples of the heterologous moieties are disclosed
       elsewhere herein, e.g., immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof at paragraphs
       [0126] - [0153], albumin or fragment or variant thereof at paragraphs [0154]-[0157],
       polymer, e.g., polyethylene glycol, at paragraphs [0166] - [0173], and PAS sequences at
       paragraphs [0159]-[0162].       Formulas (1) - (68) are included herein merely as non
       limiting examples of constructs of the present invention.
[0138]          In one embodiment, (:) represents a chemical association, e.g., at least one non
       peptide bond. In certain embodiments, the chemical association, i.e., (:) is a covalent
       bond. In other embodiments, the chemical association, i.e., (:) is a non-covalent
       interaction, e.g., an ionic interaction, a hydrophobic interaction, a hydrophilic interaction,
       a Van der Waals interaction, a hydrogen bond. In other embodiments, (:) is a non-peptide
       covalent bond.       In still other embodiments, (:) is a peptide bond.         In yet other
       embodiments, (:) represents a physical association between two sequences, wherein a
       portion of a first sequence is in close proximity to a second sequence such that the first
       sequence shields or blocks a portion of the second sequence from interacting with another
       moiety, and further that this physical association is maintained without allowing the
       second sequence to interact with other moieties.
[0139]          In one embodiment, the first heterologous moiety (H or HI) linked to the VWF
       fragment in the chimeric protein is a first Fc region. In another embodiment, the second
       heterologous moiety (or H2) linked to the FVIII protein in the chimeric protein is a
       second Fc region.

                                               58
[01401          In certain embodiments, a chimeric protein of the invention comprises two
       polypeptide chains, a first chain comprising, consisting essentially of, or consisting of an
       amino acid sequence encoding FVIII (e.g., single chain FVIII) and a first heterologous
       moiety (e.g., a first Fc region) and a second chain comprising, consisting essentially of, or
       consisting of an amino acid sequence encoding a VWF fragment comprising D' domain
       and D3 domain, a second heterologous moiety (e.g., a second Fc region), and a linker
       between the VWF fragment and the second Fc domain (e.g., VWF linker). The linker
       between the VWF fragment and the second Fc domain can be a thrombin cleavable
       linker.    In some embodiments, the single chain FVIII protein comprises a third
       heterologous moiety, e.g., a half-life extender, which is linked to the N-terminus, C
       terminus, or one or more sites within the FVIII sequence.
[0141]          In other embodiments, a chimeric protein of the invention comprises three
       polypeptide chains, wherein a first chain comprises, consists essentially of, or consists of
       a heavy chain of FVIII, a second chain comprises, consists essentially of, or consists of a
       light chain of FVIII fused to a first heterologous moiety (e.g., a first Fc region), and a
       third polypeptide chain comprises, consists essentially of, or consists of a VWF fragment
       comprising the D' domain and the D3 domain, a second heterologous moiety (e.g, a
       second Fc region), and a linker. The linker between the VWF fragment and the second
       heterologous moiety can be a thrombin cleavable linker.         In some embodiments, the
       heavy chain FVIII is linked to a third heterologous moiety, e.g., a half-life extender,
       which can be linked to the N-terminus, C-terminus, or one or more sites within the FVIII
       sequence.
[0142]          In yet other embodiments, a chimeric protein of the invention comprises two
       polypeptide chains, a first chain comprising, consisting essentially of, or consisting of a
       heavy chain of FVIII and a second chain comprising, consisting essentially of, or
       consisting of a light chain of FVIII, a first heterologous moiety (e.g., a first Fc region), a
       first linker (e.g., a protease cleavage site comprising one or more intracellular processing
       sites), a VWF fragment, a second linker (e.g., a thrombin cleavable linker), and a second
       heterologous moiety (e.g., a second Fc region), wherein the light chain of FVIII is linked
       to the first heterologous moiety (e.g., the first Fc region), which is further linked to the
       VWF fragment by the first linker (e.g. a processable linker having a protease cleavage site
       comprising one or more intracellular processing sites), and wherein the VWF fragment is

                                               59
       linked to the second Fe region by the second linker (e.g., a thrombin cleavable linker). In
       certain embodiments, the first linker and the second linker are identical or different.
[01431         In certain embodiments, a chimeric protein of the invention comprises one
       polypeptide chain, which comprises a single chain FVIII protein, a first heterologous
       moiety (e.g., a first Fc region), a first linker (e.g., a thrombin cleavable linker), a VWF
       fragment, a second linker (e.g., a thrombin cleavable linker), and a second heterologous
       moiety (e.g., a second Fc region), wherein the single chain FVIII protein is linked to the
       first heterologous moiety, which is also linked to the VWF fragment by the first linker,
       and the VWF fragment is linked to the second Fc region by the second linker. In one
       embodiment, the first linker is a cleavable linker comprising a first cleavable site and a
       second cleavable site. In another embodiment, the second linker is a cleavable linker
       comprising one or two cleavable sites. In a specific embodiment, the second linker is a
       thrombin cleavable linker. The linker useful in the invention can be any length, e.g., at
       least 10, 50, 100, 200, 300, 400, 500, 600, or 700 amino acids. For example, the linker
       can be 20 amino acids, 35 amino acids, 42 amino acids, 73 amino acids, or 98 amino
       acids.
[0144]         In certain embodiments, the VWF fragment is directly linked to the FVIII protein
       by a peptide bond or a linker. As one way of linking the VWF fragment and the FVIII
       protein directly or through a linker, an enzymatic ligation (e.g., sortase) can be employed.
       For example, sortase refers to a group of prokaryotic enzymes that modify surface
       proteins by recognizing and cleaving a carboxyl-terminal sorting signal.            For most
       substrates of sortase enzymes, the recognition signal consists of the motif LPXTG (Leu
       Pro-any-Thr-Gly (SEQ ID NO: 106), then a highly hydrophobic transmembrane
       sequence, then a cluster of basic residues such as arginine. Cleavage occurs between the
       Thr and Gly, with transient attachment through the Thr residue to the active site Cys
       residue of a ligation partner, followed by transpeptidation that attaches the protein
       covalently to the cell wall. In some embodiments, the ligation partner contains Gly(n).
[01451          In one embodiment, a VWF fragment linked to a sortase recognition motif by an
       optional linker can be fused to a FVIII protein linked to Gly(n) by a sortase, wherein n
       can be any integer.      A ligation construct comprises the VWF fragment (N-terminal
       portion of the construct) and the FVIII protein (C-terminal portion of the construct),
       wherein the sortase recognition motif is inserted in between. An exemplary construct is

                                              60
       shown in Figure 24(A).      Another ligation construct comprises the VWF fragment (N
       terminal portion of the construct, the linker, the sortase recognition motif, and the FVIII
       protein (C-terminal portion of the construct) (e.g., Figure 24(C)). In another embodiment,
       a FVIII protein linked to a sortase recognition motif by an optional linker can be fused to
       a VWF fragment linked to Gly(n) by a sortase, wherein n is any integer. A resulting
       ligation construct comprises the FVIII protein (N-terminal portion of the construct) and
       the VWF fragment (C-terminal portion of the construct), wherein the sortase recognition
       motif is inserted in between. An exemplary construct is shown in Figure 24(B). Another
       resulting ligation construct comprises the FVIII protein (N-terminal portion of the
       construct), the linker, the sortase recognition motif, and the VWF fragment (C-terminal
       portion of the construct) (e.g., Figure 24(D)). In other embodiments, a VWF fragment
       linked to a sortase recognition motif by a first optional linker can be fused to a
       heterologous moiety, e.g., an immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof, e.g.,
       an Fc region, linked to a thrombin cleavage site by a second optional linker. A resulting
       construct can comprise the VWF fragment (N-terminal portion), the first linker, the
       sortase recognition motif, the protease cleavage site, the second optional linker, and the
       heterologous moiety (e.g., Figure 24(E)). In certain embodiments, this resulting construct
       is a part of a chimeric protein comprising the FVIII protein and a second heterologous
       moiety, e.g., an immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof, e.g., a second Fc
       region. In one example, In another example, a chimeric comprises three polypeptide
       chains, the first chain comprising a VWF fragment, the first linker, the sortase recognition
       motif, the protease cleavage site, the second optional linker, the first heterologous moiety,
       the second chain comprising the light chain of the FVIII protein and the second
       heterologous moiety, and the third chain comprising the heavy chain of the FVIII protein.
[0146]         In still other embodiments, the chimeric protein of the invention comprising a
       VWF fragment and a FVIII protein, wherein the VWF fragment and the FVIII protein are
       covalently associated with each other or covalently linked to each other has less
       immunogenicity than a FVIII protein without the VWF fragment.                    The reduced
       immunogenicity includes, but is not limited to, less humoral immune response, e.g., less
       neutralizing antibody titer, or less cell-mediated immune response against FVIII, e.g.,
       production of various cytokines.

                                               61
[01471         In yet other embodiments, as a result of the invention the half-life of the FVIII
       protein (or a chimeric protein) is extended compared to a FVIII protein without the VWF
       fragment or wildtype FVIII. The half-life of the FVIII protein is at least about 1.5 times,
       at least about 2 times, at least about 2.5 times, at least about 3 times, at least about 4
       times, at least about 5 times, at least about 6 times, at least about 7 times, at least about 8
       times, at least about 9 times, at least about 10 times, at least about 11 times, or at least
       about 12 times longer than the half-life of a FVIII protein without the VWF fragment. In
       one embodiment, the half-life of FVIII is about 1.5-fold to about 20-fold, about 1.5 fold
       to about 15 fold, or about 1.5 fold to about 10 fold longer than the half-life of wild-type
       FVIII. In another embodiment, the half-life of the FVIII is extended about 2-fold to about
       10-fold, about 2-fold to about 9-fold, about 2-fold to about 8-fold, about 2-fold to about
       7-fold, about 2-fold to about 6-fold, about 2-fold to about 5-fold, about 2-fold to about 4
       fold, about 2-fold to about 3-fold, about 2.5-fold to about 10-fold, about 2.5-fold to about
       9-fold, about 2.5-fold to about 8-fold, about 2.5-fold to about 7-fold, about 2.5-fold to
       about 6-fold, about 2.5-fold to about 5-fold, about 2.5-fold to about 4-fold, about 2.5-fold
       to about 3-fold, about 3-fold to about 10-fold, about 3-fold to about 9-fold, about 3-fold to
       about 8-fold, about 3-fold to about 7-fold, about 3-fold to about 6-fold, about 3-fold to
       about 5-fold, about 3-fold to about 4-fold, about 4-fold to about 6 fold, about 5-fold to
       about 7-fold, or about 6-fold to about 8 fold as compared to wild-type FVIII or a FVIII
       protein without the VWF fragment.        In other embodiments, the half-life of FVIII is at
       least about 17 hours, at least about 18 hours, at least about 19 hours, at least about 20
       hours, at least about 21 hours, at least about 22 hours, at least about 23 hours, at least
       about 24 hours, at least about 25 hours, at least about 26 hours, at least about 27 hours, at
       least about 28 hours, at least about 29 hours, at least about 30 hours, at least about 31
       hours, at least about 32 hours, at least about 33 hours, at least about 34 hours, at least
       about 35 hours, at least about 36 hours, at least about 48 hours, at least about 60 hours, at
       least about 72 hours, at least about 84 hours, at least about 96 hours, or at least about 108
       hours. In still other embodiments, the half-life of FVIII is about 15 hours to about two
       weeks, about 16 hours to about one week, about 17 hours to about one week, about 18
       hours to about one week, about 19 hours to about one week, about 20 hours to about one
       week, about 21 hours to about one week, about 22 hours to about one week, about 23
       hours to about one week, about 24 hours to about one week, about 36 hours to about one

                                             62
       week, about 48 hours to about one week, about 60 hours to about one week, about 24
       hours to about six days, about 24 hours to about five days, about 24 hours to about four
       days, about 24 hours to about three days, or about 24 hours to about two days.
[01481         In some embodiments, the average half-life of the FVIII protein per subject is
       about 15 hours, about 16 hours, about 17 hours, about 18 hours, about 19 hours, about 20
       hours, about 21 hours, about 22 hours, about 23 hours, about 24 hours (1 day), about 25
       hours, about 26 hours, about 27 hours, about 28 hours, about 29 hours, about 30 hours,
       about 31 hours, about 32 hours, about 33 hours, about 34 hours, about 35 hours, about 36
       hours, about 40 hours, about 44 hours, about 48 hours (2 days), about 54 hours, about 60
       hours, about 72 hours (3 days), about 84 hours, about 96 hours (4 days), about 108 hours,
       about 120 hours (5 days), about six days, about seven days (one week), about eight days,
       about nine days, about 10 days, about 11 days, about 12 days, about 13 days, or about 14
       days.
[0149]         In certain embodiments, the half-life of the FVIII protein covalently linked to the
       VWF fragment is extendable in FVIII/VWF double knockout ("DKO") mice compared to
       a polypeptide consisting of FVIII or a FVIII monomer-dimer hybrid.
       A)      Von Willebrand Factor (VWF) Fragments
[01501         VWF (also known as F8VWF) is a large multimeric glycoprotein present in blood
       plasma and produced constitutively in endothelium (in the Weibel-Palade bodies),
       megakaryocytes (a-granules of platelets), and subendothelian connective tissue.        The
       basic VWF monomer is a 2813 amino acid protein. Every monomer contains a number of
       specific domains with a specific function, the D' and D3 domains (which together bind to
       Factor VIII), the Al domain (which binds to platelet GPIb-receptor, heparin, and/or
       possibly collagen), the A3 domain (which binds to collagen), the C1 domain (in which the
       RGD domain binds to platelet integrin aIIbP3 when this is activated), and the "cysteine
       knot" domain at the C-terminal end of the protein (which VWF shares with platelet
       derived growth factor (PDGF), transforming growth factor-3 (TGFP) and P-human
       chorionic gonadotropin (PHCG)).
[01511         The 2813 monomer amino acid sequence for human VWF is reported as
       Accession Number _NP_000543.2__ in Genbank. The nucleotide sequence encoding the
       human VWF is reported as Accession Number __NM_000552.3                 in Genbank. The
       nucleotide sequence of human VWF is designated as SEQ ID NO: 1. SEQ ID NO: 2 is

                                      63
 the amino acid sequence encoded by SEQ ID NO: 1. Each domain of VWF is listed in
 Table 1.
 Table 1
VWF domains             Amino acid Sequence
VWF   Signal Peptide    1         MIPARFAGVL LALALILPGT LC                   22
(Amino acids 1 to 22 of
SEQ ID NO: 2)
VWF D1 D2 region        23                                 AEGTRGRS STARCSLFGS
                                  DFVNTFDGSM
(Amino acids 23 to 763    1.      YSFAGYCSYL LAGGCQKRSF  SIIGDFQNGK RVSLSVYLGE
of SEQ ID NO: 2)                  FFDIHLFVNG
                        101       TVTQGDQRVS MPYASKGLYL  ETEAGYYKLS GEAYGFVARI
                                  DGSGNFQVLL
                        151       SDRYFNKTCG LCGNFNIFAE  DDFMTQEGTL TSDPYDFANS
                                  WALSSGEQWC
                        201       ERASPPSSSC NISSGEMQKG  LWEQCQLLKS TSVFARCHPL
                                 VDPEPFVALC
                        251       EKTLCECAGG LECACPALLE  YARTCAQEGM VLYGWTDHSA
                                  CSPVCPAGME
                        301       YRQCVSPCAR TCQSLHINEM  CQERCVDGCS CPEGQLLDEG
                                  LCVESTECPC
                        351      VHSGKRYPPG TSLSRDCNTC   ICRNSQWICS NEECPGECLV
                                  TGQSHFKSFD
                        401       NRYFTFSGIC QYLLARDCQD  HSFSIVIETV QCADDRDAVC
                                  TRSVTVRLPG
                        151       LHNSLVKLKH GAGVAMDGQD  IQLPLLKGDL RIQHTVTASV
                                  RLSYGEDLQM
                        501       DWDGRGRLLV KLSPVYAGKT  CGLCGNYNGN QGDDFLTPSG
                                  LAEPRVEDFG
                        551       NAWKLHGDCQ DLQKQHSDPC  ALNPRMTRFS EEACAVLTSP
                                  TFEACHRAVS
                        601       PLPYLRNCRY DVCSCSDGRE  CLCGALASYA AACAGRGVRV
                                 AWREPGRCEL
                        651       NCPKGQVYLQ CGTPCNLTCR  SLSYPDEECN EACLEGCFCP
                                  PGLYMDERGD
                        701       CVPKAQCPCY YDGEIFQPED  IFSDHHTMCY CEDGFMHCTM
                                  SGVPGSLLPD
                        751      AVLSSPLSHR SKR                            763
VWF D' Domain           764                     SLSCRPP MVKLVCPADN LRAEGLECTK
                                  TCQNYDLECM
(Amino acids 764 to     801       SMGCVSGCLC PPGMVRHENR CVALERCPCF HQGKEYAPGE
866 of SEQ ID NO:2)     8KW                  HVCDAT                         8 66
VWF D3 Domain           867                         CSTI GMAHYLTFDG LKYLFPGECQ
                                  YVLVQDYCGS
(Amino acids 867 to     901       NPGTFRILVG NKGCSHPSVK CKKRVTILVE GGEIELFDGE
1240 of SEQ ID NO: 2)    9        VNVKRPMKDE
                                  KVCGLCGNFD
                        1001      GIQNNDLTSS NLQVEEDPVD FGNSWKVSSQ CADTRKVPLD
                                  SSPATCHNNI

                               64
                     1051   MKQTMVDSSC RILTSDVFQD CNKLVDPEPY LDVCIYDTCS
                            CESIGDCACF
                     11.01  CDTIAAYAHV CAQHGKVVTW RTATLCPQSC EERNLRENGY
                            ECEWRYNSCA
                     1151   PACQVTCQHP EPLACPVQCV EGCHAHCPPG KILDELLQTC
                            VDPEDCPVCE
                     1201   VAGRRFASGK KVTLNPSDPE HCQICHCDVV NLTCEACQEP
                     1214 0
VWF Al Domain        1241   GGLVVPPTDA
                     1251   PVSPTTLYVE DISEPPLHDF YCSRLLDLVF LLDGSSRLSE
(Amino acids 1241 to        AEFEVLKAFV
1479of SEQIDNO:2)    1301   VDMMERLRIS QKWVRVAVVE YHDGSHAYIG LKDRKRPSEL
                            RRIASQVKYA
                     1.351  GSQVASTSEV LKYTLFQIFS KIDRPEASRI ALLLMASQEP
                            QRMSRNFVRY
                     1401   VQGLKKKKVI VIPVGIGPHA NLKQIRLIEK QAPENKAFVL
                            SSVDELEQQR
                     1451   DEIVSYLCDL APEAPPPTLP PDMAQVTVG        1479
                     1480                          P GLLGVSTLGP KRNSMVLDVA
                     1501   FVLEGSDKIG EADFNRSKEF MEEVIQRMDV GQDSIHVTVL
                            QYSYMVTVEY
                     1551   PFSEAQSKGD ILQRVREIRY QGGNRTNTGL ALRYLSDHSF
                            LVSQGDREQA                             1600
                     1601   PNLVYMVTGN PASDEIKRLP GDIQVVPIGV GPNANVQELE
                            RIGWPNAPIL
                     1651   IQDFETLPRE APDLVLQRCC SGEGLQIPTL SPAPDCSQPL
                            DVILLLDGSS
                     1701   SFPASYFDEM KSFAKAFISK ANIGPRLTQV SVLQYGSITT
                            IDVPWNVVPE
                     1751   KAHLLSLVDV MQREGGPSQI GDALGFAVRY LTSEMHGARP
                            GASKAVVILV
                     1801   TDVSVDSVDA AADAARSNRV TVFPIGIGDR YDAAQLRILA
                            GPAGDSNVVK
                     1851   LQRIEDLPTM VTLGNSFLHK LCSGFVRICM DEDGNEKRPG
                            DVWTLPDQCH
                     1901   TVTCQPDGQT LLKSHRVNCD RGLRPSCPNS QSPVKVEETC
                            GCRWTCPCVC
                     1951   TGSSTRHIVT FDGQNFKLTG SCSYVLFQNK EQDLEVILHN
                            GACSPGARQG
                     2001   CMKSIEVKHS ALSVEXHSDM EVTVNGRLVS VPYVGGNMEV
                            NVYGAIMHEV
                     2051   RFNHLGHIFT FTPQNNEFQL QLSPKTFASK TYGLCGICDE
                            NGANDFMLRD
                     2101   GTVTTDWKTL VQEWTVQRPG QTCQPILEEQ CLVPDSSHCQ
                            VLLLPLFAEC
                     21.51  HKVLAPATFY AICQQDSCHQ EQVCEVIASY AHLCRTNGVC
                            VDWRTPDFCA
                     2201   MSCPPSLVYN HCEHGCPRHC DGNVSSCGDH PSEGCFCPPD
                            KVMLEGSCVP
                     2251   EEACTQCIGE DGVQHQFLEA WVPDHQPCQI CTCLSGRKVN
                            CTTQPCPTAK
                     2301   APTCGLCEVA RLRQNADQCC PEYECVCDPV SCDLPPVPHC
                            ERGLQPTLTN
                     2351   PGECRPNFTC ACRKEECKRV SPPSCPPHRL PTLRKTQCCD
                            EYECACNCVN
                     2401   STVSCPLGYL ASTATNDCGC TTTTCLPDKV CVHRSTIYPV
                            GQFWEEGCDV

                                65
                  2451      CTCTDMEDAV   MGLRVAQCSQ KPCEDSCRSG FTYVLHEGEC
                            CGRCLPSACE
                  2.501     VVTGSPRGDS   QSSWKSVGSQ WASPENPCLI NECVRVKEEV
                            FIQQRNVSCP
                  2551      QLEVPVCPSG   FQLSCKTSAC CPSCRCERME ACMLNGTVIG
                            PGKTVMIDVC
                  2601      TTCRCMVQVG   VISGFKLECR KTTCNPCPLG YKEENNTGEC
                            CGRCLPTACT
                  2651      IQLRGGQIMT   LKRDETLQDG CDTHFCKVNE RGEYFWEKRV
                            TGCPPFDEHK
                  2701      CLAEGGKIMK   IPGTCCDTCE EPECNDITAR LQYVKVGSCK
                            SEVEVDIHYC
                  2751      QGKCASKAMY   SIDINDVQDQ CSCCSPTRTE PMQVALHCTN
                            GSVVYHEVLN
                  2801      AMECKCSPRK   CSK
                  Nucleotide Sequence
Full-length VWF   ATGATTCCTG CCAGATTTGC CGGGGTGCTG CTTGCTCTGG CCCTCATTTT
                  GCCAGGGACC  CTTTGTGCAG  AAGGAACTCG CGGCAGGTCA TCCACGGCCC
(SEQ ID NO: 1)    TACTAAGGAC  GGTCTAAACG  GCCCCACGAC GAACGAGACC GGGAGTAAAA
                  CGGTCCCTGG  GAAACACGTC  TTCCTTGAGC GCCGTCCAGT AGGTGCCGGG
                  GATGCAGCCT  TTTCGGAAGT  GACTTCGTCA ACACCTTTGA TGGGAGCATG
                  TACAGCTTTG  CGGGATACTG  CAGTTACCTC CTGGCAGGGG GCTGCCAGAA
                  CTACGTCGGA  AAAGCCTTCA  CTGAAGCAGT TGTGGAAACT ACCCTCGTAC
                  ATGTCGAAAC  GCCCTATGAC  GTCAATGGAG GACCGTCCCC CGACGGTCTT
                  ACGCTCCTTC  TCGATTATTG  GGGACTTCCA GAATGGCAAG AGAGTGAGCC
                  TCTCCGTGTA  TCTTGGGGAA  TTTTTTGACA TCCATTTGTT TGTCAATGGT
                  TGCGAGGAAG  AGCTAATAAC  CCCTGAAGGT CTTACCGTTC TCTCACTCGG
                  AGAGGCACAT  AGAACCCCTT  AAAAAACTGT AGGTAAACAA ACAGTTACCA
                  ACCGTGACAC  AGGGGGACCA  AAGAGTCTCC ATGCCCTATG CCTCCAAAGG
                  GCTGTATCTA  GAAACTGAGG  CTGGGTACTA CAAGCTGTCC GGTGAGGCCT
                  TGGCACTGTG  TCCCCCTGGT  TTCTCAGAGG TACGGGATAC GGAGGTTTCC
                  CGACATAGAT  CTTTGACTCC  GACCCATGAT GTTCGACAGG CCACTCCGGA
                  ATGGCTTTGT  GGCCAGGATC  GATGGCAGCG GCAACTTTCA AGTCCTGCTG
                  TCAGACAGAT  ACTTCAACAA  GACCTGCGGG CTGTGTGGCA ACTTTAACAT
                  TACCGAAACA  CCGGTCCTAG  CTACCGTCGC CGTTGAAAGT TCAGGACGAC
                  AGTCTGTCTA  TGAAGTTGTT  CTGGACGCCC GACACACCGT TGAAATTGTA
                  CTTTGCTGAA  GATGACTTTA  TGACCCAAGA AGGGACCTTG ACCTCGGACC
                  CTTATGACTT  TGCCAACTCA  TGGGCTCTGA GCAGTGGAGA ACAGTGGTGT
                  GAAACGACTT  CTACTGAAAT  ACTGGGTTCT TCCCTGGAAC TGGAGCCTGG
                  GAATACTGAA  ACGGTTGAGT  ACCCGAGACT CGTCACCTCT TGTCACCACA
                  GAACGGGCAT  CTCCTCCCAG  CAGCTCATGC AACATCTCCT CTGGGGAAAT
                  GCAGAAGGGC  CTGTGGGAGC  AGTGCCAGCT TCTGAAGAGC ACCTCGGTGT
                  CTTGCCCGTA  GAGGAGGGTC  GTCGAGTACG TTGTAGAGGA GACCCCTTTA
                  CGTCTTCCCG  GACACCCTCG  TCACGGTCGA AGACTTCTCG TGGAGCCACA
                  TTGCCCGCTG  CCACCCTCTG  GTGGACCCCG AGCCTTTTGT GGCCCTGTGT
                  GAGAAGACTT  TGTGTGAGTG  TGCTGGGGGG CTGGAGTGCG CCTGCCCTGC
                  AACGGGCGAC  GGTGGGAGAC  CACCTGGGGC TCGGAAAACA CCGGGACACA
                  CTCTTCTGAA  ACACACTCAC  ACGACCCCCC GACCTCACGC GGACGGGACG
                  CCTCCTGGAG  TACGCCCGGA  CCTGTGCCCA GGAGGGAATG GTGCTGTACG
                  GCTGGACCGA  CCACAGCGCG  TGCAGCCCAG TGTGCCCTGC TGGTATGGAG
                  GGAGGACCTC  ATGCGGGCCT  GGACACGGGT CCTCCCTTAC CACGACATGC
                  CGACCTGGCT  GGTGTCGCGC  ACGTCGGGTC ACACGGGACG ACCATACCTC
                  TATAGGCAGT  GTGTGTCCCC  TTGCGCCAGG ACCTGCCAGA GCCTGCACAT
                  CAATGAAATG  TGTCAGGAGC  GATGCGTGGA TGGCTGCAGC TGCCCTGAGG
                  ATATCCGTCA  CACACAGGGG  AACGCGGTCC TGGACGGTCT CGGACGTGTA
                  GTTACTTTAC  ACAGTCCTCG  CTACGCACCT ACCGACGTCG ACGGGACTCC
                  GACAGCTCCT  GGATGAAGGC  CTCTGCGTGG AGAGCACCGA GTGTCCCTGC
                  GTGCATTCCG  GAAAGCGCTA  CCCTCCCGGC ACCTCCCTCT CTCGAGACTG
                  CTGTCGAGGA  CCTACTTCCG  GAGACGCACC TCTCGTGGCT CACAGGGACG
                  CACGTAAGGC  CTTTCGCGAT  GGGAGGGCCG TGGAGGGAGA GAGCTCTGAC
                  CAACACCTGC  ATTTGCCGAA  ACAGCCAGTG GATCTGCAGC AATGAAGAAT
                _GTCCAGGGGA   GTGCCTTGTC  ACTGGTCAAT CCCACTTCAA GAGCTTTGAC

             66
GTTGTGGACG TAAACGGCTT TGTCGGTCAC CTAGACGTCG TTACTTCTTA
CAGGTCCCCT CACGGAACAG TGACCAGTTA GGGTGAAGTT CTCGAAACTG
AACAGATACT TCACCTTCAG TGGGATCTGC CAGTACCTGC TGGCCCGGGA
TTGCCAGGAC CACTCCTTCT CCATTGTCAT TGAGACTGTC CAGTGTGCTG
TTGTCTATGA AGTGGAAGTC ACCCTAGACG GTCATGGACG ACCGGGCCCT
AACGGTCCTG GTGAGGAAGA GGTAACAGTA ACTCTGACAG GTCACACGAC
ATGACCGCGA CGCTGTGTGC ACCCGCTCCG TCACCGTCCG GCTGCCTGGC
CTGCACAACA GCCTTGTGAA ACTGAAGCAT GGGGCAGGAG TTGCCATGGA
TACTGGCGCT GCGACACACG TGGGCGAGGC AGTGGCAGGC CGACGGACCG
GACGTGTTGT CGGAACACTT TGACTTCGTA CCCCGTCCTC AACGGTACCT
TGGCCAGGAC ATCCAGCTCC CCCTCCTGAA AGGTGACCTC CGCATCCAGC
ATACAGTGAC GGCCTCCGTG CGCCTCAGCT ACGGGGAGGA CCTGCAGATG
ACCGGTCCTG TAGGTCGAGG GGGAGGACTT TCCACTGGAG GCGTAGGTCG
TATGTCACTG CCGGAGGCAC GCGGAGTCGA TGCCCCTCCT GGACGTCTAC
GACTGGGATG GCCGCGGGAG GCTGCTGGTG AAGCTGTCCC CCGTCTATGC
CGGGAAGACC TGCGGCCTGT GTGGGAATTA CAATGGCAAC CAGGGCGACG
CTGACCCTAC CGGCGCCCTC CGACGACCAC TTCGACAGGG GGCAGATACG
GCCCTTCTGG ACGCCGGACA CACCCTTAAT GTTACCGTTG GTCCCGCTGC
ACTTCCTTAC CCCCTCTGGG CTGGCRGAGC CCCGGGTGGA GGACTTCGGG
AACGCCTGGA AGCTGCACGG GGACTGCCAG GACCTGCAGA AGCAGCACAG
TGAAGGAATG GGGGAGACCC GACCGYCTCG GGGCCCACCT CCTGAAGCCC
TTGCGGACCT TCGACGTGCC CCTGACGGTC CTGGACGTCT TCGTCGTGTC
CGATCCCTGC GCCCTCAACC CGCGCATGAC CAGGTTCTCC GAGGAGGCGT
GCGCGGTCCT GACGTCCCCC ACATTCGAGG CCTGCCATCG TGCCGTCAGC
GCTAGGGACG CGGGAGTTGG GCGCGTACTG GTCCAAGAGG CTCCTCCGCA
CGCGCCAGGA CTGCAGGGGG TGTAAGCTCC GGACGGTAGC ACGGCAGTCG
CCGCTGCCCT ACCTGCGGAA CTGCCGCTAC GACGTGTGCT CCTGCTCGGA
CGGCCGCGAG TGCCTGTGCG GCGCCCTGGC CAGCTATGCC GCGGCCTGCG
GGCGACGGGA TGGACGCCTT GACGGCGATG CTGCACACGA GGACGAGCCT
GCCGGCGCTC ACGGACACGC CGCGGGACCG GTCGATACGG CGCCGGACGC
CGGGGAGAGG CGTGCGCGTC GCGTGGCGCG AGCCAGGCCG CTGTGAGCTG
AACTGCCCGA AAGGCCAGGT GTACCTGCAG TGCGGGACCC CCTGCAACCT
GCCCCTCTCC GCACGCGCAG CGCACCGCGC TCGGTCCGGC GACACTCGAC
TTGACGGGCT TTCCGGTCCA CATGGACGTC ACGCCCTGGG GGACGTTGGA
GACCTGCCGC TCTCTCTCTT ACCCGGATGA GGAATGCAAT GAGGCCTGCC
TGGAGGGCTG CTTCTGCCCC CCAGGGCTCT ACATGGATGA GAGGGGGGAC
CTGGACGGCG AGAGAGAGAA TGGGCCTACT CCTTACGTTA CTCCGGACGG
ACCTCCCGAC GAAGACGGGG GGTCCCGAGA TGTACCTACT CTCCCCCCTG
TGCGTGCCCA AGGCCCAGTG CCCCTGTTAC TATGACGGTG AGATCTTCCA
GCCAGAAGAC ATCTTCTCAG ACCATCACAC CATGTGCTAC TGTGAGGATG
ACGCACGGGT TCCGGGTCAC GGGGACAATG ATACTGCCAC TCTAGAAGGT
CGGTCTTCTG TAGAAGAGTC TGGTAGTGTG GTACACGATG ACACTCCTAC
GCTTCATGCA CTGTACCATG AGTGGAGTCC CCGGAAGCTT GCTGCCTGAC
GCTGTCCTCA GCAGTCCCCT GTCTCATCGC AGCAAAAGGA GCCTATCCTG
CGAAGTACGT GACATGGTAC TCACCTCAGG GGCCTTCGAA CGACGGACTG
CGACAGGAGT CGTCAGGGGA CAGAGTAGCG TCGTTTTCCT CGGATAGGAC
TCGGCCCCCC ATGGTCAAGC TGGTGTGTCC CGCTGACAAC CTGCGGGCTG
AAGGGCTCGA GTGTACCAAA ACGTGCCAGA ACTATGACCT GGAGTGCATG
AGCCGGGGGG TACCAGTTCG ACCACACAGG GCGACTGTTG GACGCCCGAC
TTCCCGAGCT CACATGGTTT TGCACGGTCT TGATACTGGA CCTCACGTAC
AGCATGGGCT GTGTCTCTGG CTGCCTCTGC CCCCCGGGCA TGGTCCGGCA
TGAGAACAGA TGTGTGGCCC TGGAAAGGTG TCCCTGCTTC CATCAGGGCA
TCGTACCCGA CACAGAGACC GACGGAGACG GGGGGCCCGT ACCAGGCCGT
ACTCTTGTCT ACACACCGGG ACCTTTCCAC AGGGACGAAG GTAGTCCCGT
AGGAGTATGC CCCTGGAGAA ACAGTGAAGA TTGGCTGCAA CACTTGTGTC
TGTCGGGACC GGAAGTGGAA CTGCACAGAC CATGTGTGTG ATGCCACGTG
TCCTCATACG GGGACCTCTT TGTCACTTCT AACCGACGTT GTGAACACAG
ACAGCCCTGG CCTTCACCTT GACGTGTCTG GTACACACAC TACGGTGCAC
CTCCACGATC GGCATGGCCC ACTACCTCAC CTTCGACGGG CTCAAATACC
TGTTCCCCGG GGAGTGCCAG TACGTTCTGG TGCAGGATTA CTGCGGCAGT
GAGGTGCTAG CCGTACCGGG TGATGGAGTG GAAGCTGCCC GAGTTTATGG
ACAAGGGGCC CCTCACGGTC ATGCAAGACC ACGTCCTAAT GACGCCGTCA
AACCCTGGGA CCTTTCGGAT CCTAGTGGGG AATAAGGGAT GCAGCCACCC
CTCAGTGAAA TGCAAGAAAC GGGTCACCAT CCTGGTGGAG GGAGGAGAGA
TTGGGACCCT GGAAAGCCTA GGATCACCCC TTATTCCCTA CGTCGGTGGG

             67
GAGTCACTTT ACGTTCTTTG CCCAGTGGTA GGACCACCTC CCTCCTCTCT
TTGAGCTGTT TGACGGGGAG GTGAATGTGA AGAGGCCCAT GAAGGATGAG
ACTCACTTTG AGGTGGTGGA GTCTGGCCGG TACATCATTC TGCTGCTGGG
AACTCGACAA ACTGCCCCTC CACTTACACT TCTCCGGGTA CTTCCTACTC
TGAGTGAAAC TCCACCACCT CAGACCGGCC ATGTAGTAAG ACGACGACCC
CAAAGCCCTC TCCGTGGTCT GGGACCGCCA CCTGAGCATC TCCGTGGTCC
TGAAGCAGAC ATACCAGGAG AAAGTGTGTG GCCTGTGTGG GAATTTTGAT
GTTTCGGGAG AGGCACCAGA CCCTGGCGGT GGACTCGTAG AGGCACCAGG
ACTTCGTCTG TATGGTCCTC TTTCACACAC CGGACACACC CTTAAAACTA
GGCATCCAGA ACAATGACCT CACCAGCAGC AACCTCCAAG TGGAGGAAGA
CCCTGTGGAC TTTGGGAACT CCTGGAAAGT GAGCTCGCAG TGTGCTGACA
CCGTAGGTCT TGTTACTGGA GTGGTCGTCG TTGGAGGTTC ACCTCCTTCT
GGGACACCTG AAACCCTTGA GGACCTTTCA CTCGAGCGTC ACACGACTGT
CCAGAAAAGT GCCTCTGGAC TCATCCCCTG CCACCTGCCA TAACAACATC
ATGAAGCAGA CGATGGTGGA TTCCTCCTGT AGAATCCTTA CCAGTGACGT
GGTCTTTTCA CGGAGACCTG AGTAGGGGAC GGTGGACGGT ATTGTTGTAG
TACTTCGTCT GCTACCACCT AAGGAGGACA TCTTAGGAAT GGTCACTGCA
CTTCCAGGAC TGCAACAAGC TGGTGGACCC CGAGCCATAT CTGGATGTCT
GCATTTACGA CACCTGCTCC TGTGAGTCCA TTGGGGACTG CGCCTGCTTC
GAAGGTCCTG ACGTTGTTCG ACCACCTGGG GCTCGGTATA GACCTACAGA
CGTAAATGCT GTGGACGAGG ACACTCAGGT AACCCCTGAC GCGGACGAAG
TGCGACACCA TTGCTGCCTA TGCCCACGTG TGTGCCCAGC ATGGCAAGGT
GGTGACCTGG AGGACGGCCA CATTGTGCCC CCAGAGCTGC GAGGAGAGGA
ACGCTGTGGT AACGACGGAT ACGGGTGCAC ACACGGGTCG TACCGTTCCA
CCACTGGACC TCCTGCCGGT GTAACACGGG GGTCTCGACG CTCCTCTCCT
ATCTCCGGGA GAACGGGTAT GAGTGTGAGT GGCGCTATAA CAGCTGTGCA
CCTGCCTGTC AAGTCACGTG TCAGCACCCT GAGCCACTGG CCTGCCCTGT
TAGAGGCCCT CTTGCCCATA CTCACACTCA CCGCGATATT GTCGACACGT
GGACGGACAG TTCAGTGCAC AGTCGTGGGA CTCGGTGACC GGACGGGACA
GCAGTGTGTG GAGGGCTGCC ATGCCCACTG CCCTCCAGGG AAAATCCTGG
ATGAGCTTTT GCAGACCTGC GTTGACCCTG AAGACTGTCC AGTGTGTGAG
CGTCACACAC CTCCCGACGG TACGGGTGAC GGGAGGTCCC TTTTAGGACC
TACTCGAAAA CGTCTGGACG CAACTGGGAC TTCTGACAGG TCACACACTC
GTGGCTGGCC GGCGTTTTGC CTCAGGAAAG AAAGTCACCT TGAATCCCAG
TGACCCTGAG CACTGCCAGA TTTGCCACTG TGATGTTGTC AACCTCACCT
CACCGACCGG CCGCAAAACG GAGTCCTTTC TTTCAGTGGA ACTTAGGGTC
ACTGGGACTC GTGACGGTCT AAACGGTGAC ACTACAACAG TTGGAGTGGA
GTGAAGCCTG CCAGGAGCCG GGAGGCCTGG TGGTGCCTCC CACAGATGCC
CCGGTGAGCC CCACCACTCT GTATGTGGAG GACATCTCGG AACCGCCGTT
CACTTCGGAC GGTCCTCGGC CCTCCGGACC ACCACGGAGG GTGTCTACGG
GGCCACTCGG GGTGGTGAGA CATACACCTC CTGTAGAGCC TTGGCGGCAA
GCACGATTTC TACTGCAGCA GGCTACTGGA CCTGGTCTTC CTGCTGGATG
GCTCCTCCAG GCTGTCCGAG GCTGAGTTTG AAGTGCTGAA GGCCTTTGTG
CGTGCTAAAG ATGACGTCGT CCGATGACCT GGACCAGAAG GACGACCTAC
CGAGGAGGTC CGACAGGCTC CGACTCAAAC TTCACGACTT CCGGAAACAC
GTGGACATGA TGGAGCGGCT GCGCATCTCC CAGAAGTGGG TCCGCGTGGC
CGTGGTGGAG TACCACGACG GCTCCCACGC CTACATCGGG CTCAAGGACC
CACCTGTACT ACCTCGCCGA CGCGTAGAGG GTCTTCACCC AGGCGCACCG
GCACCACCTC ATGGTGCTGC CGAGGGTGCG GATGTAGCCC GAGTTCCTGG
GGAAGCGACC GTCAGAGCTG CGGCGCATTG CCAGCCAGGT GAAGTATGCG
GGCAGCCAGG TGGCCTCCAC CAGCGAGGTC TTGAAATACA CACTGTTCCA
CCTTCGCTGG CAGTCTCGAC GCCGCGTAAC GGTCGGTCCA CTTCATACGC
CCGTCGGTCC ACCGGAGGTG GTCGCTCCAG AACTTTATGT GTGACAAGGT
AATCTTCAGC AAGATCGACC GCCCTGAAGC CTCCCGCATC GCCCTGCTCC
TGATGGCCAG CCAGGAGCCC CAACGGATGT CCCGGAACTT TGTCCGCTAC
TTAGAAGTCG TTCTAGCTGG CGGGACTTCG GAGGGCGTAG CGGGACGAGG
ACTACCGGTC GGTCCTCGGG GTTGCCTACA GGGCCTTGAA ACAGGCGATG
GTCCAGGGCC TGAAGAAGAA GAAGGTCATT GTGATCCCGG TGGGCATTGG
GCCCCATGCC AACCTCAAGC AGATCCGCCT CATCGAGAAG CAGGCCCCTG
CAGGTCCCGG ACTTCTTCTT CTTCCAGTAA CACTAGGGCC ACCCGTAACC
CGGGGTACGG TTGGAGTTCG TCTAGGCGGA GTAGCTCTTC GTCCGGGGAC
AGAACAAGGC CTTCGTGCTG AGCAGTGTGG ATGAGCTGGA GCAGCAAAGG
GACGAGATCG TTAGCTACCT CTGTGACCTT GCCCCTGAAG CCCCTCCTCC
TCTTGTTCCG GAAGCACGAC TCGTCACACC TACTCGACCT CGTCGTTTCC
CTGCTCTAGC AATCGATGGA GACACTGGAA CGGGGACTTC GGGGAGGAGG

             68
TACTCTGCCC CCCGACATGG CACAAGTCAC TGTGGGCCCG GGGCTCTTGG
GGGTTTCGAC CCTGGGGCCC AAGAGGAACT CCATGGTTCT GGATGTGGCG
ATGAGACGGG GGGCTGTACC GTGTTCAGTG ACACCCGGGC CCCGAGAACC
CCCAAAGCTG GGACCCCGGG TTCTCCTTGA GGTACCAAGA CCTACACCGC
TTCGTCCTGG AAGGATCGGA CAAAATTGGT GAAGCCGACT TCAACAGGAG
CAAGGAGTTC ATGGAGGAGG TGATTCAGCG GATGGATGTG GGCCAGGACA
AAGCAGGACC TTCCTAGCCT GTTTTAACCA CTTCGGCTGA AGTTGTCCTC
GTTCCTCAAG TACCTCCTCC ACTAAGTCGC CTACCTACAC CCGGTCCTGT
GCATCCACGT CACGGTGCTG CAGTACTCCT ACATGGTGAC CGTGGAGTAC
CCCTTCAGCG AGGCACAGTC CAAAGGGGAC ATCCTGCAGC GGGTGCGAGA
CGTAGGTGCA GTGCCACGAC GTCATGAGGA TGTACCACTG GCACCTCATG
GGGAAGTCGC TCCGTGTCAG GTTTCCCCTG TAGGACGTCG CCCACGCTCT
GATCCGCTAC CAGGGCGGCA ACAGGACCAA CACTGGGCTG GCCCTGCGGT
ACCTCTCTGA CCACAGCTTC TTGGTCAGCC AGGGTGACCG GGAGCAGGCG
CTAGGCGATG GTCCCGCCGT TGTCCTGGTT GTGACCCGAC CGGGACGCCA
TGGAGAGACT GGTGTCGAAG AACCAGTCGG TCCCACTGGC CCTCGTCCGC
CCCAACCTGG TCTACATGGT CACCGGAAAT CCTGCCTCTG ATGAGATCAA
GAGGCTGCCT GGAGACATCC AGGTGGTGCC CATTGGAGTG GGCCCTAATG
GGGTTGGACC AGATGTACCA GTGGCCTTTA GGACGGAGAC TACTCTAGTT
CTCCGACGGA CCTCTGTAGG TCCACCACGG GTAACCTCAC CCGGGATTAC
CCAACGTGCA GGAGCTGGAG AGGATTGGCT GGCCCAATGC CCCTATCCTC
ATCCAGGACT TTGAGACGCT CCCCCGAGAG GCTCCTGACC TGGTGCTGCA
GGTTGCACGT CCTCGACCTC TCCTAACCGA CCGGGTTACG GGGATAGGAG
TAGGTCCTGA AACTCTGCGA GGGGGCTCTC CGAGGACTGG ACCACGACGT
GAGGTGCTGC TCCGGAGAGG GGCTGCAGAT CCCCACCCTC TCCCCTGCAC
CTGACTGCAG CCAGCCCCTG GACGTGATCC TTCTCCTGGA TGGCTCCTCC
CTCCACGACG AGGCCTCTCC CCGACGTCTA GGGGTGGGAG AGGGGACGTG
GACTGACGTC GGTCGGGGAC CTGCACTAGG AAGAGGACCT ACCGAGGAGG
AGTTTCCCAG CTTCTTATTT TGATGAAATG AAGAGTTTCG CCAAGGCTTT
CATTTCAAAA GCCAATATAG GGCCTCGTCT CACTCAGGTG TCAGTGCTGC
TCAAAGGGTC GAAGAATAAA ACTACTTTAC TTCTCAAAGC GGTTCCGAAA
GTAAAGTTTT CGGTTATATC CCGGAGCAGA GTGAGTCCAC AGTCACGACG
AGTATGGAAG CATCACCACC ATTGACGTGC CATGGAACGT GGTCCCGGAG
AAAGCCCATT TGCTGAGCCT TGTGGACGTC ATGCAGCGGG AGGGAGGCCC
TCATACCTTC GTAGTGGTGG TAACTGCACG GTACCTTGCA CCAGGGCCTC
TTTCGGGTAA ACGACTCGGA ACACCTGCAG TACGTCGCCC TCCCTCCGGG
CAGCCAAATC GGGGATGCCT TGGGCTTTGC TGTGCGATAC TTGACTTCAG
AAATGCATGG TGCCAGGCCG GGAGCCTCAA AGGCGGTGGT CATCCTGGTC
GTCGGTTTAG CCCCTACGGA ACCCGAAACG ACACGCTATG AACTGAAGTC
TTTACGTACC ACGGTCCGGC CCTCGGAGTT TCCGCCACCA GTAGGACCAG
ACGGACGTCT CTGTGGATTC AGTGGATGCA GCAGCTGATG CCGCCAGGTC
CAACAGAGTG ACAGTGTTCC CTATTGGAAT TGGAGATCGC TACGATGCAG
TGCCTGCAGA GACACCTAAG TCACCTACGT CGTCGACTAC GGCGGTCCAG
GTTGTCTCAC TGTCACAAGG GATAACCTTA ACCTCTAGCG ATGCTACGTC
CCCAGCTACG GATCTTGGCA GGCCCAGCAG GCGACTCCAA CGTGGTGAAG
CTCCAGCGAA TCGAAGACCT CCCTACCATG GTCACCTTGG GCAATTCCTT
GGGTCGATGC CTAGAACCGT CCGGGTCGTC CGCTGAGGTT GCACCACTTC
GAGGTCGCTT AGCTTCTGGA GGGATGGTAC CAGTGGAACC CGTTAAGGAA
CCTCCACAAA CTGTGCTCTG GATTTGTTAG GATTTGCATG GATGAGGATG
GGAATGAGAA GAGGCCCGGG GACGTCTGGA CCTTGCCAGA CCAGTGCCAC
GGAGGTGTTT GACACGAGAC CTAAACAATC CTAAACGTAC CTACTCCTAC
CCTTACTCTT CTCCGGGCCC CTGCAGACCT GGAACGGTCT GGTCACGGTG
ACCGTGACTT GCCAGCCAGA TGGCCAGACC TTGCTGAAGA GTCATCGGGT
CAACTGTGAC CGGGGGCTGA GGCCTTCGTG CCCTAACAGC CAGTCCCCTG
TGGCACTGAA CGGTCGGTCT ACCGGTCTGG AACGACTTCT CAGTAGCCCA
GTTGACACTG GCCCCCGACT CCGGAAGCAC GGGATTGTCG GTCAGGGGAC
TTAAAGTGGA AGAGACCTGT GGCTGCCGCT GGACCTGCCC CTGYGTGTGC
ACAGGCAGCT CCACTCGGCA CATCGTGACC TTTGATGGGC AGAATTTCAA
AATTTCACCT TCTCTGGACA CCGACGGCGA CCTGGACGGG GACRCACACG
TGTCCGTCGA GGTGAGCCGT GTAGCACTGG AAACTACCCG TCTTAAAGTT
GCTGACTGGC AGCTGTTCTT ATGTCCTATT TCAAAACAAG GAGCAGGACC
TGGAGGTGAT TCTCCATAAT GGTGCCTGCA GCCCTGGAGC AAGGCAGGGC
CGACTGACCG TCGACAAGAA TACAGGATAA AGTTTTGTTC CTCGTCCTGG
ACCTCCACTA AGAGGTATTA CCACGGACGT CGGGACCTCG TTCCGTCCCG
TGCATGAAAT CCATCGAGGT GAAGCACAGT GCCCTCTCCG TCGAGSTGCA

             69
CAGTGACATG GAGGTGACGG TGAATGGGAG ACTGGTCTCT GTTCCTTACG
ACGTACTTTA GGTAGCTCCA CTTCGTGTCA CGGGAGAGGC AGCTCSACGT
GTCACTGTAC CTCCACTGCC ACTTACCCTC TGACCAGAGA CAAGGAATGC
TGGGTGGGAA CATGGAAGTC AACGTTTATG GTGCCATCAT GCATGAGGTC
AGATTCAATC ACCTTGGTCA CATCTTCACA TTCACTCCAC AAAACAATGA
ACCCACCCTT GTACCTTCAG TTGCAAATAC CACGGTAGTA CGTACTCCAG
TCTAAGTTAG TGGAACCAGT GTAGAAGTGT AAGTGAGGTG TTTTGTTACT
GTTCCAACTG CAGCTCAGCC CCAAGACTTT TGCTTCAAAG ACGTATGGTC
TGTGTGGGAT CTGTGATGAG AACGGAGCCA ATGACTTCAT GCTGAGGGAT
CAAGGTTGAC GTCGAGTCGG GGTTCTGAAA ACGAAGTTTC TGCATACCAG
ACACACCCTA GACACTACTC TTGCCTCGGT TACTGAAGTA CGACTCCCTA
GGCACAGTCA CCACAGACTG GAAAACACTT GTTCAGGAAT GGACTGTGCA
GCGGCCAGGG CAGACGTGCC AGCCCATCCT GGAGGAGCAG TGTCTTGTCC
CCGTGTCAGT GGTGTCTGAC CTTTTGTGAA CAAGTCCTTA CCTGACACGT
CGCCGGTCCC GTCTGCACGG TCGGGTAGGA CCTCCTCGTC ACAGAACAGG
CCGACAGCTC CCACTGCCAG GTCCTCCTCT TACCACTGTT TGCTGAATGC
CACAAGGTCC TGGCTCCAGC CACATTCTAT GCCATCTGCC AGCAGGACAG
GGCTGTCGAG GGTGACGGTC CAGGAGGAGA ATGGTGACAA ACGACTTACG
GTGTTCCAGG ACCGAGGTCG GTGTAAGATA CGGTAGACGG TCGTCCTGTC
TTGCCACCAG GAGCAAGTGT GTGAGGTGAT CGCCTCTTAT GCCCACCTCT
GTCGGACCAA CGGGGTCTGC GTTGACTGGA GGACACCTGA TTTCTGTGCT
AACGGTGGTC CTCGTTCACA CACTCCACTA GCGGAGAATA CGGGTGGAGA
CAGCCTGGTT GCCCCAGACG CAACTGACCT CCTGTGGACT AAAGACACGA
ATGTCATGCC CACCATCTCT GGTCTACAAC CACTGTGAGC ATGGCTGTCC
CCGGCACTGT GATGGCAACG TGAGCTCCTG TGGGGACCAT CCCTCCGAAG
TACAGTACGG GTGGTAGAGA CCAGATGTTG GTGACACTCG TACCGACAGG
GGCCGTGACA CTACCGTTGC ACTCGAGGAC ACCCCTGGTA GGGAGGCTTC
GCTGTTTCTG CCCTCCAGAT AAAGTCATGT TGGAAGGCAG CTGTGTCCCT
GAAGAGGCCT GCACTCAGTG CATTGGTGAG GATGGAGTCC AGCACCAGTT
CGACAAAGAC GGGAGGTCTA TTTCAGTACA ACCTTCCGTC GACACAGGGA
CTTCTCCGGA CGTGAGTCAC GTAACCACTC CTACCTCAGG TCGTGGTCAA
CCTGGAAGCC TGGGTCCCGG ACCACCAGCC CTGTCAGATC TGCACATGCC
TCAGCGGGCG GAAGGTCAAC TGCACAACGC AGCCCTGCCC CACGGCCAAA
GGACCTTCGG ACCCAGGGCC TGGTGGTCGG GACAGTCTAG ACGTGTACGG
AGTCGCCCGC CTTCCAGTTG ACGTGTTGCG TCGGGACGGG GTGCCGGTTT
GCTCCCACGT GTGGCCTGTG TGAAGTAGCC CGCCTCCGCC AGAATGCAGA
CCAGTGCTGC CCCGAGTATG AGTGTGTGTG TGACCCAGTG AGCTGTGACC
CGAGGGTGCA CACCGGACAC ACTTCATCGG GCGGAGGCGG TCTTACGTCT
GGTCACGACG GGGCTCATAC TCACACACAC ACTGGGTCAC TCGACACTGG
TGCCCCCAGT GCCTCACTGT GAACGTGGCC TCCAGCCCAC ACTGACCAAC
CCTGGCGAGT GCAGACCCAA CTTCACCTGC GCCTGCAGGA AGGAGGAGTG
ACGGGGGTCA CGGAGTGACA CTTGCACCGG AGGTCGGGTG TGACTGGTTG
GGACCGCTCA CGTCTGGGTT GAAGTGGACG CGGACGTCCT TCCTCCTCAC
CAAAAGAGTG TCCCCACCCT CCTGCCCCCC GCACCGTTTG CCCACCCTTC
GGAAGACCCA GTGCTGTGAT GAGTATGAGT GTGCCTGCAA CTGTGTCAAC
GTTTTCTCAC AGGGGTGGGA GGACGGGGGG CGTGGCAAAC GGGTGGGAAG
CCTTCTGGGT CACGACACTA CTCATACTCA CACGGACGTT GACACAGTTG
TCCACAGTGA GCTGTCCCCT TGGGTACTTG GCCTCAACCG CCACCAATGA
CTGTGGCTGT ACCACAACCA CCTGCCTTCC CGACAAGGTG TGTGTCCACC
AGGTGTCACT CGACAGGGGA ACCCATGAAC CGGAGTTGGC GGTGGTTACT
GACACCGACA TGGTGTTGGT GGACGGAAGG GCTGTTCCAC ACACAGGTGG
GAAGCACCAT CTACCCTGTG GGCCAGTTCT GGGAGGAGGG CTGCGATGTG
TGCACCTGCA CCGACATGGA GGATGCCGTG ATGGGCCTCC GCGTGGCCCA
CTTCGTGGTA GATGGGACAC CCGGTCAAGA CCCTCCTCCC GACGCTACAC
ACGTGGACGT GGCTGTACCT CCTACGGCAC TACCCGGAGG CGCACCGGGT
GTGCTCCCAG AAGCCCTGTG AGGACAGCTG TCGGTCGGGC TTCACTTACG
TTCTGCATGA AGGCGAGTGC TGTGGAAGGT GCCTGCCATC TGCCTGTGAG
CACGAGGGTC TTCGGGACAC TCCTGTCGAC AGCCAGCCCG AAGTGAATGC
AAGACGTACT TCCGCTCACG ACACCTTCCA CGGACGGTAG ACGGACACTC
GTGGTGACTG GCTCACCGCG GGGGGACTCC CAGTCTTCCT GGAAGAGTGT
CGGCTCCCAG TGGGCCTCCC CGGAGAACCC CTGCCTCATC AATGAGTGTG
CACCACTGAC CGAGTGGCGC CCCCCTGAGG GTCAGAAGGA CCTTCTCACA
GCCGAGGGTC ACCCGGAGGG GCCTCTTGGG GACGGAGTAG TTACTCACAC
TCCGAGTGAA GGAGGAGGTC TTTATACAAC AAAGGAACGT CTCCTGCCCC
CAGCTGGAGG TCCCTGTCTG CCCCTCGGGC TTTCAGCTGA GCTGTAAGAC

                                              70
                                AGGCTCACTT  CCTCCTCCAG   AAATATGTTG TTTCCTTGCA    GAGGACGGGG
                                GTCGACCTCC  AGGGACAGAC   GGGGAGCCCG AAAGTCGACT    CGACATTCTG
                                CTCAGCGTGC  TGCCCAAGCT   GTCGCTGTGA GCGCATGGAG    GCCTGCATGC
                                TCAATGGCAC  TGTCATTGGG   CCCGGGAAGA CTGTGATGAT    CGATGTGTGC
                                GAGTCGCACG  ACGGGTTCGA   CAGCGACACT CGCGTACCTC    CGGACGTACG
                                AGTTACCGTG  ACAGTAACCC   GGGCCCTTCT GACACTACTA    GCTACACACG
                                ACGACCTGCC  GCTGCATGGT   GCAGGTGGGG GTCATCTCTG    GATTCAAGCT
                                GGAGTGCAGG  AAGACCACCT   GCAACCCCTG CCCCCTGGGT    TACAAGGAAG
                                TGCTGGACGG  CGACGTACCA   CGTCCACCCC CAGTAGAGAC    CTAAGTTCGA
                                CCTCACGTCC  TTCTGGTGGA   CGTTGGGGAC GGGGGACCCA   ATGTTCCTTC
                                AAAATAACAC  AGGTGAATGT   TGTGGGAGAT GTTTGCCTAC    GGCTTGCACC
                                ATTCAGCTAA  GAGGAGGACA   GATCATGACA CTGAAGCGTG   ATGAGACGCT
                                TTTTATTGTG  TCCACTTACA   ACACCCTCTA CAAACGGATG    CCGAACGTGG
                                TAAGTCGATT  CTCCTCCTGT   CTAGTACTGT GACTTCGCAC    TACTCTGCGA
                                CCAGGATGGC  TGTGATACTC   ACTTCTGCAA GGTCAATGAG   AGAGGAGAGT
                                ACTTCTGGGA GAAGAGGGTC ACAGGCTGCC CACCCTTTGA TGAACACAAG
                                GGTCCTACCG ACACTATGAG TGAAGACGTT CCAGTTACTC       TCTCCTCTCA
                                TGAAGACCCT CTTCTCCCAG TGTCCGACGG GTGGGAAACT ACTTGTGTTC
                                TGTCTTGCTG AGGGAGGTAA AATTATGAAA ATTCCAGGCA CCTGCTGTGA
                                CACATGTGAG GAGCCTGAGT GCAACGACAT CACTGCCAGG CTGCAGTATG
                                ACAGAACGAC TCCCTCCATT    TTAATACTTT TAAGGTCCGT    GGACGACACT
                                GTGTACACTC CTCGGACTCA CGTTGCTGTA GTGACGGTCC GACGTCATAC
                                TCAAGGTGGG AAGCTGTAAG TCTGAAGTAG AGGTGGATAT       CCACTACTGC
                                CAGGGCAAAT GTGCCAGCAA AGCCATGTAC TCCATTGACA       TCAACGATGT
                                AGTTCCACCC TTCGACATTC AGACTTCATC TCCACCTATA       GGTGATGACG
                                GTCCCGTTTA CACGGTCGTT TCGGTACATG AGGTAACTGT      AGTTGCTACA
                                GCAGGACCAG  TGCTCCTGCT   GCTCTCCGAC ACGGACGGAG    CCCATGCAGG
                                TGGCCCTGCA  CTGCACCAAT   GGCTCTGTTG TGTACCATGA    GGTTCTCAAT
                                CGTCCTGGTC  ACGAGGACGA   CGAGAGGCTG TGCCTGCCTC    GGGTACGTCC
                                ACCGGGACGT  GACGTGGTTA   CCGAGACAAC ACATGGTACT    CCAAGAGTTA
                                GCCATGGAGT GCAAATGCTC    CCCCAGGAAG TGCAGCAAGT    GA
[01521         The present invention is directed to a von Willebrand Factor (VWF) fragment
       comprising a D' domain and a D3 domain of VWF, wherein the VWF fragment inhibits
       binding of endogenous VWF (full-length VWF) to a FVIII protein. In one embodiment,
       the VWF fragment binds to or is associated with a FVIII protein.         By binding to or
       associating with a FVIII protein, a VWF fragment of the invention protects FVIII from
       protease cleavage and FVIII activation, stabilizes the heavy chain and light chain of
       FVIII, and prevents clearance of FVIII by scavenger receptors. In another embodiment,
       the VWF fragment binds to or associates with a FVIII protein and blocks or prevents
       binding of the FVIII protein to phospholipid and activated Protein C. By preventing or
       inhibiting binding of the FVIII protein with endogenous, full-length VWF, the VWF
       fragment of the invention reduces the clearance of FVIII by VWF clearance receptors and
       thus extends the half-life of FVIII. The half-life extension of a FVIII protein is thus due
       to the binding of or associating with the VWF fragment lacking a VWF clearance
       receptor binding site to the FVIII protein and shielding or protecting of the FVIII protein
       by the VWF fragment from endogenous VWF which contains the VWF clearance
       receptor binding site. The FVIII protein bound to or protected by the VWF fragment can

                                              71
       also allow recycling of a FVIII protein. Therefore, the VWF fragment cannot be full
       length mature VWF. By eliminating the VWF clearance pathway receptor binding sites
       contained in the full length VWF molecule, the FVIII/VWF heterodimers of the invention
       are uncoupled from the VWF clearance pathway, which allows the further extending
       FVIII half-life.
[01531         The VWF fragment comprising the D' domain and the D3 domain can further
       comprise a VWF domain selected from the group consisting of an Al domain, an A2
       domain, an A3 domain, a D1 domain, a D2 domain, a D4 domain, a B 1 domain, a B2
       domain, a B3 domain, a Cl domain, a C2 domain, a CK domain, one or more fragments
       thereof, and any combinations thereof. In one embodiment, a VWF fragment comprises,
       consists essentially of, or consists of: (1) the D' and D3 domains of VWF or fragments
       thereof; (2) the Dl, D', and D3 domains of VWF or fragments thereof; (3) the D2, D', and
       D3 domains of VWF or fragments thereof; (4) the Dl, D2, D', and D3 domains of VWF
       or fragments thereof; or (5) the Dl, D2, D', D3, and Al domains of VWF or fragments
       thereof. The VWF fragment described herein does not contain a site binding to a VWF
       clearance receptor. In another embodiment, the VWF fragment described herein is not
       amino acids 764 to 1274 of SEQ ID NO: 2. The VWF fragment of the present invention
       can comprise any other sequences linked to or fused to the VWF fragment, but is not the
       full-length VWF. For example, a VWF fragment described herein can further comprise a
       signal peptide.
[0154]         In one embodiment, a VWF fragment of the present invention comprises the D'
       domain and the D3 domain of VWF, wherein the D' domain is at least 60%, 70%, 80%,
       85%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99%, or 100% identical to amino acids 764 to 866 of
       SEQ ID NO: 2, wherein the VWF fragment binds to a FVIII protein, shields, inhibits or
       prevents binding of endogenous VWF fragment to a FVIII protein.              In another
       embodiment, a VWF fragment comprises the D' domain and the D3 domain of VWF,
       wherein the D3 domain is at least 60%, 70%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%,
       99%, or 100% identical to amino acids 867 to 1240 of SEQ ID NO: 2, wherein the VWF
       fragment binds to a FVIII protein or inhibits or prevents binding of endogenous VWF
       fragment to a FVIII protein. In some embodiments, a VWF fragment described herein
       comprises, consists essentially of, or consists of the D' domain and D3 domain of VWF,
       which are at least 60%, 70%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99%, or 100%

                                            72
       identical to amino acids 764 to 1240 of SEQ ID NO: 2, wherein the VWF fragment binds
       to a FVIII protein or inhibits or prevents binding of endogenous VWF fragment to a
       FVIII protein. In other embodiments, a VWF fragment comprises, consists essentially of,
       or consists of the D1, D2, D', and D3 domains at least 60%, 70%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%,
       96%, 97%, 98%, 99%, or 100% identical to amino acids 23 to 1240 of SEQ ID NO: 2,
       wherein the VWF fragment binds to a FVIII protein or inhibits or prevents binding of
       endogenous VWF fragment to a FVIII protein. In still other embodiments, the VWF
       fragment further comprises a signal peptide operably linked thereto.
[01551         In some embodiments, a VWF fragment of the invention consists essentially of or
       consists of (1) the D'D3 domain, the D1D'D3 domain, D2D'D3 domain, or D1D2D'D3
       domain and (2) an additional VWF sequence up to about 10 amino acids (e.g., any
       sequences from amino acids 764 to 1240 of SEQ ID NO: 2 to amino acids 764 to 1250 of
       SEQ ID NO: 2), up to about 15 amino acids (e.g., any sequences from amino acids 764 to
       1240 of SEQ ID NO: 2 to amino acids 764 to 1255 of SEQ ID NO: 2), up to about 20
       amino acids (e.g., any sequences from amino acids 764 to 1240 of SEQ ID NO: 2 to
       amino acids 764 to 1260 of SEQ ID NO: 2), up to about 25 amino acids (e.g., any
       sequences from amino acids 764 to 1240 of SEQ ID NO: 2 to amino acids 764 to 1265 of
       SEQ ID NO: 2), or up to about 30 amino acids (e.g., any sequences from amino acids 764
       to 1240 of SEQ ID NO: 2 to amino acids 764 to 1260 of SEQ ID NO: 2). In a particular
       embodiment, the VWF fragment comprising or consisting essentially of the D' domain
       and the D3 domain is neither amino acids 764 to 1274 of SEQ ID NO: 2 nor the full
       length mature VWF.
[0156]         In other embodiments, the VWF fragment comprising the D'D3 domains linked to
       the D1D2 domains further comprises an intracellular cleavage site, e.g., (a cleavage site
       by PACE or PC5), allowing cleavage of the D1D2 domains from the D'D3 domains upon
       expression.    Non-limiting examples of the intracellular cleavage site are disclosed
       elsewhere herein.
[01571         In yet other embodiments, a VWF fragment comprises the D' domain and the D3
       domain, but does not comprise an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting
       of (1) amino acids 1241 to 2813 of SEQ ID NO: 2, (2) amino acids 1270 to amino acids
       2813 of SEQ ID NO: 2, (3) amino acids 1271 to amino acids 2813 of SEQ ID NO: 2, (4)
       amino acids 1272 to amino acids 2813 of SEQ ID NO: 2, (5) amino acids 1273 to amino

                                             73
       acids 2813 of SEQ ID NO: 2, and (6) amino acids 1274 to amino acids 2813 of SEQ ID
       NO: 2.
[0158]         In still other embodiments, a VWF fragment of the present invention comprises,
       consists essentially of, or consists of an amino acid sequence corresponding to the D'
       domain, D3 domain, and Al domain, wherein the amino acid sequence is at least 60%,
       70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99%, or 100% identical to amino
       acid 764 to 1479 of SEQ ID NO: 2, wherein the VWF binds to FVIII. In a particular
       embodiment, the VWF fragment is not amino acids 764 to 1274 of SEQ ID NO: 2.
[01591         In some embodiments, a VWF fragment of the invention comprises the D' domain
       and the D3 domain, but does not comprise at least one VWF domain selected from the
       group consisting of (1) an Al domain, (2) an A2 domain, (3) an A3 domain, (4) a D4
       domain, (5) a B 1 domain, (6) a B2 domain, (7) a B3 domain, (8) a C1 domain, (9) a C2
       domain, (10) a CK domain, (11) a CK domain and C2 domain, (12) a CK domain, a C2
       domain, and a C1 domain, (13) a CK domain, a C2 domain, a C1 domain, a B3 domain,
       (14) a CK domain, a C2 domain, a Cl domain, a B3 domain, a B2 domain, (15) a CK
       domain, a C2 domain, a C1 domain, a B3 domain, a B2 domain, and a BI domain, (16) a
       CK domain, a C2 domain, a Cl domain, a B3 domain, a B2 domain, a B 1 domain, and a
       D4 domain, (17) a CK domain, a C2 domain, a C1 domain, a B3 domain, a B2 domain, a
       B1 domain, a D4 domain, and an A3 domain, (18) a CK domain, a C2 domain, a Cl
       domain, a B3 domain, a B2 domain, a B 1 domain, a D4 domain, an A3 domain, and an
       A2 domain, (19) a CK domain, a C2 domain, a C1 domain, a B3 domain, a B2 domain, a
       BI domain, a D4 domain, an A3 domain, an A2 domain, and an Al domain, and (20) any
       combinations thereof.
[0160]         In yet other embodiments, the VWF fragment comprises the D'D3 domains and
       one or more domains or modules. Examples of such domains or modules include, but are
       not limited to, the domains and modules disclosed in Zhour et al., Blood published online
       April 6, 2012: DOI 10.1182/blood-2012-01-405134.       For example, the VWF fragment
       can comprise the D'D3 domain and one or more domains or modules selected from the
       group consisting of Al domain, A2 domain, A3 domain, D4N module, VWD4 module,
       C8-4 module, TIL-4 module, Cl module, C2 module, C3 module, C4 module, C5
       module, C5 module, C6 module, and any combinations thereof.

                                               74
[01611         In still other embodiments, the VWF fragment is linked to a heterologous moiety,
       wherein the heterologous moiety is linked to the N-terminus or the C-terminus of the
       VWF fragment or inserted between two amino acids in the VWF fragment. For example,
       the insertion sites for the heterologous moiety in the VWF fragment can be in the D'
       domain, the D3 domain, or both. The heterologous moiety can be a half-life extender.
[0162]         In certain embodiments, a VWF fragment of the invention forms a multimer, e.g.,
       dimer, trimer, tetramer, pentamer, hexamer, heptamer, or the higher order multimers. In
       other embodiments, the VWF fragment is a monomer having only one VWF fragment. In
       some embodiments, the VWF fragment of the present invention can have one or more
       amino acid substitutions, deletions, additions, or modifications. In one embodiment, the
       VWF     fragment     can  include   amino   acid substitutions,    deletions,  additions, or
       modifications such that the VWF fragment is not capable of forming a disulfide bond or
       forming a dimer or a multimer. In another embodiment, the amino acid substitution is
       within the D' domain and the D3 domain. In a particular embodiment, a VWF fragment
       of the invention contains at least one amino acid substitution at a residue corresponding to
       residue 1099, residue 1142, or both residues 1099 and 1142 of SEQ ID NO: 2. The at
       least one amino acid substitution can be any amino acids that are not occurring naturally
       in the wild type VWF. For example, the amino acid substitution can be any amino acids
       other than cysteine, e.g., Isoleucine, Alanine, Leucine, Asparagine, Lysine, Aspartic acid,
       Methionine, Phenylalanine, Glutamic acid, Threonine, Glutamine, Tryptophan, Glycine,
       Valine, Proline, Serine, Tyrosine, Arginine, or Histidine. In another example, the amino
       acid substitution has one or more amino acids that prevent or inhibit the VWF fragments
       from forming multimers.
[01631         In certain embodiments, the VWF fragment useful herein can be further modified
       to improve its interaction with FVIII, e.g., to improve binding affinity to FVIII. As a
       non-limiting example, the VWF fragment comprises a serine residue at the residue
       corresponding to amino acid 764 of SEQ ID NO: 2 and a lysine residue at the residue
       corresponding to amino acid 773 of SEQ ID NO: 2.             Residues 764 and/or 773 can
       contribute to the binding affinity of the VWF fragments to FVIII. In other embodiments,
       the VWF fragment can have other modifications, e.g., the fragment can be pegylated,
       glycosylated, hesylated, or polysialylated.

                                              75
       B) Heterologous Moieties
[0164]         The heterologous moiety can be a heterologous polypeptide or a heterologous
       non-polypeptide moiety. In certain embodiments, the heterologous moiety is a half-life
       extending molecule which is known in the art and comprises a polypeptide, a non
       polypeptide moiety, or the combination of both. The heterologous polypeptide moiety
       can comprise an immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof, albumin or a
       fragment thereof, an albumin binding moiety, transferrin or a fragment thereof, a PAS
       sequence, a HAP sequence, a derivative or variant thereof, or any combinations thereof.
       In some embodiments, the non-polypeptide binding moiety comprises polyethylene
       glycol (PEG), polysialic acid, hydroxyethyl starch (HES), a derivative thereof, or any
       combinations thereof. In certain embodiments, there can be one, two, three or more
       heterologous moieties, which can each be the same or different molecules.
       1) Immunoglobulin Constant Region or Portion Thereof
[01651         An immunoglobulin constant region is comprised of domains denoted CH
       (constant heavy) domains (CHI, CH2, etc.). Depending on the isotype, (i.e. IgG, IgM,
       IgA IgD, or IgE), the constant region can be comprised of three or four CH domains.
       Some isotypes (e.g. IgG) constant regions also contain a hinge region. See Janeway et al.
       2001, Immunobiology, Garland Publishing, N.Y., N.Y.
[0166]         An immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof for producing the
       chimeric protein of the present invention may be obtained from a number of different
       sources.   In preferred embodiments, an immunoglobulin constant region or a portion
       thereof is derived from a human immunoglobulin.       It is understood, however, that the
       immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof may be derived from an
       immunoglobulin of another mammalian species, including for example, a rodent (e.g. a
       mouse, rat, rabbit, guinea pig) or non-human primate (e.g. chimpanzee, macaque) species.
       Moreover, the immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof may be derived from
       any immunoglobulin       class, including IgM, IgG,      IgD,  IgA   and IgE,    and any
       immunoglobulin isotype, including IgGl, IgG2, IgG3 and IgG4. In one embodiment, the
       human isotype IgGI is used.
[01671         A variety of the immunoglobulin constant region gene sequences (e.g. human
       constant region gene sequences) are available in the form of publicly accessible deposits.

                                               76
       Constant region domains sequence can be selected having a particular effector function
       (or lacking a particular effector function) or with a particular modification to reduce
       immunogenicity. Many sequences of antibodies and antibody-encoding genes have been
       published and suitable Ig constant region sequences (e.g. hinge, CH2, and/or CH3
       sequences, or portions thereof) can be derived from these sequences using art recognized
       techniques. The genetic material obtained using any of the foregoing methods may then
       be altered or synthesized to obtain polypeptides of the present invention. It will further be
       appreciated that the scope of this invention encompasses alleles, variants and mutations of
       constant region DNA sequences.
[0168]         The sequences of the immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof can be
       cloned, e.g., using the polymerase chain reaction and primers which are selected to
       amplify the domain of interest. To clone a sequence of the immunoglobulin constant
       region or a portion thereof from an antibody, mRNA can be isolated from hybridoma,
       spleen, or lymph cells, reverse transcribed into DNA, and antibody genes amplified by
       PCR. PCR amplification methods are described in detail in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,683,195;
       4,683,202; 4,800,159; 4,965,188; and in, e.g., "PCR Protocols: A Guide to Methods and
       Applications" Innis et al. eds., Academic Press, San Diego, CA (1990); Ho et al. 1989.
       Gene 77:5 1; Horton et al. 1993. Methods Enzymol. 217:270). PCR may be initiated by
       consensus constant region primers or by more specific primers based on the published
       heavy and light chain DNA and amino acid sequences. As discussed above, PCR also
       may be used to isolate DNA clones encoding the antibody light and heavy chains. In this
       case the libraries may be screened by consensus primers or larger homologous probes,
       such as mouse constant region probes. Numerous primer sets suitable for amplification of
       antibody genes are known in the art (e.g., 5' primers based on the N-terminal sequence of
       purified antibodies (Benhar and Pastan.       1994.   Protein Engineering    7:1509); rapid
       amplification of cDNA ends (Ruberti, F. et al. 1994. J. Immunol. Methods 173:33);
       antibody leader sequences (Larrick et al.       1989 Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun.
       160:1250). The cloning of antibody sequences is further described in Newman et al., U.S.
       Pat. No. 5,658,570, filed January 25, 1995, which is incorporated by reference herein.
[0169]         An immunoglobulin constant region used herein can include all domains and the
       hinge region or portions thereof.      In one embodiment, the immunoglobulin constant

                                              77
       region or a portion thereof comprises CH2 domain, CH3 domain, and a hinge region, i.e.,
       an Fc region or an FcRn binding partner.
[01701         As used herein, the term "Fe region" is defined as the portion of a polypeptide
       which corresponds to the Fc region of native immunoglobulin, i.e., as formed by the
       dimeric association of the respective Fe domains of its two heavy chains. A native Fc
       region forms a homodimer with another Fe region. In contrast, the term "genetically
       fused Fc region" or "single-chain Fc region" (scFe region), as used herein, refers to a
       synthetic dimeric Fc region comprised of Fe domains genetically linked within a single
       polypeptide chain (i.e., encoded in a single contiguous genetic sequence).
[01711         In one embodiment, the "Fe region" refers to the portion of a single
       immunoglobulin heavy chain beginning in the hinge region just upstream of the papain
       cleavage site (i.e. residue 216 in IgG, taking the first residue of heavy chain constant
       region to be 114) and ending at the C-terminus of the antibody. Accordingly, a complete
       Fe domain comprises at least a hinge domain, a CH2 domain, and a CH3 domain.
[0172]         The Fe region of an immunoglobulin constant region, depending on the
       immunoglobulin isotype can include the CH2, CH3, and CH4 domains, as well as the
       hinge region. Chimeric proteins comprising an Fc region of an immunoglobulin bestow
       several desirable properties on a chimeric protein including increased stability, increased
       serum half-life (see Capon et al., 1989, Nature 337:525) as well as binding to Fc
       receptors such as the neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) (U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,086,875, 6,485,726,
       6,030,613; WO 03/077834; US2003-0235536A1),            which are incorporated herein by
       reference in their entireties.
[0173]         An immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof can be an FcRn binding
       partner.   FcRn is active in adult epithelial tissues and expressed in the lumen of the
       intestines, pulmonary airways, nasal surfaces, vaginal surfaces, colon and rectal surfaces
       (U.S. Pat. No. 6,485,726). An FcRn binding partner is a portion of an immunoglobulin
       that binds to FcRn.
[0174]         The FcRn receptor has been isolated from several mammalian species including
       humans. The sequences of the human FcRn, monkey FcRn, rat FcRn, and mouse FcRn
       are known (Story et al. 1994, J. Exp. Med. 180:2377). The FcRn receptor binds IgG (but
       not other immunoglobulin classes such as IgA, IgM, IgD, and IgE) at relatively low pH,
       actively transports the IgG transcellularly in a luminal to serosal direction, and then

                                             78
       releases the IgG at relatively higher pH found in the interstitial fluids. It is expressed in
       adult epithelial tissue (U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,485,726, 6,030,613, 6,086,875; WO 03/077834;
       US2003-0235536A1)        including lung and intestinal epithelium (Israel et al. 1997,
       Immunology 92:69) renal proximal tubular epithelium (Kobayashi et al. 2002, Am. J.
       Physiol. Renal Physiol. 282:F358) as well as nasal epithelium, vaginal surfaces, and
       biliary tree surfaces.
[01751          FcRn binding partners useful in the present invention encompass molecules that
       can be specifically bound by the FcRn receptor including whole IgG, the Fc fragment of
       IgG, and other fragments that include the complete binding region of the FcRn receptor.
       The region of the Fc portion of IgG that binds to the FcRn receptor has been described
       based on X-ray crystallography (Burmeister et al. 1994, Nature 372:379). The major
       contact area of the Fc with the FcRn is near the junction of the CH2 and CH3 domains.
       Fc-FcRn contacts are all within a single Ig heavy chain. The FcRn binding partners
       include whole IgG, the Fc fragment of IgG, and other fragments of IgG that include the
       complete binding region of FcRn. The major contact sites include amino acid residues
       248, 250-257, 272, 285, 288, 290-291, 308-311, and 314 of the CH2 domain and amino
       acid residues 385-387, 428, and 433-436 of the CH3 domain. References made to amino
       acid numbering of immunoglobulins or immunoglobulin fragments, or regions, are all
       based on Kabat et al. 1991, Sequences of Proteins of Immunological Interest, U.S.
       Department of Public Health, Bethesda, Md.
[0176]          Fc regions or FcRn binding partners bound to FcRn can be effectively shuttled
       across epithelial barriers by FcRn, thus providing a non-invasive means to systemically
       administer a desired therapeutic molecule. Additionally, fusion proteins comprising an
       Fc region or an FcRn binding partner are endocytosed by cells expressing the FcRn. But
       instead of being marked for degradation, these fusion proteins are recycled out into
       circulation again, thus increasing the in vivo half-life of these proteins.        In certain
       embodiments, the portions of immunoglobulin constant regions are an Fc region or an
       FcRn binding partner that typically associates, via disulfide bonds and other non-specific
       interactions, with another Fc region or another FcRn binding partner to form dimers and
       higher order multimers.
[01771          Two FcRn receptors can bind a single Fc molecule. Crystallographic data suggest
       that each FcRn molecule binds a single polypeptide of the Fc homodimer. In one

                                               79
       embodiment, linking the FcRn binding partner, e.g., an Fe fragment of an IgG, to a
       biologically active molecule provides a means of delivering the biologically active
       molecule orally, buccally, sublingually, rectally, vaginally, as an aerosol administered
       nasally or via a pulmonary route, or via an ocular route. In another embodiment, the
       chimeric protein can be administered invasively, e.g., subcutaneously, intravenously.
[0178]          An FcRn binding partner region is a molecule or a portion thereof that can be
       specifically bound by the FcRn receptor with consequent active transport by the FcRn
       receptor of the Fc region. Specifically bound refers to two molecules forming a complex
       that is relatively stable under physiologic conditions. Specific binding is characterized by
       a high affinity and a low to moderate capacity as distinguished from nonspecific binding
       which usually has a low affinity with a moderate to high capacity. Typically, binding is
       considered specific when the affinity constant KA is higher than 106 M- 1, or higher than
       108 M- . If necessary, non-specific binding can be reduced without substantially affecting
       specific binding by varying the binding conditions. The appropriate binding conditions
       such as concentration of the molecules, ionic strength of the solution, temperature, time
       allowed for binding, concentration of a blocking agent (e.g. serum albumin, milk casein),
       etc., may be optimized by a skilled artisan using routine techniques.
[01791          In certain embodiments, a chimeric protein of the invention comprises one or
       more truncated Fc regions that are nonetheless sufficient to confer Fc receptor (FcR)
       binding properties to the Fc region. For example, the portion of an Fc region that binds to
       FcRn (i.e., the FcRn binding portion) comprises from about amino acids 282-438 of
       IgGI, EU numbering (with the primary contact sites being amino acids 248, 250-257,
       272, 285, 288, 290-291, 308-311, and 314 of the CH2 domain and amino acid residues
       385-387, 428, and 433-436 of the CH3 domain. Thus, an Fc region of the invention may
       comprise or consist of an FcRn binding portion. FcRn binding portions may be derived
       from heavy chains of any isotype, including IgGl, IgG2, IgG3 and IgG4.                In one
       embodiment, an FcRn binding portion from an antibody of the human isotype IgGI is
       used. In another embodiment, an FcRn binding portion from an antibody of the human
       isotype IgG4 is used.
[0180]          In another embodiment, the "Fc region" includes an amino acid sequence of an Fc
       domain or derived from an Fc domain. In certain embodiments, an Fc region comprises
       at least one of: a hinge (e.g., upper, middle, and/or lower hinge region) domain (about

                                               80
       amino acids 216-230 of an antibody Fc region according to EU numbering), a CH2
       domain (about amino acids 231-340 of an antibody Fc region according to EU
       numbering), a CH3 domain (about amino acids 341-438 of an antibody Fc region
       according to EU numbering), a CH4 domain, or a variant, portion, or fragment thereof. In
       other embodiments, an Fc region comprises a complete Fc domain (i.e., a hinge domain, a
       CH2 domain, and a CH3 domain).             In some embodiments, an Fc region comprises,
       consists essentially of, or consists of a hinge domain (or a portion thereof) fused to a CH3
       domain (or a portion thereof), a hinge domain (or a portion thereof) fused to a CH2
       domain (or a portion thereof), a CH2 domain (or a portion thereof) fused to a CH3
       domain (or a portion thereof), a CH2 domain (or a portion thereof) fused to both a hinge
       domain (or a portion thereof) and a CH3 domain (or a portion thereof).          In still other
       embodiments, an Fc region lacks at least a portion of a CH2 domain (e.g., all or part of a
       CH2 domain). In a particular embodiment, an Fc region comprises or consists of amino
       acids corresponding to EU numbers 221 to 447.
[0181]         The Fc regions denoted as F, F1, or F2 herein may be obtained from a number of
       different sources. In one embodiment, an Fc region of the polypeptide is derived from a
       human immunoglobulin.        It is understood, however, that an Fc region may be derived
       from an immunoglobulin of another mammalian species, including for example, a rodent
       (e.g. a mouse, rat, rabbit, guinea pig) or non-human primate (e.g. chimpanzee, macaque)
       species. Moreover, the polypeptide of the Fc domains or portions thereof may be derived
       from any immunoglobulin class, including IgM, IgG, IgD, IgA and IgE, and any
       immunoglobulin isotype, including IgGl, IgG2, IgG3 and IgG4. In another embodiment,
       the human isotype IgGI is used.
[0182]         In certain embodiments, the Fc variant confers a change in at least one effector
       function imparted by an Fc region comprising said wild-type Fc domain (e.g., an
       improvement or reduction in the ability of the Fc region to bind to Fc receptors (e.g.
       FcyRI, FcyRII, or FcyRIII) or complement proteins (e.g. Clq), or to trigger antibody
       dependent cytotoxicity (ADCC), phagocytosis, or complement-dependent cytotoxicity
       (CDCC)). In other embodiments, the Fc variant provides an engineered cysteine residue.
[0183]         The Fc regions of the invention may employ art-recognized Fc variants which are
       known to impart a change (e.g., an enhancement or reduction) in effector function and/or
       FcR or FcRn binding. Specifically, a binding molecule of the invention may include, for

                                               81
       example, a change (e.g., a substitution) at one or more of the amino acid positions
       disclosed    in  International  PCT      Publications  W088/07089A1,       W096/14339A1,
       W098/05787A1, W098/23289A1, W099/51642A1, W099/58572A1, WOOO/09560A2,
       WOOO/32767A1,            WOOO/42072A2,             W002/44215A2,          W002/060919A2,
       W003/074569A2,           W004/016750A2,            W004/029207A2,         W004/035752A2,
       W004/063351A2,           W004/074455A2,            W004/099249A2,         WO05/040217A2,
       W004/044859,           WO05/070963A1,             WO05/077981A2,          WO05/092925A2,
       WOO5/123780A2,        W006/019447A1,       W006/047350A2,      and W006/085967A2;         US
       Patent   Publication    Nos.   US2007/0231329,        US2007/0231329,     US2007/0237765,
       US2007/0237766,          US2007/0237767,           US2007/0243188,         US20070248603,
       US20070286859, US20080057056 ; or US Patents 5,648,260; 5,739,277; 5,834,250;
       5,869,046; 6,096,871; 6,121,022; 6,194,551; 6,242,195; 6,277,375; 6,528,624; 6,538,124;
       6,737,056; 6,821,505; 6,998,253; 7,083,784; 7,404,956, and 7,317,091, each of which is
       incorporated by reference herein.      In one embodiment, the specific change (e.g., the
       specific substitution of one or more amino acids disclosed in the art) may be made at one
       or more of the disclosed amino acid positions. In another embodiment, a different change
       at one or more of the disclosed amino acid positions (e.g., the different substitution of one
       or more amino acid position disclosed in the art) may be made.
[0184]         The Fc region or FcRn binding partner of IgG can be modified according to well
       recognized procedures such as site directed mutagenesis and the like to yield modified
       IgG or Fc fragments or portions thereof that will be bound by FcRn. Such modifications
       include modifications remote from the FcRn contact sites as well as modifications within
       the contact sites that preserve or even enhance binding to the FcRn. For example, the
       following single amino acid residues in human IgGI Fc (Fc yl) can be substituted without
       significant loss of Fc binding affinity for FcRn: P238A, S239A, K246A, K248A, D249A,
       M252A, T256A, E258A, T260A, D265A, S267A, H268A, E269A, D270A, E272A,
       L274A, N276A, Y278A, D280A, V282A, E283A, H285A, N286A, T289A, K290A,
       R292A, E293A, E294A, Q295A, Y296F, N297A, S298A, Y300F, R301A, V303A,
       V305A, T307A, L309A, Q311A, D312A, N315A, K317A, E318A, K320A, K322A,
       S324A, K326A, A327Q, P329A, A330Q, P331A, E333A, K334A, T335A, S337A,
       K338A, K340A, Q342A, R344A, E345A, Q347A, R355A, E356A, M358A, T359A,
       K360A, N361A, Q362A, Y373A, S375A, D376A, A378Q, E380A, E382A, S383A,

                                              82
       N384A, Q386A, E388A, N389A, N390A, Y391F, K392A, L398A, S400A, D401A,
       D413A, K414A, R416A, Q418A, Q419A, N421A, V422A, S424A, E430A, N434A,
       T437A, Q438A, K439A, S440A, S444A, and K447A, where for example P238A
       represents wild type proline substituted by alanine at position number 238. As an
       example, a specific embodiment incorporates the N297A mutation, removing a highly
       conserved N-glycosylation site.      In addition to alanine other amino acids may be
       substituted for the wild type amino acids at the positions specified above. Mutations may
       be introduced singly into Fc giving rise to more than one hundred Fc regions distinct from
       the native Fc. Additionally, combinations of two, three, or more of these individual
       mutations may be introduced together, giving rise to hundreds more Fc regions.
       Moreover, one of the Fc region of a construct of the invention may be mutated and the
       other Fc region of the construct not mutated at all, or they both may be mutated but with
       different mutations.
[01851         Certain of the above mutations may confer new functionality upon the Fc region
       or FcRn binding partner. For example, one embodiment incorporates N297A, removing a
       highly conserved N-glycosylation site. The effect of this mutation is to reduce
       immunogenicity, thereby enhancing circulating half-life of the Fc region, and to render
       the Fc region incapable of binding to FcyRI, FcyRIIA, FcyRIIB, and FcyRIIIA, without
       compromising affinity for FcRn (Routledge et al. 1995, Transplantation 60:847; Friend et
       al. 1999, Transplantation 68:1632; Shields et al. 1995, J. Biol. Chem. 276:6591). As a
       further example of new functionality arising from mutations described above affinity for
       FcRn may be increased beyond that of wild type in some instances. This increased
       affinity may reflect an increased "on" rate, a decreased "off' rate or both an increased
       "on" rate and a decreased "off' rate.      Examples of mutations believed to impart an
       increased affinity for FcRn include, but not limited to, T256A, T307A, E380A, and
       N434A (Shields et al. 2001, J. Biol. Chem. 276:6591).
[0186]         Additionally, at least three human Fc gamma receptors appear to recognize a
       binding site on IgG within the lower hinge region, generally amino acids 234-237.
       Therefore, another example of new functionality and potential decreased immunogenicity
       may arise from mutations of this region, as for example by replacing amino acids 233-236
       of human IgGI "ELLG" to the corresponding sequence from IgG2 "PVA" (with one
       amino acid deletion). It has been shown that FcyRI, FcyRII, and FcyRIII, which mediate

                                               83
       various effector functions will not bind to IgGI when such mutations have been
       introduced. Ward and Ghetie 1995, Therapeutic Immunology 2:77 and Armour et al.
       1999, Eur. J. Immunol. 29:2613.
[01871         In one embodiment, the immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof, e.g,
       an Fc region, is a polypeptide including the sequence PKNSSMISNTP (SEQ ID NO: 3)
       and optionally further including a sequence selected from HQSLGTQ (SEQ ID NO: 4),
       HQNLSDGK (SEQ ID NO: 5), HQNISDGK (SEQ ID NO: 6), or VISSHLGQ (SEQ ID
       NO: 7) (U.S. Pat. No. 5,739,277).
[0188]         In another embodiment, the immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof
       comprises an amino acid sequence in the hinge region or a portion thereof that forms one
       or more disulfide bonds with another immunoglobulin constant region or a portion
       thereof. The disulfide bond by the immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof
       places the first polypeptide comprising FVIII and the second polypeptide comprising the
       VWF fragment together so that endogenous VWF does not replace the VWF fragment
       and does not bind to the FVIII.          Therefore, the disulfide bond between the first
       immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof and a second immunoglobulin
       constant region or a portion thereof prevents interaction between endogenous VWF and
       the FVIII protein. This inhibition of interaction between the VWF and the FVIII protein
       allows the half-life of the FVIII protein to go beyond the two fold limit. The hinge region
       or a portion thereof can further be linked to one or more domains of CHI, CH2, CH3, a
       fragment thereof, and any combinations thereof.             In a particular example, an
       immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof comprises a hinge region and CH2
       region (e.g., amino acids 221-340 of an Fc region).
[0189]         In certain embodiments, the immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof
       is hemi-glycosylated. For example, the chimeric protein comprising two Fc regions or
       FcRn binding partners may contain a first, glycosylated, Fc region (e.g., a glycosylated
       CH2 region) or FcRn binding partner and a second, aglycosylated, Fc region (e.g., an
       aglycosylated CH2 region) or FcRn binding partner. In one embodiment, a linker may be
       interposed between the glycosylated and aglycosylated Fc regions.               In another
       embodiment, the Fc region or FcRn binding partner is fully glycosylated, i.e., all of the Fc
       regions are glycosylated. In other embodiments, the Fc region may be aglycosylated, i.e.,
       none of the Fc moieties are glycosylated.

                                               84
[0190]         In certain embodiments, a chimeric protein of the invention comprises an amino
       acid substitution to an immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof (e.g., Fc
       variants), which alters the antigen-independent effector functions of the Ig constant
       region, in particular the circulating half-life of the protein.
[0191]         Such proteins exhibit either increased or decreased binding to FcRn when
       compared to proteins lacking these substitutions and, therefore, have an increased or
       decreased half-life in serum, respectively. Fc variants with improved affinity for FcRn
       are anticipated to have longer serum half-lives, and such molecules have useful
       applications in methods of treating mammals where long half-life of the administered
       polypeptide is desired, e.g., to treat a chronic disease or disorder (see, e.g, US Patents
       7,348,004, 7,404,956, and 7,862,820). In contrast, Fc variants with decreased FcRn
       binding affinity are expected to have shorter half-lives, and such molecules are also
       useful, for example, for administration to a mammal where a shortened circulation time
       may be advantageous, e.g. for in vivo diagnostic imaging or in situations where the
       starting polypeptide has toxic side effects when present in the circulation for prolonged
       periods. Fc variants with decreased FcRn binding affinity are also less likely to cross the
       placenta and, thus, are also useful in the treatment of diseases or disorders in pregnant
       women. In addition, other applications in which reduced FcRn binding affinity may be
       desired include those applications in which localization the brain, kidney, and/or liver is
       desired. In one exemplary embodiment, the chimeric protein of the invention exhibit
       reduced transport across the epithelium of kidney glomeruli from the vasculature.        In
       another embodiment, the chimeric protein of the invention exhibit reduced transport
       across the blood brain barrier (BBB) from the brain, into the vascular space.       In one
       embodiment, a protein with altered FcRn binding comprises at least one Fc region or
       FcRn binding partner (e.g, one or two Fc regions or FcRn binding partners) having one or
       more amino acid substitutions within the "FcRn binding loop" of an Ig constant region.
       The FcRn binding loop is comprised of amino acid residues 280-299 (according to EU
       numbering) of a wild-type, full-length, Fc region. In other embodiments, an Ig constant
       region or a portion thereof in a chimeric protein of the invention having altered FcRn
       binding affinity comprises at least one Fc region or FcRn binding partner having one or
       more amino acid substitutions within the 15      A FcRn "contact zone." As used herein, the
       term 15   A FcRn   "contact zone" includes residues at the following positions of a wild-

                                               85
       type, full-length Fc moiety: 243-261, 275-280, 282-293, 302-319, 336- 348, 367, 369,
       372-389, 391, 393, 408, 424, 425-440 (EU numbering).            In other embodiments, a Ig
       constant region or a portion thereof of the invention having altered FcRn binding affinity
       comprises at least one Fc region or FcRn binding partner having one or more amino acid
       substitutions at an amino acid position corresponding to any one of the following EU
       positions: 256, 277-281, 283-288, 303-309, 313, 338, 342, 376, 381, 384, 385, 387, 434
       (e.g., N434A or N434K), and 438. Exemplary amino acid substitutions which altered
       FcRn binding activity are disclosed in International PCT Publication No. W005/047327
       which is incorporated by reference herein.
[0192]          An Fc region or FcRn binding partner used in the invention may also comprise an
       art recognized amino acid substitution which alters the glycosylation of the chimeric
       protein.    For example, the Fc region or FcRn binding partner of the chimeric protein
       linked to a VWF fragment or a FVIII protein may comprise an Fc region having a
       mutation leading to reduced glycosylation (e.g., N- or O-linked glycosylation) or may
       comprise an altered glycoform of the wild-type Fc moiety (e.g., a low fucose or fucose
       free glycan).
[0193]          In one embodiment, an unprocessed chimeric protein of the invention may
       comprise a genetically fused Fc region (i.e., scFc region) having two or more of its
       constituent Ig constant region or a portion thereof independently selected from the Ig
       constant region or a portion thereof described herein. In one embodiment, the Fc regions
       of a dimeric Fc region are the same. In another embodiment, at least two of the Fc
       regions are different.     For example, the Fc regions or FcRn binding partners of the
       proteins of the invention comprise the same number of amino acid residues or they may
       differ in length by one or more amino acid residues (e.g., by about 5 amino acid residues
       (e.g., 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 amino acid residues), about 10 residues, about 15 residues, about 20
       residues, about 30 residues, about 40 residues, or about 50 residues).          In yet other
       embodiments, the Fc regions or FcRn binding partners of the protein of the invention may
       differ in sequence at one or more amino acid positions. For example, at least two of the
       Fc regions or FcRn binding partners may differ at about 5 amino acid positions (e.g., 1, 2,
       3, 4, or 5 amino acid positions), about 10 positions, about 15 positions, about 20
       positions, about 30 positions, about 40 positions, or about 50 positions).

                                              86
       2) Albumin or fragment, or variant thereof
[0194]         In certain embodiments, the heterologous moiety linked to the VWF fragment or
       linked to a FVIII protein is albumin or a functional fragment thereof.            In other
       embodiments, a chimeric protein of the invention comprises a FVIII protein and albumin
       or a fragment thereof, wherein the albumin or a fragment thereof shields or protects the
       VWF binding site on the FVIII protein, thereby inhibiting or preventing interaction of the
       FVIII protein with endogenous VWF.
[01951         Human serum albumin (HSA, or HA), a protein of 609 amino acids in its full
       length form, is responsible for a significant proportion of the osmotic pressure of serum
       and also functions as a carrier of endogenous and exogenous ligands. The term "albumin"
       as used herein includes full-length albumin or a functional fragment, variant, derivative,
       or analog thereof.
[0196]         In one embodiment, the chimeric protein comprises the VWF fragment described
       herein and albumin, fragment, or variant thereof, wherein the VWF fragment is linked to
       albumin or a fragment or variant thereof. In another embodiment, the chimeric protein
       comprises the VWF fragment and a FVIII protein, which are bound to each other,
       wherein the VWF fragment is linked to albumin or a fragment or variant thereof, the
       protein having VIII activity is linked to albumin or a fragment or variant thereof, or both
       the VWF fragment and the protein having VIII activity are linked to albumin or a
       fragment or variant thereof. In other embodiments, the chimeric protein comprises the
       VWF fragment linked to albumin or a fragment or variant thereof is further linked to a
       heterologous moiety selected from the group consisting of an immunoglobulin constant
       region or a portion thereof (e.g., an Fc region), a PAS sequence, HES, and PEG. In still
       other embodiments, the chimeric protein comprises the VWF fragment and a FVIII
       protein, which are bound to each other, wherein the FVIII protein is linked to albumin or
       a fragment or variant thereof and further linked to a heterologous moiety selected from
       the group consisting of an immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof (e.g., an
       Fc region), a PAS sequence, HES, and PEG. In yet other embodiments, the chimeric
       protein comprises the VWF fragment linked to albumin or a fragment or variant thereof
       and a FVIII protein linked to albumin or a fragment or variant thereof, which are bound to
       each other, wherein the VWF fragment activity is further linked to a first heterologous
       moiety selected from the group consisting of an immunoglobulin constant region or a

                                                 87
       portion thereof (e.g., an Fc region), a PAS sequence, HES, and PEG and wherein the
       FVIII protein activity is further linked to a second heterologous moiety selected from the
       group consisting of an immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof (e.g., an Fc
       region), a PAS sequence, HES, and PEG.
[01971         In other embodiments, the heterologous moiety linked to the VWF fragment or the
       FVIII protein is albumin or a fragment or variant thereof, which extends (or is capable of
       extending) the half-life of the VWF fragment or the FVIII protein. Further examples of
       albumin or the fragments or variants thereof are disclosed in US Pat. Publ. Nos.
       2008/0194481A1,         2008/0004206     Al,   2008/0161243     Al,   2008/0261877       Al,   or
       2008/0153751 Al or PCT Appl. Publ. Nos. 2008/033413 A2, 2009/058322 Al, or
       2007/021494 A2.
       3) Albumin Binding Moiety
[0198]         In certain embodiments, the heterologous moiety linked to the VWF fragment or
       the FVIII protein is an albumin binding moiety, which comprises an albumin binding
       peptide, a bacterial albumin binding domain, an albumin-binding antibody fragment, or
       any combinations thereof. For example, the albumin binding protein can be a bacterial
       albumin binding protein, an antibody or an antibody fragment including domain
       antibodies (see U.S. Pat. No. 6,696,245). An albumin binding protein, for example, can
       be a bacterial albumin binding domain, such as the one of streptococcal protein G (Konig,
       T. and Skerra, A. (1998) J. Immunol. Methods 218, 73-83). Other examples of albumin
       binding peptides that can be used as conjugation partner are, for instance, those having a
       Cys-Xaa    1 -Xaa 2 -Xaa 3 -Xaa 4 -Cys consensus sequence, wherein Xaa 1 is Asp, Asn, Ser,
       Thr, or  T rp; Xaa  2is  Asn, Gln, H is, Ile, Leu, or Lys; Xaa 3 is Ala, Asp, Phe, T rp,  or Tyr;
       and Xaa    4is Asp, Gly, Leu, Phe, Ser, or Thr as described in US patent application
       2003/0069395 or Dennis et al. (Dennis et al. (2002) J. Biol. Chem. 277, 35035-35043).
       4) PAS Sequence
[0199]         In other embodiments, the heterologous moiety linked to the VWF fragment or to
       the FVIII protein is a PAS sequence. In one embodiment, the chimeric protein comprises
       a VWF fragment described herein and a PAS sequence, wherein the VWF fragment is
       linked to the PAS sequence. In another embodiment, a chimeric protein of the invention
       comprises a FVIII protein and a PAS sequence, wherein the PAS sequence shields or

                                              88
       protects the VWF binding site on the FVIII protein, thereby inhibiting or preventing
       interaction of the FVIII protein with endogenous VWF.
[0200]         A PAS sequence, as used herein, means an amino acid sequence comprising
       mainly alanine and serine residues or comprising mainly alanine, serine, and proline
       residues, the amino acid sequence forming random coil conformation under physiological
       conditions. Accordingly, the PAS sequence is a building block, an amino acid polymer,
       or a sequence cassette comprising, consisting essentially of, or consisting of alanine,
       serine, and proline which can be used as a part of the heterologous moiety in the chimeric
       protein.   Yet, the skilled person is aware that an amino acid polymer also may form
       random coil conformation when residues other than alanine, serine, and proline are added
       as a minor constituent in the PAS sequence. The term "minor constituent" as used herein
       means that amino acids other than alanine, serine, and proline may be added in the PAS
       sequence to a certain degree, e.g., up to about 12%, i.e., about 12 of 100 amino acids of
       the PAS sequence, up to about 10%, i.e. about 10 of 100 amino acids of the PAS
       sequence, up to about 9%, i.e., about 9 of 100 amino acids, up to about 8%, i.e., about 8
       of 100 amino acids, about 6%, i.e., about 6 of 100 amino acids, about 5%, i.e., about 5 of
       100 amino acids, about 4%, i.e., about 4 of 100 amino acids, about 3%, i.e., about 3 of
       100 amino acids, about 2%, i.e., about 2 of 100 amino acids, about 1%, i.e., about 1 of
       100 of the amino acids. The amino acids different from alanine, serine and proline may
       be selected from the group consisting of Arg, Asn, Asp, Cys, Gln, Glu, Gly, His, Ile, Leu,
       Lys, Met, Phe, Thr, Trp, Tyr, and Val.
[0201]         Under physiological conditions, the PAS sequence stretch forms a random coil
       conformation and thereby can mediate an increased in vivo and/or in vitro stability to the
       VWF factor or the protein of coagulation activity. Since the random coil domain does not
       adopt a stable structure or function by itself, the biological activity mediated by the VWF
       fragment or the FVIII protein to which it is fused is essentially preserved.         In other
       embodiments, the PAS sequences that form random coil domain are biologically inert,
       especially with respect to proteolysis in blood plasma, immunogenicity, isoelectric
       point/electrostatic behavior, binding to cell surface receptors or internalization, but are
       still biodegradable, which provides clear advantages over synthetic polymers such as
       PEG.

                                               89
[02021         Non-limiting examples of the PAS sequences forming random coil conformation
       comprise     an   amino   acid   sequence      selected    from   the   group    consisting    of
       ASPAAPAPASPAAPAPSAPA              (SEQ ID NO: 8), AAPASPAPAAPSAPAPAAPS                     (SEQ
       ID NO: 9), APSSPSPSAPSSPSPASPSS (SEQ ID NO: 10), APSSPSPSAPSSPSPASPS
       (SEQ      ID     NO:    11),    SSPSAPSPSSPASPSPSSPA                (SEQ     ID     NO:      12),
       AASPAAPSAPPAAASPAAPSAPPA                        (SEQ          ID       NO:        13)        and
       ASAAAPAAASAAASAPSAAA                 (SEQ ID NO: 14) or any combinations thereof.
       Additional examples of PAS sequences are known from, e.g., US Pat. Publ. No.
       2010/0292130 Al and PCT Appl. Publ. No. WO 2008/155134 Al.
       5) HAP Sequence
[0203]         In certain embodiments, the heterologous moiety linked to the VWF fragment or
       the FVIII protein is a glycine-rich homo-amino-acid polymer (HAP). The HAP sequence
       can comprise a repetitive sequence of glycine, which has at least 50 amino acids, at least
       100 amino acids, 120 amino acids, 140 amino acids, 160 amino acids, 180 amino acids,
       200 amino acids, 250 amino acids, 300 amino acids, 350 amino acids, 400 amino acids,
       450 amino acids, or 500 amino acids in length. In one embodiment, the HAP sequence is
       capable of extending half-life of a moiety fused to or linked to the HAP sequence. Non
       limiting examples of the HAP sequence includes, but are not limited to (Gly), (Gly 4Ser)1
       or S(Gly 4 Ser), wherein n is 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19,
       or 20. In one embodiment, n is 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 26, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34,
       35, 36, 37, 38, 39, or 40. In another embodiment, n is 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 100, 110, 120,
       130, 140, 150, 160, 170, 180, 190, or 200. See, e.g., Schlapschy M et al., Protein Eng.
       Design Selection, 20: 273-284 (2007).
       6) Transferrin or Fragment thereof
[0204]         In certain embodiments, the heterologous moiety linked to the VWF fragment or
       the FVIII protein is transferrin or a fragment thereof. Any transferrin may be used to
       make the chimeric proteins of the invention. As an example, wild-type human Tf (Tf) is a
       679 amino acid protein, of approximately 75 KDa (not accounting for glycosylation),
       with two main domains, N (about 330 amino acids) and C (about 340 amino acids), which
       appear to originate from a gene duplication. See GenBank accession numbers
       NM001063,        XM002793,      M12530,      XM039845,         XM     039847     and     S95936

                                              90
       (www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/), all of which are herein incorporated by reference in their
       entirety. Transferrin comprises two domains, N domain and C domain. N domain
       comprises two subdomains, NI domain and N2 domain, and C domain comprises two
       subdomains, C1 domain and C2 domain.
[02051           In one embodiment, the transferrin portion of the chimeric protein includes
       a transferrin splice variant. In one example, a transferrin splice variant can be a splice
       variant of human transferrin, e.g.,       Genbank Accession AAA61140.            In another
       embodiment, the transferrin portion of the chimeric protein includes one or more domains
       of the transferrin sequence, e.g., N domain, C domain, NI domain, N2 domain, Cl
       domain, C2 domain or any combinations thereof.
       7) Polymer, e.g., Polyethylene Glycol (PEG)
[0206]          In other embodiments, the heterologous moiety attached to the VWF fragment or
       the protein having clotting activity, e.g. FVIII activity, is a soluble polymer known in the
       art, including, but not limited to, polyethylene glycol, ethylene glycol/propylene glycol
       copolymers, carboxymethylcellulose, dextran, or polyvinyl alcohol.          The heterologous
       moiety such as soluble polymer can be attached to any positions within the VWF
       fragment or the FVIII protein or the N- or C- terminus. In still other embodiments, a
       chimeric protein of the invention comprises a FVIII protein and PEG, wherein PEG
       shields or protects the VWF binding site on the FVIII protein, thereby inhibiting or
       preventing interaction of the FVIII protein with endogenous VWF.
[02071          In certain embodiments, the chimeric protein comprises the VWF fragment
       described herein and PEG, wherein the VWF fragment is linked to PEG. In another
       embodiment, the chimeric protein comprises the VWF fragment and a FVIII protein,
       which are bound to each other, wherein the VWF fragment is linked to PEG, the FVIII
       protein is linked to PEG, or both the VWF fragment and the FVIII protein are linked to
       PEG. In other embodiments, the chimeric protein comprising the VWF fragment linked
       to PEG is further linked to a heterologous moiety selected from the group consisting of an
       immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof (e.g., an Fc region), a PAS sequence,
       HES, and albumin, fragment, or variant thereof. In still other embodiments, the chimeric
       protein comprises the VWF fragment and a FVIII protein, which are bound to each other,
       wherein the FVIII protein is further linked to a heterologous moiety selected from the
       group consisting of an immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof (e.g., an Fc

                                                91
       region), a PAS sequence, HES, and albumin, fragment, or variant thereof          In yet other
       embodiments, the chimeric protein comprises the VWF fragment linked to PEG and a
       FVIII protein linked to PEG, which are bound to each other, wherein the VWF fragment
       activity is further linked to a first heterologous moiety selected from the group consisting
       of an immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof (e.g., an Fc region), a PAS
       sequence, HES, and albumin, fragment, or variant thereof and wherein the FVIII protein
       activity is further linked to a second heterologous moiety selected from the group
       consisting of an immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof (e.g., an Fc region),
       a PAS sequence, HES, and albumin, fragment, or variant thereof.
[0208]         Also provided by the invention are chemically modified derivatives of the
       chimeric protein of the invention which may provide additional advantages such as
       increased solubility, stability and circulating time of the polypeptide, or decreased
       immunogenicity (see U.S. Pat. No. 4,179,337). The chemical moieties for modification
       can be selected from the group consisting of water soluble polymers including, but not
       limited    to,  polyethylene     glycol,   ethylene glycol/propylene   glycol   copolymers,
       carboxymethylcellulose, dextran, and polyvinyl alcohol. The chimeric protein may be
       modified at random positions within the molecule or at the N- or C- terminus, or at
       predetermined positions within the molecule and may include one, two, three or more
       attached chemical moieties.
[0209]         The polymer can be of any molecular weight, and can be branched or unbranched.
       For polyethylene glycol, in one embodiment, the molecular weight is between about 1
       kDa and about 100 kDa for ease in handling and manufacturing.            Other sizes may be
       used, depending on the desired profile (e.g., the duration of sustained release desired, the
       effects, if any on biological activity, the ease in handling, the degree or lack of
       antigenicity and other known effects of the polyethylene glycol to a protein or analog).
       For example, the polyethylene glycol may have an average molecular weight of about
       200, 500, 1000, 1500, 2000, 2500, 3000, 3500, 4000, 4500, 5000, 5500, 6000, 6500,
       7000, 7500, 8000, 8500, 9000, 9500, 10,000, 10,500, 11,000, 11,500, 12,000, 12,500,
       13,000, 13,500, 14,000, 14,500, 15,000, 15,500, 16,000, 16,500, 17,000, 17,500, 18,000,
       18,500, 19,000, 19,500, 20,000, 25,000, 30,000, 35,000, 40,000, 45,000, 50,000, 55,000,
       60,000, 65,000, 70,000, 75,000, 80,000, 85,000, 90,000, 95,000, or 100,000 kDa.

                                              92
[02101         In some embodiments, the polyethylene glycol may have a branched structure.
       Branched polyethylene glycols are described, for example, in U.S. Pat. No. 5,643,575;
       Morpurgo et al., Appl. Biochem. Biotechnol. 56:59-72 (1996);             Vorobjev et al.,
       Nucleosides Nucleotides 18:2745-2750 (1999); and Caliceti et al., Bioconjug. Chem.
       10:638-646 (1999), each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
[0211]         The number of polyethylene glycol moieties attached to each chimeric protein, the
       VWF fragment, or the FVIII protein of the invention (i.e., the degree of substitution) may
       also vary. For example, the pegylated proteins of the invention may be linked, on average,
       to 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 15, 17, 20, or more polyethylene glycol molecules.
       Similarly, the average degree of substitution within ranges such as 1-3, 2-4, 3-5, 4-6, 5-7,
       6-8, 7-9, 8-10, 9-11, 10-12, 11-13, 12-14, 13-15, 14-16, 15-17, 16-18, 17-19, or 18-20
       polyethylene glycol moieties per protein molecule. Methods for determining the degree of
       substitution are discussed, for example, in Delgado et al., Crit. Rev. Thera. Drug Carrier
       Sys. 9:249-304 (1992).
[0212]         In some embodiments, the FVIII protein may be PEGylated. PEGylated Factor
       VIII can refer to a conjugate formed between Factor VIII and at least one polyethylene
       glycol (PEG) molecule.
[0213]         In other embodiments, a FVIII protein used in the invention is conjugated to one
       or more polymers. The polymer can be water-soluble and covalently or non-covalently
       attached to Factor VIII or other moieties conjugated to Factor VIII.          Non-limiting
       examples of the polymer can be poly(alkylene oxide), poly(vinyl pyrrolidone), poly(vinyl
       alcohol), polyoxazoline, or poly(acryloylmorpholine).       Additional types of polymer
       conjugated FVIII are disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 7,199,223.
       8) Hydroxyethyl Starch (HES)
[0214]         In certain embodiments, the heterologous moiety linked to the VWF fragment or
       the FVIII protein is a polymer, e.g., hydroxyethyl starch (HES) or a derivative thereof. In
       one embodiment, a chimeric protein comprises a VWF fragment described herein and
       HES, wherein the VWF fragment is linked to HES. In other embodiments, a chimeric
       protein of the invention comprises a FVIII protein fused to hydroxyethyl starch (HES),
       wherein the hydroxyethyl starch or a derivative thereof shields or protects the VWF
       binding site on the FVIII protein from endogenous VWF, thereby inhibiting or preventing
       interaction of the FVIII protein with endogenous VWF.

                                               93
[02151         Hydroxyethyl starch (HES) is a derivative of naturally occurring amylopectin and
       is degraded by alpha-amylase in the body.           HES is a substituted derivative of the
       carbohydrate polymer amylopectin, which is present in corn starch at a concentration of
       up to 95% by weight. HES exhibits advantageous biological properties and is used as a
       blood    volume replacement       agent    and in    hemodilution     therapy in the clinics
       (Sommermeyer et al., Krankenhauspharmazie, 8(8), 271-278 (1987); and Weidler et al.,
       Arzneim.-Forschung/DrugRes., 41, 494-498 (1991)).
[0216]         Amylopectin contains glucose moieties, wherein in the main chain alpha-1,4
       glycosidic bonds are present and at the branching sites alpha-1,6-glycosidic bonds are
       found. The physical-chemical properties of this molecule are mainly determined by the
       type of glycosidic bonds. Due to the nicked alpha-1,4-glycosidic bond, helical structures
       with about six glucose-monomers per turn are produced. The physico-chemical as well as
       the biochemical properties of the polymer can be modified via substitution. The
       introduction of a hydroxyethyl group can be achieved via alkaline hydroxyethylation. By
       adapting the reaction conditions it is possible to exploit the different reactivity of the
       respective hydroxy group in the unsubstituted glucose monomer with respect to a
       hydroxyethylation. Owing to this fact, the skilled person is able to influence the
       substitution pattern to a limited extent.
[02171         HES is mainly characterized by the molecular weight distribution and the degree
       of substitution.    The degree of substitution, denoted as DS, relates to the molar
       substitution,  is   known     to   the    skilled people.       See    Sommermeyer   et  al.,
       Krankenhauspharmazie,8(8), 271-278 (1987), as cited above, in particular p. 273.
[0218]         In one embodiment, hydroxyethyl starch has a mean molecular weight (weight
       mean) of from 1 to 300 kD, from 2 to 200kD, from 3 to 100 kD, or from 4 to 70kD.
       hydroxyethyl starch can further exhibit a molar degree of substitution of from 0.1 to 3,
       preferably 0.1 to 2, more preferred, 0.1 to 0.9, preferably 0.1 to 0.8, and a ratio between
       C2:C6 substitution in the range of from 2 to 20 with respect to the hydroxyethyl groups.
       A non-limiting example of HES having a mean molecular weight of about 130 kD is a
       HES with a degree of substitution of 0.2 to 0.8 such as 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, 0.5, 0.6, 0.7, or 0.8,
       preferably of 0.4 to 0.7 such as 0.4, 0.5, 0.6, or 0.7. In a specific embodiment, HES with a
       mean molecular weight of about 130 kD is VOLUVEN* from Fresenius. VOLUVEN* is
       an artificial colloid, employed, e.g., for volume replacement used in the therapeutic

                                             94
       indication   for therapy and prophylaxis of hypovolaemia. The characteristics             of
       VOLUVEN* are a mean molecular weight of 130,000+/-20,000 D, a molar substitution
       of 0.4 and a C2:C6 ratio of about 9:1. In other embodiments, ranges of the mean
       molecular weight of hydroxyethyl starch are, e.g., 4 to 70 kD or 10 to 70 kD or 12 to 70
       kD or 18 to 70 kD or 50 to 70 kD or 4 to 50 kD or 10 to 50 kD or 12 to 50 kD or 18 to 50
       kD or 4 to 18 kD or 10 to 18 kD or 12 to 18 kD or 4 to 12 kD or 10 to 12 kD or 4 to 10
       kD.    In still other embodiments, the mean molecular weight of hydroxyethyl starch
       employed is in the range of from more than 4 kD and below 70 kD, such as about 10 kD,
       or in the range of from 9 to 10 kD or from 10 to 11 kD or from 9 to 11 kD, or about 12
       kD, or in the range of from 11 to 12 kD) or from 12 to 13 kD or from 11 to 13 kD, or
       about 18 kD, or in the range of from 17 to 18 kD or from 18 to 19 kD or from 17 to 19
       kD, or about 30 kD, or in the range of from 29 to 30, or from 30 to 31 kD, or about 50
       kD, or in the range of from 49 to 50 kD or from 50 to 51 kD or from 49 to 51 kD.
[0219]         In certain embodiments, the heterologous moiety can be mixtures of hydroxyethyl
       starches having different mean molecular weights and/or different degrees of substitution
       and/or different ratios of C2: C6 substitution. Therefore, mixtures of hydroxyethyl
       starches may be employed having different mean molecular weights and different degrees
       of substitution and different ratios of C2: C6 substitution, or having different mean
       molecular weights and different degrees of substitution and the same or about the same
       ratio of C2:C6 substitution, or having different mean molecular weights and the same or
       about the same degree of substitution and different ratios of C2:C6 substitution, or having
       the same or about the same mean molecular weight and different degrees of substitution
       and different ratios of C2:C6 substitution, or having different mean molecular weights
       and the same or about the same degree of substitution and the same or about the same
       ratio of C2:C6 substitution, or having the same or about the same mean molecular
       weights and different degrees of substitution and the same or about the same ratio of
       C2:C6 substitution, or having the same or about the same mean molecular weight and the
       same or about the same degree of substitution and different ratios of C2: C6 substitution,
       or having about the same mean molecular weight and about the same degree of
       substitution and about the same ratio of C2:C6 substitution.

                                              95
       9) Polysialic Acids (PSA)
[0220]         In certain embodiments, the non-polypeptide heterologous moiety linked to the
       VWF fragment or the FVIII protein is a polymer, e.g., polysialic acids (PSAs) or a
       derivative thereof. Polysialic acids (PSAs) are naturally occurring unbranched polymers
       of sialic acid produced by certain bacterial strains and in mammals in certain cells
       Roth J., et    al.   (1993)     in Polysialic   Acid:    From     Microbes      to   Man,
       eds Roth J., Rutishauser U., Troy F. A. (Birkhauser Verlag, Basel, Switzerland), pp 335
       348.. They can be produced in various degrees of polymerization from n=about 80 or
       more sialic acid residues down to n=2 by limited acid hydrolysis or by digestion with
       neuraminidases, or by fractionation of the natural, bacterially derived forms of the
       polymer. The composition of different polysialic acids also varies such that there are
       homopolymeric forms i.e. the alpha-2,8-linked polysialic acid comprising the capsular
       polysaccharide of E. coli strain KI and the group-B meningococci, which is also found on
       the embryonic form of the neuronal cell adhesion molecule (N-CAM). Heteropolymeric
       forms    also exist-such as the alternating       alpha-2,8 alpha-2,9 polysialic acid of E.
       coli strain K92 and group C polysaccharides of N. meningitidis. Sialic acid may also be
       found in alternating copolymers with monomers other than sialic acid such as group
       W135 or group Y of N. meningitidis. Polysialic acids have important biological functions
       including the evasion of the immune and complement systems by pathogenic bacteria and
       the regulation of glial adhesiveness of immature neurons during foetal development
       (wherein the polymer has an anti-adhesive function) Cho and Troy, P.N.A.S., USA, 91
       (1994)    11427-11431,   although there are no known receptors for polysialic acids in
       mammals. The alpha-2,8-linked polysialic acid of E. coli strain KI is also known as
       'colominic acid' and is used (in various lengths) to exemplify the present invention.
       Various methods of attaching or conjugating polysialic acids to a polypeptide have been
       described    (for  example,    see  U.S.   Pat.  No.   5,846,951;  WO-A-0187922,       and
       US 2007/0191597 Al, which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.
       C)      FVIII Protein
[0221]         "A FVIII protein" as used herein means a functional FVIII polypeptide in its
       normal role in coagulation, unless otherwise specified. The term a FVIII protein includes
       a functional fragment, variant, analog, or derivative thereof that retains the function of

                                              96
       full-length wild-type Factor VIII in the coagulation pathway. "A FVIII protein" is used
       interchangeably with FVIII polypeptide (or protein) or FVIII. Examples of the FVIII
       functions include, but not limited to, an ability to activate coagulation, an ability to act as
       a cofactor for factor IX, or an ability to form a tenase complex with factor IX in the
       presence of Ca2+ and phospholipids, which then converts Factor X to the activated form
       Xa. The FVIII protein can be the human, porcine, canine, rat, or murine FVIII protein.
       In addition, comparisons between FVIII from humans and other species have identified
       conserved residues that are likely to be required for function (Cameron et al., Thromb.
       Haemost. 79:317-22 (1998); US 6,251,632).
[0222]         A number of tests are available to assess the function of the coagulation system:
       activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) test, chromogenic assay, ROTEM assay,
       prothrombin time (PT) test (also used to determine INR), fibrinogen testing (often by the
       Clauss method), platelet count, platelet function testing (often by PFA-100), TCT,
       bleeding time, mixing test (whether an abnormality corrects if the patient's plasma is
       mixed with normal plasma), coagulation factor assays, antiphosholipid antibodies, D
       dimer, genetic tests (e.g. factor V Leiden, prothrombin mutation G20210A), dilute
       Russell's   viper   venom     time   (dRVVT),     miscellaneous    platelet   function   tests,
       thromboelastography (TEG or Sonoclot), thromboelastometry (TEM*, e.g, ROTEM*), or
       euglobulin lysis time (ELT).
[0223]         The aPTT test is a performance indicator measuring the efficacy of both the
       "intrinsic" (also referred to the contact activation pathway) and the common coagulation
       pathways.    This test is commonly used to measure clotting activity of commercially
       available recombinant clotting factors, e.g., FVIII or FIX. It is used in conjunction with
       prothrombin time (PT), which measures the extrinsic pathway.
[0224]         ROTEM analysis provides information on the whole kinetics of haemostasis:
       clotting time, clot formation, clot stability and lysis.       The different parameters in
       thromboelastometry are dependent on the activity of the plasmatic coagulation system,
       platelet function, fibrinolysis, or many factors which influence these interactions. This
       assay can provide a complete view of secondary haemostasis.
[02251         The FVIII polypeptide and polynucleotide sequences are known, as are many
       functional fragments, mutants and modified versions.            Examples of human FVIII
       sequences (full-length) are shown as subsequences in SEQ ID NO: 16 or 18.

                                                                                   97
 Table 2. Full-length FYIJI (FYIJI signal peptide underlined; FYIJI heavy chain is double
 underlined; B domain is italicized; and FYIJI light chain is in plain text)
  Signal Peptide: (SEQ ID NO: 15)
   MQ IEIIST-CF-FIC ILRFCF S
 Mature Factor VIII (SEQ ID NO: 16)*
 T-FR.YYILGA-VELSW DYMv1SDLC- GET PVD,,AFFPPRVPKS FPFNT SVV-YKKTLIFVEFTDHIlIFN.                                                                                        IAPRPW TL
 G PT -1 QAEVYITVT TLK NMA S H P VS LHAV GV SWKA S EG A EYDD11-5.5T -s nR EIKE DDK VFT-G3_G-S -H T -1 VLKEN
 GPP4ASDPL CLTYSYT 0 HV,-'' 7KDI -SG:-                                              LLCE Tj"Kr T'O TK ST' ', -                                           f1R
  rDDD'SP SF1 QI RSV\ 7 KIPK -W-V.-1VTZVkFFEEDW,,,DYAPL ,-,'-                                                              PDR~fl     TdKNPQRTCPFYKKVRFMAYT
IDETFKTREAI QHE S- T GPT TY-                                     GDTL II iFKNOASIRPY I t-14 T IDVRPI'Y SRT - PK--7VriKD -P IJ
  PGEIF.1KYKW,,,TV ,TVEPPTKSDP.C T                                         TY'SFVN7, MEFRDTJSGI''T rN                              Tr'FCjDQfr4D)NTF
  SVFDENRSWJYL frN1RLN-(                                                                                  MLDEF                HS1~ TNCGYU%'Th(
                                                                                                                                             O-L@;JrCLHEVA,.7YILS cIGAQTEF
       SVFWSGiE HNVET LPT S,'                                '-',7MM'.JGLTC                                 -P       RNGMA                        EJ\ ILrDK DYY_
  DS~ )S           ',IL KNN        -E         -c-                                                                  7SQC
                                     - --- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
                                                                                                              'prRTTTQ
     'TKQPGAG                                RFIAGYQAPLRSSNWTKEFWVLAM                                                                                       TIHGCI"ITT,
       7ARQIFSSLYIS71F6                                                                             IMSDKWTRNTTMFGVSIHINP IARIRLTHSIR
                            TLRMLMGDLNSSMPGMESAISAQITSSYTNMFTWSSKA                                                                      THLTRSNARPQNNPKWLQ
         D        DKMVGTQVKLTMVEL                                                  SSDHTLFNKVGDSVVNLPLT
               YLRI ~              ~ HPQVH1                                                  TARELGEQL
                   Tabl 3.Nuceotde Squece                          ncoing ullLenth YIJI(SE                                              IDNO:17)
 66'     ,1                                                                                                                    ATG CPAAACTTCCT
             721 CTCTTT               T(CTTG                                                                                              GATTT-CT TTTCCC         AG T CCGGTG
                        78       ATGACG CTGGCTATTCAA                                                                  TACTGT                              J;CGCT GACCA
    S",1         ATTCCCC                   SGGGCA                          ICTTC                                 WTCACC                       TCGCTG CAA
                  I90PTTTTA "ITCAG                                                       ATACTTCTCTGTAGCAGCCCCG
      961I7--7- GGTTCT1GCCAC                                                TCCAGCTG                             GGTATA              ACG         LGC TTACAC.,-.'_ETT
1021            GDYCDTISCT TCCCATCCTG TCAGTCTTCA TGCTGTTGGT WDGTATCCTACT GGAQGCTT
1081            TGAFTGGGAGT GPTAGLTG ATCGACCPAG TCNIMGGAG ASRPSFATG ATEEDTCTT
114             CCTGTGA                 GCATATATTCTGGCA GGTCTDEFCTGASDDLKDVHGAIGAATGGHTCAGCCT
1201         LFTACCCATG YTCCTTACTAPCCATAT                                                                         TTCTCATGTG ACCTGAA AGACTTGA
1261            TTCAGGCCTC AVTGGAGCCC TACTAGTATGVTGAGAAGGGAGTVCGGCA                                                                                    AGAAAAGAC
1321          CAPGACTGICACQTTT                                                  TACACTTTT TYGCTGATT                                 TKESWIVDLAPMITTGIKC
1381            CTCAGQFIICYSLGKCTCTYGASTGCAGGA                                                                    TGVSGGATGCT GCATTGCTC GGGCTGGCCR
                         144         TAAAGCA                      ACGTAAT                     GTATTA~A                     AGGCTTG CAGTCGA            TTGCCAT

                                98
1501    CAGGAAATCA GTCTATTGGC ATGTGATTGG AATGGGCACC ACTCCTGAAG TGCACTCAAT
1561    ATTCCTCGAA GGTCACACAT TTCTTGTGAG GAACCATCGC CAGGCGTCCT TGGAAATCTC
1621    GCCAATAACT TTCCTTACTG CTCAAACACT CTTGATGGAC CTTGGACAGT TTCTACTGTT
1681    TTGTCATATC TCTTCCCACC AACATGATGG CATGGAAGCT TATGTCAAAG TAGACAGCTG
1741    TCCAGAGGAA CCCCAACTAC GAATGAAAAA TAATGAAGAA GCGGAAGACT ATGATGATGA
1801    TCTTACTGAT TCTGAAATGG ATGTGGTCAG GTTTGATGAT GACAACTCTC CTTCCTTTAT
1861    CCAAATTCGC TCAGTTGCCA AGAAGCATCC TAAAACTTGG GTACATTACA TTGCTGCTGA
1921    AGAGGAGGAC TGGGACTATG CTCCCTTAGT CCTCGCCCCC GATGACAGAA GTTATAAAAG
1981    TCAATATTTG AACAATGGCC CTCAGCGGAT TGGTAGGAAG TACAAAAAAG TCCGATTTAT
2041    GGCATACACA GATGAAACCT TTAAGACTCG TGAAGCTATT CAGCATGAAT CAGGAATCTT
    21  GGGACCTTTA CTTTATGGGG AAGTTGGAGA CACACTGTTG ATTATATTTA AGAATCAAGC
    61  AAGCAGACCA TATAACATCT ACCCTCACGG AATCACTGAT GTCCGTCCTT TGTATTCAAG
      2 GAGATTACCA AAAGGTGTAA AACATTTGAA GGATTTTCCA ATTCTGCCAG GAGAAATATT
 ''81   CAAATATAAA TGGACAGTGA CTGTAGAAGA TGGGCCAACT AAATCAGATC CTCGGTGCCT
2341    GACCCGCTAT TACTCTAGTT TCGTTAATAT GGAGAGAGAT CTAGCTTCAG GACTCATTGG
24011   CCCTCTCCTC ATCTGCTACA AAGAATCTGT AGATCAAAGA GGAAACCAGA TAATGTCAGA
241-61  CAAGAGGAAT GTCATCCTGT TTTCTGTATT TGATGAGAAC CGAAGCTGGT ACCTCACAGA
2521    GAATATACAA CGCTTTCTCC CCAATCCAGC TGGAGTGCAG CTTGAGGATC CAGAGTTCCA
2581    AGCCTCCAAC ATCATGCACA GCATCAATGG CTATGTTTTT GATAGTTTGC AGTTGTCAGT
        TTGTTTGCAT GAGGTGGCAT ACTGGTACAT TCTAAGCATT GGAGCACAGA CTGACTTCCT
    0]  TTCTGTCTTC TTCTCTGGAT ATACCTTCAA ACACAAAATG GTCTATGAAG ACACACTCAC
    61  CCTATTCCCA TTCTCAGGAG AAACTGTCTT CATGTCGATG GAAAACCCAG GTCTATGGAT
2821    TCTGGGGTGC CACAACTCAG ACTTTCGGAA CAGAGGCATG ACCGCCTTAC TGAAGGTTTC
2881    TAGTTGTGAC AAGAACACTG GTGATTATTA CGAGGACAGT TATGAAGATA TTTCAGCATA
2941    CTTGCTGAGT AAAAACAATG CCATTGAACC AAGAAGCTTC TCCCAGAATT CAAGACACCC
3001    TAGCACTAGG CAAAAGCAAT TTAATGCCAC CACAATTCCA GAAAATGACA TAGAGAAGAC
3061    TGACCCTTGG TTTGCACACA GAACACCTAT GCCTAAAATA CAAAATGTCT CCTCTAGTGA
3121    TTTGTTGATG CTCTTGCGAC AGAGTCCTAC TCCACATGGG CTATCCTTAT CTGATCTCCA
3181    AGAAGCCAAA TATGAGACTT TTTCTGATGA TCCATCACCT GGAGCAATAG ACAGTAATAA
3241.   CAGCCTGTCT GAAATGACAC ACTTCAGGCC ACAGCTCCAT CACAGTGGGG ACATGGTATT
3301    TACCCCTGAG TCAGGCCTCC AATTAAGATT AAATGAGAAA CTGGGGACAA CTGCAGCAAC
3361    AGAGTTGAAG AAACTTGATT TCAAAGTTTC TAGTACATCA AATAATCTGA TTTCAACAAT
3421    TCCATCAGAC AATTTGGCAG CAGGTACTGA TAATACAAGT TCCTTAGGAC CCCCAAGTAT
31      GCCAGTTCAT TATGATAGTC AATTAGATAC CACTCTATTT GGCAAAAAGT CATCTCCCCT
3541    TACTGAGTCT GGTGGACCTC TGAGCTTGAG TGAAGAAAAT AATGATTCAA AGTTGTTAGA
3601    ATCAGGTTTA ATGAATAGCC AAGAAAGTTC ATGGGGAAAA AATGTATCGT CAACAGAGAG
361     TGGTAGGTTA TTTAAAGGGA AAAGAGCTCA TGGACCTGCT TTGTTGACTA AAGATAATGC
 3721   CTTATTCAAA GTTAGCATCT CTTTGTTAAA GACAAACAAA ACTTCCAATA ATTCAGCAAC
3781    TAATAGAAAG ACTCACATTG ATGGCCCATC ATTATTAATT GAGAATAGTC CATCAGTCTG
3841    GCAAAATATA TTAGAAAGTG ACACTGAGTT TAAAAAAGTG ACACCTTTGA TTCATGACAG
3901    AATGCTTATG GACAAAAATG CTACAGCTTT GAGGCTAAAT CATATGTCAA ATAAAACTAC
3961    TTCATCAAAA AACATGGAAA TGGTCCAACA GAAAAAAGAG GGCCCCATTC CACCAGATGC
4021    ACAAAATCCA GATATGTCGT TCTTTAAGAT GCTATTCTTG CCAGAATCAG CAAGGTGGAT
4081    ACAAAGGACT CATGGAAAGA ACTCTCTGAA CTCTGGGCAA GGCCCCAGTC CAAAGCAATT
4141    AGTATCCTTA GGACCAGAAA AATCTGTGGA AGGTCAGAAT TTCTTGTCTG AGAAAAACAA
4201    AGTGGTAGTA GGAAAGGGTG AATTTACAAA GGACGTAGGA CTCAAAGAGA TGGTTTTTCC
4261    AAGCAGCAGA AACCTATTTC TTACTAACTT GGATAATTTA CATGAAAATA ATACACACAA
4321    TCAAGAAAAA AAAATTCAGG AAGAAATAGA AAAGAAGGAA ACATTAATCC AAGAGAATGT
4381    AGTTTTGCCT CAGATACATA CAGTGACTGG CACTAAGAAT TTCATGAAGA ACCTTTTCTT
4441    ACTGAGCACT AGGCAAAATG TAGAAGGTTC ATATGACGGG GCATATGCTC CAGTACTTCA
4501    AGATTTTAGG TCATTAAATG ATTCAACAAA TAGAACAAAG AAACACACAG CTCATTTCTC
4561    AAAAAAAGGG GAGGAAGAAA ACTTGGAAGG CTTGGGAAAT CAAACCAAGC AAATTGTAGA
4621    GAAATATGCA TGCACCACAA GGATATCTCC TAATACAAGC CAGCAGAATT TTGTCACGCA
4681    ACGTAGTAAG AGAGCTTTGA AACAATTCAG ACTCCCACTA GAAGAAACAG AACTTGAAAA
4741    AAGGATAATT GTGGATGACA CCTCAACCCA GTGGTCCAAA AACATGAAAC ATTTGACCCC
4801    GAGCACCCTC ACACAGATAG ACTACAATGA GAAGGAGAAA GGGGCCATTA CTCAGTCTCC
4861    CTTATCAGAT TGCCTTACGA GGAGTCATAG CATCCCTCAA GCAAATAGAT CTCCATTACC
4921    CATTGCAAAG GTATCATCAT TTCCATCTAT TAGACCTATA TATCTGACCA GGGTCCTATT
4981    CCAAGACAAC TCTTCTCATC TTCCAGCAGC ATCTTATAGA AAGAAAGATT CTGGGGTCCA

                                                    99
     5041       AGAAAGCAGT      CATTTCTTAC       AAGGAGCCAA    AAAAAATAAC CTTTCTTTAG CCATTCTAAC
     5101       CTTGGAGATG      ACTGGTGATC       AAAGAGAGGT    TGGCTCCCTG GGGACAAGTG CCACAAATTC
     5161       AGTCACATAC      AAGAAAGTTG       AGAACACTGT    TCTCCCGAAA CCAGACTTGC CCAAAACATC
     5221       TGGCAAAGTT      GAATTGCTTC       CAAAAGTTCA    CATTTATCAG AAGGACCTAT TCCCTACGGA
     521        AACTAGCAAT      GGGTCTCCTG       GCCATCTGGA    TCTCGTGGAA GGGAGCCTTC TTCAGGGAAC
       34 1     AGAGGGAGCG      ATTAAGTGGA       ATGAAGCAAA    CAGACCTGGA AAAGTTCCCT TTCTGAGAGT
     54101      AGCAACAGAA      AGCTCTGCAA       AGACTCCCTC    CAAGCTATTG GATCCTCTTG CTTGGGATAA
     5461       CCACTATGGT      ACTCAGATAC       CAAAAGAAGA    GTGGAAATCC CAAGAGAAGT CACCAGAAAA
     5521       AACAGCTTTT      AAGAAAAAGG       ATACCATTTT    GTCCCTGAAC GCTTGTGAAA GCAATCATGC
     5581       AATAGCAGCA      ATAAATGAGG       GACAAAATAA    GCCCGAAATA GAAGTCACCT GGGCAAAGCA
     5641       AGGTAGGACT      GAAAGGCTGT       GCTCTCAAAA    CCCACCAGTC TTGAAACGCC ATCAACGGGA
     57,01      AATAACTCGT      ACTACTCTTC       AGTCAGATCA    AGAGGAAATT GACTATGATG ATACCATATC
     5761       AGTTGAAATG      AAGAAGGAAG       ATTTTGACAT    TTATGATGAG GATGAAAATC AGAGCCCCCG
     5821       CAGCTTTCAA      AAGAAAACAC       GACACTATTT    TATTGCTGCA GTGGAGAGGC TCTGGGATTA
       58       TGGGATGAGT      AGCTCCCCAC       ATGTTCTAAG    AAACAGGGCT CAGAGTGGCA GTGTCCCTCA
     5941       GTTCAAGAAA      GTTGTTTTCC       AGGAATTTAC    TGATGGCTCC TTTACTCAGC CCTTATACCG
     6001       TGGAGAACTA      AATGAACATT       TGGGACTCCT    GGGGCCATAT ATAAGAGCAG AAGTTGAAGA
     6061       TAATATCATG      GTAACTTTCA       GAAATCAGGC    CTCTCGTCCC TATTCCTTCT ATTCTAGCCT
     6121       TATTTCTTAT      GAGGAAGATC       AGAGGCAAGG    AGCAGAACCT AGAAAAAACT TTGTCAAGCC
     6181       TAATGAAACC      AAAACTTACT       TTTGGAAAGT    GCAACATCAT ATGGCACCCA CTAAAGATGA
     6241       GTTTGACTGC      AAAGCCTGGG       CTTATTTCTC    TGATGTTGAC CTGGAAAAAG ATGTGCACTC
     6301       AGGCCTGATT      GGACCCCTTC       TGGTCTGCCA    CACTAACACA CTGAACCCTG CTCATGGGAG
     6361       ACAAGTGACA      GTACAGGAAT       TTGCTCTGTT    TTTCACCATC TTTGATGAGA CCAAAAGCTG
     6421       GTACTTCACT      GAAAATATGG       AAAGAAACTG    CAGGGCTCCC TGCAATATCC AGATGGAAGA
     6481       TCCCACTTTT      AAAGAGAATT       ATCGCTTCCA    TGCAATCAAT GGCTACATAA TGGATACACT
     6541       ACCTGGCTTA      GTAATGGCTC       AGGATCAAAG    GATTCGATGG TATCTGCTCA GCATGGGCAG
     6601       CAATGAAAAC      ATCCATTCTA       TTCATTTCAG    TGGACATGTG TTCACTGTAC GAAAAAAAGA
     6661       GGAGTATAAA      ATGGCACTGT       ACAATCTCTA    TCCAGGTGTT TTTGAGACAG TGGAAATGTT
     6721       ACCATCCAAA      GCTGGAATTT       GGCGGGTGGA    ATGCCTTATT GGCGAGCATC TACATGCTGG
     6781       GATGAGCACA      CTTTTTCTGG       TGTACAGCAA    TAAGTGTCAG ACTCCCCTGG GAATGGCTTC
     6841       TGGACACATT      AGAGATTTTC       AGATTACAGC    TTCAGGACAA TATGGACAGT GGGCCCCAAA
     6901       GCTGGCCAGA      CTTCATTATT       CCGGATCAAT    CAATGCCTGG AGCACCAAGG AGCCCTTTTC
     6961       TTGGATCAAG      GTGGATCTGT       TGGCACCAAT    GATTATTCAC GGCATCAAGA CCCAGGGTGC
     7021       CCGTCAGAAG       TTCTCCAGCC      TCTACATCTC    TCAGTTTATC ATCATGTATA GTCTTGATGG
     7081       GAAGAAGTGG      CAGACTTATC       GAGGAAATTC    CACTGGAACC TTAATGGTCT TCTTTGGCAA
       14       TGTGGATTCA       TCTGGGATAA      AACACAATAT    TTTTAACCCT CCAATTATTG CTCGATACAT
     7201       CCGTTTGCAC      CCAACTCATT       ATAGCATTCG    CAGCACTCTT CGCATGGAGT TGATGGGCTG
     7261       TGATTTAAAT      AGTTGCAGCA       TGCCATTGGG    AATGGAGAGT AAAGCAATAT CAGATGCACA
       721      GATTACTGCT       TCATCCTACT      TTACCAATAT    GTTTGCCACC TGGTCTCCTT CAAAAGCTCG
       78       ACTTCACCTC      CAAGGGAGGA       GTAATGCCTG    GAGACCTCAG GTGAATAATC CAAAAGAGTG
     7441l      GCTGCAAGTG      GACTTCCAGA       AGACAATGAA    AGTCACAGGA GTAACTACTC AGGGAGTAAA
     7501       ATCTCTGCTT      ACCAGCATGT       ATGTGAAGGA    GTTCCTCATC TCCAGCAGTC AAGATGGCCA
     7561       TCAGTGGACT CTCTTTTTTC AGAATGGCAA AGTAAAGGTT               TTTCAGGGAA ATCAAGACTC
     7621       CTTCACACCT GTGGTGAACT CTCTAGACCC ACCGTTACTG ACTCGCTACC TTCGAATTCA
     ,681       CCCCCAGAGT TGGGTGCACC AGATTGCCCT GAGGATGGAG GTTCTGGGCT GCGAGGCACA
     774:1      GGACCTCTAC
        *The underlined nucleic acids encode a signal peptide.
[02261          FVIII polypeptides include full-length FVIII, full-length FVIII minus Met at the
        N-terminus, mature FVIII (minus the signal sequence), mature FVIII with an additional
        Met at the N-terminus, and/or FVIII with a full or partial deletion of the B domain. In
        certain embodiments, FVIII variants include B domain deletions, whether partial or full
        deletions.

                                              100
[02271         The human FVIII gene was isolated and expressed in mammalian cells (Toole, J.
       J., et al., Nature 312:342-347 (1984); Gitschier, J., et al., Nature 312:326-330 (1984);
       Wood, W. I., et al., Nature 312:330-337 (1984); Vehar, G. A., et al., Nature 312:337-342
       (1984); WO 87/04187; WO 88/08035; WO 88/03558; and U.S. Pat. No. 4,757,006). The
       FVIII amino acid sequence was deduced from cDNA as shown in U.S. Pat. No.
       4,965,199.   In addition, partially or fully B-domain deleted FVIII is shown in U.S. Pat.
       Nos. 4,994,371 and 4,868,112.       In some embodiments, the human FVIII B-domain is
       replaced with the human Factor V B-domain as shown in U.S. Pat. No. 5,004,803. The
       cDNA sequence encoding human Factor VIII and amino acid sequence are shown in SEQ
       ID NOs: 17 and 16, respectively, of US Application Publ. No. 2005/0100990.
[0228]         The porcine FVIII sequence is published in Toole, J. J., et al., Proc. Natl. Acad.
       Sci. USA 83:5939-5942 (1986). Further, the complete porcine cDNA sequence obtained
       from PCR amplification of FVIII sequences from a pig spleen cDNA library has been
       reported in Healey, J. F., et al., Blood 88:4209-4214 (1996).        Hybrid human/porcine
       FVIII having substitutions of all domains, all subunits, and specific amino acid sequences
       were disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5,364,771 by Lollar and Runge, and in WO 93/20093.
       More recently, the nucleotide and corresponding amino acid sequences of the Al and A2
       domains of porcine FVIII and a chimeric FVIII with porcine Al and/or A2 domains
       substituted for the corresponding human domains were reported in WO 94/11503. U.S.
       Pat. No. 5,859,204, Lollar, J. S., also discloses the porcine cDNA and deduced amino
       acid sequences. U.S. Pat. No. 6,458,563 discloses a B-domain-deleted porcine FVIII.
[0229]         U.S. Pat. No. 5,859,204 to Lollar, J. S. reports functional mutants of FVIII having
       reduced antigenicity and reduced immunoreactivity. U.S. Pat. No. 6,376,463 to Lollar, J.
       S. also reports mutants of FVIII having reduced immunoreactivity. US Appl. Publ. No.
       2005/0100990 to Saenko et al. reports functional mutations in the A2 domain of FVIII.
[0230]         In one embodiment, the FVIII (or FVIII portion of a chimeric protein) may be at
       least 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99%, or 100% identical to a
       FVIII amino acid sequence of amino acids 1 to 1438 of SEQ ID NO: 18 or amino acids 1
       to 2332 of SEQ ID NO: 16 (without a signal sequence) or a FVIII amino acid sequence of
       amino acids -19 to 1438 of SEQ ID NO: 15 and SEQ ID NO: 18 or amino acids -19 to
       2332 of SEQ ID NO: 15 and SEQ ID NO: 16 (with a signal sequence), wherein the FVIII
       has a clotting activity, e.g., activates Factor IX as a cofactor to convert Factor X to

                                                  101
       activated Factor X. The FVIII (or FVIII portion of a chimeric protein) may be identical
       to a FVIII amino acid sequence of amino acids 1 to 1438 of SEQ ID NO: 18 or amino
       acids 1 to 2332 of SEQ ID NO: 16 (without a signal sequence). The FVIII may further
       comprise a signal sequence.
[0231]         The "B-domain" of FVIII, as used herein, is the same as the B-domain known in
       the art that is defined by internal amino acid sequence identity and sites of proteolytic
       cleavage, e.g., residues Ser741-Arg1648 of full-length human FVIII. The other human
       FVIII domains are defined by the following amino acid residues: Al, residues Alal
       Arg372; A2, residues Ser373-Arg740; A3, residues Ser1690-Asn2019; Cl, residues
       Lys2020-Asn2172; C2, residues Ser2173-Tyr2332. The A3-C1-C2 sequence includes
       residues Ser1690-Tyr2332. The remaining sequence, residues Glul649-Arg1689, is
       usually referred to as the a3 acidic region. The locations of the boundaries for all of the
       domains, including the B-domains, for porcine, mouse and canine FVIII are also known
       in the art.  In one embodiment, the B domain of FVIII is deleted ("B-domain-deleted
       factor VIII" or "BDD FVIII"). An example of a BDD FVIII is REFACTO* (recombinant
       BDD FVIII), which has the same sequence as the Factor VIII portion of the sequence in
       Table 4. (BDD FVIII heavy chain is double underlined; B domain is italicized; and BDD
       FVIII light chain is in plain text).
       Table 4
       BDD FVIII (SEQ ID NO: 18)
       ATRRYYLCJAV,/ELSWDYMQS DLGELPVDARFPP&V/PKS FPFN,'T SVV,YKKTLFVEFTDHL FN I.AKP&PPWMGLL
       GlPiQAYDTVT F KNMASH' PVS LHAVGVSVWKASFGAEYDDQT QRFKEDD VFPGGSHlTYWQVLK N
       GPMASDPLCL TYSYLSHVDLVKDLNSGL IGA wLL                EGSLAKEKTQT LHKFt LLFAVFDEGKSWHSE TKNSL
       MQDRDASARAWPKIMH TVNL-GYVNRSLPGLIGCHFKSVYWHVIGMGTT PEVHS T -LEGHTFV-H-AS-L
       SP ILHk   QTLLEMaLQG       "VCISSQH                'K
                                                     ' AKVSCEEDU    TQL& NNNEEAF D YDDDLTDSEMDVV R
       DDDNSPSFIQIRSVAKKI PK            YIA'DWAyTLAPDDRS                y KSQ 7 N GPORICJGRKYKKVRFMAYf
       DETFKTRFATQHESii            IYGFVGD'-TLT FKNQASR7PYNIYPHG :-"DVR-PTYSRR LPKGVKJ!71I,,LKFPT
       PGE IFKYKWTVTVEDGPTKSDPRCL TRYYS SFVNMERDLASGL I GPLL I CYKE SVDQR{GNQ IM1SDKRNJVI LF
                                                                      2
       SVFDENRSWYLTENIQRFLPNPAGVQLEDPE QASTh]TYH S--NG VIDSQLSVLHEVAYWY                      I 7fS IG kQTDF
       LSVFFSCYTFKHKMVYEDTLT LFFSGETVFMSMEPGLWI LGCHNS DFRNIIGMTALLKVSCIDKTGQE
       DSYEDISAYLLSKNNAIEPRS.Q              P" KRQRE I TRT TLQSDQEE DYDDT SVEMKKEDFDIYDEDENQ
       SPRSFQKKTRHYFIAAVERLWDYGMSSSPHVLRNRAQSGSVPQFKKVVFQEFTDGSFTQPLYRGELNEHLGL
       LGPYIRAEVEDNIMVTFRNQASRPYSFYSSLISYEEDQRQGAEPRKNFVKPNETKTYFWKVQHHMAPTKDEF
       DCKAWAYFSDVDLEKDVHSGLIGPLLVCHTNTLNPAHGRQVTVQEFALFFTIFDETKSWYFTENMERNCRAP
       CNIQMEDPTFKENYRFHAINGYIMDTLPGLVMAQDQRIRWYLLSMGSNENIHS IHFSGHVFTVRKKEEYKMA
       LYNLYPGVFETVEMLPSKAGIWRVECLIGEHLHAGMSTLFLVYSNKCQTPLGMASGHIRDFQI TASGQYGQW
       APKLARLHYSGSINAWSTKEPFSWIKVDLLAPMIIHGIKTQGARQKFSSLYISQFIIMYSLDGKKWQTYRGN
       STGTLMVFFGNVDSSGIKHNIFNPPIIARYIRLHPTHYSIRSTLRMELMGCDLNSCSMPLGMESKAISDAQI
       TASSYFTNMFATWSPSKARLHLQGRSNAWRPQVNNPKEWLQVDFQKTMKVTGVTTQGVKSLLTSMYVKEFLI
       SSSQDGHQWTLFFQNGKVKVFQGNQDSFTPVVNSLDPPLLTRYLRIHPQSWVHQIALRMEVLGCEAQDLY

                                      102
   Table 5. Nucleotide Sequence Encoding BDD FVIII (SEQ ID NO: 19)*
  661                                        A TGCAAATAGA  GCTCTCCACC TGCTTCTTTC
  721     TGTGCCTTTT   GCGATTCTGC   TTTAGTGCCA CCAGAAGATA  CTACCTGGGT GCAGTGGAAC
  781     TGTCATGGGA   CTATATGCAA  AGTGATCTCG  GTGAGCTGCC  TGTGGACGCA AGATTTCCTC
  841     CTAGAGTGCC   AAAATCTTTT  CCATTCAACA  CCTCAGTCGT  GTACAAAAAG ACTCTGTTTG
  901     TAGAATTCAC   GGATCACCTT   TTCAACATCG CTAAGCCAAG  GCCACCCTGG ATGGGTCTGC
  961     TAGGTCCTAC   CATCCAGGCT  GAGGTTTATG  ATACAGTGGT  CATTACACTT AAGAACATGG
1021      CTTCCCATCC    TGTCAGTCTT CATGCTGTTG  GTGTATCCTA  CTGGAAAGCT TCTGAGGGAG
1081      CTGAATATGA    TGATCAGACC AGTCAAAGGG  AGAAAGAAGA  TGATAAAGTC TTCCCTGGTG
1141]     GAAGCCATAC   ATATGTCTGG  CAGGTCCTGA  AAGAGAATGG  TCCAATGGCC TCTGACCCAC
121       TGTGCCTTAC   CTACTCATAT  CTTTCTCATG  TGGACCTGGT  AAAAGACTTG AATTCAGGCC
1261      TCATTGGAGC   CCTACTAGTA   TGTAGAGAAG GGAGTCTGGC  CAAGGAAAAG ACACAGACCT
1321      TGCACAAATT    TATACTACTT  TTTGCTGTAT TTGATGAAGG  GAAAAGTTGG CACTCAGAAA
1-381     CAAAGAACTC   CTTGATGCAG  GATAGGGATG  CTGCATCTGC  TCGGGCCTGG CCTAAAATGC
141       ACACAGTCAA    TGGTTATGTA AACAGGTCTC  TGCCAGGTCT  GATTGGATGC CACAGGAAAT
1501      CAGTCTATTG   GCATGTGATT  GGAATGGGCA  CCACTCCTGA  AGTGCACTCA ATATTCCTCG
1561      AAGGTCACAC   ATTTCTTGTG  AGGAACCATC  GCCAGGCGTC  CTTGGAAATC TCGCCAATAA
1621      CTTTCCTTAC    TGCTCAAACA CTCTTGATGG  ACCTTGGACA  GTTTCTACTG TTTTGTCATA
1681      TCTCTTCCCA   CCAACATGAT  GGCATGGAAG  CTTATGTCAA  AGTAGACAGC TGTCCAGAGG
          AACCCCAACT   ACGAATGAAA  AATAATGAAG  AAGCGGAAGA  CTATGATGAT GATCTTACTG
1801      ATTCTGAAAT   GGATGTGGTC  AGGTTTGATG  ATGACAACTC  TCCTTCCTTT ATCCAAATTC
1861      GCTCAGTTGC   CAAGAAGCAT  CCTAAAACTT  GGGTACATTA  CATTGCTGCT GAAGAGGAGG
192)1     ACTGGGACTA    TGCTCCCTTA GTCCTCGCCC  CCGATGACAG  AAGTTATAAA AGTCAATATT
1981      TGAACAATGG   CCCTCAGCGG  ATTGGTAGGA  AGTACAAAAA  AGTCCGATTT ATGGCATACA
2041      CAGATGAAAC   CTTTAAGACT  CGTGAAGCTA  TTCAGCATGA  ATCAGGAATC TTGGGACCTT
2101      TACTTTATGG   GGAAGTTGGA  GACACACTGT  TGATTATATT  TAAGAATCAA GCAAGCAGAC
2161      CATATAACAT   CTACCCTCAC  GGAATCACTG  ATGTCCGTCC  TTTGTATTCA AGGAGATTAC
2221.     CAAAAGGTGT   AAAACATTTG  AAGGATTTTC  CAATTCTGCC  AGGAGAAATA TTCAAATATA
  281     AATGGACAGT   GACTGTAGAA  GATGGGCCAA  CTAAATCAGA  TCCTCGGTGC CTGACCCGCT
2,341     ATTACTCTAG    TTTCGTTAAT ATGGAGAGAG  ATCTAGCTTC  AGGACTCATT GGCCCTCTCC
2401      TCATCTGCTA   CAAAGAATCT  GTAGATCAAA  GAGGAAACCA  GATAATGTCA GACAAGAGGA
2461      ATGTCATCCT   GTTTTCTGTA   TTTGATGAGA ACCGAAGCTG  GTACCTCACA GAGAATATAC
2521      AACGCTTTCT   CCCCAATCCA  GCTGGAGTGC  AGCTTGAGGA  TCCAGAGTTC CAAGCCTCCA
2581      ACATCATGCA   CAGCATCAAT  GGCTATGTTT  TTGATAGTTT  GCAGTTGTCA GTTTGTTTGC
2641      ATGAGGTGGC   ATACTGGTAC  ATTCTAAGCA  TTGGAGCACA  GACTGACTTC CTTTCTGTCT
2701      TCTTCTCTGG   ATATACCTTC  AAACACAAAA  TGGTCTATGA  AGACACACTC ACCCTATTCC
2761      CATTCTCAGG   AGAAACTGTC   TTCATGTCGA TGGAAAACCC  AGGTCTATGG ATTCTGGGGT
  821     GCCACAACTC   AGACTTTCGG  AACAGAGGCA  TGACCGCCTT  ACTGAAGGTT TCTAGTTGTG
  881     ACAAGAACAC    TGGTGATTAT  TACGAGGACA GTTATGAAGA  TATTTCAGCA TACTTGCTGA
          GTAAAAACAA    TGCCATTGAA CCAAGAAGCT  TCTCTCAAAA  CCCACCAGTC TTGAAACGCC
3001      ATCAACGGGA   AATAACTCGT  ACTACTCTTC  AGTCAGATCA  AGAGGAAATT GACTATGATG
3061      ATACCATATC   AGTTGAAATG  AAGAAGGAAG  ATTTTGACAT  TTATGATGAG GATGAAAATC
3121      AGAGCCCCCG   CAGCTTTCAA  AAGAAAACAC  GACACTATTT  TATTGCTGCA GTGGAGAGGC
3181      TCTGGGATTA    TGGGATGAGT AGCTCCCCAC  ATGTTCTAAG  AAACAGGGCT CAGAGTGGCA
3241      GTGTCCCTCA   GTTCAAGAAA  GTTGTTTTCC  AGGAATTTAC  TGATGGCTCC TTTACTCAGC
 330      CCTTATACCG    TGGAGAACTA AATGAACATT  TGGGACTCCT  GGGGCCATAT ATAAGAGCAG
3361      AAGTTGAAGA    TAATATCATG GTAACTTTCA  GAAATCAGGC  CTCTCGTCCC TATTCCTTCT
3421      ATTCTAGCCT    TATTTCTTAT GAGGAAGATC  AGAGGCAAGG  AGCAGAACCT AGAAAAAACT
3481      TTGTCAAGCC    TAATGAAACC AAAACTTACT  TTTGGAAAGT  GCAACATCAT ATGGCACCCA
3541      CTAAAGATGA   GTTTGACTGC  AAAGCCTGGG  CTTATTTCTC  TGATGTTGAC CTGGAAAAAG
3601      ATGTGCACTC   AGGCCTGATT  GGACCCCTTC  TGGTCTGCCA  CACTAACACA CTGAACCCTG
3661      CTCATGGGAG   ACAAGTGACA  GTACAGGAAT  TTGCTCTGTT  TTTCACCATC TTTGATGAGA
3721      CCAAAAGCTG   GTACTTCACT  GAAAATATGG  AAAGAAACTG  CAGGGCTCCC TGCAATATCC
3781      AGATGGAAGA    TCCCACTTTT AAAGAGAATT  ATCGCTTCCA  TGCAATCAAT GGCTACATAA
3841      TGGATACACT   ACCTGGCTTA  GTAATGGCTC  AGGATCAAAG  GATTCGATGG TATCTGCTCA
3901      GCATGGGCAG   CAATGAAAAC  ATCCATTCTA  TTCATTTCAG  TGGACATGTG TTCACTGTAC
3961      GAAAAAAAGA   GGAGTATAAA  ATGGCACTGT  ACAATCTCTA  TCCAGGTGTT TTTGAGACAG

                                                   103
     4021       TGGAAATGTT      ACCATCCAAA       GCTGGAATTT    GGCGGGTGGA ATGCCTTATT     GGCGAGCATC
     4081       TACATGCTGG      GATGAGCACA       CTTTTTCTGG    TGTACAGCAA TAAGTGTCAG     ACTCCCCTGG
     4141       GAATGGCTTC       TGGACACATT      AGAGATTTTC    AGATTACAGC TTCAGGACAA      TATGGACAGT
     4201       GGGCCCCAAA      GCTGGCCAGA       CTTCATTATT    CCGGATCAAT CAATGCCTGG     AGCACCAAGG
     4261       AGCCCTTTTC       TTGGATCAAG      GTGGATCTGT    TGGCACCAAT GATTATTCAC     GGCATCAAGA
     432-1      CCCAGGGTGC      CCGTCAGAAG       TTCTCCAGCC    TCTACATCTC TCAGTTTATC     ATCATGTATA
     4381       GTCTTGATGG      GAAGAAGTGG       CAGACTTATC    GAGGAAATTC CACTGGAACC      TTAATGGTCT
     4.41       TCTTTGGCAA       TGTGGATTCA      TCTGGGATAA    AACACAATAT TTTTAACCCT     CCAATTATTG
     4501       CTCGATACAT      CCGTTTGCAC       CCAACTCATT    ATAGCATTCG CAGCACTCTT     CGCATGGAGT
     4561       TGATGGGCTG       TGATTTAAAT      AGTTGCAGCA    TGCCATTGGG AATGGAGAGT     AAAGCAATAT
     4621       CAGATGCACA      GATTACTGCT       TCATCCTACT    TTACCAATAT GTTTGCCACC      TGGTCTCCTT
     4681       CAAAAGCTCG      ACTTCACCTC       CAAGGGAGGA    GTAATGCCTG GAGACCTCAG     GTGAATAATC
     4741       CAAAAGAGTG      GCTGCAAGTG       GACTTCCAGA    AGACAATGAA AGTCACAGGA     GTAACTACTC
     4801       AGGGAGTAAA      ATCTCTGCTT       ACCAGCATGT    ATGTGAAGGA GTTCCTCATC      TCCAGCAGTC
     4861       AAGATGGCCA       TCAGTGGACT      CTCTTTTTTC    AGAATGGCAA AGTAAAGGTT      TTTCAGGGAA
     4921       ATCAAGACTC      CTTCACACCT       GTGGTGAACT    CTCTAGACCC ACCGTTACTG     ACTCGCTACC
     4981       TTCGAATTCA      CCCCCAGAGT       TGGGTGCACC    AGATTGCCCT GAGGATGGAG     GTTCTGGGCT
     5041       GCGAGGCACA      GGACCTCTAC
        *The underlined nucleic acids encode a signal peptide.
[02321          A "B-domain-deleted FVIII" may have the full or partial deletions disclosed in
       U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,316,226, 6,346,513, 7,041,635, 5,789,203,               6,060,447, 5,595,886,
       6,228,620, 5,972,885, 6,048,720, 5,543,502, 5,610,278, 5,171,844, 5,112,950, 4,868,112,
       and 6,458,563. In some embodiments, a B-domain-deleted FVIII sequence of the present
       invention comprises any one of the deletions disclosed at col. 4, line 4 to col. 5, line 28
       and Examples 1-5 of U.S. Pat. No. 6,316,226 (also in US 6,346,513).                   In another
       embodiment, a B-domain deleted Factor VIII is the S743/Q1638 B-domain deleted Factor
       VIII (SQ BDD FVIII) (e.g., Factor VIII having a deletion from amino acid 744 to amino
       acid 1637, e.g., Factor VIII having amino acids 1-743 and amino acids 1638-2332 of SEQ
       ID NO: 16, i.e., SEQ ID NO: 18). In some embodiments, a B-domain-deleted FVIII of
       the present invention has a deletion disclosed at col. 2, lines 26-51 and examples 5-8 of
       U.S. Patent No. 5,789,203 (also US 6,060,447, US 5,595,886, and US 6,228,620). In
       some embodiments, a B-domain-deleted Factor VIII has a deletion described in col. 1,
       lines 25 to col. 2, line 40 of US Patent No. 5,972,885; col. 6, lines 1-22 and example 1 of
       U.S. Patent no. 6,048,720; col. 2, lines 17-46 of U.S. Patent No. 5,543,502; col. 4, line 22
       to col. 5, line 36 of U.S. Patent no. 5,171,844; col. 2, lines 55-68, figure 2, and example 1
       of U.S. Patent No. 5,112,950; col. 2, line 2 to col. 19, line 21 and table 2 of U.S. Patent
       No. 4,868,112; col. 2, line I to col. 3, line 19, col. 3, line 40 to col. 4, line 67, col. 7, line
       43 to col. 8, line 26, and col. 11, line 5 to col. 13, line 39 of U.S. Patent no. 7,041,635; or
       col. 4, lines 25-53, of U.S. Patent No. 6,458,563.

                                               104
[02331         In some embodiments, a B-domain-deleted FVIII has a deletion of most of the B
       domain, but still contains amino-terminal sequences of the B domain that are essential for
       in vivo proteolytic processing of the primary translation product into two polypeptide
       chain, as disclosed in WO 91/09122. In some embodiments, a B-domain-deleted FVIII is
       constructed with a deletion of amino acids 747-1638, i.e., virtually a complete deletion of
       the B domain. Hoeben R.C., et al. J. Biol. Chem. 265 (13): 7318-7323 (1990).           A B
       domain-deleted Factor VIII may also contain a deletion of amino acids 771-1666 or
       amino acids 868-1562 of FVIII. Meulien P., et al. Protein Eng. 2(4): 301-6 (1988).
       Additional B domain deletions that are part of the invention include: deletion of amino
       acids 982 through 1562 or 760 through 1639 (Toole et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A.
       (1986) 83, 5939-5942)), 797 through 1562 (Eaton, et al. Biochemistry (1986) 25:8343
       8347)), 741 through 1646 (Kaufman (PCT published application No. WO 87/04187)),
       747-1560 (Sarver, et al., DNA (1987) 6:553-564)), 741 through 1648 (Pasek (PCT
       application No.88/00831)), or 816 through 1598 or 741 through 1648 (Lagner (Behring
       Inst. Mitt. (1988) No 82:16-25, EP 295597)). In other embodiments, BDD FVIII includes
       a FVIII polypeptide containing fragments of the B-domain that retain one or more N
       linked glycosylation sites, e.g., residues 757, 784, 828, 900, 963, or optionally 943, which
       correspond to the amino acid sequence of the full-length FVIII sequence. Examples of
       the B-domain fragments include 226 amino acids or 163 amino acids of the B-domain as
       disclosed in Miao, H.Z., et al., Blood 103(a): 3412-3419 (2004), Kasuda, A, et al., J.
       Thromb. Haemost. 6: 1352-1359 (2008), and Pipe, S.W., et al., J. Thromb. Haemost. 9:
       2235-2242 (2011) (i.e., the first 226 amino acids or 163 amino acids of the B domain are
       retained).    In some embodiments, the FVIII with a partial B-domain is FV111198 (SEQ
       ID NO: 105). FV111198 is a partial B-domain containing single chain FVIIIFc molecule
       226N6. 226 represents the N-terminus 226 amino acid of the FVIII B-domain, and N6
       represents six N-glycosylation sites in the B-domain. In still other embodiments, BDD
       FVIII further comprises a point mutation at residue 309 (from Phe to Ser) to improve
       expression of the BDD FVIII protein. See Miao, H.Z., et al., Blood 103(a): 3412-3419
       (2004).    In still other embodiments, the BDD FVIII includes a FVIII polypeptide
       containing a portion of the B-domain, but not containing one or more furin cleavage sites
       (e.g., Arg1313 and Arg 1648). See Pipe, S.W., et al., J. Thromb. Haemost. 9: 2235-2242
       (2011).   Each of the foregoing deletions may be made in any FVIII sequence.

                                                105
[02341         A FVIII protein useful in the present invention can include FVIII having one or
       more additional heterologous sequences or chemical or physical modifications therein,
       which do not affect the FVIII coagulation activity.          Such heterologous sequences or
       chemical or physical modifications can be fused to the C-terminus or N-terminus of the
       FVIII protein or inserted between one or more of the two amino acid residues in the FVIII
       protein. Such insertions in the FVIII protein do not affect the FVIII coagulation activity
       or FVIII function. In one embodiment, the insertions improve pharmacokinetic properties
       of the FVIII protein (e.g., half-life). In another embodiment, the insertions can be more
       than two, three, four, five, or six sites.
[02351         In one embodiment, FVIII is cleaved right after Arginine at amino acid 1648 (in
       full-length Factor VIII or SEQ ID NO: 16), amino acid 754 (in the S743/Q1638 B
       domain deleted Factor VIII or SEQ ID NO: 16), or the corresponding Arginine residue (in
       other variants), thereby resulting in a heavy chain and a light chain. In another
       embodiment, FVIII comprises a heavy chain and a light chain, which are linked or
       associated by a metal ion-mediated non-covalent bond.
[02361         In other embodiments, FVIII is a single chain FVIII that has not been cleaved
       right after Arginine at amino acid 1648 (in full-length FVIII or SEQ ID NO: 16), amino
       acid 754 (in the S743/Q1638 B-domain-deleted FVIII or SEQ ID NO: 18), or the
       corresponding Arginine residue (in other variants). A single chain FVIII may comprise
       one or more amino acid substitutions. In one embodiment, the amino acid substitution is
       at a residue corresponding to residue 1648, residue 1645, or both of full-length mature
       Factor VIII polypeptide (SEQ ID NO: 16) or residue 754, residue 751, or both of SQ
       BDD Factor VIII (SEQ ID NO: 18). The amino acid substitution can be any amino acids
       other than Arginine, e.g.,        isoleucine,  leucine,  lysine, methionine, phenylalanine,
       threonine, tryptophan, valine, alanine, asparagine, aspartic acid, cysteine, glutamic acid,
       glutamine,   glycine,   proline,    selenocysteine,  serine, tyrosine,   histidine, ornithine,
       pyrrolysine, or taurine.
[02371         FVIII can further be cleaved by thrombin and then activated as FVIIIa, serving as
       a cofactor for activated Factor IX (FIXa). And the activated FIX together with activated
       FVIII forms a Xase complex and converts Factor X to activated Factor X (FXa). For
       activation, FVIII is cleaved by thrombin after three Arginine residues, at amino acids 372,
       740, and 1689 (corresponding to amino acids 372, 740, and 795 in the B-domain deleted

                                              106
       FVIII sequence), the cleavage generating FVIIIa having the 50kDa Al, 43kDa A2, and
       73kDa A3-C1-C2 chains. In one embodiment, the FVIII protein useful for the present
       invention is non-active FVIII. In another embodiment, the FVIII protein is an activated
       FVIII.
[0238]         The protein having FVIII polypeptide linked to or associated with the VWF
       fragment can comprise a sequence at least 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%,
       98%, 99%, or 100% identical to SEQ ID NO: 16 or 18, wherein the sequence has the
       FVIII clotting activity, e.g., activating Factor IX as a cofactor to convert Factor X to
       activated Factor X (FXa).
[0239]         "Hybrid" polypeptides and proteins, as used herein, means a combination of a first
       polypeptide chain, e.g., the VWF fragment, optionally fused to a first heterologous
       moiety, with a second polypeptide chain, e.g., a FVIII protein, optionally fused to a
       second heterologous moiety, thereby forming a heterodimer. In one embodiment, the first
       polypeptide and the second polypeptide in a hybrid are associated with each other via
       protein-protein interactions, such as charge-charge or hydrophobic interactions.        In
       another embodiment, the first polypeptide and the second polypeptide in a hybrid are
       associated with each other via disulfide or other covalent bond(s). Hybrids are described,
       for example, in US 2004/101740 and US 2006/074199. The second polypeptide may be
       an identical copy of the first polypeptide or a non-identical polypeptide.         In one
       embodiment, the first polypeptide is a VWF fragment-Fc fusion protein, and the second
       polypeptide is a polypeptide comprising, consisting essentially of, or consisting of an
       FcRn binding domain, wherein the first polypeptide and the second polypeptide are
       associated with each other. In another embodiment, the first polypeptide comprises a
       VWF fragment-Fc fusion protein, and the second polypeptide comprises FVIII-Fc fusion
       protein, making the hybrid a heterodimer.         The first polypeptide and the second
       polypeptide can be associated through a covalent bond, e.g., a disulfide bond, between the
       first Fc region and the second Fc region.          The first polypeptide and the second
       polypeptide can further be associated with each other by binding between the VWF
       fragment and the FVIII protein.
       D)      Linkers
[0240]         The chimeric protein of the present invention further comprises a linker. One or
       more linkers can be present between any two proteins, e.g., between the adjunct moiety

                                               107
       and the FVIII protein (sometimes also referred to as "FVIII/AM linker"), between the
       VWF fragment and a first heterologous moiety (sometime also referred to as "VWF
       linker"), e.g., a first Fc region, between a FVIII protein and a second heterologous moiety
       (sometimes also referred to as "FVIII linker"), e.g., a second Fe region, between the VWF
       fragment and a FVIII protein (e.g., FVIII/AM linker), between the VWF fragment and a
       second heterologous moiety, and/or between a FVIII protein and a first heterologous
       moiety. Each of the linkers can have the same or different sequence. In one embodiment,
       the linker is a polypeptide linker. In another embodiment, the linker is a non-polypeptide
       linker.
[0241]         The linker useful in the present invention can comprise any organic molecule. In
       one embodiment, the linker is a polymer, e.g., polyethylene glycol (PEG) or hydroxyethyl
       starch (HES).      In another embodiment, the linker is an amino acid sequence (e.g., a
       polypeptide linker). The polypeptide linker can comprise at least about 10, 20, 30, 40, 50,
       60,70,80,90, 100, 150,200,300,400,500, 600,700,800,900, 1000, 1100, 1200, 1300,
       1400, 1500, 1600, 1700, 1800, 1900, or 2000 amino acids. The linker can comprise 1-5
       amino acids, 1-10 amino acids, 1-20 amino acids, 10-50 amino acids, 50-100 amino acids,
       100-200 amino acids, 200-300 amino acids, 300-400 amino acids, 400-500 amino acids,
       500-600 amino acids, 600-700 amino acids, 700-800 amino acids, 800-900 amino acids,
       or 900-1000 amino acids.
[0242]         Examples of polypeptide linkers are well known in the art. In one embodiment,
       the linker comprises the sequence G,,. The linker can comprise the sequence (GA). The
       linker can comprise the sequence (GGS)1 . In other embodiments, the linker comprises
       (GGGS)I (SEQ ID NO: 20).             In still other embodiments, the linker comprises the
       sequence (GGS),(GGGGS)I (SEQ ID NO: 21). In these instances, n may be an integer
       from 1-100. In other instances, n may be an integer from 1-20, i.e., 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9,
       10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, or 20. Examples of linkers include, but are not
       limited to, GGG, SGGSGGS (SEQ ID NO: 22), GGSGGSGGSGGSGGG (SEQ ID NO:
       23), GGSGGSGGGGSGGGGS (SEQ ID NO: 24), GGSGGSGGSGGSGGSGGS (SEQ
       ID NO: 25), GGGGSGGGGSGGGGS (SEQ ID NO: 26), the linkers in Table 13 (SEQ ID
       NOs: 92, 93, and 94), and the linkers in Table 14A (SEQ ID NOs: 95, 96 and 97). The
       linker does not eliminate or diminish the VWF fragment activity or the clotting activity of
       Factor VIII. Optionally, the linker enhances the VWF fragment activity or the clotting

                                              108
       activity of Factor VIII protein, e.g., by further diminishing the effects of steric hindrance
       and making the VWF fragment or Factor VIII portion more accessible to its target
       binding site.
[0243]         In one embodiment, the linker useful for the chimeric protein is 15-25 amino acids
       long. In another embodiment, the linker useful for the chimeric protein is 15-20 amino
       acids long. In some embodiments, the linker for the chimeric protein is 10-25 amino
       acids long. In other embodiments, the linker for the chimeric protein is 15 amino acids
       long. In still other embodiments, the linker for the chimeric protein is (GGGGS) (SEQ
       ID NO: 27) where G represents glycine, S represents serine and n is an integer from 1-20.
       E)      Cleavage Sites
[0244]         The linker may also incorporate a moiety capable of being cleaved either
       chemically (e.g., hydrolysis of an ester bond), enzymatically (i.e., incorporation of a
       protease cleavage sequence), or photolytically (e.g., a chromophore such as 3-amino-3-(2
       nitrophenyl) proprionic acid (ANP)) in order to release one molecule from another.
[02451         In one embodiment, the linker is a cleavable linker. The cleavable linkers can
       comprise one or more cleavage sites at the N-terminus or C-terminus or both. In another
       embodiment, the cleavable linker consists essentially of or consists of one or more
       cleavable sites.    In other embodiments, the cleavable linker comprises heterologous
       amino acid linker sequences described herein or polymers and one or more cleavable
       sites.
[02461         In certain embodiments, a cleavable linker comprises one or more cleavage sites
       that can be cleaved in a host cell (i.e., intracellular processing sites).      Non limiting
       examples of the cleavage site include RRRR (SEQ ID NO: 52), RKRRKR (SEQ ID NO:
       53), and RRRRS (SEQ ID NO: 54).
[02471         In other embodiments, a cleavable linker comprises one or more cleavage sites
       that are cleaved by a protease after a chimeric protein comprising the cleavable linker is
       administered to a subject. In one embodiment, the cleavage site is cleaved by a protease
       selected from the group consisting of factor XIa, factor XIIa, kallikrein, factor VIIa,
       factor IXa, factor Xa, factor Ila (thrombin), Elastase-2, MMP-12, MMP-13, MMP-17,
       and MMP-20.       In another embodiment, the cleavage site is selected from the group
       consisting of a FXIa cleavage site (e.g., KLTR I AET (SEQ ID NO: 29)), a FXIa

                                             109
       cleavage site (e.g, DFTR I VVG (SEQ ID NO: 30)), a FXIIa cleavage site (e.g., TMTR k
       IVGG (SEQ ID NO: 31)), a Kallikrein cleavage site (e.g., SPFR I STGG (SEQ ID NO:
       32)), a FVIIa cleavage site (e.g., LQVR I IVGG (SEQ ID NO: 33)), a FIXa cleavage site
       (e.g., PLGR I IVGG (SEQ ID NO: 34)), a FXa cleavage site (e.g., IEGR I TVGG (SEQ
       ID NO: 35)), a FIIa (thrombin) cleavage site (e.g, LTPR I SLLV (SEQ ID NO: 36)), a
       Elastase-2 cleavage site (e.g, LGPV I SGVP (SEQ ID NO: 37)), a Granzyme-B cleavage
       (e.g, VAGD I SLEE (SEQ ID NO: 38)), a MMP-12 cleavage site (e.g., GPAG I LGGA
       (SEQ ID NO: 39)), a MMP-13 cleavage site (e.g., GPAG I LRGA (SEQ ID NO: 40)), a
       MMP-17 cleavage site (e.g., APLG I LRLR (SEQ ID NO: 41)), a MMP-20 cleavage site
       (e.g., PALP I LVAQ (SEQ ID NO: 42)), a TEV cleavage site (e.g., ENLYFQ I G (SEQ
       ID NO: 43)), a Enterokinase cleavage site (e.g., DDDK I IVGG (SEQ ID NO: 44)), a
       Protease 3C (PRESCISSION TM) cleavage site (e.g., LEVLFQ I GP (SEQ ID NO: 45)),
       and a Sortase A cleavage site (e.g., LPKT I GSES) (SEQ ID NO: 46).             In certain
       embodiments, the FXIa cleavage sites include, but are not limited to, e.g., TQSFNDFTR
       (SEQ ID NO: 47)        and SVSQTSKLTR (SEQ ID NO: 48).          Non-limiting exemplary
       thrombin cleavage sites include, e.g., DFLAEGGGVR (SEQ ID NO: 49), TTKIKPR
       (SEQ ID NO: 50), or LVPRG (SEQ ID NO: 55), and a sequence comprising, consisting
       essentially of, or consisting of ALRPR (e.g., ALRPRVVGGA (SEQ ID NO: 51)).
[0248]         In       a      specific     embodiment,      the      cleavage       site      is
       TLDPRSFLLRNPNDKYEPFWEDEEK (SEQ ID NO: 56).
       Polynucleotides, Vectors, Host cells, and Methods of Making
[0249]         Also provided in the invention is a polynucleotide encoding a VWF fragment
       described herein, a chimeric protein comprising the VWF fragment and a heterologous
       moiety, a chimeric protein comprising a FVIII protein and an adjunct moiety, or a
       chimeric protein comprising a VWF fragment and a FVIII protein.            When a VWF

                                              110
       fragment is linked to a heterologous moiety or a FVIII protein in a chimeric protein as a
       single polypeptide chain, the invention is drawn to a polynucleotide encoding the VWF
       fragment linked to the heterologous moiety or the FVIII protein. When the chimeric
       protein comprises a first and a second polypeptide chains, the first polypeptide chain
       comprising a VWF fragment and a first heterologous moiety (e.g., a first Fc region) and
       the second polypeptide chain comprising a second heterologous moiety (e.g., a second Fc
       region), wherein the first polypeptide chain and the second polypeptide chain are
       associated with each other, a polynucleotide can comprise the first nucleotide sequence
       and the second nucleotide sequence. In one embodiment, the first nucleotide sequence
       and the second nucleotide sequence are on the same polynucleotide.               In another
       embodiment, the first nucleotide sequence and the second nucleotide sequence are on two
       different polynucleotides (e.g., different vectors). In certain embodiments, the present
       invention is directed to a set of polynucleotides comprising a first nucleotide chain and a
       second nucleotide chain, wherein the first nucleotide chain encodes the VWF fragment of
       the chimeric protein and the second nucleotide chain encodes the FVIII protein.
[02501          In other embodiments, the set of the polynucleotides further comprises an
       additional nucleotide chain (e.g., a second nucleotide chain when the chimeric
       polypeptide is encoded by a single polynucleotide chain or a third nucleotide chain when
       the chimeric protein is encoded by two polynucleotide chains) which encodes a protein
       convertase.     The protein convertase can be selected from the group consisting of
       proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 5 (PCSK5 or PC5), proprotein convertase
       subtilisin/kexin type 7 (PCSK7 or PC5), a yeast Kex 2, proprotein convertase
       subtilisin/kexin type 3 (PACE or PCSK3), and two or more combinations thereof.           In
       some embodiments, the protein convertase is PACE, PC5, or PC7.                In a specific
       embodiment, the protein convertase is PC5 or PC7. See International Application no.
       PCT/US2011/043568,       which    is  incorporated  herein  by reference.       In another
       embodiment, the protein convertase is PACE/Furin.
[02511          In certain embodiments, the invention includes a set of the polynucleotides
       comprising a first nucleotide sequence encoding a VWF fragment comprising a D'
       domain and a D3 domain of VWF, a second nucleotide sequence encoding a FVIII
       protein, and a third nucleotide sequence encoding a D1 domain and D2 domain of VWF.
       In this embodiment, the D1 domain and D2 domain are separately expressed (not linked

                                                111
       to the D'D3 domain of the VWF fragment) in order for the proper disulfide bond
       formation and folding of the D'D3 domains.        The D1D2 domain expression can either be
       in cis or trans.
[0252]          As used herein, an expression vector refers to any nucleic acid construct which
       contains the necessary elements for the transcription and translation of an inserted coding
       sequence, or in the case of an RNA viral vector, the necessary elements for replication
       and translation, when introduced into an appropriate host cell. Expression vectors can
       include plasmids, phagemids, viruses, and derivatives thereof.
[0253]          Expression vectors of the invention will include polynucleotides encoding the
       VWF fragment or the chimeric protein comprising the VWF fragment.
[0254]          In one embodiment, a coding sequence for the VWF fragment, the second
       heterologous moiety (e.g., a second Fc region), or the FVIII protein is operably linked to
       an expression control sequence. As used herein, two nucleic acid sequences are operably
       linked when they are covalently linked in such a way as to permit each component
       nucleic acid sequence to retain its functionality. A coding sequence and a gene expression
       control sequence are said to be operably linked when they are covalently linked in such a
       way as to place the expression or transcription and/or translation of the coding sequence
       under the influence or control of the gene expression control sequence. Two DNA
       sequences are said to be operably linked if induction of a promoter in the 5' gene
       expression sequence results in the transcription of the coding sequence and if the nature
       of the linkage between the two DNA sequences does not (1) result in the introduction of a
       frame-shift mutation, (2) interfere with the ability of the promoter region to direct the
       transcription of the coding sequence, or (3) interfere with the ability of the corresponding
       RNA transcript to be translated into a protein. Thus, a gene expression sequence would be
       operably linked to a coding nucleic acid sequence if the gene expression sequence were
       capable of effecting transcription of that coding nucleic acid sequence such that the
       resulting transcript is translated into the desired protein or polypeptide.
[02551          A gene expression control sequence as used herein is any regulatory nucleotide
       sequence, such as a promoter sequence or promoter-enhancer combination, which
       facilitates the efficient transcription and translation of the coding nucleic acid to which it
       is operably linked. The gene expression control sequence may, for example, be a
       mammalian or viral promoter, such as a constitutive or inducible promoter. Constitutive

                                             112
       mammalian promoters include, but are not limited to, the promoters for the following
       genes: hypoxanthine phosphoribosyl transferase (HPRT), adenosine deaminase, pyruvate
       kinase, beta-actin promoter, and other constitutive promoters. Exemplary viral promoters
       which function constitutively in eukaryotic cells include, for example, promoters from the
       cytomegalovirus (CMV), simian virus (e.g., SV40), papilloma virus, adenovirus, human
       immunodeficiency virus (HIV), Rous sarcoma virus, cytomegalovirus, the long terminal
       repeats (LTR) of Moloney leukemia virus, and other retroviruses, and the thymidine
       kinase promoter of herpes simplex virus. Other constitutive promoters are known to those
       of ordinary skill in the art. The promoters useful as gene expression sequences of the
       invention also include inducible promoters. Inducible promoters are expressed in the
       presence of an inducing agent. For example, the metallothionein promoter is induced to
       promote transcription and translation in the presence of certain metal ions. Other
       inducible promoters are known to those of ordinary skill in the art.
[0256]         In general, the gene expression control sequence shall include, as necessary, 5'
       non-transcribing and 5' non-translating sequences involved with the initiation of
       transcription and translation, respectively, such as a TATA box, capping sequence,
       CAAT sequence, and the like. Especially, such 5' non-transcribing sequences will include
       a promoter region which includes a promoter sequence for transcriptional control of the
       operably joined coding nucleic acid. The gene expression sequences optionally include
       enhancer sequences or upstream activator sequences as desired.
[02571         Viral vectors include, but are not limited to, nucleic acid sequences from the
       following viruses: retrovirus, such as Moloney murine leukemia virus, Harvey murine
       sarcoma virus, murine mammary tumor virus, and Rous sarcoma virus; adenovirus,
       adeno-associated virus; SV40-type viruses; polyomaviruses; Epstein-Barr viruses;
       papilloma viruses; herpes virus; vaccinia virus; polio virus; and RNA virus such as a
       retrovirus. One can readily employ other vectors well-known in the art. Certain viral
       vectors are based on non-cytopathic eukaryotic viruses in which non-essential genes have
       been replaced with the gene of interest. Non-cytopathic viruses include retroviruses, the
       life cycle of which involves reverse transcription of genomic viral RNA into DNA with
       subsequent proviral integration into host cellular DNA. Retroviruses have been approved
       for human gene therapy trials. Most useful are those retroviruses that are replication
       deficient (i.e., capable of directing synthesis of the desired proteins, but incapable of

                                              113
       manufacturing an infectious particle). Such genetically altered retroviral expression
       vectors have general utility for the high-efficiency transduction of genes in vivo. Standard
       protocols for producing replication-deficient       retroviruses (including the steps of
       incorporation of exogenous genetic material into a plasmid, transfection of a packaging
       cell line with plasmid, production of recombinant retroviruses by the packaging cell line,
       collection of viral particles from tissue culture media, and infection of the target cells
       with viral particles) are provided in Kriegler, M., Gene Transfer and Expression, A
       Laboratory Manual, W.H. Freeman Co., New York (1990) and Murry, E. J., Methods in
       Molecular Biology, Vol. 7, Humana Press, Inc., Cliffton, N.J. (1991).
[0258]          In one embodiment, the virus is an adeno-associated virus, a double-stranded
       DNA virus. The adeno-associated virus can be engineered to be replication-deficient and
       is capable of infecting a wide range of cell types and species. It further has advantages
       such as heat and lipid solvent stability; high transduction frequencies in cells of diverse
       lineages, including hemopoietic cells; and lack of superinfection inhibition thus allowing
       multiple series of transductions. Reportedly, the adeno-associated virus can integrate into
       human cellular DNA in a site-specific manner, thereby minimizing the possibility of
       insertional mutagenesis and variability of inserted gene expression characteristic of
       retroviral infection. In addition, wild-type adeno-associated virus infections have been
       followed in tissue culture for greater than 100 passages in the absence of selective
       pressure, implying that the adeno-associated virus genomic integration is a relatively
       stable event. The adeno-associated virus can also function in an extrachromosomal
       fashion.
[02591          Other vectors include plasmid vectors. Plasmid vectors have been extensively
       described in the art and are well-known to those of skill in the art. See, e.g., Sambrook et
       al., Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual, Second Edition, Cold Spring Harbor
       Laboratory Press, 1989. In the last few years, plasmid vectors have been found to be
       particularly advantageous for delivering genes to cells in vivo because of their inability to
       replicate within and integrate into a host genome. These plasmids, however, having a
       promoter compatible with the host cell, can express a peptide from a gene operably
       encoded within the plasmid. Some commonly used plasmids available from commercial
       suppliers include pBR322, pUC 18, pUC 19, various pcDNA plasmids, pRC/CMV, various
       pCMV plasmids, pSV40, and pBlueScript. Additional examples of specific plasmids

                                              114
       include pcDNA3.1, catalog number V79020; pcDNA3.1/hygro, catalog number V87020;
       pcDNA4/myc-His, catalog number V86320; and pBudCE4.1, catalog number V53220, all
       from Invitrogen (Carlsbad, CA.). Other plasmids are well-known to those of ordinary
       skill in the art. Additionally, plasmids may be custom designed using standard molecular
       biology techniques to remove and/or add specific fragments of DNA.
[0260]          In one insect expression system that may be used to produce the proteins of the
       invention, Autographa californicanuclear polyhidrosis virus (AcNPV) is used as a vector
       to express the foreign genes. The virus grows in Spodopterafrugiperda cells. A coding
       sequence may be cloned into non-essential regions (for example, the polyhedron gene) of
       the virus and placed under control of an ACNPV promoter (for example, the polyhedron
       promoter). Successful insertion of a coding sequence will result in inactivation of the
       polyhedron gene and production of non-occluded recombinant virus (i.e., virus lacking
       the proteinaceous coat coded for by the polyhedron gene). These recombinant viruses are
       then used to infect Spodopterafrugiperda cells in which the inserted gene is expressed.
       (see, e.g., Smith et al. (1983) J Virol 46:584; U.S. Pat. No. 4,215,051). Further examples
       of this expression system may be found in Ausubel et al., eds. (1989) Current Protocols in
       Molecular Biology, Vol. 2, Greene Publish. Assoc. & Wiley Interscience.
[0261]          Another system which can be used to express the proteins of the invention is the
       glutamine synthetase gene expression system, also referred to as the "GS expression
       system" (Lonza Biologics PLC, Berkshire UK). This expression system is described in
       detail in U.S. Pat. No. 5,981,216.
[0262]          In mammalian host cells, a number of viral based expression systems may be
       utilized. In cases where an adenovirus is used as an expression vector, a coding sequence
       may be ligated to an adenovirus transcription/translation control complex, e.g., the late
       promoter and tripartite leader sequence. This chimeric gene may then be inserted in the
       adenovirus genome by in vitro or in vivo recombination. Insertion in a non-essential
       region of the viral genome (e.g., region E l or E3) will result in a recombinant virus that is
       viable and capable of expressing peptide in infected hosts. See, e.g., Logan & Shenk
       (1984) Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 81:3655). Alternatively, the vaccinia 7.5 K promoter may
       be used. See, e.g., Mackett et al. (1982) Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 79:7415; Mackett et al.
       (1984) J Virol 49:857; Panicali et al. (1982) Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 79:4927.

                                              115
[02631         To increase efficiency of production, the polynucleotides can be designed to
       encode multiple units of the protein of the invention separated by enzymatic cleavage
       sites. The resulting polypeptide can be cleaved (e.g., by treatment with the appropriate
       enzyme) in order to recover the polypeptide units. This can increase the yield of
       polypeptides driven by a single promoter. When used in appropriate viral expression
       systems, the translation of each polypeptide encoded by the mRNA is directed internally
       in the transcript; e.g., by an internal ribosome entry site, IRES. Thus, the polycistronic
       construct directs the transcription of a single, large polycistronic mRNA which, in turn,
       directs the translation of multiple, individual polypeptides. This approach eliminates the
       production and enzymatic processing of polyproteins and may significantly increase the
       yield of polypeptides driven by a single promoter.
[0264]         Vectors used in transformation will usually contain a selectable marker used to
       identify transformants. In bacterial systems, this can include an antibiotic resistance gene
       such as ampicillin or kanamycin. Selectable markers for use in cultured mammalian cells
       include genes that confer resistance to drugs, such as neomycin, hygromycin, and
       methotrexate. The selectable marker may be an amplifiable selectable marker. One
       amplifiable selectable marker is the dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) gene. Simonsen C C
       et al. (1983) Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 80:2495-9. Selectable markers are reviewed by
       Thilly (1986) Mammalian Cell Technology, Butterworth Publishers, Stoneham, Mass.,
       and the choice of selectable markers is well within the level of ordinary skill in the art.
[02651         Selectable markers may be introduced into the cell on a separate plasmid at the
       same time as the gene of interest, or they may be introduced on the same plasmid. If on
       the same plasmid, the selectable marker and the gene of interest may be under the control
       of different promoters or the same promoter, the latter arrangement producing a
       dicistronic message. Constructs of this type are known in the art (for example, U.S. Pat.
       No. 4,713,339).
[0266]         The expression vectors can encode for tags that permit easy purification of the
       recombinantly produced protein. Examples include, but are not limited to, vector pUR278
       (Ruther et al. (1983) EMBO J 2:1791), in which coding sequences for the protein to be
       expressed may be ligated into the vector in frame with the lac z coding region so that a
       tagged fusion protein is produced; pGEX vectors may be used to express proteins of the
       invention with a glutathione S-transferase (GST) tag. These proteins are usually soluble

                                              116
       and can easily be purified from cells by adsorption to glutathione-agarose beads followed
       by elution in the presence of free glutathione. The vectors include cleavage sites
       (thrombin or Factor Xa protease or PRESCISSION PROTEASETM (Pharmacia, Peapack,
       N.J.)) for easy removal of the tag after purification.
[02671         The expression vector or vectors are then transfected or co-transfected into a
       suitable target cell, which will express the polypeptides. Transfection techniques known
       in the art include, but are not limited to, calcium phosphate precipitation (Wigler et al.
       (1978) Cell 14:725), electroporation (Neumann et al. (1982) EMBO J 1:841), and
       liposome-based reagents. A variety of host-expression vector systems may be utilized to
       express the proteins described herein including both prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells.
       These include, but are not limited to, microorganisms such as bacteria (e.g., E. coli)
       transformed with recombinant bacteriophage DNA or plasmid DNA expression vectors
       containing an appropriate coding sequence; yeast or filamentous fungi transformed with
       recombinant yeast or fungi expression vectors containing an appropriate coding sequence;
       insect cell systems infected with recombinant virus expression vectors (e.g., baculovirus)
       containing an appropriate coding sequence; plant cell systems infected with recombinant
       virus expression vectors (e.g., cauliflower mosaic virus or tobacco mosaic virus) or
       transformed with recombinant plasmid expression vectors (e.g., Ti plasmid) containing an
       appropriate coding sequence; or animal cell systems, including mammalian cells (e.g.,
       HEK 293, CHO, Cos, HeLa, HKB 11, and BHK cells).
[0268]         In one embodiment, the host cell is a eukaryotic cell. As used herein, a eukaryotic
       cell refers to any animal or plant cell having a definitive nucleus. Eukaryotic cells of
       animals include cells of vertebrates, e.g., mammals, and cells of invertebrates, e.g.,
       insects. Eukaryotic cells of plants specifically can include, without limitation, yeast cells.
       A eukaryotic cell is distinct from a prokaryotic cell, e.g., bacteria.
[0269]         In certain embodiments, the eukaryotic cell is a mammalian cell. A mammalian
       cell is any cell derived from a mammal. Mammalian cells specifically include, but are
       not limited to, mammalian cell lines. In one embodiment, the mammalian cell is a human
       cell. In another embodiment, the mammalian cell is a HEK 293 cell, which is a human
       embryonic kidney cell line. HEK 293 cells are available as CRL-1533 from American
       Type Culture Collection, Manassas, VA, and as 293-H cells, Catalog No. 11631-017 or
       293-F cells, Catalog No. 11625-019 from Invitrogen (Carlsbad, Calif.).              In some

                                               117
       embodiments, the mammalian cell is a PER.C6* cell, which is a human cell line derived
       from retina. PER.C6* cells are available from Crucell (Leiden, The Netherlands).           In
       other embodiments, the mammalian cell is a Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cell.             CHO
       cells are available from American Type Culture Collection, Manassas, VA. (e.g., CHO
       KI; CCL-61). In still other embodiments, the mammalian cell is a baby hamster kidney
       (BHK) cell. BHK cells are available from American Type Culture Collection, Manassas,
       Va. (e.g., CRL-1632).     In some embodiments, the mammalian cell is a HKB11 cell,
       which is a hybrid cell line of a HEK293 cell and a human B cell line. Mei et al., Mol.
       Biotechnol. 34(2): 165-78 (2006).
[0270]          In one embodiment, a plasmid encoding the VWF fragment or the chimeric
       protein of the invention further includes a selectable marker, e.g., zeocin resistance, and is
       transfected into HEK 293 cells, for production of the VWF fragment or the chimeric
       protein.
[0271]          In another embodiment, a first plasmid comprising a Factor VIII-Fc fusion coding
       sequence and a first selectable marker, e.g., a zeocin resistance gene, and a second
       plasmid comprising a VWF fragment-Fc coding sequence and a second selectable marker,
       e.g., a neomycin resistance gene, are cotransfected into HEK 293 cells, for production of
       Factor VIII-Fc and VWF-Fc hybrid. The first and second plasmids can be introduced in
       equal amounts (i.e., 1:1 ratio), or they can be introduced in unequal amounts.
[0272]          In some embodiments, a first plasmid including a Factor VIII-Fc fusion coding
       sequence and a first selectable marker, e.g., a zeocin resistance gene, and a second
       plasmid including a VWF fragment-Fc coding sequence and a second selectable marker,
       e.g., a neomycin resistance gene, and a third plasmid including a protein convertase
       coding sequence (e.g., PC5 or Furin) and a third selectable marker, e.g., a hygromycin
       resistance gene, are cotransfected into HEK 293 cells, for production of Factor VIII-VWF
       fragment hybrid. The first and second plasmids can be introduced in equal amounts (i.e.,
       1:1 molar ratio), or they can be introduced in unequal amounts. In certain embodiments,
       a first plasmid, including a Factor VIII-Fc fusion coding sequence, a VWF fragment-Fc
       coding sequence, and a first selectable marker, e.g., a zeocin resistance gene, and a
       second plasmid including a protein convertase coding sequence (e.g., PC5 or Furin) and a
       second selectable marker, e.g., a hygromycin resistance gene, are cotransfected into HEK
       293 cells, for production of Factor VIII-VWF-fragment hybrid. In one embodiment, the

                                               118
       nucleotide sequence encoding the FVIII-Fc sequence and the VWF fragment-Fc sequence
       can be connected to encode one single polypeptide.            In another embodiment, the
       nucleotide sequence encoding the FVIII-Fc sequence and the VWF fragment-Fc sequence
       can be encoded as two polypeptide chains. The promoters for the Factor VIII-Fc fusion
       coding sequence and the VWF fragment-Fc coding sequence can be different or they can
       be the same.
[0273]         In some embodiments, a plasmid comprising Furin is co-transfected with the
       plasmid containing the Factor VIII-Fc coding sequence and/or VWF fragment-Fc coding
       sequence. In some embodiments, the Furin protein is on the same plasmid comprising the
       Factor VIII-Fc fusion coding sequence. In some embodiments, the Furin protein is on the
       same plasmid comprising the VWF fragment-Fc coding sequence. In some embodiments,
       the Furin protein is on a separate plasmid.
[0274]         In still other embodiments, transfected cells are stably transfected. These cells can
       be selected and maintained as a stable cell line, using conventional techniques known to
       those of skill in the art.
[02751         Host cells containing DNA constructs of the protein are grown in an appropriate
       growth medium. As used herein, the term "appropriate growth medium" means a medium
       containing nutrients required for the growth of cells. Nutrients required for cell growth
       may include a carbon source, a nitrogen source, essential amino acids, vitamins, minerals,
       and growth factors.      Optionally, the media can contain one or more selection factors.
       Optionally the media can contain bovine calf serum or fetal calf serum (FCS). In one
       embodiment, the media contains substantially no IgG. The growth medium will generally
       select for cells containing the DNA construct by, for example, drug selection or
       deficiency in an essential nutrient which is complemented by the selectable marker on the
       DNA construct or co-transfected with the DNA construct. Cultured mammalian cells are
       generally grown in commercially available serum-containing or serum-free media (e.g.,
       MEM, DMEM, DMEM/F12). In one embodiment, the medium is CD293 (Invitrogen,
       Carlsbad, CA.). In another embodiment, the medium is CD17 (Invitrogen, Carlsbad,
       CA.).   Selection of a medium appropriate for the particular cell line used is within the
       level of those ordinary skilled in the art.
[0276]         In order to co-express the VWF fragment and a second heterologous moiety or a
       FVIII protein, the host cells are cultured under conditions that allow expression of both

                                             119
       the VWF fragment and a second heterologous moiety or a FVIII protein. As used herein,
       culturing refers to maintaining living cells in vitro for at least a definite time.
       Maintaining can, but need not include, an increase in population of living cells.        For
       example, cells maintained in culture can be static in population, but still viable and
       capable of producing a desired product, e.g., a recombinant protein or recombinant fusion
       protein. Suitable conditions for culturing eukaryotic cells are well known in the art and
       include appropriate selection of culture media, media supplements, temperature, pH,
       oxygen saturation, and the like. For commercial purposes, culturing can include the use
       of any of various types of scale-up systems including shaker flasks, roller bottles, hollow
       fiber bioreactors, stirred-tank bioreactors, airlift bioreactors, Wave bioreactors, and
       others.
[02771         The cell culture conditions are also selected to allow association of the VWF
       fragment with the second heterologous moiety or a FVIII protein. Conditions that allow
       expression of the VWF fragment and/or the FVIII protein, may include the presence of a
       source of vitamin K. For example, in one embodiment, stably transfected HEK 293 cells
       are cultured in CD293 media (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) or OptiCHO media (Invitrogen,
       Carlsbad, CA) supplemented with 4 mM glutamine.
[0278]         In one aspect, the present invention is directed to a method of expressing, making,
       or producing the VWF fragment of the invention comprising a) transfecting a host cell
       with a polynucleotide encoding the VWF fragment and b) culturing the host cell in a
       culture medium under a condition suitable for expressing the VWF fragment, wherein the
       VWF fragment is expressed. In one embodiment, the invention is drawn to a method of
       producing a mature VWF protein or a fragment thereof comprising a) transfecting a host
       cell with a first polynucleotide encoding the VWF protein or a fragment thereof, which is
       fused to a propeptide of VWF, and a second polynucleotide encoding a protein
       convertase, e.g., PC5, PC7, or Furin and b) culturing the host cell in a culture medium
       under a condition suitable for expressing the mature VWF protein or fragment thereof.
       The polynucleotide encoding the VWF protein or a fragment thereof can also be fused to
       a prepeptide of VWF.       The prepeptide sequence can be cleaved during insertion to the
       endoplasmic reticulum before secretion.
[02791         In another aspect, the invention is directed to a method of expressing, making, or
       producing a chimeric protein comprising the VWF fragment linked to or associated with a

                                             120
       heterologous moiety or a FVIII protein comprising a) transfecting one or more host cells
       with a polynucleotide or a set of polynucleotides encoding the chimeric protein and b)
       culturing the host cell in a culture medium under conditions suitable for expressing the
       chimeric protein. In one embodiment, the invention is drawn to a method of expressing,
       making, or producing a chimeric protein comprising a) transfecting a host cell with a first
       polynucleotide encoding a VWF fragment linked to a heterologous moiety and a second
       polynucleotide encoding a FVIII protein linked to a heterologous moiety and b) culturing
       the host cell in a culture medium under conditions suitable for expressing the chimeric
       protein. The first polynucleotide and the second polynucleotide can be in one vector or
       two vectors. In another embodiment, the invention is drawn to a method of expressing,
       making, or producing a chimeric protein comprising a) transfecting a host cell with a first
       polynucleotide encoding a VWF fragment linked to a heterologous moiety, a second
       polynucleotide encoding a FVIII protein linked to a heterologous moiety, and a third
       polynucleotide encoding a protein convertase, and b) culturing the host cell in a culture
       medium under conditions suitable for expressing the chimeric protein. In other
       embodiments, the invention is drawn to a method of expressing, making, or producing a
       chimeric protein comprising a) transfecting a host cell with a first polynucleotide
       encoding a VWF fragment comprising a D' domain and a D3 domain linked to a
       heterologous moiety, a second polynucleotide encoding a FVIII protein linked to a
       heterologous moiety, and a third polynucleotide encoding a D1 domain and a D2 domain
       of VWF, and b) culturing the host cell in a culture medium under conditions suitable for
       expressing the chimeric protein. In one embodiment, the first polynucleotide, the second
       polynucleotide, and the third polynucleotide can be in one vector or separate vectors. In
       another embodiment, the first polynucleotide and the second polynucleotide can be in one
       vector, and the third polynucleotide can be another vector. In other embodiments, the
       first polynucleotide and the third polynucleotide can be in one vector, and the second
       polynucleotide can be another vector. In some embodiments, the second polynucleotide
       and the third polynucleotide can be in one vector and the first polynucleotide can be in
       another vector.
[0280]         In further embodiments, the protein product containing the VWF fragment or the
       chimeric protein comprising the VWF fragment is secreted into the media.        Media is

                                              121
       separated from the cells, concentrated, filtered, and then passed over two or three affinity
       columns, e.g., a protein A column and one or two anion exchange columns.
[0281]          In certain aspects, the present invention relates to the VWF fragment or the
       chimeric polypeptide produced by the methods described herein.
[0282]          In vitro production allows scale-up to give large amounts of the desired altered
       polypeptides of the invention. Techniques for mammalian cell cultivation under tissue
       culture conditions are known in the art and include homogeneous suspension culture, e.g.
       in an airlift reactor or in a continuous stirrer reactor, or immobilized or entrapped cell
       culture, e.g. in hollow fibers, microcapsules, on agarose microbeads or ceramic
       cartridges. If necessary and/or desired, the solutions of polypeptides can be purified by
       the customary chromatography methods, for example gel filtration, ion-exchange
       chromatography, hydrophobic interaction chromatography (HIC, chromatography over
       DEAE-cellulose or affinity chromatography.
       Pharmaceutical Composition
[0283]          Compositions containing the VWF fragment or the chimeric protein of the present
       invention may contain a suitable pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. For example, they
       may contain excipients and/or auxiliaries that facilitate processing of the active
       compounds into preparations designed for delivery to the site of action.
[0284]          The pharmaceutical composition can be formulated for parenteral administration
       (i.e. intravenous, subcutaneous, or intramuscular) by bolus injection. Formulations for
       injection can be presented in unit dosage form, e.g., in ampoules or in multidose
       containers with an added preservative. The compositions can take such forms as
       suspensions, solutions, or emulsions in oily or aqueous vehicles, and contain formulatory
       agents such as suspending, stabilizing and/or dispersing agents. Alternatively, the active
       ingredient can be in powder form for constitution with a suitable vehicle, e.g., pyrogen
       free water.
[02851          Suitable formulations for parenteral administration also include aqueous solutions
       of the active compounds in water-soluble form, for example, water-soluble salts.          In
       addition, suspensions of the active compounds as appropriate oily injection suspensions
       may be administered. Suitable lipophilic solvents or vehicles include fatty oils, for
       example, sesame oil, or synthetic fatty acid esters, for example, ethyl oleate or
       triglycerides. Aqueous injection suspensions may contain substances, which increase the

                                               122
       viscosity of the suspension, including, for example, sodium carboxymethyl cellulose,
       sorbitol and dextran. Optionally, the suspension may also contain stabilizers. Liposomes
       also can be used to encapsulate the molecules of the invention for delivery into cells or
       interstitial spaces.  Exemplary pharmaceutically acceptable carriers are physiologically
       compatible solvents, dispersion media, coatings, antibacterial and antifungal agents,
       isotonic and absorption delaying agents, water, saline, phosphate buffered saline,
       dextrose, glycerol, ethanol and the like.         In some embodiments, the composition
       comprises isotonic agents, for example, sugars, polyalcohols such as mannitol, sorbitol, or
       sodium chloride.     In other embodiments, the compositions comprise pharmaceutically
       acceptable substances such as wetting agents or minor amounts of auxiliary substances
       such as wetting or emulsifying agents, preservatives or buffers, which enhance the shelf
       life or effectiveness of the active ingredients.
[0286]          Compositions of the invention may be in a variety of forms, including, for
       example, liquid (e.g., injectable and infusible solutions), dispersions, suspensions, semi
       solid and solid dosage forms. The preferred form depends on the mode of administration
       and therapeutic application.
[02871          The composition can be formulated as a solution, micro emulsion, dispersion,
       liposome, or other ordered structure suitable to high drug concentration. Sterile injectable
       solutions can be prepared by incorporating the active ingredient in the required amount in
       an appropriate solvent with one or a combination of ingredients enumerated above, as
       required, followed by filtered sterilization. Generally, dispersions are prepared by
       incorporating the active ingredient into a sterile vehicle that contains a basic dispersion
       medium and the required other ingredients from those enumerated above. In the case of
       sterile powders for the preparation of sterile injectable solutions, the preferred methods of
       preparation are vacuum drying and freeze-drying that yields a powder of the active
       ingredient plus any additional desired ingredient from a previously sterile-filtered
       solution. The proper fluidity of a solution can be maintained, for example, by the use of a
       coating such as lecithin, by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case of
       dispersion and by the use of surfactants. Prolonged absorption of injectable compositions
       can be brought about by including in the composition an agent that delays absorption, for
       example, monostearate salts and gelatin.

                                               123
[02881         The active ingredient can be formulated with a controlled-release formulation or
       device. Examples of such formulations and devices include implants, transdermal
       patches,    and microencapsulated       delivery  systems. Biodegradable,    biocompatible
       polymers can be used, for example, ethylene vinyl acetate, polyanhydrides, polyglycolic
       acid, collagen, polyorthoesters, and polylactic acid. Methods for the preparation of such
       formulations and devices are known in the art. See e.g., Sustained and Controlled Release
       Drug Delivery Systems, J. R. Robinson, ed., Marcel Dekker, Inc., New York, 1978.
[0289]         Injectable depot formulations can be made by forming microencapsulated
       matrices of the drug in biodegradable polymers such as polylactide-polyglycolide.
       Depending on the ratio of drug to polymer, and the nature of the polymer employed, the
       rate of drug release can be controlled. Other exemplary biodegradable polymers are
       polyorthoesters and polyanhydrides. Depot injectable formulations also can be prepared
       by entrapping the drug in liposomes or microemulsions.
[0290]          Supplementary active compounds can be incorporated into the compositions. In
       one embodiment, the VWF fragment or the chimeric protein of the invention is
       formulated with another clotting factor, or a variant, fragment, analogue, or derivative
       thereof. For example, the clotting factor includes, but is not limited to, factor V, factor
       VII, factor VIII, factor IX, factor X, factor XI, factor XII, factor XIII, prothrombin,
       fibrinogen, von Willebrand factor or recombinant soluble tissue factor (rsTF) or activated
       forms of any of the preceding. The clotting factor of hemostatic agent can also include
       anti-fibrinolytic drugs, e.g., epsilon-amino-caproic acid, tranexamic acid.
[0291]         Dosage regimens may be adjusted to provide the optimum desired response. For
       example, a single bolus may be administered, several divided doses may be administered
       over time, or the dose may be proportionally reduced or increased as indicated by the
       exigencies of the therapeutic situation. It is advantageous to formulate parenteral
       compositions in dosage unit form for ease of administration and uniformity of dosage.
       See, e.g., Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences (Mack Pub. Co., Easton, Pa. 1980).
[0292]         In addition to the active compound, the liquid dosage form may contain inert
       ingredients such as water, ethyl alcohol, ethyl carbonate, ethyl acetate, benzyl alcohol,
       benzyl benzoate, propylene glycol, 1,3-butylene glycol, dimethylformamide, oils,
       glycerol, tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol, polyethylene glycols, and fatty acid esters of
       sorbitan.

                                              124
[02931         Non-limiting examples of suitable pharmaceutical carriers are also described in
       Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences by E. W. Martin. Some examples of excipients
       include starch, glucose, lactose, sucrose, gelatin, malt, rice, flour, chalk, silica gel, sodium
       stearate, glycerol monostearate, talc, sodium chloride, dried skim milk, glycerol,
       propylene, glycol, water, ethanol, and the like. The composition can also contain pH
       buffering reagents, and wetting or emulsifying agents.
[0294]         For oral administration, the pharmaceutical composition can take the form of
       tablets or capsules prepared by conventional means. The composition can also be
       prepared as a liquid for example a syrup or a suspension. The liquid can include
       suspending agents (e.g., sorbitol syrup, cellulose derivatives or hydrogenated edible fats),
       emulsifying agents (lecithin or acacia), non-aqueous vehicles (e.g., almond oil, oily
       esters, ethyl alcohol, or fractionated vegetable oils), and preservatives (e.g., methyl or
       propyl-p-hydroxybenzoates or sorbic acid). The preparations can also include flavoring,
       coloring and sweetening agents. Alternatively, the composition can be presented as a dry
       product for constitution with water or another suitable vehicle.
[02951         For buccal administration, the composition may take the form of tablets or
       lozenges according to conventional protocols.
[0296]         For administration by inhalation, the compounds for use according to the present
       invention are conveniently delivered in the form of a nebulized aerosol with or without
       excipients or in the form of an aerosol spray from a pressurized pack or nebulizer, with
       optionally    a   propellant,   e.g.,   dichlorodifluoromethane,       trichlorofluoromethane,
       dichlorotetrafluoromethane,    carbon dioxide or other suitable gas. In the case of a
       pressurized aerosol the dosage unit can be determined by providing a valve to deliver a
       metered amount. Capsules and cartridges of, e.g., gelatin for use in an inhaler or
       insufflator can be formulated containing a powder mix of the compound and a suitable
       powder base such as lactose or starch.
[02971         The pharmaceutical composition can also be formulated for rectal administration
       as a suppository or retention enema, e.g., containing conventional suppository bases such
       as cocoa butter or other glycerides.
       Gene Therapy
[0298]         A VWF fragment or chimeric protein thereof of the invention can be produced in
       vivo in a mammal, e.g., a human patient, using a gene therapy approach to treatment of a

                                             125
       bleeding disease or disorder selected from the group consisting of a bleeding coagulation
       disorder, hemarthrosis, muscle bleed, oral bleed, hemorrhage, hemorrhage into muscles,
       oral   hemorrhage,    trauma,  trauma     capitis,  gastrointestinal bleeding,   intracranial
       hemorrhage, intra-abdominal hemorrhage, intrathoracic hemorrhage, bone fracture,
       central nervous system bleeding, bleeding in the retropharyngeal space, bleeding in the
       retroperitoneal space, and bleeding in the illiopsoas sheath would be therapeutically
       beneficial. In one embodiment, the bleeding disease or disorder is hemophilia. In another
       embodiment, the bleeding disease or disorder is hemophilia A.                 This involves
       administration of a suitable VWF fragment or chimeric protein-encoding nucleic acid
       operably linked to suitable expression control sequences. In certain embodiment, these
       sequences are incorporated into a viral vector. Suitable viral vectors for such gene therapy
       include adenoviral vectors, lentiviral vectors, baculoviral vectors, Epstein Barr viral
       vectors, papovaviral vectors, vaccinia viral vectors, herpes simplex viral vectors, and
       adeno associated virus (AAV) vectors. The viral vector can be a replication-defective
       viral vector. In other embodiments, a adenoviral vector has a deletion in its El gene or E3
       gene. When an adenoviral vector is used, the mammal may not be exposed to a nucleic
       acid encoding a selectable marker gene.          In other embodiments, the sequences are
       incorporated into a non-viral vector known to those skilled in the art.
       Methods of Using VWF Fragment or Chimeric Protein
[0299]         One aspect of the present invention is directed to preventing or inhibiting FVIII
       interaction with endogenous VWF by blocking or shielding the VWF binding site on the
       FVIII from endogenous VWF. In one embodiment, the invention is directed to a method
       of constructing a FVIII protein having half-life longer than wild-type FVIII or a FVIII
       monomer-dimer hybrid, the method comprising covalently associating an adjunct moiety
       with the FVIII protein, thereby making a chimeric protein comprising the FVIII protein
       and the adjunct moiety, wherein the adjunct moiety shields or prevents the FVIII protein
       interaction with endogenous VWF. The chimeric protein useful in the method includes
       any one or more chimeric protein described herein.
[0300]         Another aspect of the invention includes a method of administering to a subject in
       need thereof a FVIII protein having half-life longer than wild-type FVIII or a FVIII
       monomer-dimer hybrid, which consists of two polypeptide chains, a first chain consisting
       of an amino acid sequence encoding FVIII and an Fc region and a second chain

                                             126
       consisting of an Fe region, wherein the method comprises administering the VWF
       fragment described herein or the chimeric protein described herein to the subject. The
       FVIII amino acid sequence in the monomer-dimer hybrid can be SQ FVIII or wild-type
       FVIII.
[03011         In one embodiment, the invention is directed to a method of using an adjunct
       moiety, e.g., a VWF fragment described herein or a chimeric protein comprising the
       VWF fragment, to prevent or inhibit endogenous VWF interaction with a FVIII protein.
       In another embodiment, a FVIII protein that is capable of interacting with the VWF
       fragment is endogenous FVIII. In other embodiments, a FVIII protein that is capable of
       interacting with the VWF fragment is a FVIII composition separately administered to a
       subject before or after or simultaneously with the VWF fragment or the chimeric protein
       comprising the VWF fragment. In other embodiments, a FVIII protein that is capable of
       binding to the VWF fragment is a FVIII composition administered to a subject together
       with the VWF fragment or the chimeric protein. In still other embodiments, a FVIII
       protein that is capable of binding to the VWF fragment is FVIII present with the VWF
       fragment or associated with the VWF fragment in the chimeric protein.          The VWF
       fragment or the chimeric protein comprising the VWF fragment binds to, or is associated
       with, the FVIII protein and thus extends the half-life of the FVIII protein bound to the
       VWF fragment or the chimeric protein. The FVIII protein bound to the VWF fragment or
       the chimeric protein is shielded or protected from the clearance pathway of VWF and thus
       has reduced clearance compared to the FVIII protein not bound to the VWF fragment or
       the chimeric protein. The shielded FVIII protein thus has a longer half-life than a FVIII
       protein not bound to or associated with the VWF fragment or the chimeric protein. In
       certain embodiments, the FVIII protein associated with or protected by a VWF fragment
       or a chimeric protein of the invention is not cleared by a VWF clearance receptor. In
       other embodiments, the FVIII protein associated with or protected by a VWF fragment or
       a chimeric protein is cleared from the system slower than the FVIII protein that is not
       associated with or protected by the VWF fragment.
[0302]         In one aspect, the VWF fragment of this invention or the chimeric protein
       comprising the same has reduced clearance from circulation as the VWF fragment or the
       chimeric protein does not contain a VWF clearance receptor binding site.       The VWF
       fragment prevents or inhibits clearance of FVIII bound to or associated with the VWF

                                              127
       fragment from the system through the VWF clearance pathway.             The VWF fragments
       useful for the present invention can also provide at least one or more VWF-like FVIII
       protection properties that are provided by endogenous VWF. In certain embodiments, the
       VWF fragments can also mask one or more FVIII clearance receptor binding site, thereby
       preventing clearance of FVIII by its own clearance pathway.
[0303]          In another aspect, the VWF fragment or chimeric protein of the invention can be
       used to treat or prevent a disease or disorder associated with a Type 2N von Willebrand
       disease (VWD). Type 2N VWD is a qualitative VWF defect resulting from defective
       VWF binding to FVIII and consequently resulting in low levels of circulating FVIII.
       Therefore, the VWF fragment or chimeric protein of the invention by binding to or being
       bound to the FVIII protein not only stabilizes the FVIII protein, but also prevents
       clearance of the FVIII protein from the circulation.
[0304]         In some embodiments, the prevention or inhibition of a FVIII protein binding to
       endogenous VWF by the VWF fragment or chimeric protein can be in vitro or in vivo.
[03051         Also provided is a method of increasing the half-life of a FVIII protein comprising
       administering the VWF fragment or the chimeric protein comprising the VWF fragment
       and a FVIII protein to a subject in need thereof. The half-life of non-activated FVIII
       bound to or associated with full-length VWF is about 12 to 14 hours in plasma. In VWD
       type 3, wherein there is almost no VWF in circulation, the half-life of FVIII is only about
       six hours, leading to symptoms of mild to moderate hemophilia A in such patients due to
       decreased concentrations of FVIII.        The half-life of the FVIII protein linked to or
       associated with the VWF fragment of the present invention can increase at least about 1.5
       times, 1.6 times, 1.7 times, 1.8 times, 1.9 times, 2.0 times, 2.1 times, 2.2 times, 2.3 times,
       2.4 times, 2.6 times, 2.7. times, 2.8 times, 2.9 times, 3.0 times, 3.1 times, 3.2 times, 3.3
       times, 3.4 times, 3.5 times, 3.6 times, 3.7 times, 3.8 times, 3.9 times, or 4.0 times higher
       than the half-life of the non-activated FVIII bound to or associated with full-length VWF.
       In one embodiment, the half-life of the FVIII protein linked to or associated with the
       VWF fragment in the chimeric protein increases at least about 2 times, 2.5 times, 3.0
       times, 3.5 times, 4.0 times, 4.5 times, 5.0 times, 5.5 times, 6.0 times, 7 times, 8 times, 9
       times, or 10 times higher than the half-life of the non-activated FVIII bound to or
       associated with full-length VWF.       In another embodiment, the half-life of the FVIII
       protein linked to or associated with the VWF fragment in the chimeric protein increases

                                               128
       about 2 to about 5 times, about 3 to about 10 times, about 5 to about 15 times, about 10 to
       about 20 times, about 15 to about 25 times, about 20 to about 30 times, about 25 to about
       35 times, about 30 to about 40 times, about 35 to about 45 times higher than the half-life
       of the non-activated FVIII bound to or associated with full-length VWF. In a specific
       embodiment, the half-life of the FVIII protein linked to or associated with the VWF
       fragment in the chimeric protein increases at least about 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38,
       39, or 40 times higher than the half-life of the wild type FVIII in a FVIII and VWF
       double knockout mouse. In some embodiments, the half-life of the chimeric protein
       comprising the VWF fragment fused to a first heterologous moiety, e.g., a first Fc region,
       and a FVIII protein linked to a second heterologous moiety, e.g., a second Fc region is
       longer than the half-life of a chimeric protein comprising a FVIII protein and two Fc
       regions, wherein the FVIII protein is linked to one of the two Fc regions (i.e., FVIII
       monomer-dimer hybrid).       In other embodiments, the half-life of the chimeric protein
       comprising the VWF fragment fused to a first heterologous moiety, e.g., a first Fc region,
       and a FVIII protein linked to a second heterologous moiety, e.g., a second Fc region is at
       least about 1.5 times, 2 times, 2.5 times, 3.5 times, 3.6 times, 3.7 times, 3.8 times, 3.9
       times, 4.0 times, 4.5 times, or 5.0 times the half-life of a chimeric protein comprising a
       FVIII protein and two Fc regions, wherein the FVIII protein is linked to one of the two Fc
       regions (i.e., FVIII monomer-dimer hybrid).
[03061          In some embodiments, as a result of the invention the half-life of the FVIII protein
       is extended compared to a FVIII protein without the VWF fragment or wildtype FVIII.
       The half-life of the FVIII protein is at least about 1.5 times, at least about 2 times, at least
       about 2.5 times, at least about 3 times, at least about 4 times, at least about 5 times, at
       least about 6 times, at least about 7 times, at least about 8 times, at least about 9 times, at
       least about 10 times, at least about 11 times, or at least about 12 times longer than the
       half-life of a FVIII protein without the VWF fragment. In one embodiment, the half-life
       of FVIII is about 1.5-fold to about 20-fold, about 1.5 fold to about 15 fold, or about 1.5
       fold to about 10 fold longer than the half-life of wild-type FVIII. In another embodiment,
       the half-life of the FVIII is extended about 2-fold to about 10-fold, about 2-fold to about
       9-fold, about 2-fold to about 8-fold, about 2-fold to about 7-fold, about 2-fold to about 6
       fold, about 2-fold to about 5-fold, about 2-fold to about 4-fold, about 2-fold to about 3
       fold, about 2.5-fold to about 10-fold, about 2.5-fold to about 9-fold, about 2.5-fold to

                                             129
       about 8-fold, about 2.5-fold to about 7-fold, about 2.5-fold to about 6-fold, about 2.5-fold
       to about 5-fold, about 2.5-fold to about 4-fold, about 2.5-fold to about 3-fold, about 3-fold
       to about 10-fold, about 3-fold to about 9-fold, about 3-fold to about 8-fold, about 3-fold to
       about 7-fold, about 3-fold to about 6-fold, about 3-fold to about 5-fold, about 3-fold to
       about 4-fold, about 4-fold to about 6 fold, about 5-fold to about 7-fold, or about 6-fold to
       about 8 fold as compared to wild-type FVIII or a FVIII protein without the VWF
       fragment. In other embodiments, the half-life of FVIII is at least about 17 hours, at least
       about 18 hours, at least about 19 hours, at least about 20 hours, at least about 21 hours, at
       least about 22 hours, at least about 23 hours, at least about 24 hours, at least about 25
       hours, at least about 26 hours, at least about 27 hours, at least about 28 hours, at least
       about 29 hours, at least about 30 hours, at least about 31 hours, at least about 32 hours, at
       least about 33 hours, at least about 34 hours, at least about 35 hours, at least about 36
       hours, at least about 48 hours, at least about 60 hours, at least about 72 hours, at least
       about 84 hours, at least about 96 hours, or at least about 108 hours. In still other
       embodiments, the half-life of FVIII is about 15 hours to about two weeks, about 16 hours
       to about one week, about 17 hours to about one week, about 18 hours to about one week,
       about 19 hours to about one week, about 20 hours to about one week, about 21 hours to
       about one week, about 22 hours to about one week, about 23 hours to about one week,
       about 24 hours to about one week, about 36 hours to about one week, about 48 hours to
       about one week, about 60 hours to about one week, about 24 hours to about six days,
       about 24 hours to about five days, about 24 hours to about four days, about 24 hours to
       about three days, or about 24 hours to about two days.
[03071         In some embodiments, the average half-life of the FVIII protein per subject is
       about 15 hours, about 16 hours, about 17 hours, about 18 hours, about 19 hours, about 20
       hours, about 21 hours, about 22 hours, about 23 hours, about 24 hours (1 day), about 25
       hours, about 26 hours, about 27 hours, about 28 hours, about 29 hours, about 30 hours,
       about 31 hours, about 32 hours, about 33 hours, about 34 hours, about 35 hours, about 36
       hours, about 40 hours, about 44 hours, about 48 hours (2 days), about 54 hours, about 60
       hours, about 72 hours (3 days), about 84 hours, about 96 hours (4 days), about 108 hours,
       about 120 hours (5 days), about six days, about seven days (one week), about eight days,
       about nine days, about 10 days, about 11 days, about 12 days, about 13 days, or about 14
       days.

                                               130
[03081         In a specific embodiment, a half-life of the chimeric protein of the invention is
       about two fold longer than the half-life of wild-type FVIII or BDD FVIII. In another
       embodiment, a half-life of the chimeric protein is about three fold longer than the half-life
       of wild-type FVIII or BDD FVIII.
[03091         In addition, the invention provides a method of treating or preventing a bleeding
       disease or disorder comprising administering an effective amount of the VWF fragment
       or the chimeric protein (e.g., a chimeric protein comprising the VWF fragment linked to a
       first heterologous moiety, e.g., a first Fc region, and a FVIII protein linked to a second
       heterologous moiety, e.g., a second Fc region, wherein the VWF fragment is bound to or
       associated with the FVIII protein). In one embodiment, the bleeding disease or disorder
       is selected from the group consisting of a bleeding coagulation disorder, hemarthrosis,
       muscle bleed, oral bleed, hemorrhage, hemorrhage into muscles,            oral hemorrhage,
       trauma, trauma capitis,       gastrointestinal bleeding, intracranial hemorrhage,     intra
       abdominal hemorrhage, intrathoracic hemorrhage, bone fracture, central nervous system
       bleeding, bleeding in the retropharyngeal space, bleeding in the retroperitoneal space, and
       bleeding in the illiopsoas sheath.      In a specific embodiment, the bleeding disease or
       disorder is hemophilia A.
[0310]         The VWF fragment and the chimeric protein comprising an adjunct moiety, e.g.,
       the VWF fragment described herein and a FVIII protein prepared by the invention has
       many uses as will be recognized by one skilled in the art, including, but not limited to
       methods of treating a subject having a hemostatic disorder and methods of treating a
       subject in need of a general hemostatic agent. In one embodiment, the invention relates
       to a method of treating a subject having a hemostatic disorder comprising administering a
       therapeutically effective amount of the VWF fragment or the chimeric protein.
[0311]         The FVIII protein portion in the chimeric protein treats or prevents a hemostatic
       disorder by serving as a cofactor to Factor IX on a negatively charged phospholipid
       surface, thereby forming a Xase complex. The binding of activated coagulation factors to
       a phospholipid surface localizes this process to sites of vascular damage. On a
       phospholipid surface, Factor VIIla increases the maximum velocity of Factor X activation
       by Factor IXa, by approximately 200,000-fold, leading to the large second burst of
       thrombin generation.

                                             131
[03121         The chimeric protein comprising an adjunct moiety, e.g., a VWF fragment, and a
       FVIII protein can be used to treat any hemostatic disorder. The hemostatic disorders that
       may be treated by administration of the chimeric protein of the invention include, but are
       not limited to, hemophilia A, as well as deficiencies or structural abnormalities relating to
       Factor VIII. In one embodiment, the hemostatic disorder is hemophilia A.
[03131         The chimeric protein comprising an adjunct moiety, e.g., a VWF fragment, and a
       FVIII protein can be used prophylactically to treat a subject with a hemostatic disorder.
       The chimeric protein of the invention can be used to treat an acute bleeding episode in a
       subject with a hemostatic disorder. In another embodiment, the hemostatic disorder can
       be the result of a defective clotting factor, e.g., von Willebrand's factor.          In one
       embodiment, the hemostatic disorder is an inherited disorder. In another embodiment, the
       hemostatic disorder is an acquired disorder. The acquired disorder can result from an
       underlying secondary disease or condition. The unrelated condition can be, as an
       example, but not as a limitation, cancer, an auto-immune disease, or pregnancy. The
       acquired disorder can result from old age or from medication to treat an underlying
       secondary disorder (e.g. cancer chemotherapy).
[0314]         The invention also relates to methods of treating a subject that does not have a
       congenital hemostatic disorder, but has a secondary disease or condition resulting in
       acquisition of a hemostatic disorder, e.g., due to development of an anti-FVIII antibody or
       a surgery. The invention thus relates to a method of treating a subject in need of a general
       hemostatic agent comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of the
       chimeric protein comprising the VWF fragment and a FVIII protein prepared by the
       present methods.
[03151         The present invention is also related to methods of reducing immunogenicity of
       FVIII or inducing less immunogenicity against FVIII comprising administering an
       effective amount of the VWF fragment, the chimeric proteins described herein, or the
       polynucleotides encoding the same.
[0316]         In one embodiment, the subject in need of a general hemostatic agent is
       undergoing, or is about to undergo, surgery. The chimeric protein comprising the VWF
       fragment and a FVIII protein can be administered prior to, during, or after surgery as a
       prophylactic regimen. The chimeric protein comprising the VWF fragment and a FVIII

                                             132
       protein can be administered prior to, during, or after surgery to control an acute bleeding
       episode.
[03171         The chimeric protein comprising the VWF fragment and a FVIII protein can be
       used to treat a subject having an acute bleeding episode who does not have a hemostatic
       disorder.   The acute bleeding episode can result from severe trauma, e.g., surgery, an
       automobile accident, wound, laceration gun shot, or any other traumatic event resulting in
       uncontrolled bleeding. Non limiting examples of bleeding episodes include a bleeding
       coagulation disorder, hemarthrosis, muscle bleed, oral bleed, hemorrhage, hemorrhage
       into muscles,      oral hemorrhage, trauma, trauma capitis, gastrointestinal bleeding,
       intracranial hemorrhage, intra-abdominal hemorrhage, intrathoracic hemorrhage, bone
       fracture, central nervous system bleeding, bleeding in the retropharyngeal space, bleeding
       in the retroperitoneal space, bleeding in the illiopsoas sheath, and any combinations
       thereof.
[0318]         In prophylactic applications, one or more compositions containing the chimeric
       protein or the VWF fragment of the invention or a cocktail thereof are administered to a
       patient not already in the disease state to enhance the patient's resistance or reduce
       symptoms associated with a disease or disorder.        Such an amount is defined to be a
       "prophylactic effective dose." In therapeutic applications, a relatively high dosage (e.g.,
       from about 1 to 400 mg/kg of polypeptide per dose, with dosages of from 5 to 25 mg
       being more commonly used for radioimmunoconjugates and higher doses for cytotoxin
       drug modified polypeptides) at relatively short intervals is sometimes required until
       progression of the disease is reduced or terminated, and until the patient shows partial or
       complete amelioration of symptoms of disease.             Thereafter, the patient can be
       administered a prophylactic regime.
[0319]         In some embodiments, a chimeric protein, a VWF fragment, or a composition of
       the invention is used for on-demand treatment, which includes treatment for a bleeding
       episode, hemarthrosis, muscle bleed, oral bleed, hemorrhage, hemorrhage into muscles,
       oral hemorrhage, trauma, trauma capitis (head trauma),           gastrointestinal bleeding,
       intracranial hemorrhage, intra-abdominal hemorrhage, intrathoracic hemorrhage, bone
       fracture, central nervous system bleeding, bleeding in the retropharyngeal space, bleeding
       in the retroperitoneal space, or bleeding in the illiopsoas sheath. The subject may be in
       need of surgical prophylaxis, peri-operative management, or treatment for surgery. Such

                                              133
       surgeries include, e.g., minor surgery, major surgery, tooth extraction, tonsillectomy,
       inguinal herniotomy, synovectomy, total knee replacement, craniotomy, osteosynthesis,
       trauma surgery, intracranial surgery, intra-abdominal surgery, intrathoracic surgery, or
       joint replacement surgery.
[0320]         In one embodiment, the chimeric protein comprising the VWF fragment and a
       FVIII protein is administered intravenously, subcutaneously, intramuscularly, or via any
       mucosal surface, e.g., orally, sublingually, buccally, nasally, rectally, vaginally or via
       pulmonary route.     The chimeric protein comprising the VWF fragment and a FVIII
       protein can be implanted within or linked to a biopolymer solid support that allows for the
       slow release of the chimeric protein to the site of bleeding or implanted into
       bandage/dressing. The dose of the chimeric protein comprising the VWF fragment and a
       FVIII protein will vary depending on the subject and upon the particular route of
       administration used. Dosages can range from 0.1 to 100,000 jig/kg body weight. In one
       embodiment, the dosing range is 0.1-1,000 pig/kg.      In another embodiment, the dosing
       range is 0.1-500 pig/kg. The protein can be administered continuously or at specific timed
       intervals.  In vitro assays may be employed to determine optimal dose ranges and/or
       schedules for administration.    In vitro assays that measure clotting factor activity are
       known in the art, e.g., STA-CLOT VIIa-rTF clotting assay or ROTEM clotting assay.
       Additionally, effective doses may be extrapolated from dose-response curves obtained
       from animal models, e.g., a hemophiliac dog (Mount et al. 2002, Blood 99(8):2670).
[0321]         Having now described the present invention in detail, the same will be more
       clearly understood by reference to the following examples, which are included herewith
       for purposes of illustration only and are not intended to be limiting of the invention. All
       patents and publications referred to herein are expressly incorporated by reference.
                                            Examples
[0322]         Throughout the examples, the following materials and methods were used unless
       otherwise stated.
       Materials and Methods
[0323]         In general, the practice of the present invention employs, unless otherwise
       indicated,   conventional   techniques    of chemistry, biophysics,    molecular    biology,

                                            134
       recombinant DNA technology, immunology (especially, e.g., antibody technology), and
       standard techniques in electrophoresis. See, e.g., Sambrook, Fritsch and Maniatis,
       Molecular Cloning: Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press (1989); Antibody Engineering
       Protocols (Methods in Molecular Biology), 510, Paul, S., Humana Pr (1996); Antibody
       Engineering: A Practical Approach (Practical Approach Series, 169), McCafferty, Ed., Irl
       Pr (1996); Antibodies: A Laboratory Manual, Harlow et al., CS.H.L. Press, Pub. (1999);
       and Current Protocols in Molecular Biology, eds. Ausubel et al., John Wiley & Sons
       (1992).
       Example 1: Cloning different VWF domains (Figure 1)
               (a)    Cloning pSYN-VWF-001, 002, 003 and 004
[0324]         pSYN-VWF-001      through 004 contain nucleotide sequences encoding VWF
       fragments, which are amino acids 1-276 (001), amino acids 1-477 (002), amino acids 1
       511 (003) and amino acids 1-716 (004)VWF-D'D3A protein sequence. Amino acid
       numbering represents the mature VWF sequence without propeptide and corresponds to
       amino acids 764-1039 (001), amino acids 764-1240 (002), amino acids 764-1274 (003),
       and amino acids 764-1479 (004) of SEQ ID NO: 2, respectively. All four constructs have
       the FVIII signal peptide at N-terminus, which allows proper secretion of the synthesized
       protein and followed by a 6xHis tag at C-terminus, which is used for protein purification.
       Above constructs were synthesized by using following primer combinations:
       pSYN VWF- 001:
       ESC48- Fwd - VWF-D'D3 with VIII signal and BsiWI site
       TCGCGACGTACGGCCGCCACCATGCAAATAGAGCTCTCCACCTGCTTCTTTCTGTGC
       CTTTTGCGATTCTGCTTTAGCCTATCCTGTCGGCCCCCCATG            (SEQID NO: 57)
       ESC50- Rev- VWF- partial D'D3 (1-276 amino acid) with 6 His and Notl site
       TGACCTCGAGCGGCCGCTCAGTGGTGATGGTGATGATGCAGAGGCACTTTTCTGGTG
       TCAGCACACTG (SEQ ID NO: 58)
       pSYN VWF- 002:
       ESC48- Fwd - VWF-D'D3 with VIII signal and BsiWI site
       TCGCGACGTACGGCCGCCACCATGCAAATAGAGCTCTCCACCTGCTTCTTTCTGTGC
       CTTTTGCGATTCTGCTTTAGCCTATCCTGTCGGCCCCCCATG            (SEQID NO: 59)
       ESC5 1-Rev- VWF D'D3 (1-477 amino acid) with 6His and Not 1 site

                                            135
       TGACCTCGAGCGGCCGCTCAGTGGTGATGGTGATGATGCGGCTCCTGGCAGGCTTCA
       CAGGTGAGGTTGACAAC        (SEQ ID NO: 60)
       pSYN VWF- 003:
       ESC48- Fwd - VWF-D'D3 with VIII signal and BsiWI site
       TCGCGACGTACGGCCGCCACCATGCAAATAGAGCTCTCCACCTGCTTCTTTCTGTGC
       CTTTTGCGATTCTGCTTTAGCCTATCCTGTCGGCCCCCCATG           (SEQID NO: 61)
       ESC52- Rev-VWF-D'D3 Partial Al (1-511 amino acids) with 6His and Notl site
       TGACCTCGAGCGGCCGCTCAGTGGTGATGGTGATGATGCCTGCTGCAGTAGAAATCG
       TGCAACGGCGGTTC     (SEQ ID NO: 62)
       pSYN VWF- 004:
       ESC48- Fwd - VWF-D'D3 with VIII signal and BsiWI site
       TCGCGACGTACGGCCGCCACCATGCAAATAGAGCTCTCCACCTGCTTCTTTCTGTGC
       CTTTTGCGATTCTGCTTTAGCCTATCCTGTCGGCCCCCCATG           (SEQIDNO:63)
       ESC53-Rev- VWF-D'D3A1 (1-716 amino acids) with 6His and Notl site
       TGACCTCGAGCGGCCGCTCAGTGGTGATGGTGATGATGGCCCACAGTGACTTGTGCC
       ATGTGGGG (SEQ ID NO: 64)
       Proteins from VWF-001, 002, 003 and 004 constructs are supposed to exists as a
       monomer.
[03251          A 50 gl PCR reaction was carried out with ESC 48/ESC50, ESC 48/ESC 51, ESC
       48/ESC52, ESC48/ESC53 primer combinations and full length VWF plasmid as the
       template, using the 2 step PCR amplification cycle: 94 'C 2minutes; 21 cycles of (96 'C
       30 seconds, 68 'C 2 minute). Correct sized bands (~960bp for VWF 001; 1460 for VWF
       002, 1520bp for VWF 003; and 2150bp for VWF 004) were gel purified with a Gel
       Extraction kit (Qiagen, Valencia, Calif.) and cloned into the BsiWI and Notl restriction
       sites of pcDNA 4 to generate pSYN-VWF 001,002,003 and 004, respectively.
                (b)    Cloning pSYN-VWF-006
[0326]          pSYN-VWF-006 contains D1D2D'D3-CK (cysteine knot) domain of VWF. To
       clone this construct, synthesis of DNA fragment containing a portion of D3 domain and
       CK domain was outsourced (Genscript- sequence id number 122026, shown below). A
       fragment of Genscript construct was sub-cloned into the BamHl/EcoRV digested pSYN
       VWF 008, i.e., the vector coding full-length VWF.

                                             136
       Genscript-Sequence number- 122026 (SEQ ID NO: 65)
       GGATCCTAGTGGGGAATAAGGGATGCAGCCACCCCTCAGTGAAATGCAAGAAACGGGTCACCATCCTGGTGG
       AGGGAGGAGAGATTGAGCTGTTTGACGGGGAGGTGAATGTGAAGAGGCCCATGAAGGATGAGACTCACTTTG
       AGGTGGTGGAGTCTGGCCGGTACATCATTCTGCTGCTGGGCAAAGCCCTCTCCGTGGTCTGGGACCGCCACC
       TGAGCATCTCCGTGGTCCTGAAGCAGACATACCAGGAGAAAGTGTGTGGCCTGTGTGGGAATTTTGATGGCA
       TCCAGAACAATGACCTCACCAGCAGCAACCTCCAAGTGGAGGAAGACCCTGTGGACTTTGGGAACTCCTGGA
       AAGTGAGCTCGCAGTGTGCTGACACCAGAAAAGTGCCTCTGGACTCATCCCCTGCCACCTGCCATAACAACA
       TCATGAAGCAGACGATGGTGGATTCCTCCTGTAGAATCCTTACCAGTGACGTCTTCCAGGACTGCAACAAGC
       TGGTGGACCCCGAGCCATATCTGGATGTCTGCATTTACGACACCTGCTCCTGTGAGTCCATTGGGGACTGCG
       CCTGCTTCTGCGACACCATTGCTGCCTATGCCCACGTGTGTGCCCAGCATGGCAAGGTGGTGACCTGGAGGA
       CGGCCACATTGTGCCCCCAGAGCTGCGAGGAGAGGAATCTCCGGGAGAACGGGTATGAGTGTGAGTGGCGCT
       ATAACAGCTGTGCACCTGCCTGTCAAGTCACGTGTCAGCACCCTGAGCCACTGGCCTGCCCTGTGCAGTGTG
       TGGAGGGCTGCCATGCCCACTGCCCTCCAGGGAAAATCCTGGATGAGCTTTTGCAGACCTGCGTTGACCCTG
       AAGACTGTCCAGTGTGTGAGGTGGCTGGCCGGCGTTTTGCCTCAGGAAAGAAAGTCACCTTGAATCCCAGTG
       ACCCTGAGCACTGCCAGATTTGCCACTGTGATGTTGTCAACCTCACCTGTGAAGCCTGCCAGGAGCCGGGAG
       GCCTGGTGGTGCCTCCCACAGATGCCCCGGTGAGCCCCACCACTCTGTATGTGGATGAGACGCTCCAGGATG
       GCTGTGATACTCACTTCTGCAAGGTCAATGAGAGAGGAGAGTACTTCTGGGAGAAGAGGGTCACAGGCTGCC
       CACCCTTTGATGAACACAAGTGTCTTGCTGAGGGAGGTAAAATTATGAAAATTCCAGGCACCTGCTGTGACA
       CATGTGAGGAGCCTGAGTGCAACGACATCACTGCCAGGCTGCAGTATGTCAAGGTGGGAAGCTGTAAGTCTG
       AAGTAGAGGTGGATATC
               (c)     Cloning pSYN-VWF-009, 010, 011, 012 and 013
[03271         pSYN VWF 008 construct contains the full-length VWF sequence in pcDNA 3.1
       (amino acids 1-2813 of SEQ ID NO: 2).        It includes 763 amino acid propeptide (i.e.,
       D1D2 domains) followed by remaining 2050 amino acids sequence of mature VWF.
       pSYN-VWF-009, 010, 011 and 012 contain the same coding sequences as VWF 001,
       002, 003 and 004, respectively, but additionally has D1D2 domains (VWF propeptide) at
       the N-terminus instead of the FVIII signal peptide. pSYN-VWF- 008 has a BamH1 site at
       Arg907 and Notl site at the end of coding region (after stop codon). pSYN- VWF- 008,
       001, 002, 003 and 004 were digested with BamH1 and Notl restriction enzymes. Inserts
       from pSYN-VWF-001 (423 bp), pSYN- VWF-002 (1026 bp), pSYN-VWF- 003 (1128
       bp) and pSYN-VWF-004 (1743 bp) were ligated into bamH1/Notl digested pSYN-VWF
       008 (8242bp) to obtain pSYN-VWF-009 (D1D2D'D3: amino acid 1-1039 of SEQ ID
       NO: 2); pSYN-VWF -010 (D1D2D'D3: amino acid 1-1240 of SEQ ID NO: 2); pSYN
       VWF-011 (D1D2D'D3: amino acid 1-1274 of SEQ ID NO: 2); pSYN-VWF-012
       (D1D2D'D3: amino acid 1-1479). All 4 constructs have 6xHis tag at the C-terminus. In
       transfected cells, pSYN-VWF-009, 010, 011, and 012 are synthesized with propeptide,
       but due to intracellular processing, the secreted products do not contain any propeptide
       (D1D2).     The protein expressed from the VWF-009 construct exists as a monomer and
       the proteins expressed from the VWF-010, 011, and 012 constructs are supposed to exist

                                                 137
       as dimers, as shown in figure 6 and figure 7 using VWF-009 and VWF-010 as examples,
       respectively.
[0328]          pSYN-VWF-010 was used to generate pSYN-VWF-013,             which has two point
       mutations at C336A and C379A corresponding to SEQ ID NO: 73 (amino acid
       numbering represents mature VWF sequence without D1D2 domain-VWF sequence 2).
       These mutations are predicted to prevent dimerization of VWF D'D3 domain.
                 (d)    Cloning pSYN-VWF-025 and 029
[0329]          pSYN-VWF-025 contains wild type D1D2D'D3 sequences of full-length VWF in
       pLIVE vector while pSYN-VWF-029 contains D1D2D'D3 domains with C336A/C379A
       mutations in pLIVE vector. For cloning pSYN-VWF-025 and 029, the following primer
       combination was used:
       ESC 89-fwd with Nhelsite= CTCACTATAGGGAGACCCAAGCTGGCTAGCCG                  (SEQ ID NO:
       66)
       ESC 91-rev with Sall=
       CTGGATCCCGGGAGTCGACTCGTCAGTGGTGATGGTGATGATG                       (SEQ ID NO: 67)
[0330]          A 50 gl PCR reaction was carried out with ESC 89/ESC91 primer combinations
       and either pSYN-VWF-010            (for pSYN-VWF-025)    or pSYN-VWF-013 ( for pSYN
       VWF-029) plasmid as the template using the 3 step PCR amplification cycle: 94 'C -2
       minutes; 21 cycles of (96 'C -30 seconds, 55 'C-30 second, 68 'C-4 minutes). The
       expected sized band (~3800bp) was gel purified with a Gel Extraction kit (Qiagen,
       Valencia, Calif.) and cloned into the Nheland Sall restriction sites of pLIVE-Mirus vector
       (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, Calif.) to generate pSYN-VWF-025 and 029.
                (e)     Cloning pSYN-VWF-031
[0331]          pSYN-VWF-031 is a D1D2D'D3(C336A/C379A) -Fc construct which has a 48
       amino acid long thrombin cleavable linker (8x GGGGS (SEQ ID NO: 1 10)+ thrombin
       site) in between the VWF D1D2D'D3(C336A/C379A) and the Fc sequences. To make
       this construct, VWF-Fc region was amplified from construct pSYN-FVIII-064 (refer
       FVIII-VWF construct below). pSYN-FVIII-VWF was digested with Xbal and Nhel. The
       resulting insert region of 4165bp, containing the VWF fragment and Fc region, was used
       as a template for amplifying the VWF and Fc region by primer combinations LW
       22/LW23.

                                       138
  LW 22-FWD-VWF-D'D3 with FVIII signal sequence and BsiWl site
  GCGCCGGCCGTACGATGCAAATAGAGCTCTCCACCTGCTTCTTTCTGTGCCTTTTGC
  GAT TCTGCT T TAGCCTATCCTGTCGGCCCCCCATG            (SEQ ID NO: 68)
  LW 23-Rev- Fe with stop codon and NotI site
  TCATCAATGTATCTTATCATGTCTGAATTCGCGGCCGCTCATTTACC                    (SEQ ID NO:
  69)
     Nucleotide sequence of VWF 031 (SEQ ID NO: 108)
   1     ATGATTCCTG    CCAGATTTGC    CGGGGTGCTG CTTGCTCTGG  CCCTCATTTT
  51     GCCAGGGACC    CTTTGTGCAG    AAGGAACTCG CGGCAGGTCA   TCCACGGCCC
 101     GATGCAGCCT    TTTCGGAAGT    GACTTCGTCA ACACCTTTGA   TGGGAGCATG
 151      TACAGCTTTG   CGGGATACTG    CAGTTACCTC CTGGCAGGGG  GCTGCCAGAA
 201     ACGCTCCTTC    TCGATTATTG    GGGACTTCCA GAATGGCAAG  AGAGTGAGCC
 251      TCTCCGTGTA   TCTTGGGGAA    TTTTTTGACA TCCATTTGTT   TGTCAATGGT
 301     ACCGTGACAC    AGGGGGACCA    AAGAGTCTCC ATGCCCTATG  CCTCCAAAGG
 351     GCTGTATCTA    GAAACTGAGG    CTGGGTACTA CAAGCTGTCC  GGTGAGGCCT
 401     ATGGCTTTGT    GGCCAGGATC    GATGGCAGCG GCAACTTTCA  AGTCCTGCTG
 451      TCAGACAGAT   ACTTCAACAA    GACCTGCGGG CTGTGTGGCA  ACTTTAACAT
 501     CTTTGCTGAA    GATGACTTTA    TGACCCAAGA AGGGACCTTG  ACCTCGGACC
 551     CTTATGACTT    TGCCAACTCA    TGGGCTCTGA GCAGTGGAGA  ACAGTGGTGT
 601     GAACGGGCAT    CTCCTCCCAG    CAGCTCATGC AACATCTCCT  CTGGGGAAAT
 651     GCAGAAGGGC    CTGTGGGAGC    AGTGCCAGCT TCTGAAGAGC  ACCTCGGTGT
 701      TTGCCCGCTG   CCACCCTCTG    GTGGACCCCG AGCCTTTTGT  GGCCCTGTGT
 751     GAGAAGACTT    TGTGTGAGTG    TGCTGGGGGG CTGGAGTGCG  CCTGCCCTGC
 801     CCTCCTGGAG    TACGCCCGGA    CCTGTGCCCA GGAGGGAATG  GTGCTGTACG
 851     GCTGGACCGA    CCACAGCGCG    TGCAGCCCAG TGTGCCCTGC   TGGTATGGAG
 901      TATAGGCAGT   GTGTGTCCCC    TTGCGCCAGG ACCTGCCAGA  GCCTGCACAT
 951     CAATGAAATG    TGTCAGGAGC    GATGCGTGGA TGGCTGCAGC   TGCCCTGAGG
1001     GACAGCTCCT    GGATGAAGGC    CTCTGCGTGG AGAGCACCGA  GTGTCCCTGC
1051     GTGCATTCCG    GAAAGCGCTA    CCCTCCCGGC ACCTCCCTCT  CTCGAGACTG
1101     CAACACCTGC    ATTTGCCGAA    ACAGCCAGTG GATCTGCAGC  AATGAAGAAT
1151     GTCCAGGGGA    GTGCCTTGTC    ACTGGTCAAT CCCACTTCAA  GAGCTTTGAC
1201     AACAGATACT    TCACCTTCAG    TGGGATCTGC CAGTACCTGC   TGGCCCGGGA
1251      TTGCCAGGAC   CACTCCTTCT    CCATTGTCAT TGAGACTGTC  CAGTGTGCTG
1301     ATGACCGCGA    CGCTGTGTGC    ACCCGCTCCG TCACCGTCCG  GCTGCCTGGC
1351     CTGCACAACA    GCCTTGTGAA    ACTGAAGCAT GGGGCAGGAG   TTGCCATGGA
1401      TGGCCAGGAC   ATCCAGCTCC    CCCTCCTGAA AGGTGACCTC  CGCATCCAGC
1451     ATACAGTGAC    GGCCTCCGTG    CGCCTCAGCT ACGGGGAGGA  CCTGCAGATG
1501     GACTGGGATG    GCCGCGGGAG    GCTGCTGGTG AAGCTGTCCC  CCGTCTATGC
1551     CGGGAAGACC    TGCGGCCTGT    GTGGGAATTA CAATGGCAAC  CAGGGCGACG
1601     ACTTCCTTAC    CCCCTCTGGG    CTGGCGGAGC CCCGGGTGGA  GGACTTCGGG
1651     AACGCCTGGA    AGCTGCACGG    GGACTGCCAG GACCTGCAGA  AGCAGCACAG
1701     CGATCCCTGC    GCCCTCAACC    CGCGCATGAC CAGGTTCTCC  GAGGAGGCGT
1751     GCGCGGTCCT    GACGTCCCCC    ACATTCGAGG CCTGCCATCG   TGCCGTCAGC
1801     CCGCTGCCCT    ACCTGCGGAA    CTGCCGCTAC GACGTGTGCT  CCTGCTCGGA
1851     CGGCCGCGAG    TGCCTGTGCG    GCGCCCTGGC CAGCTATGCC  GCGGCCTGCG
1901     CGGGGAGAGG    CGTGCGCGTC    GCGTGGCGCG AGCCAGGCCG  CTGTGAGCTG
1951     AACTGCCCGA    AAGGCCAGGT    GTACCTGCAG TGCGGGACCC  CCTGCAACCT
2001     GACCTGCCGC    TCTCTCTCTT    ACCCGGATGA GGAATGCAAT  GAGGCCTGCC
2051      TGGAGGGCTG   CTTCTGCCCC    CCAGGGCTCT ACATGGATGA  GAGGGGGGAC

                                      139
2101      TGCGTGCCCA   AGGCCCAGTG  CCCCTGTTAC TATGACGGTG AGATCTTCCA
2151      GCCAGAAGAC   ATCTTCTCAG  ACCATCACAC CATGTGCTAC TGTGAGGATG
2201      GCTTCATGCA   CTGTACCATG  AGTGGAGTCC CCGGAAGCTT GCTGCCTGAC
2251      GCTGTCCTCA   GCAGTCCCCT  GTCTCATCGC AGCAAAAGGA GCCTATCCTG
2301      TCGGCCCCCC   ATGGTCAAGC  TGGTGTGTCC CGCTGACAAC CTGCGGGCTG
2351      AAGGGCTCGA   GTGTACCAAA  ACGTGCCAGA ACTATGACCT GGAGTGCATG
2401      AGCATGGGCT   GTGTCTCTGG  CTGCCTCTGC CCCCCGGGCA TGGTCCGGCA
2451      TGAGAACAGA   TGTGTGGCCC  TGGAAAGGTG TCCCTGCTTC CATCAGGGCA
2501      AGGAGTATGC   CCCTGGAGAA  ACAGTGAAGA TTGGCTGCAA CACTTGTGTC
2551      TGTCGGGACC   GGAAGTGGAA  CTGCACAGAC CATGTGTGTG ATGCCACGTG
2601      CTCCACGATC   GGCATGGCCC  ACTACCTCAC CTTCGACGGG CTCAAATACC
2651      TGTTCCCCGG   GGAGTGCCAG  TACGTTCTGG TGCAGGATTA CTGCGGCAGT
2701      AACCCTGGGA   CCTTTCGGAT  CCTAGTGGGG AATAAGGGAT GCAGCCACCC
2751      CTCAGTGAAA   TGCAAGAAAC  GGGTCACCAT CCTGGTGGAG GGAGGAGAGA
2801      TTGAGCTGTT   TGACGGGGAG  GTGAATGTGA AGAGGCCCAT GAAGGATGAG
2851      ACTCACTTTG   AGGTGGTGGA  GTCTGGCCGG TACATCATTC TGCTGCTGGG
2901      CAAAGCCCTC   TCCGTGGTCT  GGGACCGCCA CCTGAGCATC TCCGTGGTCC
2951      TGAAGCAGAC   ATACCAGGAG  AAAGTGTGTG GCCTGTGTGG GAATTTTGAT
3001      GGCATCCAGA   ACAATGACCT  CACCAGCAGC AACCTCCAAG TGGAGGAAGA
3051      CCCTGTGGAC   TTTGGGAACT  CCTGGAAAGT GAGCTCGCAG TGTGCTGACA
3101      CCAGAAAAGT   GCCTCTGGAC  TCATCCCCTG CCACCTGCCA TAACAACATC
3151      ATGAAGCAGA   CGATGGTGGA  TTCCTCCTGT AGAATCCTTA CCAGTGACGT
3201      CTTCCAGGAC   TGCAACAAGC  TGGTGGACCC CGAGCCATAT CTGGATGTCT
3251      GCATTTACGA   CACCTGCTCC  TGTGAGTCCA TTGGGGACTG CGCCGCATTC
3301      TGCGACACCA   TTGCTGCCTA  TGCCCACGTG TGTGCCCAGC ATGGCAAGGT
3351      GGTGACCTGG   AGGACGGCCA  CATTGTGCCC CCAGAGCTGC GAGGAGAGGA
3401      ATCTCCGGGA   GAACGGGTAT  GAGGCTGAGT GGCGCTATAA CAGCTGTGCA
3451      CCTGCCTGTC   AAGTCACGTG  TCAGCACCCT GAGCCACTGG CCTGCCCTGT
3501      GCAGTGTGTG   GAGGGCTGCC  ATGCCCACTG CCCTCCAGGG AAAATCCTGG
3551      ATGAGCTTTT   GCAGACCTGC  GTTGACCCTG AAGACTGTCC AGTGTGTGAG
3601      GTGGCTGGCC   GGCGTTTTGC  CTCAGGAAAG AAAGTCACCT TGAATCCCAG
3651      TGACCCTGAG   CACTGCCAGA  TTTGCCACTG TGATGTTGTC AACCTCACCT
3701      GTGAAGCCTG   CCAGGAGCCG  ATATCTGGCG GTGGAGGTTC CGGTGGCGGG
3751      GGATCCGGCG   GTGGAGGTTC  CGGCGGTGGA GGTTCCGGTG GCGGGGGATC
3801      CGGTGGCGGG   GGATCCCTGG  TCCCCCGGGG CAGCGGCGGT GGAGGTTCCG
3851      GTGGCGGGGG   ATCCGACAAA  ACTCACACAT GCCCACCGTG CCCAGCTCCA
3901      GAACTCCTGG   GCGGACCGTC  AGTCTTCCTC TTCCCCCCAA AACCCAAGGA
3951      CACCCTCATG   ATCTCCCGGA  CCCCTGAGGT CACATGCGTG GTGGTGGACG
4001      TGAGCCACGA   AGACCCTGAG  GTCAAGTTCA ACTGGTACGT GGACGGCGTG
4051      GAGGTGCATA   ATGCCAAGAC  AAAGCCGCGG GAGGAGCAGT ACAACAGCAC
4101      GTACCGTGTG   GTCAGCGTCC  TCACCGTCCT GCACCAGGAC TGGCTGAATG
4151      GCAAGGAGTA   CAAGTGCAAG  GTCTCCAACA AAGCCCTCCC AGCCCCCATC
4201      GAGAAAACCA   TCTCCAAAGC  CAAAGGGCAG CCCCGAGAAC CACAGGTGTA
4251      CACCCTGCCC   CCATCCCGGG  ATGAGCTGAC CAAGAACCAG GTCAGCCTGA
4301      CCTGCCTGGT   CAAAGGCTTC  TATCCCAGCG ACATCGCCGT GGAGTGGGAG
4351      AGCAATGGGC   AGCCGGAGAA  CAACTACAAG ACCACGCCTC CCGTGTTGGA
4401      CTCCGACGGC   TCCTTCTTCC  TCTACAGCAA GCTCACCGTG GACAAGAGCA
4451      GGTGGCAGCA   GGGGAACGTC  TTCTCATGCT CCGTGATGCA TGAGGCTCTG
4501      CACAACCACT   ACACGCAGAA  GAGCCTCTCC CTGTCTCCGG GTAAATGA
     Protein sequence of VWF 031 (SEQ ID NO: 109)
   1      MIPARFAGVL LALALILPGT    LCAEGTRGRS STARCSLFGS DFVNTFDGSM
  51      YSFAGYCSYL LAGGCQKRSF    SIIGDFQNGK RVSLSVYLGE FFDIHLFVNG
 101      TVTQGDQRVS MPYASKGLYL    ETEAGYYKLS GEAYGFVARI DGSGNFQVLL
 151      SDRYFNKTCG LCGNFNIFAE    DDFMTQEGTL TSDPYDFANS WALSSGEQWC
 201      ERASPPSSSC NISSGEMQKG    LWEQCQLLKS TSVFARCHPL VDPEPFVALC

                                              140
       251     EKTLCECAGG    LECACPALLE    YARTCAQEGM    VLYGWTDHSA   CSPVCPAGME
       301     YRQCVSPCAR    TCQSLHINEM    CQERCVDGCS    CPEGQLLDEG   LCVESTECPC
       351     VHSGKRYPPG    TSLSRDCNTC    ICRNSQWICS    NEECPGECLV   TGQSHFKSFD
       401     NRYFTFSGIC    QYLLARDCQD    HSFSIVIETV    QCADDRDAVC   TRSVTVRLPG
       451     LHNSLVKLKH    GAGVAMDGQD    IQLPLLKGDL    RIQHTVTASV   RLSYGEDLQM
       501     DWDGRGRLLV    KLSPVYAGKT    CGLCGNYNGN    QGDDFLTPSG   LAEPRVEDFG
       551     NAWKLHGDCQ    DLQKQHSDPC    ALNPRMTRFS    EEACAVLTSP   TFEACHRAVS
       601     PLPYLRNCRY    DVCSCSDGRE    CLCGALASYA    AACAGRGVRV   AWREPGRCEL
       651     NCPKGQVYLQ    CGTPCNLTCR    SLSYPDEECN    EACLEGCFCP   PGLYMDERGD
       701     CVPKAQCPCY    YDGEIFQPED    IFSDHHTMCY    CEDGFMHCTM   SGVPGSLLPD
       751     AVLSSPLSHR    SKRSLSCRPP    MVKLVCPADN     LRAEGLECTK  TCQNYDLECM
       801     SMGCVSGCLC    PPGMVRHENR    CVALERCPCF    HQGKEYAPGE   TVKIGCNTCV
       851     CRDRKWNCTD    HVCDATCSTI    GMAHYLTFDG     LKYLFPGECQ  YVLVQDYCGS
       901     NPGTFRILVG    NKGCSHPSVK    CKKRVTILVE    GGEIELFDGE   VNVKRPMKDE
       951     THFEVVESGR    YIILLLGKAL    SVVWDRHLSI     SVVLKQTYQE  KVCGLCGNFD
     1001      GIQNNDLTSS    NLQVEEDPVD    FGNSWKVSSQ    CADTRKVPLD   SSPATCHNNI
     1051      MKQTMVDSSC    RILTSDVFQD    CNKLVDPEPY     LDVCIYDTCS  CESIGDCAAF
     1101      CDTIAAYAHV    CAQHGKVVTW    RTATLCPQSC    EERNLRENGY   EAEWRYNSCA
     1151      PACQVTCQHP    EPLACPVQCV    EGCHAHCPPG    KILDELLQTC   VDPEDCPVCE
     1201      VAGRRFASGK    KVTLNPSDPE    HCQICHCDVV    NLTCEACQEP   ISGGGGSGGG
     1251      GSGGGGSGGG    GSGGGGSGGG    GSLVPRGSGG    GGSGGGGSDK   THTCPPCPAP
     1301      ELLGGPSVFL    FPPKPKDTLM    ISRTPEVTCV    VVDVSHEDPE   VKFNWYVDGV
     1351      EVHNAKTKPR    EEQYNSTYRV    VSVLTVLHQD    WLNGKEYKCK   VSNKALPAPI
     1401      EKTISKAKGQ    PREPQVYTLP    PSRDELTKNQ    VSLTCLVKGF   YPSDIAVEWE
     1451      SNGQPENNYK    TTPPVLDSDG    SFFLYSKLTV     DKSRWQQGNV  FSCSVMHEAL
     1501      HNHYTQKSLS    LSPGK*
  DNA construct
                                            Linker between VWF and Fe
     VWF035          73 aa= IS{1 1X(GGGGS)} LVPRGSGGGGSGGGGS (SEQ ID NO: 96)
     VWF036          98 aa= IS{16X(GGGGS)} LVPRGSGGGGSGGGGS (SEQ ID NO: 97)
  VWF= D'D3 (1-477aa with C336A/C379A)
[0332]         The PCR product obtained from LW22/LW23 amplification (~2300bp) was
        cloned   in  BsiWl/Notl      digested    pSYN-VWF-002      to   obtain pSYN-VWF-014
        intermediate. pSYN-VWF-014        contains FVIJI signal peptide-D'D3-20    amino acid
        thrombin cleavable linker followed by the Fc region.
[0333]         To generate the D1D2D'D3-Fc construct, the D1D2D'D3 region was amplified
        from pSYN-VWF-013 using primer combination LW24/LW27 by standard PCR method.
        LW24- Fwd- VWF D1D2D'D3 cloning oligo with BsiWl site
        GCGCCGGCCGTACGATGATT CCTGCCAGAT T TGCCGGGGTG (SEQ ID NO: 70)

                                               141
         LW27-Rev-VWF D'D3 oligo with EcoRV
         CCACCGCCAGATAT CGGCT CCTGGCAGGCT T CACAGGTGAG                 (SEQ ID NO:71)
[0334]          The PCR product obtained from LW22/LW23 amplification (~3750bp) was
         cloned   in BsiW1/EcoRV        digested   pSYN-VWF-014    to    obtain pSYN-VWF-015
         intermediate. The linker length between the VWF fragment and Fc region was changed to
         obtain pSYN-VWF-03 1.
[03351          Full length VWF protein sequence is shown at Table 1.
            VWF-DlD2D'D3 protein sequence lb (SEQ ID NO: 72)
                MIPARFAGVL    LALALILPGT     LCAEGTRGRS  STARCSLFGS DFVNTFDGSM
         51     YSFAGYCSYL    LAGGCQKRSF     SIIGDFQNGK  RVSLSVYLGE FFDIHLFVNG
         11      TVTQGDQRVS   MPYASKGLYL     ETEAGYYKLS  GEAYGFVARI DGSGNFQVLL
                 SDRYFNKTCG   LCGNFNIFAE     DDFMTQEGTL  TSDPYDFANS WALSSGEQWC
         2]     ERASPPSSSC    NISSGEMQKG     LWEQCQLLKS  TSVFARCHPL VDPEPFVALC
         2      EKTLCECAGG    LECACPALLE     YARTCAQEGM  VLYGWTDHSA CSPVCPAGME
       301      YRQCVSPCAR    TCQSLHINEM     CQERCVDGCS  CPEGQLLDEG LCVESTECPC
       351      VHSGKRYPPG    TSLSRDCNTC     ICRNSQWICS  NEECPGECLV TGQSHFKSFD
       401      NRYFTFSGIC    QYLLARDCQD     HSFSIVIETV  QCADDRDAVC TRSVTVRLPG
       451       LHNSLVKLKH   GAGVAMDGQD     IQLPLLKGDL  RIQHTVTASV RLSYGEDLQM
       501       DWDGRGRLLV   KLSPVYAGKT     CGLCGNYNGN  QGDDFLTPSG LAEPRVEDFG
       551      NAWKLHGDCQ    DLQKQHSDPC     ALNPRMTRFS  EEACAVLTSP TFEACHRAVS
       601       PLPYLRNCRY   DVCSCSDGRE     CLCGALASYA  AACAGRGVRV AWREPGRCEL
       651.     NCPKGQVYLQ    CGTPCNLTCR     SLSYPDEECN  EACLEGCFCP PGLYMDERGD
        70]     CVPKAQCPCY    YDGEIFQPED     IFSDHHTMCY  CEDGFMHCTM SGVPGSLLPD
       751      AVLSSPLSHR    SKRSLSCRPP     MVKLVCPADN  LRAEGLECTK TCQNYDLECM
       801       SMGCVSGCLC   PPGMVRHENR     CVALERCPCF  HQGKEYAPGE TVKIGCNTCV
       851      CRDRKWNCTD    HVCDATCSTI     GMAHYLTFDG  LKYLFPGECQ YVLVQDYCGS
       901      NPGTFRILVG    NKGCSHPSVK     CKKRVTILVE  GGEIELFDGE VNVKRPMKDE
       95-1      THFEVVESGR   YIILLLGKAL     SVVWDRHLSI  SVVLKQTYQE KVCGLCGNFD
     1001       GIQNNDLTSS    NLQVEEDPVD     FGNSWKVSSQ  CADTRKVPLD SSPATCHNNI
     1051       MKQTMVDSSC    RILTSDVFQD     CNKLVDPEPY  LDVCIYDTCS CESIGDCACF
     1101       CDTIAAYAHV    CAQHGKVVTW     RTATLCPQSC  EERNLRENGY ECEWRYNSCA
     1151        PACQVTCQHP   EPLACPVQCV     EGCHAHCPPG  KILDELLQTC VDPEDCPVCE
     1201       VAGRRFASGK    KVTLNPSDPE     HCQICHCDVV  NLTCEACQEP*
    VWF-D'D3 protein sequence 2 (SEQ ID NO: 73)
           1     SLSCRPPMVK   LVCPADNLRA     EGLECTKTCQ  NYDLECMSMG   CVSGCLCPPG
         51     MVRHENRCVA    LERCPCFHQG     KEYAPGETVK  IGCNTCVCRD   RKWNCTDHVC
       101       DATCSTIGMA   HYLTFDGLKY     LFPGECQYVL  VQDYCGSNPG   TFRILVGNKG
       151      CSHPSVKCKK    RVTILVEGGE     IELFDGEVNV  KRPMKDETHF   EVVESGRYII
       201       LLLGKALSVV   WDRHLSISVV     LKQTYQEKVC  GLCGNFDGIQ   NNDLTSSNLQ
       251      VEEDPVDFGN    SWKVSSQCAD     TRKVPLDSSP  ATCHNNIMKQ   TMVDSSCRIL
       301L      TSDVFQDCNK   LVDPEPYLDV     CIYDTCSCES  IGDCACFCDT   IAAYAHVCAQ
       351L     HGKVVTWRTA    TLCPQSCEER     NLRENGYECE  WRYNSCAPAC   QVTCQHPEPL
       401      ACPVQCVEGC    HAHCPPGKIL     DELLQTCVDP  EDCPVCEVAG   RRFASGKKVT
       451       LNPSDPEHCQ   ICHCDVVNLT     CEACQEP

                                             142
       Example 2: Heterodimeric Constructs comprising FVIII-Fc and VWF-D'D3 domain at
       the amino terminus of the second Fe chain (FVIII-VWF-Fc heterodimer, Figure 2)
               (a)     Cloning of pSYN-FVIII-064
[0336]         The FVIII-064 plasmid comprises a single chain FC (scFc) scaffold with enzyme
       cleavage sites which are processed during synthesis in a cell. The construct has a FVIII
       binding domain of full-length VWF (D'D3).
[0337]         Plasmid (pSYN-FVIII-064) was designed for the expression FVIII-Fc and VWF
       Fc heterodimer, where the D'D3 domains to bind FVIII and prevents FVIII interaction
       with phospholipids and activated protein C and/or preventing or inhibiting binding to
       endogenous VWF. Protein from pSYN-FVIII-064 is expressed in the cell as a single
       polypeptide where the C-terminus of the FVIII-Fc subunit is linked to the N-terminus of
       the VWF D'D3-Fc subunit by a 6x (GGGGS) polypeptide linker (SEQ ID NO: 74). In
       addition, RRRRS (SEQ ID NO: 75) and RKRRKR (SEQ ID NO: 76) sequences were
       inserted at the 5' and 3' end of the polypeptide linker, respectively, for intracellular
       cleavage by proprotein convertases following the last Arg at each sequence. Hence, the
       cells can express a double chain FVIII-Fc/D'D3-Fc heterodimer where the FVIII-Fc chain
       has a RRRRS sequence (SEQ ID NO: 75) at the C-terminus, but the remainder of the
       linker sequence has been removed. Another 3x (GGGGS) polypeptide linker (SEQ ID
       NO: 28) along with a thrombin cleavage site is introduced in between the VWF domains
       and the Fc region to facilitate release of the VWF fragment from FVIII once the FVIII
       VWF hetero-dimeric protein is activated by thrombin allowing interaction of FVIII with
       other clotting factors.
[03381         Synthesis of the DNA fragments containing a portion of the first Fc region
       followed by a 6x (GGGGS) (SEQ ID NO: 74), the VWF-D'D3 domain (1-477aa;
       C336A/C379A mutation), 3x (GGGGS) (SEQ ID NO:28), the thrombin cleavage site and
       a portion of the second Fc was outsourced (Genscript-sequence number 103069, shown
       below). A fragment of Genscript construct was sub cloned into the SalI/RsRII digested
       pSYN-FVIII-049, which is FVIII-Fc construct with a cleavable linker in between two Fc
       domains.
       Genscript-Sequence number 103069 (SEQ ID NO: 82):
       CCGTCGACAAGAGCAGGTGGCAGCAGGGGAACGTCTTCTCATGCTCCGTGATGCATGAGGCTCTGCACAACC
       ACTACACGCAGAAGAGCCTCTCCCTGTCTCCGGGTAAACGGCGCCGCCGGAGCGGTGGCGGCGGATCAGGTG
       GGGGTGGATCAGGCGGTGGAGGTTCCGGTGGCGGGGGATCCGGCGGTGGAGGTTCCGGTGGGGGTGGATCAA
       GGAAGAGGAGGAAGAGAAGCCTATCCTGTCGGCCCCCCATGGTCAAGCTGGTGTGTCCCGCTGACAACCTGC

                                             143
       GGGCTGAAGGGCTCGAGTGTACCAAAACGTGCCAGAACTATGACCTGGAGTGCATGAGCATGGGCTGTGTCT
       CTGGCTGCCTCTGCCCCCCGGGCATGGTCCGGCATGAGAATCGATGTGTGGCCCTGGAAAGGTGTCCCTGCT
       TCCATCAGGGCAAGGAGTATGCCCCTGGAGAAACAGTGAAGATTGGCTGCAACACTTGTGTCTGTCGGGACC
       GGAAGTGGAACTGCACAGACCATGTGTGTGATGCCACGTGCTCCACGATCGGCATGGCCCACTACCTCACCT
       TCGACGGGCTCAAATACCTGTTCCCCGGGGAGTGCCAGTACGTTCTGGTGCAGGATTACTGCGGCAGTAACC
       CTGGGACCTTTCGGATCCTAGTGGGGAATAAGGGATGCAGCCACCCCTCAGTGAAATGCAAGAAACGGGTCA
       CCATCCTGGTGGAGGGAGGAGAGATTGAGCTGTTTGACGGGGAGGTGAATGTGAAGAGGCCCATGAAGGATG
       AGACTCACTTTGAGGTGGTGGAGTCTGGCCGGTACATCATTCTGCTGCTGGGCAAAGCCCTCTCCGTGGTCT
       GGGACCGCCACCTGAGCATCTCCGTGGTCCTGAAGCAGACATACCAGGAGAAAGTGTGTGGCCTGTGTGGGA
       ATTTTGATGGCATCCAGAACAATGACCTCACCAGCAGCAACCTCCAAGTGGAGGAAGACCCTGTGGACTTTG
       GGAACTCCTGGAAAGTGAGCTCGCAGTGTGCTGACACCAGAAAAGTGCCTCTGGACTCATCCCCTGCCACCT
       GCCATAACAACATCATGAAGCAGACGATGGTGGATTCCTCCTGTAGAATCCTTACCAGTGACGTCTTCCAGG
       ACTGCAACAAGCTGGTGGACCCCGAGCCATATCTGGATGTCTGCATTTACGACACCTGCTCCTGTGAGTCCA
       TTGGGGACTGCGCCGCATTCTGCGACACCATTGCTGCCTATGCCCACGTGTGTGCCCAGCATGGCAAGGTGG
       TGACCTGGAGGACGGCCACATTGTGCCCCCAGAGCTGCGAGGAGAGGAATCTCCGGGAGAACGGGTATGAGG
       CTGAGTGGCGCTATAACAGCTGTGCACCTGCCTGTCAAGTCACGTGTCAGCACCCTGAGCCACTGGCCTGCC
       CTGTGCAGTGTGTGGAGGGCTGCCATGCCCACTGCCCTCCAGGGAAAATCCTGGATGAGCTTTTGCAGACCT
       GCGTTGACCCTGAAGACTGTCCAGTGTGTGAGGTGGCTGGCCGGCGTTTTGCCTCAGGAAAGAAAGTCACCT
       TGAATCCCAGTGACCCTGAGCACTGCCAGATTTGCCACTGTGATGTTGTCAACCTCACCTGTGAAGCCTGCC
       AGGAGCCGATCGATGGCGGTGGAGGTTCCGGTGGCGGGGGATCCCTGGTCCCCCGGGGCAGCGGAGGCGACA
       AAACTCACACATGCCCACCGTGCCCAGCTCCAGAACTCCTGGGCGGACCGTCA
               (b)    Cloning of pSYN-FVIII-065
[0339]         The FVIII-065 plasmid comprises the first 276 amino acids of the D'D3 domain
       of VWF attached to a second Fc region. The VWF fragment was PCR amplified from
       full-length VWF plasmid pSYN-VWF-008 by using primer combinations ESC17 and
       ESC41.
       ESC17-Fwd- VWF cloning oligo with Clal
       GTCCGGCATGAGAATCGATGTGTG              (SEQ ID NO: 77)
       ESC4 1- Rev-VWF with EcoRV
       CCTCCACCGCCAGATATCAGAGGCACTTTTC                 (SEQ ID NO: 78)
[0340]         The expected sized band (~692bp) was gel purified with a Gel Extraction kit
       (Qiagen, Valencia, Calif.) and cloned into the Clal and EcoRV sites of pSYN-FVIII-064
       to generate pSYN-FVIII-065.
       Example 3: Cloning of pSYN-FVIII-159, 160, 178, 179 (Figure 3)
[0341]         In order to vary the linker length between the VWF fragment and Fc region, an
       EcoRV site was introduced at the junction of VWF and the beginning of 20 amino acid
       linker in pSYN-FVIII-064, variable size linkers were then used to replace the 20 aa linker

                                             144
       in PSYN-FVIII-064. The new DNA constructs are: pSYN-FVIII-159, 160, 178, and 179
       which contains 35 aa, 48 aa, 73 aa and 98 aa linkers, respectively.
[0342]          To insert a 35 amino acid linker in pSYN-FVIII-159, two oligos (ESC78- 105bp
       and ESC79 -107bp) were ordered from Integrated DNA Technologies, Inc (Coralville,
       IA). Oligos were annealed and extended using a standard PCR method:
       Primers:
       ESC78- Fwd with EcoRV site
       AAAGTGCCTCTGATATCTGGCGGTGGAGGTTCCGGTGGCGGGGGATCCGGTGGCGGG
       GGATCCGGTGGCGGGGGATCCGGTGGCGGGGGATCCCTGGTCCCCCGG                         (SEQ ID
       NO: 79)
       ESC79- Rev with RsRII site
       GAAGAGGAAGACTGACGGTCCGCCCAGGAGTTCTGGAGCTGGGCACGGTGGGCATGT
       GTGAGTTTTGTCGCCTCCGCTGCCCCGGGGGACCAGGGATCCCCCGCCAC                          (SEQ ID
       NO: 80)
[0343]          A 50 gl PCR oligo annealing and extension reaction was carried out with
       ESC78/ESC79 primer combo using the 3 step PCR amplification cycle: 25 cycles of (960
       C 30 seconds, 550 C 30 seconds, 68' C 30 seconds). The expected sized band (~186bp)
       was gel purified with a Gel Extraction kit (Qiagen, Valencia, Calif.) and cloned into the
       EcoRV and RsRII restriction sites of pSYN-FVIII-064 to generate pSYN-FVIII-159.
                (b)    Cloning pSYN-FVIII-160, 178, and 179
[0344]          pSYN-VIII-160 has a 48 amino acids linker in between the VWF fragment and
       the Fc region.     Synthesis of DNA fragment coding for 48 amino acids linker (ISGG
       GGSGGGGSGGGGSGGGGSGGGGSGGGGSLVPRGSGGGGSGGGGS)                       (SEQ ID NO: 81) and
       a portion of the Fc region was outsourced (Genscript-Sequence no-132601, shown
       below). A fragment of the Genscript construct was sub cloned into the EcoRV/RsRII
       digested pSYN-FVIII-0 159 (mentioned above).
       Genscript-Sequence no-132601 (SEQ ID NO: 83)
       AAAGTGCCTCTGATATCTGGCGGTGGAGGTTCCGGTGGCGGGGGATCCGGCGGTGGAGGTTCCGGCGGTGGA
       GGTTCCGGTGGCGGGGGATCCGGTGGCGGGGGATCCCTGGTCCCCCGGGGCAGCGGCGGTGGAGGTTCCGGT
       GGCGGGGGATCCGACAAAACTCACACATGCCCACCGTGCCCAGCTCCAGAACTCCTGGGCGGACCGTCAGTC
       TTCC

                                          145
[03451         pSYN-VIII-178 has a 73 amino acids linker in between the VWF fragment and
       the Fe region.      Synthesis of DNA fragment coding for 73 amino acids linker
       (ISGGGGSGGGGSGGGGSGGGGSGGGGSGGGGSGGGGSGGGGSGGGGSGGGGSGGGGSLVP
       RGSGGGGSGGGGS)        (SEQ ID NO: 84) and a portion of Fc region was outsourced
       (Genscript-Sequence no-144849, shown below). A fragment of Genscript construct was
       sub cloned into the EcoRV/RsRII digested pSYN-FVIII-0159 (mentioned above).
       Genscript-Sequence #-144849 (SEQ ID NO: 85)
       GCCTGCCAGGAGCCGATATCTGGCGGTGGAGGTTCCGGTGGCGGGGGATCCGGCGGTGGAGGTTCCGGCGGT
       GGAGGTTCCGGTGGCGGGGGATCCGGCGGTGGAGGTTCCGGTGGCGGGGGATCCGGCGGTGGAGGTTCCGGC
       GGTGGAGGTTCCGGTGGCGGGGGATCCGGTGGCGGGGGATCCCTGGTCCCCCGGGGCAGCGGCGGTGGAGGT
       TCCGGTGGCGGGGGATCCGACAAAACTCACACATGCCCCCGTGCCCAGCTCCAGAACTCCTGGGCGGACCGT
       CAGTCTTCCTC
[0346]         pSYN-VIII-179 has a 98 amino acids linker in between the VWF fragment and
       the Fc region. Synthesis of DNA        fragment coding for 98 amino acids linker
       (ISGGGGSGGGGSGGGGSGGGGSGGGGSGGGGSGGGGSGGGGSGGGGSGGGGSGGGGSGG
       GGSGGGGSGGGGSGGGGSGGGGSLVPRGSGGGGSGGGGS)                  (SEQ ID NO: 86) and a
       portion of Fc region was outsourced (Genscript-Sequence no-144849shown below). A
       fragment of Genscript construct was sub cloned into the EcoRV/RsRII digested pSYN
       FVIII-0159 (mentioned above).
       Genscript-Sequence #-144849 (SEQ ID NO:87)
       GCCTGCCAGGAGCCGATATCTGGCGGTGGAGGTTCCGGTGGCGGGGGATCCGGCGGTGGAGGTTCCGGCGGT
       GGAGGTTCCGGTGGCGGGGGATCCGGCGGTGGAGGTTCCGGTGGCGGGGGATCCGGCGGTGGAGGTTCCGGC
       GGTGGAGGTTCCGGTGGCGGGGGATCCGGCGGTGGAGGTTCCGGTGGCGGGGGATCCGGCGGTGGAGGTTCC
       GGCGGTGGAGGTTCCGGTGGCGGGGGATCCGGTGGCGGGGGATCCCTGGTCCCCCGGGGCAGCGGCGGTGGA
       GGTTCCGGTGGCGGGGGATCCGACAAAACTCACACATGCCCACCGTGCCCAGCTCCAGAACTCCTGGGCGGA
       CCGTCAGTCTTCCTCTTCCC
       Cloning of pSYN-FVIII-180, 181, and 182
[03471         pSYN-FVIII-180, 181, and 182 were constructed from pSYN-FVIII-160. K2093A
       or F2093A or K2093A/F2093A mutations were introduced into the Cl domain of FVIII
       in pSYN-FVIII-160 to form pSYN-FVIII-180, pSYN-FVIII-181 and pSYN-FVIII-182
       respectively.
       FVIII-VWF-Fc heterodimer protein sequence (SEQ ID NO: 88)

                                             146
[03481          (FVIII sequence amino acid position 1-1457; underlined region represents Fc
        region; curvy underline represents cleavable linker in between first Fc and VWF
        fragment; double underlined region represents VWF fragment; bold region represents
        variable length cleavable linker in between VWF fragment and Fc. The linker length
        varies in FVIII-064, 159, 160, 178, and 179 constructs).
            1   MQIELSTCFF   LCLLRFCFSA    TRRYYLGAVE   LSWDYMQSDL GELPVDARFP
         51     PRVPKSFPFN   TSVVYKKTLF    VEFTDHLFNI   AKPRPPWMGL LGPTIQAEVY
       101      DTVVITLKNM   ASHPVSLHAV    GVSYWKASEG   AEYDDQTSQR EKEDDKVFPG
       151      GSHTYVWQVL   KENGPMASDP    LCLTYSYLSH   VDLVKDLNSG LIGALLVCRE
       201      GSLAKEKTQT   LHKFILLFAV    FDEGKSWHSE   TKNSLMQDRD AASARAWPKM
       251      HTVNGYVNRS   LPGLIGCHRK    SVYWHVIGMG   TTPEVHSIFL EGHTFLVRNH
       301      RQASLEISPI   TFLTAQTLLM    DLGQFLLFCH   ISSHQHDGME AYVKVDSCPE
       351      EPQLRMKNNE   EAEDYDDDLT    DSEMDVVRFD   DDNSPSFIQI RSVAKKHPKT
       401      WVHYIAAEEE   DWDYAPLVLA    PDDRSYKSQY   LNNGPQRIGR KYKKVRFMAY
        A51     TDETFKTREA   IQHESGILGP    LLYGEVGDTL   LIIFKNQASR PYNIYPHGIT
       501      DVRPLYSRRL   PKGVKHLKDF    PILPGEIFKY   KWTVTVEDGP TKSDPRCLTR
       55 1     YYSSFVNMER   DLASGLIGPL    LICYKESVDQ   RGNQIMSDKR NVILFSVFDE
       6011     NRSWYLTENI   QRFLPNPAGV    QLEDPEFQAS   NIMHSINGYV FDSLQLSVCL
       61I      HEVAYWYILS   IGAQTDFLSV    FFSGYTFKHK   MVYEDTLTLF PFSGETVFMS
         71     MENPGLWILG   CHNSDFRNRG    MTALLKVSSC   DKNTGDYYED SYEDISAYLL
       751      SKNNAIEPRS   FSQNPPVLKR    HQREITRTTL   QSDQEEIDYD DTISVEMKKE
       801      DFDIYDEDEN   QSPRSFQKKT    RHYFIAAVER   LWDYGMSSSP HVLRNRAQSG
       851      SVPQFKKVVF   QEFTDGSFTQ    PLYRGELNEH   LGLLGPYIRA EVEDNIMVTF
       901      RNQASRPYSF   YSSLISYEED    QRQGAEPRKN   FVKPNETKTY FWKVQHHMAP
       951      TKDEFDCKAW   AYFSDVDLEK    DVHSGLIGPL   LVCHTNTLNP AHGRQVTVQE
     1001       FALFFTIFDE   TKSWYFTENM    ERNCRAPCNI   QMEDPTFKEN YRFHAINGYI
     1051       MDTLPGLVMA   QDQRIRWYLL    SMGSNENIHS   IHFSGHVFTV RKKEEYKMAL
     11011      YNLYPGVFET   VEMLPSKAGI    WRVECLIGEH   LHAGMSTLFL VYSNKCQTPL
     1151       GMASGHIRDF   QITASGQYGQ    WAPKLARLHY   SGSINAWSTK EPFSWIKVDL
     1201       LAPMIIHGIK   TQGARQKFSS    LYISQFIIMY   SLDGKKWQTY RGNSTGTLMV
     1251       FFGNVDSSGI   KHNIFNPPII    ARYIRLHPTH   YSIRSTLRME LMGCDLNSCS
     1301.      MPLGMESKAI   SDAQITASSY    FTNMFATWSP   SKARLHLQGR SNAWRPQVNN
     1351       PKEWLQVDFQ   KTMKVTGVTT    QGVKSLLTSM   YVKEFLISSS QDGHQWTLFF
     1401       QNGKVKVFQG   NQDSFTPVVN    SLDPPLLTRY   LRIHPQSWVH QIALRMEVLG
     1451       CEAQDLYDKT   HTCPPCPAPE    LLGGPSVFLF   PPKPKDTLMI SRTPEVTCVV
     1501       VDVSHEDPEV   KFNWYVDGVE    VHNAKTKPRE   EQYNSTYRVV SVLTVLHQDW
     1551       LNGKEYKCKV   SNKALPAPIE    KTISKAKGQP   REPQVYTLPP SRDELTKNQV
     1601       SLTCLVKGFY   PSDIAVEWES    NGQPENNYKT   TPPVLDSDGS FFLYSKLTVD
     1651       KSRWQQGNVF   SCSVMHEALH    NHYTQKSLSL   SPGKRRRRSG GGGSGGGGSG
     1701       GGGSGGGGSG   GGGSGGGGSR    KRRKRSLSCR   PPMVKLVCPA DNLRAEGLEC
     1751       TKTCONYDLE   CMSMGCVSGC    LCPPGMVRHE   NRCVALERCP CFHQGKEYAP
     1801       GETVKIGCNT   CVCRDRKWNC    TDHVCDATCS   TIGMAHYLTF DGLKYLFPGE
     1851       CQYVLVQDYC   GSNPGTFRIL    VGNKGCSHPS   VKCKKRVTIL VEGGEIELFD
     1901       GEVNVKRPMK   DETHFEVVES    GRYIILLLGK   ALSVVWDRHL SISVVLKQTY
     1951       QEKVCGLCGN   FDGIQNNDLT    SSNLQVEEDP   VDFGNSWKVS SQCADTRKVP
     2001       LDSSPATCHN   NIMKQTMVDS    SCRILTSDVF   QDCNKLVDPE PYLDVCIYDT
     2051       CSCESIGDCA   AFCDTIAAYA    HVCAQHGKVV   TWRTATLCPQ SCEERNLREN
     2101       GYEAEWRYNS   CAPACQVTCQ    HPEPLACPVQ   CVEGCHAHCP PGKTLDELLQ
     2151       TCVDPEDCPV   CEVAGRRFAS    GKKVTLNPSD   PEHCQICHCD VVNLTCEACQ
     2201       EPIDGGGGSG   GGGSLVPRGS    GGDKTHTCPP   CPAPELLGGP SVFLFPPKPK
     2251       DTLMISRTPE   VTCVVVDVSH    EDPEVKFNWY   VDGVEVHNAK TKPREEQYNS
     2301.      TYRVVSVLTV   LHQDWLNGKE    YKCKVSNKAL   PAPIEKTISK AKGQPREPQV
     2351       YTLPPSRDEL   TKNQVSLTCL    VKGFYPSDIA   VEWESNGQPE NNYKTTPPVL

                                              147
     2401       DSDGSFFLYS KLTVDKSRWQ QGNVFSCSVM HEALHNHYTQ KSLSLSPGK
       Example 4: Example of FVIII-VWF DNA constructs (Figure 4)
[0349]         The VWF fragment and FVIII protein can be linked together by a linker or
       another protein or a polypeptide using conventional recombinant DNA techniques, as
       show in Figure 4. In Figure 4A, the D1D2D'D3 domains of VWF is linked to the FVIII
       protein                  by                  a                 48aa                   linker
       ISGGGGSGGGGSGGGGSGGGGSGGGGSGGGGSLVPRGSGGGGSGGGGS                        (SEQ ID NO: 89)
       and protects FVIII from premature clearance. To further enhance the FVIII protecting
       activity of D'D3, another protein or polypeptide that has half-life extension potential such
       as albumin or a PAS sequence (heterologous moieties) can be incorporated into the
       construct.   The heterologous moiety, e.g., albumin protein or PAS sequence, can be
       incorporated into different positions of the FVIII molecule; a few examples were shown
       in Figure 4B-4D: at the N-termini of FVIII (4B), at the C-termini of FVIII (4C), or in the
       B region (4D). In those constructs, the additional protein sequences could enhance the
       D'D3 protecting activity and further extend FVIII half-life.
[03501         In addition, a heterologous moiety, e.g., albumin or PAS sequence, can also be
       incorporated into the FVIII/VWF heterodimer constructs as shown in figure 4E-4G. In
       figure 4E, a heterologous moiety, e.g., albumin or PAS sequence, is incorporated into the
       FVIII B domain region of FVIII-148; In figure 4F, a heterologous moiety, e.g., albumin
       or PAS sequence, is incorporated into the FVIII B domain region of FVIII-136; In figure
       4G, a heterologous moiety, e.g., albumin or PAS sequence, is used as a linker to connect
       D'D3 fragment and Fc. In those configurations, a synergetic effect of D'D3, Fc, and
       heterologous moiety that is a half-life extender (e.g., albumin/PAS sequence) is expected
       on FVIII half-life extension.
       Example 5: Plasmid         construction   of co-transfection  system    for  FVIIIFc-VWF
       Heterodimer (Figure 5)
[03511         A   co-transfection   system    was   generated   for FVIIIFc-VWF       heterodimer
       production, which contains three DNA constructs.         The first DNA construct- pSYN
       FVIII-155 is encoding a FVIII-Fc fusion protein in which a single chain FVIII protein
       was directly fused to a single Fc fragment, and the second DNA construct is pSYN-VWF
       031, which encodes a D'D3-Fc fusion protein (mentioned above in example 1). HEK293F

                                      148
cells were transfected with the two plasmids along with a third plasmid (PC5) at a 80:15:5
ratio. Co-transfection with PC5 is to ensure full propeptide processing of the D1 and D2
regions so that we have mature D'D3 domains. The synthesized proteins were secreted as
FVIIIFc/D'D3Fc      heterodimer and D'D3Fc        homodimer and the FVIIIFc/D'D3Fc
heterodimer was separated from the D'D3Fc homodimer by protein purification.
pSYN-FVIII-155 mature Protein sequencing (SEQ ID NO: 90):
ATRRYYLGAVELSWDYMQSDLGELPVDARFPPRVPKSFPFNTSVVYKKTLFVEFTDHLFNIAKPRPPWMGLL
GPTIQAEVYDTVVITLKNMASHPVSLHAVGVSYWKASEGAEYDDQTSQREKEDDKVFPGGSHTYVWQVLKEN
GPMASDPLCLTYSYLSHVDLVKDLNSGLIGALLVCREGSLAKEKTQTLHKFI LLFAVFDEGKSWHSETKNSL
MQDRDAASARAWPKMHTVNGYVNRSLPGLIGCHRKSVYWHVIGMGTTPEVHSIFLEGHTFLVRNHRQASLEI
SPITFLTAQTLLMDLGQFLLFCHISSHQHDGMEAYVKVDSCPEEPQLRMKNNEEAEDYDDDLTDSEMDVVRF
DDDNSPSFIQIRSVAKKHPKTWVHYIAAEEEDWDYAPLVLAPDDRSYKSQYLNNGPQRIGRKYKKVRFMAYT
DETFKTREAIQHESGILGPLLYGEVGDTLLIIFKNQASRPYNIYPHGITDVRPLYSRRLPKGVKHLKDFPIL
PGEIFKYKWTVTVEDGPTKSDPRCLTRYYSSFVNMERDLASGLIGPLLICYKESVDQRGNQIMSDKRNVILF
SVFDENRSWYLTENIQRFLPNPAGVQLEDPEFQASNIMHSINGYVFDSLQLSVCLHEVAYWYILSIGAQTDF
LSVFFSGYTFKHKMVYEDTLTLFPFSGETVFMSMENPGLWILGCHNSDFRNRGMTALLKVSSCDKNTGDYYE
DSYEDISAYLLSKNNAIEPRSFSQNPPVLKAHQAEITRTTLQSDQEEIDYDDTISVEMKKEDFDIYDEDENQ
SPRSFQKKTRHYFIAAVERLWDYGMSSSPHVLRNRAQSGSVPQFKKVVFQEFTDGSFTQPLYRGELNEHLGL
LGPYIRAEVEDNIMVTFRNQASRPYSFYSSLISYEEDQRQGAEPRKNFVKPNETKTYFWKVQHHMAPTKDEF
DCKAWAYFSDVDLEKDVHSGLIGPLLVCHTNTLNPAHGRQVTVQEFALFFTIFDETKSWYFTENMERNCRAP
CNIQMEDPTFKENYRFHAINGYIMDTLPGLVMAQDQRIRWYLLSMGSNENIHS IHFSGHVFTVRKKEEYKMA
LYNLYPGVFETVEMLPSKAGIWRVECLIGEHLHAGMSTLFLVYSNKCQTPLGMASGHIRDFQI TASGQYGQW
APKLARLHYSGSINAWSTKEPFSWIKVDLLAPMIIHGIKTQGARQKFSSLYISQFIIMYSLDGKKWQTYRGN
STGTLMVFFGNVDSSGIKHNIFNPPIIARYIRLHPTHYSIRSTLRMELMGCDLNSCSMPLGMESKAISDAQI
TASSYFTNMFATWSPSKARLHLQGRSNAWRPQVNNPKEWLQVDFQKTMKVTGVTTQGVKSLLTSMYVKEFLI
SSSQDGHQWTLFFQNGKVKVFQGNQDSFTPVVNSLDPPLLTRYLRIHPQSWVHQIALRMEVLGCEAQDLYDK
THTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPKPKDTLMI SRT PEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFNWYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREE
QYNSTYRVVSVLTVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPAPIEKTISKAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSRDELTKNQVSLT
CLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPPVLDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCSVMHEALHNHYTQ
KSLSLSPGK
pSYN-FVIII-155 DNA sequencing (SEQ ID NO: 91):
ATGCAAATAGAGCTCTCCACCTGCTTCTTTCTGTGCCTTTTGCGATTCTGCTTTAGTGCCACCAGAAGATAC
TACCTGGGTGCAGTGGAACTGTCATGGGACTATATGCAAAGTGATCTCGGTGAGCTGCCTGTGGACGCAAGA
TT TCCTCCTAGAGTGCCAAAATCT T T TCCAT TCAACACCTCAGTCGTGTACAAAAAGACTCTGT T TGTAGAA
TTCACGGATCACCTTTTCAACATCGCTAAGCCAAGGCCACCCTGGATGGGTCTGCTAGGTCCTACCATCCAG
GCTGAGGTTTATGATACAGTGGTCATTACACTTAAGAACATGGCTTCCCATCCTGTCAGTCTTCATGCTGTT
GGTGTATCCTACTGGAAAGCTTCTGAGGGAGCTGAATATGATGATCAGACCAGTCAAAGGGAGAAAGAAGAT
GATAAAGTCTTCCCTGGTGGAAGCCATACATATGTCTGGCAGGTCCTGAAAGAGAATGGTCCAATGGCCTCT
GACCCACTGTGCCTTACCTACTCATATCTTTCTCATGTGGACCTGGTAAAAGACTTGAATTCAGGCCTCATT
GGAGCCCTACTAGTATGTAGAGAAGGGAGTCTGGCCAAGGAAAAGACACAGACCTTGCACAAATTTATACTA
CTTTTTGCTGTATTTGATGAAGGGAAAAGTTGGCACTCAGAAACAAAGAACTCCTTGATGCAGGATAGGGAT
GCTGCATCTGCTCGGGCCTGGCCTAAAATGCACACAGTCAATGGTTATGTAAACAGGTCTCTGCCAGGTCTG
ATTGGATGCCACAGGAAATCAGTCTATTGGCATGTGATTGGAATGGGCACCACTCCTGAAGTGCACTCAATA
TTCCTCGAAGGTCACACATTTCTTGTGAGGAACCATCGCCAGGCGTCCTTGGAAATCTCGCCAATAACTTTC
CTTACTGCTCAAACACTCTTGATGGACCTTGGACAGTTTCTACTGTTTTGTCATATCTCTTCCCACCAACAT
GATGGCATGGAAGCTTATGTCAAAGTAGACAGCTGTCCAGAGGAACCCCAACTACGAATGAAAAATAATGAA
GAAGCGGAAGACTATGATGATGATCTTACTGATTCTGAAATGGATGTGGTCAGGTTTGATGATGACAACTCT
CCTTCCTTTATCCAAATTCGCTCAGTTGCCAAGAAGCATCCTAAAACTTGGGTACATTACATTGCTGCTGAA
GAGGAGGACTGGGACTATGCTCCCTTAGTCCTCGCCCCCGATGACAGAAGTTATAAAAGTCAATATTTGAAC

                                       149
       AATGGCCCTCAGCGGATTGGTAGGAAGTACAAAAAAGTCCGATTTATGGCATACACAGATGAAACCTTTAAG
       ACTCGTGAAGCTATTCAGCATGAATCAGGAATCTTGGGACCTTTACTTTATGGGGAAGTTGGAGACACACTG
       TTGATTATATTTAAGAATCAAGCAAGCAGACCATATAACATCTACCCTCACGGAATCACTGATGTCCGTCCT
       TTGTATTCAAGGAGATTACCAAAAGGTGTAAAACATTTGAAGGATTTTCCAATTCTGCCAGGAGAAATATTC
       AAATATAAATGGACAGTGACTGTAGAAGATGGGCCAACTAAATCAGATCCTCGGTGCCTGACCCGCTATTAC
       TCTAGTTTCGTTAATATGGAGAGAGATCTAGCTTCAGGACTCATTGGCCCTCTCCTCATCTGCTACAAAGAA
       TCTGTAGATCAAAGAGGAAACCAGATAATGTCAGACAAGAGGAATGTCATCCTGTTTTCTGTATTTGATGAG
       AACCGAAGCTGGTACCTCACAGAGAATATACAACGCTTTCTCCCCAATCCAGCTGGAGTGCAGCTTGAGGAT
       CCAGAGTTCCAAGCCTCCAACATCATGCACAGCATCAATGGCTATGTTTTTGATAGTTTGCAGTTGTCAGTT
       TGTTTGCATGAGGTGGCATACTGGTACATTCTAAGCATTGGAGCACAGACTGACTTCCTTTCTGTCTTCTTC
       TCTGGATATACCTTCAAACACAAAATGGTCTATGAAGACACACTCACCCTATTCCCATTCTCAGGAGAAACT
       GTCTTCATGTCGATGGAAAACCCAGGTCTATGGATTCTGGGGTGCCACAACTCAGACTTTCGGAACAGAGGC
       ATGACCGCCTTACTGAAGGTTTCTAGTTGTGACAAGAACACTGGTGATTATTACGAGGACAGTTATGAAGAT
       ATTTCAGCATACTTGCTGAGTAAAAACAATGCCATTGAACCAAGAAGCTTCTCTCAAAACCCACCAGTCTTG
       AAAGCCCATCAGGCGGAAATAACTCGTACTACTCTTCAGTCAGATCAAGAGGAAATTGACTATGATGATACC
       ATATCAGTTGAAATGAAGAAGGAAGATTTTGACATTTATGATGAGGATGAAAATCAGAGCCCCCGCAGCTTT
       CAAAAGAAAACACGACACTATTTTATTGCTGCAGTGGAGAGGCTCTGGGATTATGGGATGAGTAGCTCCCCA
       CATGTTCTAAGAAACAGGGCTCAGAGTGGCAGTGTCCCTCAGTTCAAGAAAGTTGTTTTCCAGGAATTTACT
       GATGGCTCCTTTACTCAGCCCTTATACCGTGGAGAACTAAATGAACATTTGGGACTCCTGGGGCCATATATA
       AGAGCAGAAGTTGAAGATAATATCATGGTAACTTTCAGAAATCAGGCCTCTCGTCCCTATTCCTTCTATTCT
       AGCCTTATTTCTTATGAGGAAGATCAGAGGCAAGGAGCAGAACCTAGAAAAAACTTTGTCAAGCCTAATGAA
       ACCAAAACTTACTTTTGGAAAGTGCAACATCATATGGCACCCACTAAAGATGAGTTTGACTGCAAAGCCTGG
       GCTTATTTCTCTGATGTTGACCTGGAAAAAGATGTGCACTCAGGCCTGATTGGACCCCTTCTGGTCTGCCAC
       ACTAACACACTGAACCCTGCTCATGGGAGACAAGTGACAGTACAGGAATTTGCTCTGTTTTTCACCATCTTT
       GATGAGACCAAAAGCTGGTACTTCACTGAAAATATGGAAAGAAACTGCAGGGCTCCCTGCAATATCCAGATG
       GAAGATCCCACTTTTAAAGAGAATTATCGCTTCCATGCAATCAATGGCTACATAATGGATACACTACCTGGC
       TTAGTAATGGCTCAGGATCAAAGGATTCGATGGTATCTGCTCAGCATGGGCAGCAATGAAAACATCCATTCT
       ATTCATTTCAGTGGACATGTGTTCACTGTACGAAAAAAAGAGGAGTATAAAATGGCACTGTACAATCTCTAT
       CCAGGTGTTTTTGAGACAGTGGAAATGTTACCATCCAAAGCTGGAATTTGGCGGGTGGAATGCCTTATTGGC
       GAGCATCTACATGCTGGGATGAGCACACTTTTTCTGGTGTACAGCAATAAGTGTCAGACTCCCCTGGGAATG
       GCTTCTGGACACATTAGAGATTTTCAGATTACAGCTTCAGGACAATATGGACAGTGGGCCCCAAAGCTGGCC
       AGACTTCATTATTCCGGATCAATCAATGCCTGGAGCACCAAGGAGCCCTTTTCTTGGATCAAGGTGGATCTG
       TTGGCACCAATGATTATTCACGGCATCAAGACCCAGGGTGCCCGTCAGAAGTTCTCCAGCCTCTACATCTCT
       CAGTTTATCATCATGTATAGTCTTGATGGGAAGAAGTGGCAGACTTATCGAGGAAATTCCACTGGAACCTTA
       ATGGTCTTCTTTGGCAATGTGGATTCATCTGGGATAAAACACAATATTTTTAACCCTCCAATTATTGCTCGA
       TACATCCGTTTGCACCCAACTCATTATAGCATTCGCAGCACTCTTCGCATGGAGTTGATGGGCTGTGATTTA
       AATAGTTGCAGCATGCCATTGGGAATGGAGAGTAAAGCAATATCAGATGCACAGATTACTGCTTCATCCTAC
       TTTACCAATATGTTTGCCACCTGGTCTCCTTCAAAAGCTCGACTTCACCTCCAAGGGAGGAGTAATGCCTGG
       AGACCTCAGGTGAATAATCCAAAAGAGTGGCTGCAAGTGGACTTCCAGAAGACAATGAAAGTCACAGGAGTA
       ACTACTCAGGGAGTAAAATCTCTGCTTACCAGCATGTATGTGAAGGAGTTCCTCATCTCCAGCAGTCAAGAT
       GGCCATCAGTGGACTCTCTTTTTTCAGAATGGCAAAGTAAAGGTTTTTCAGGGAAATCAAGACTCCTTCACA
       CCTGTGGTGAACTCTCTAGACCCACCGTTACTGACTCGCTACCTTCGAATTCACCCCCAGAGTTGGGTGCAC
       CAGATTGCCCTGAGGATGGAGGTTCTGGGCTGCGAGGCACAGGACCTCTACGACAAAACTCACACATGCCCA
       CCGTGCCCAGCTCCAGAACTCCTGGGCGGACCGTCAGTCTTCCTCTTCCCCCCAAAACCCAAGGACACCCTC
       ATGATCTCCCGGACCCCTGAGGTCACATGCGTGGTGGTGGACGTGAGCCACGAAGACCCTGAGGTCAAGTTC
       AACTGGTACGTGGACGGCGTGGAGGTGCATAATGCCAAGACAAAGCCGCGGGAGGAGCAGTACAACAGCACG
       TACCGTGTGGTCAGCGTCCTCACCGTCCTGCACCAGGACTGGCTGAATGGCAAGGAGTACAAGTGCAAGGTC
       TCCAACAAAGCCCTCCCAGCCCCCATCGAGAAAACCATCTCCAAAGCCAAAGGGCAGCCCCGAGAACCACAG
       GTGTACACCCTGCCCCCATCCCGGGATGAGCTGACCAAGAACCAGGTCAGCCTGACCTGCCTGGTCAAAGGC
       TTCTATCCCAGCGACATCGCCGTGGAGTGGGAGAGCAATGGGCAGCCGGAGAACAACTACAAGACCACGCCT
       CCCGTGTTGGACTCCGACGGCTCCTTCTTCCTCTACAGCAAGCTCACCGTGGACAAGAGCAGGTGGCAGCAG
       GGGAACGTCTTCTCATGCTCCGTGATGCATGAGGCTCTGCACAACCACTACACGCAGAAGAGCCTCTCCCTG
       TCTCCGGGTAAA
[03521        Additional VWF fragments and FVIIIFC-VWF heterodimers that have been
       constructed are listed below.

                                         150
    Table 6. VWF Fragments and FVIII/VWF Heterodimer Constructs
VWF
pSYN-VWF-001     FVIII signal peptide D'D3 region (1-276 amino acids long 6x
                 His)                                                           pcDNA 4
         F-002
    pSYN-V       FVIII signal peptide D'D3 region (1-477 amino acids long 6x
    pSHis)F00                                                                   pcDNA 4
pSYN-VWF-003     FVIII signal peptide D'D3 region partial Al (1-511 amino acids
                 long 6x His)                                                   pcDNA 4
 pSYN-VWF-004    FVIII signal peptide D'D3A1 region (1-7 16 amino acids long 6x
                 His)                                                           pcDNA 4
pSYN-VWF-006     D1D2D'D3-linker-CK1                                            pcDNA 3.1
p SYN-VWF-008    Full length WT- VWFpcN                                               3.
pSYN-VWF-009     D1D2D'D3 region (1-276 aa, 6x His)                             pcDNA 3.1
pSYN-VWF-010     D1D2D'D3 region (1-477 aa, 6x His)                             pcDNA 3.1
pSYN-VWF-0 11    Dl1D2D'D3 region partial Al (1-511 aa, 6x His)                 pcDNA 3.1
pSYN-VWF-012     D1D2D'D3A1 region (1-716 aa, 6x His)                           pcDNA 3.1
pSYN-VWF-013     D1D2D'D3 region (1-477 aa, C336A/C379A, 6x His)                pDNA 3.
pSYN-VWF-0 14    FVIII signal peptide-D'D3 (1-477aa, C33 6A/C3 79A)-single Fc
                 with 20aa linker containing thrombin site                      pcDNA 4
pSYN-VWF-015     D1D2D'D3 (1-477aa, C336A/C379A)-single Fc with 20aa linker
                 containing thrombin site                                       pcDNA 4
pSYN-VWF-016     FVIII signal peptide-D'D3 (1-477aa, WT)-single Fc with 20aa
                 linker containing thrombin site                                pcDNA 4
pSYN-VWF-017     D1D2D'D3 (1-477aa, WT)-single Fc with 20aa linker containing
                 thrombin site                                                  pcDNA 4
pSYN-VWF-025     D1D2D'D3 region (1-477 aa, 6x His) in pLIVE                    pLIVE
pSYN-VWF-029     D1D2D'D3 region (1-477 aa, C336A/C379A, 6x His) in pLIVE       pLIVE
pSYN-VWF-03 0    FVIII signal peptide-D'D3 (1-477aa, C33 6A/C3 79A)-single Fc
                 with 48aa linker containing thrombin site                      pcDNA 4
pSYN-VWF-031     D1D2D'D3 (1-477aa, C336A/C379A)-single Fc with 48aa linker
                 containing thrombin site                                       pcDNA 4
pSYN-VWF-032     FVIII signal peptide-D'D3 (1-477aa, WT)-single Fc with 48aa
                 linker containing thrombin site                                pcDNA 4
pSYN-VWF-033     FVIII signal peptide-D'D3 (1-477aa, WT)-single Fc with 35 aa
                 linker containing thrombin site                                pcDNA 4
pSYN-FVIII-055   BDD-FVIII scFc with R336I and Y1680F                           pBUD
pSYN-FVIII-056   BDD-FVIII scFc with R336I, R562 and Y1680F                     pBUD
pSYN-FVIII-057    BDD-FVIII scFc with Y1680F                                    pBUD
pSYN-FVIII-058   BDD-FVIII scFc with S488A                                      pBUD
pSYN-FVIII-059   BDD-FVIII scFc with R336I, R562K,S488A                         pBUD
pSYN-FVIII-060   BDD-FVIII scFc with R336I, R562K,Yl680F                        pBUD
pSYN-FVIII-061   BDD-FVIII scFc with R336I, R562K,S488A, Yl680F                 pBUD
                 BDD-FVIII cleavable scFc with VWF D'D3 (11-477aa,
                 C336A/C379A) on second Fc & 20aa thrombin cleavable linker
pSYN-FVIII-064   in between                                                     pBUD

                                        151
                BDD-FVIII cleavable scFc with VWF D'D3 ( 1-276aa) on
pSYN-FVIII-065  second Fe & 20aa thrombin cleavable linker in between       pBUD
pSYN-FVIII-083  BDD-FVIII scFe with R3361,S488A,R562K, Y1680F,E1984V        pBUD
                BDD-FVIII scFe with 6x(GGGGS) linker in between C2 of
pSYN-FVIII-086  FVIII and Fe                                                pBUD
pSYN-FVIII-095  BDD-FVIII scFe with S104C, R562K,Yl680F, G1960C             pBUD
                                                                            pcDNA 3.3
pSYN-FVIII-101  BDD-FVIII scFe from FVIII-041 into pcDNA 3.3. Topo          Topo
                BDD-FVIII (M662C/D 1828C for disulfide binding; APC
                cleavage mutations R3361/R562K; along with Y1680F mutation
pSYN-FVIII-102  for VWF binding)                                            pBUD
pSYN-FVIII-103  BDD-FVIII scFc (Y662C/T1828C)                               pBUD
pSYN-FVIII-104  BDD-FVIII scFc (G655C/ST1788C)                              pBUD
                BDD-FVIII (R490A/H497A) cleavable scFc with VWF D'D3 (
                1-477aa, C336A/C379A) on second Fc & 20aa thrombin
pSYN-FVIII- 113 cleavable linker in between                                 pBUD
                BDD-FVIII (R490A/H497A) cleavable scFc with VWF D'D3 (
                1-276) on second Fc & 20aa thrombin cleavable linker in
pSYN-FVIII- 114 between                                                     pBUD
                                                                            pcDNA 3.3
pSYN-FVIII-126  BDD-FVIII scFc (M662C/D1828C)                               Topo
                BDD-FVIII scFc (M662C/D1828C for disulfide binding; APC
                cleavage mutations R3361/R562K; along with Y1680F mutation  pcDNA 3.3
pSYN-FVIII-127  for VWF binding)                                            Topo
                                                                            pcDNA 3.3
pSYN-FVIII-128  BDD-FVIII scFc (Y664C/T1826C)                               Topo
                mutation of R3361 R562K R490A H497A N1224A in the
pSYN-FVIII-129  background of pSYN-VIII-64                                  pBUD
                mutation of R3361 R562K R490A H497A N1224A in the
pSYN-FVIII-130  background of pSYN-VIII-65                                  pBUD
                mutation of R471A Y487A R490A H497A N1224A in the
pSYN-FVIII-131  background of pSYN-VIII-64                                  pBUD
                mutation of R471A Y487A R490A H497A N1224A in the
pSYN-FVIII-132  background of pSYN-VIII-65                                  pBUD
                                                                            pcDNA 3.3
pSYN-FVIII-135  BDD- FVIII scFc with R1645A/R1648A                          Topo
                BDD-FVIII cleavable scFc with VWF D'D3 ( 1-477aa,
                C336A/C379A) on second Fc & 20aa thrombin cleavable linker  pcDNA 3.3
pSYN-FVIII-136  in between                                                  Topo
                BDD-FVIII cleavable scFc with VWF D'D3 ( 1-276aa) on        pcDNA 3.3
pSYN-FVIII-137  second Fc & 20aa thrombin cleavable linker in between       Topo
                                                                            pcDNA 3.3
pSYN-FVIII-145  BDD- FVIII scFc with R471A/Y487A, R490A/H497A               Topo
                BDD- FVIII cleavable scFc (R471A/Y487A) with VWF D'D3
                ( 1-477aa, C336A/C379A) on second Fc & 20aa thrombin        pcDNA 3.3
pSYN-FVIII-146  cleavable linker                                            Topo
                BDD- FVIII cleavable scFc (R471A/Y487A) with VWF D'D3
                ( 1-276aa) on second Fc & 20aa thrombin cleavable linker in pcDNA 3.3
pSYN-FVIII-147  between                                                     Topo
                BDD- FVIII cleavable scFc (R1645A/R1648A) with VWF D'D3
                ( 1-477aa, C336A/C379A) on second Fc & 20aa thrombin        pcDNA 3.3
pSYN-FVIII-148  cleavable linker                                            Topo

                                               152
                       BDD- FVIII cleavable scFc (R1645A/R1648A) with VWF D'D3        pcDNA 3.3
   pSYN-FVIII-149      ( 1-276aa) on second Fe & 20aa thrombin cleavable linker       Topo
   pSYN-FVIII-155      BDD- FVIII fused to single Fe (R1645A/R1648A)                  pcDNA 4
                       BDD-FVIII cleavable scFe with VWF D'D3 ( 1-477aa,
                       C336A/C379A) on second Fe & 35 aa thrombin cleavable linker
   pSYN-FVIII-159      in between                                                     pBUD
                       BDD-FVIII cleavable scFe with VWF D'D3 ( 1-477aa,
                       C336A/C379A) on second Fe & 48 aa thrombin cleavable linker
   pSYN-FVIII-160      in between                                                     pBUD
                       BDD- FVIII cleavable scFe (R490A/H497A, R1645A/R1648A)
                       with VWF D'D3 ( 1-477aa, C336A/C379A) on second Fe &           pcDNA 3.3
   pSYN-FVIII-164      20aa thrombin cleavable linker                                 Topo
                       BDD- FVIII cleavable scFe (R3361/R562K, R490A/H497A,
                       R1645A/R1648A) with VWF D'D3 ( 1-477aa, C336A/C379A)           pcDNA 3.3
   pSYN-FVIII-165      on second Fe & 20aa thrombin cleavable linker                  Topo
                       BDD-FVIII cleavable scFe with VWF D'D3 ( 1-477aa,
                       C336A/C379A) on second Fe & 73 aa thrombin cleavable linker
   pSYN-FVIII-178      in between                                                     pBUD
                       BDD-FVIII cleavable scFe with VWF D'D3 ( 1-477aa,
                       C336A/C379A) on second Fe & 98 aa thrombin cleavable linker
   pSYN-FVIII-179      in between                                                     pBUD
                       BDD-FVIII (K2092A) cleavable scFe with VWF D'D3 ( 1
                       477aa, C336A/C379A) on second Fe & 48 aa thrombin
   pSYN-FVIII-180      cleavable linker in between                                    pBUD
                       BDD-FVIII (F2093A) cleavable scFe with VWF D'D3 ( 1
                       477aa, C336A/C379A) on second Fe & 48 aa thrombin
   pSYN-FVIII-181      cleavable linker in between                                    pBUD
                       BDD-FVIII (K2092A/F2093A) cleavable scFe with VWF D'D3
                       ( 1-477aa, C336A/C379A) on second Fe & 48 aa thrombin
   pSYN-FVIII-182      cleavable linker in between                                    pBUD
       Example 6: Protein purification
       Protein purification of VWF fragments
[03531         The VWF fragments were purified through a two-step purification method. A
       Nickel Sulfate charged IMAC (Immobilized Metal Affinity Chromatography) column
       was used for the primary purification, a Fractogel DEAE ion exchange column was used
       for the final purification. The detail purification method is described below.
               (a)     Primary Purification of VWF fragment on Nickel IMAC
[0354]         A 14 mL Nickel IMAC Sepharose HP column [XK26/3] was equilibrated with 25
       mM HEPES, 500 mM NaCl, 10 mM Imidazole, and 0.05% Tween-20 @ pH 7.5.
       Approximately 7.2 L of VWF conditioned media was adjusted with 100 mL of IM
       HEPES @ pH 7.5 and 600 mL of 5M NaCl. Then 80 mL of IM Imidazole (@ pH 7.5)

                                              153
       was added to a final concentration of 10 mM.          The 7.8 L of the adjusted VWF
       conditioned media was then loaded onto the column at 2-8'C at 10 mL/min [113
       cm/hour]. The wash steps were performed at 13.3 mL/minute [150 cm/hour]. First, a
       2xColumn Volume (CV) wash was performed with 25 mM HEPES, 500 mM NaCl, 10
       mM Imidazole, and 0.05% Tween-20 @ pH 7.5 in normal flow {"DownFlow"}. Next, a
       3xCV wash was performed with 25 mM HEPES, 500 mM NaCl, 10 mM Imidazole, and
       0.05% Tween-20 @ pH 7.5 in reverse flow {"UpFlow"}.          Lastly, A 3xCV wash was
       performed with 25 mM HEPES, 500 mM NaCl, 10 mM Imidazole, and 0.05% Tween-20
       @ pH 7.5 in normal flow {"DownFlow"}.           The elution was performed as a 1OxCV
       gradient to 50% BI (25 mM HEPES, 500 mM NaCl, 500 mM Imidazole, and 0.05%
       Tween-20 @ pH 7.5). The fraction volume was set to 10 mL. Then, the column was
       stripped with 100% BI. This was followed by a wash with 25 mM HEPES, 500 mM
       NaCl, 10 mM Imidazole, and 0.05% Tween-20 @ pH 7.5. A second Strip was performed
       with IN NaOH. Then the column was flushed with IM TRIS, IM NaCl @ pH 7.8,
       followed by 25 mM HEPES, 500 mM NaCl, 10 mM Imidazole, and 0.05% Tween-20 @
       pH 7.5.     Finally, the column was flushed with 5 CV's of DPBS + 20% Ethanol and
       stored at 4'C.
               (b)      Secondary Purification of VWF fragment on Fractogel DEAE
[03551         Secondary purification of VWF fragment was performed on Fractogel DEAE @
       pH 7.5.     Firstly, 20 mL of VWF Nickel IMAC eluate (corresponding to the VWF
       fragment peak) was adjusted with 200 mg of Zwittergent 3-14 zwitterionic detergent in an
       attempt to disrupt aggregated species without using denaturing or reducing excipients.
       After the detergent was dissolved, the protein was left at RT for approximately 15
       minutes. Then, the protein was adjusted with 4 grams of trehalose, 1 mL of 10% Tween
       20, 5 mL of IM HEPES @ pH 7.5 and 174 mL of "Milli-Q" water. The equilibration
       buffer "A12" was 25 mM HEPES, 50 mM NaCl, 1% Trehalose, 0.05% Tween-20 @ pH
       7.5. The elution buffer "B1" was 25 mM HEPES, 1000 mM NaCl, 1%Trehalose, 0.05%
       Tween-20 @ pH 7.5. The elution was performed as a 10 CV gradient to 50% BI, with a
       5+ CV hold followed by a step to 100% BI. Then the column was stripped with 0.85%
       Phosphoric Acid, followed by IM TRIS, IM NaCl @ pH 7.5. Then the column was
       stripped with IN NaOH, 2M NaCl followed by IM TRIS, IM NaCl @ pH 7.5. Then the

                                               154
       column was flushed with 25 mM HEPES, 100 mM NaCl + 20% Ethanol @ pH 7.5 for
       storage.
                (c)     Protein purification of FVIII-VWF heterodimer
[0356]          The FVIII-VWF heterodimer was first purified by an affinity column (GE
       VIIISelect), then followed by a Fractogal TMAE ion exchange column. (McCue JT,
       Selvitelli K, Walker J, J Chromatogr A. 2009 Nov 6; 1216(45):7824-30. Epub 2009 Sep
       23.)
[03571          For the purification of FVIII-155NWF-31, a tangential flow filtration (TFF) step
       was used to buffer exchange the clarified conditioned media. The targeted proteins in the
       filtrate were then captured using affinity chromatography.        A weak anion exchange
       chromatography step was followed to reduce HMW species. Both the purity and size of
       the molecule were accessed by HPLC-SEC and SDS-PAGE. The presence of different
       domains of FVIII-155NWF-31 was further confirmed by western blotting. The specific
       activity of the molecule was comparable to B-domain deleted FVIII.
                (d)     Thrombin digestion of FVIII-VWF heterodimer (Figure 8)
[0358]          FVIII-VWF-Fc heterodimer or FVIII-Fc (control) was mixed with thrombin in
       1:10 ratio in thrombin cleavage buffer (50 mM Tris, pH 7.4, 150 mM NaCl, 2 mM CaCl2,
       5% Glycerol). The reaction was incubated at 37 C for 20 minutes. Digested product was
       run on 4 - 1 2 % reducing tris-glycine gel. Undigested protein was used as a control. Bands
       were visualized by coomassie stain.
                (e)     Evaluation of the VWF binding ability of FVIII-155NWF-031               by
                        Octet Assay
[03591          The VWF binding ability of FVIII-155NWF-031 was determined by Bio-Layer
       Interferometry (BLI) based measurements (Octet assay) at 25 'C with a ForteBio Octet
       384 instrument using Tris binding buffer (50 mM Tris, pH 7.2, 150 mM NaCl, 5 mM
       CaCl 2). The Octet assay for determining FVIII binding was based on the hydrophobic
       immobilization of human von Willebrand Factor (hVWF) (Haematologic Technologies
       Catalog No. HCVWF-0191) onto the APS Biosensor, followed by binding of 1.0%
       Bovine Serum Albumin (Jackson ImmunoResearch Catalog No. 001-000-161).              Briefly,
       hVWF (38.5 nM) was diluted in Tris buffer and loaded across APS Biosensors for 600

                                              155
       see, yielding approximately 3.0 - 3.5 nm binding on the reaction probes. Control APS
       probes were loaded with 1.0% BSA in the absence of hVWF for reference subtraction.
       After loading, all probes were incubated in Tris buffer for 300 see to establish a new
       baseline.    Subsequently, biosensor probes were incubated in solutions of FVIII
       155/VWF-031,     FVIIIFc Drug Substance, or rFVIII (60 nM) for 5 min at room
       temperature, followed by a 5 min dissociation step.           Using the Octet data analysis
       software, the binding response (nm) was derived from the subtracted data (Reaction probe
       minus Reference probe). As shown in Figure 15, compared to the VWF binding affinity
       of rFVIIIFc and rFVIII, the VWF binding affinity of FVIII-155/VWF-031 was severely
       impaired. This indicates successful shielding of FVIII from full length VWF by the D'D3
       fragment within the FVIIIFc/VWF heterodimer.
       Example 7. VWF-FVIII interaction is a limiting factor for FVIII half-life extension
[0360]         The majority of the circulating FVIII exists as a FVIII-VWF complex (>95% of
       plasma FVIII). This FVIII-VWF interaction promotes FVIII clearance through the VWF
       clearance pathway, thus making the VWF half-life (T1/2) a limitation of the FVIII half
       life extension. To evaluate this hypothesis, the limitation of FVIII half-life extension by
       Fc technology was tested in FVIII deficient mice (HemA mice, which have intact VWF
       gene) and FVIII/VWF deficient (FVIII-VWF Double Knockout (DKO)) mice.
[0361]         The HemA mice or FVIII-VWF DKO mice were treated with a single intravenous
       dose of rFVIII or rFVIIIFc at 125 IU/kg in HemA mice or 200 IU/kg in DKO mice.
       Blood samples were collected up to 72hrs in the HemA mice or up to 8hrs in the
       FVIII/VWF DKO mice. Plasma sample's FVIII activity was then measured by a FVIII
       chromogenic assay. The pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of the two rFVIII variance was
       analyzed using WinNonline program.
[0362]         As shown in Table 7 and Figure 9, in the FVIII/VWF DKO mice, rFVIIIFc
       showed about 4.8 fold longer TI/ 2 (i.e., TI/ 2 of 1.2hr) compared to TI/ 2 of rFVIII (i.e., TI/ 2
       of 0.25hr). In contrast, when tested in HemA mice, rFVIIIFc only had 1.8 fold longer TI/ 2
       compare to rFVIII. The TI/2 of rFVIIIFc was 13.7hr, which is in line with the endogenous
       murine VWF half-life. This indicates that the FVIII-VWF interaction is a limiting factor
       for FVIII half-life extension.    In order to achieve more than 2 fold FVIII half-life
       extension, the FVIII-VWF interaction will have to be eliminated.

                                                156
Table 7: FVIII PK in HemA and FVIIII/VWF DKO mice
                               FVIIl-deficient Mice             FVIWVWF-deficient Mie
     Test Molecule
                        T1 (hr)        T    Ratio vs rFVI    T    (hr)        T   Ratio
         rFVIII            7.6                   1             0.25                1
       rFVIIIFc            13.7                 1.8             1.2              4.8
       FVIII chromogenic assay
[03631          The FVIII activity was measured using the COATEST SP FVIII kit from
       DiaPharma (lot# N089019) and all incubations were performed on a 37 'C plate heater
       with shaking.
[0364]          The range of rFVIII standard was from 100 mIU/mL to 0.78 mIU/mL. A pooled
       normal human plasma assay control and plasma samples (diluted with IX Coatest buffer)
       were added into Immulon 2HB 96-well plates in duplicate (25 [iL/well). Freshly prepared
       IXa/FX/Phospholipid mix (50 piL), 25 iL of 25mM CaCl 2, and 50 iL of FXa substrate
       were added sequentially into each well with 5 minutes incubation between each addition.
       After incubating with the substrate, 25 ptL of 20% Acetic Acid was added to terminate the
       color reaction, and the absorbance of OD405 was measured with a SpectraMAX plus
       (Molecular Devices) instrument. Data were analyzed with SoftMax Pro software (version
       5.2). The Lowest Level of Quantification (LLOQ) is 7.8 mlU/mL.
       Example 8. VWF D'D3 dimer protects FVIII from FVIII proteolysis and clearance
       (Figure 10)
[0365]          The FVIII protection activity of the VWF fragments was evaluated by their ability
       to protect endogenous murine FVIII from its clearance in VWF deficient mice. Different
       VWF fragment as listed in Table 8 Column 1 (Figure 1, Example 1) were introduced into
       the blood circulation of the VWF deficient mice by Hydrodynamic injection of their
       corresponding DNA constructs at lOOgg/mouse. The plasma samples were collected at
       48hrs post injection, and murine FVIII plasma activity was measured by a FVIII
       chromogenic assay. VWF expression level was measured by VWF ELISA.

                                             157
[03661         Four different lengths of the VWF fragments that have been tested are 276, 477,
       511, and 716 amino acids. The 276 to 716 amino acid range was tested to find out the
       length of the VWF fragments required for FVIII binding (276aa) without VWF's
       clearance   receptor's binding   domain (716aa).       The full length VWF and the
       D1D2D'D3CK multimer were used as the positive control for FVIII protection. In blood
       circulation, the VWF fragments synthesized with the D1 D2 domain exist as a dimer and
       exist as monomers when they are synthesized without the D1D2 domain.
[03671         The increase of murine FVIII activity in plasma post hydrodynamic injection
       measures the FVIII protection effect of the VWF fragments. As shown in Table 8 and
       Figure 10A-B, the first 276aa of the D'D3 fragment had no FVIII protection activity as
       demonstrated by the similar pre/post injection FVIII plasma level (Figure 1OA).However,
       the introduction of the other VWF fragments induced a significant increase on FVIII
       plasma level, indicating that those VWF fragments can protect FVIII from its clearance
       pathway.
       Table 8: FVIII/VWF DKO mice murine FVIII plasma level Pre/post introduction of VWF
       fragments (DNA constructs were illustrated in Figure 1)
                                       FYfil Activity-Pre FVIf1 Activity-4Shr    VWF Antigen
      DNA               Encoding           (mlU/mL)             (mJU/mL)              48hr
 CONSTRUCT           VWF Fragment
                                        Avg.        SD      Avg.        SD       Avg.      SD
   VWF-001              D'D3 27 6aa      53          31       86         16       2.8      1.9
   VWF-009           DlD2D'D3 276aa      45         20        65         17       1.8      1.3
   VWF-002              D'D3 4 77 aa     56          3       257        38       17.0      0.5
   VWF-010           D1D2D'D3 477aa      42          11      387        22        8.2      1.6
   VWF-003            D'D3Al 5 aa        88         21       253        47       12.9      2.2
   VWF-011         D1D2D'D3Al 5 aa       63         42       360         15       9.3      2.3
   VWF-004            D'D3A1716aa        87           8      239        56
   VWF-012         D1D2D'D3A171 6aa      64         22       307        29
   VWF-006           D1D2D'D3CK          38          10      249        20        2.4      1.0
   VWF-008          Full length VWF      51           8      380        41       10.6      2.3

                                             158
[03681         The ratio of post injection plasma FVIII activity and the plasma antigen level of
       the VWF fragments that contain the D'D3 domain of full-length VWF were listed in
       Table 8. Similar post injection FVIII/VWF ratio was observed from the full length VWF
       and the two dimer forms of the VWF fragments, meaning that those two VWF fragment
       dimers provide the same FVIII protection as the full length VWF. In addition, threefold
       higher FVIII/VWF ratio was observed from the VWF fragment dimer isoforms compare
       to their corresponding monomers: the D'D3 (477aa) dimer has the FVIII/VWF ratio of
       38.7 mIU/nmol; the D'D3 (477aa) monomer has the FVIII/VWF ration of 11.6 mIU/nmol:
       the D'D3A1 (511aa) dimer has the FVIII/VWF ratio of 32.9 mIU/nmol; and the D'D3
       (511 aa) monomer has the FVIII/VWF ratio of 13.8 mIU/nmol, indicating the dimer
       isoforms of the VWF fragments provides better FVIII protections compare to their
       corresponding monomers.
       Table 9: FVIII protection effect of full length D'D3 fragment
                              Encoding            Multimer State     FVIII/VWF (mIU/nmol)
     DNA Construct        VWF Fragment                                 Mean             (SD)
        VWF-002               D'D3 4 7 7aa          Monomer             11.6            (4.4)
        VWF-010            D1D2D'D3 477aa             Dimer             38.7           (11.7)
        VWF-003             D'D3Al 5    1aa         Monomer             13.8            (1.3)
        VWF-011          D1D2D'D3Al 5 naa             Dimer             32.9            (5.5)
        VWF-008           Full length VWF           Multimer            31.1            (6.7)
       Hydrodynamic injection:
[03691         Hydrodynamic Injection is an efficient and safe non-viral gene delivery method to
       the liver in small animals, such as mice and rats. It was originally described as a rapid
       injection of a naked plasmid DNA/saline solution free of endotoxin at a tenth volume of
       the animal's body weight in about 5-7 seconds.. The naked plasmid DNA contains the
       gene of interest and the liver produced targeted protein from the injected DNA can be
       detected within 24 hours post-injection. Plasma samples were then collected to study the
       therapeutic property of the expressed protein.

                                              159
[03701          For all the hydrodynamic injections that were performed herein in this patent
       application, 2 ml of plasmid DNA in 0.9% sterile saline solution was delivered via
       intravenous tail vein injection within about 4-7 seconds to mice weighing 20-35 grams.
       The mice were closely monitored for the first couple of hours until the normal activity
       resumed.     After the blood samples were collected via retro orbital blood collection,
       plasma samples were then obtained and stored at -80 'C for further analysis.
       VWF ELISA:
[03711          Goat anti-human VWF antibody (Affinity purified, affinity biological, GAVWF
       AP) was used as the capture antibody at 0.5ug/well and VWF-EIA-D (Affinity
       Biologicals, VWF-EIA-D, 1:100 dilution) was used as the detecting antibody for the
       VWF ELISA. ELISA assay was performed following the standard ELISA procedure,
       TMB was used as the HRP substrate, PBST/1.5% BSA/0.5M NaCl buffer was used as
       blocking and binding buffer.      The assay standard range is 100ng to 0.78ng, and the
       assay's lowest limit of quantification (LLOQ) is 7.8ng/nL.
       Example 9: Co-administration of full length VWF D'D3 fragment extend rBDD-FVIII
       half-life in FVIII-VWF DKO mice (Figure 11)
[0372]          Example 8 has demonstrated that full length D'D3 fragment can protect
       endogenous FVIII from its clearance pathway. In order to further evaluate the FVIII
       protection activity of D'D3 protein, FVIII-VWF DKO mice were co-administered with B
       domain deleted FVIII (rBDD-FVIII) and D'D3 dimer (VWF-010) or rBDD-FVIII and
       D'D3 monomer (VWF-002), via intravenous injection at 200 IU/kg for rBDD-FVIII, 770
       gg/kg for D'D3 dimer and 590 gg/kg for D'D3 monomer. The PK profile of rBDD-FVIII
       was then monitored by its post injection plasma activity. Due to the short in vivo half-life
       of the D'D3 fragments, at three hour post the initial co-injection, another dose of D'D3
       was administered through the same route to maintain a desirable D'D3 plasma level.
[0373]          For PK analysis, plasma sample was obtained via retro-orbital blood collection at
       5min, 30min, 1 hour, 2 hour, 4 hour and 6 hour post injection, plasma FVIII activity and
       D'D3 antigen level was analyzed by FVIII chromogenic assay and VWF ELISA.
[0374]          As shown in Figure 11 and Table 10, the D'D3 monomer prolonged rBDD-FVIII
       half-life by 2.5 fold and improved its recovery by 1.8 fold. The D'D3 dimer prolonged
       rBDD-FVIII half-life by 4.1 fold and improved its recovery by 3.5 fold. Improved mean

                                                160
        residency time, clearance and AUC were also observed from both of the D'D3 isoforms.
        The D'D3 dimer, however, achieved better results in all the PK parameters compared to
        its monomer form.
[0375]           In summary, co-injection of full length D'D3 protects FVIII from its clearance
        pathway, as show in the improved PK profile of rBDD-FVIII. The potential clinical value
        of this finding needs to be further evaluated.
        Table 10: BDD-FVIII PK parameter in FVIII-VWF DKO mice when co-administered
        with D'D3 fragments
                  5min     T      MRT                    Vss     AUCD          T        Recovery
  Treatment    Recovery      1/2  (r)     (L           (Lk     (hr*kg*mIU      Fold       Fold
                   ()      (hr)   (hr)    (mL/hr/kg)   (mL/kg) /mL/mIU)      Increase   Increase
rBDD-FVIII          25    0.23    0.24      407.72      133.14    0.0025
rBDD-FVIII                                                                      2.5        1.8
  VWF-002           44    0.57    0.58      151.93      124.63    0.0066
rBDD-FVIII                                                                      4.1        3.5
  VWF-010           87    0.95    0.98       71.48      97.54      0.014  1-          1          1
        Example 10. The D'D3 monomer synthesized with D1D2 domain and its dimer isoform
        have same FVIII protection activity and further extended FVIIIFc's half-life by ~4 fold in
        FVIII-VWF DKO mice (Figure 12)
[03761           In order to quantify the FVIII protection ability of the D'D3 domains and
        determine if the D'D3 dimerization is necessary for its FVIII protection activity, each of
        two DNA constructs (i.e., VWF-025 (containing DNA sequence encoding D1D2D'D3)
        and VWF-029 (containing D1D2D'D3 codon DNA with C336A and C379A mutation))
        was administered into FVIII/VWF DKO mice by hydrodynamic injection. This injection
        resulted in D'D3 dimer (VWF-025) or monomer expression (VWF-029) in the
        FVIII/VWF DKO mice. At day5 post hydrodynamic injection, a single intravenous dose
        of rFVIIIFc was administered at 200 IU/kg, and plasma samples was collected at 5min, 4,
        8,16, 24, 31, 40, 55, 66hrs post rFVIIIFc IV injection. An rFVIIIFc PK study that was
        performed in naYve FVIII-VWF DKO mice at the same dose was used as the rFVIIIFc
        half-life base line. Plasma FVIII activity was analyzed by a FVIII chromogenic assay.
        Plasma D'D3 level was measured by VWF ELISA, and rFVIIIFc PK profile was
        analyzed using WinNonlin program.

                                                161
[03771           As shown in Table 11 and Figure 12, with the VWF D'D3 fragments in the
        circulation, rFVIIIFc's initial recovery increased from 42% to 75% with D'D3 dimer and
        60% with D'D3 monomer. rFVIIIFc's T/2 was also increased from 2.5 hrs to 9.3 hrs and
        9.2hrs, respectively.     Similar to T1/2, improved mean residency time, clearance, and
        volume distribution were also observed from the D'D3 monomer and dimer expressing
        mice. Overall, we see about 8 fold improvements on the rFVIIIFc's half-life and 6 fold
        improvements on AUC in both D'D3 monomer and dimer expressing mice. Same as its
        dimer isoform, the D'D3 monomer of full-length VWF that was synthesized with
        propeptide (D1D2) of VWF is sufficient to provide the full FVIII protection effect as the
        full length VWF molecule.
[03781           In FVIII/VWF DKO mice, WT-FVIII has a 0.25hr T1/2. The Fc fusion technology
        increased FVIII TI/ 2 to 1.2 hour, which is about 4.8 fold increase. When the Fc fusion
        technology was combined with the D'D3 domains, the FVIII TI/ 2 was increased to 9.3hr
        (D'D3 dimer) and 9.2hr (D'D3 monomer), which are about 37fold increases in total.
        (Table 10) This result demonstrated the synergistic effect of the Fc fusion and D'D3
        VWF fragment on the FVIII half-life extension.
        Table 11: rFVIIIFc PK parameter with/without D'D3 fragment in blood circulation
                  5min     T       MRT        Cl        Vss       AUCD         T        AUC D
  Treatment    Recovery       1/2                              (hr*kg*mIU/     Fold       Fold
                   ()       (hr)   (hr)   (mL/hr/kg)  (mL/kg)    mL/mIU)     Increase   Increase
  rFVIIIFc          43      1.2    0.76      39.5       67.0       0.025
   rFV F-0          75      9.3    11.1       6.1       67.6       0.164        7.8        6.6
     FVF-2e         60      9.2    11.3       6.7       75.7       0.149        7.7        6.0
        Example 11: FVIII-VWF heterodimer PK in HemA mice
[0379]           The PK profile of the lead candidates of FVIII-VWF heterodimer (such as FVIII
        155/VWF-031) will be tested in HemA mice to evaluate their ability of shielding FVIII
        from the endogenous VWF and their ability for FVIII half-life extension.
[03801           HemA mice will be treated with a single intravenous dose of the lead candidates at
        200 IU/kg, plasma samples will then be collected at 5min, 4hr, 8hr, 24hr, 48hr, 72hr, 96hr
        and 120hr, plasma activity will be tested by FVIII chromogenic assay, and FVIII variance
        half-life will be calculated by WinNonlin program.

                                             162
[03811          In an optimal FVIIINWF heterodimer configuration, the FVIII binding to the
       endogenous VWF will be completely inhibited, therefor the base line half-life of rFVIII
       will be decreased from 7.6 hr to 0.25 hr as shown in example 7. When D'D3 fragment
       non-covalently associated with FVIII, about 8 fold of half-life benefit was observed
       (example 9). In the lead candidates of the FVIIINWF heterodimer, the VWF fragment is
       covalently associated with the FVIII molecule, better FVIII protection might be able to be
       achieved. The invention of this application opened the door to further extend FVIII half
       life beyond the two fold ceiling, with the combination of the available half-life extension
       technologies, HemA patients could expect a better long acting FVIII variance in the near
       future.
[0382]          The PK profile of FVIII-155NWF-031 was tested in HemA and FVIIINWF
       DKO mice to evaluate the ability of the D'D3 fragment to shield the FVIII moiety from
       the endogenous VWF.        HemA or FVIIINWF DKO mice were treated with a single
       intravenous dose of FVIII-155NWF-031          at 200 IU/kg, plasma samples were then
       collected at 5min, 8hrs, 24hrs, and 48 hours post dosing. The FVIII activity of the plasma
       sample was tested by a FVIII chromogenic assay, and the half-life of FVIII-155NWF
       031 was calculated using WinNonlin program.
[03831          Severely impaired binding to immobilized VWF was detected by biolayer
       interferometry (Figure 15, Octet; ForteBio Inc., Menlo Park, CA) for FVIII-155NWF
       031 compared to rFVIIIFc and rFVIII. This shows the D'D3 domain in the molecule had
       successfully blocked the FVIII binding to native VWF molecules.         Therefore, similar
       half-life of rFVIII-155NWF-031 was expected in the two different mouse strains. Study
       results are listed in Figure 16 and Table 12A. As predicted, rFVIII-155NWF-031 had
       comparable PK profile in both HemA and FVIIINWF DKO mice, indicating that the
       half-life of FVIIIFcNWF heterodimer is independent from the half-life of endogenous
       VWF.      The results show that inhibition of the interaction between the rFVIIIFc with
       endogenous VWF by the VWF D'D3 domains allows elimination of the FVIII half-life
       ceiling and opens up the possibility of extending FVIII half-life beyond the half-life
       achievable without the VWF D'D3 domains (about two fold of the wild type FVIII).

                                                163
        Table 12A. FVIII-155NWF-031 PK in FVIII/VWF DKO mice and HemA mice
    Treatment            5min     T1 /2  MRT      Cl              Vss         AUC_D
                       Recovery   (hr)   (hr)     (mL/hr/kg)      (mL/kg)     (hr*kg*mIU/mL/mIU)
                          (%)
    FVIII-                 49     9.9    6.9       11.6           80.5        0.09
    155/VWF-031
    DKO
    FVIII-                 69     10.8   707       11.9           92.1        0.08
    155/VWF-031
    HemA
[0384]            The FVIII protecting ability of the D'D3 domains was evaluated by comparing the
        t1 / 2 of FVIII-155NWF-031 with FVIIIFc in FVIII/VWF DKO mice. After a single IV
        administration, blood samples were collected at 5min, 8hrs, 24hrs and 48 hrs for FVIII
        155NWF-031, and at 5min, 1 hrs, 2hrs, 4hrs, 6hrs and 8hrs for FVIIIFc. The FVIII
        activity of plasma sample was tested by a FVIII chromogenic assay, and the half-life of
        FVIII-155NWF-031 was calculated using WinNonlin program.
[0385]            Figure 16B and Table 12B show a significantly improved PK profile for FVIII
        155NWF-031 compared to rFVIIIFc in DKO mice: about 6 fold increases on                t1 / 2 ; and
        about 5 fold increases in clearance and AUC.         This result demonstrates that the D'D3
        domain in FVIIIFc/VWF heterodimer protects the FVIII moiety from some clearance
        pathways, thus providing some of the protection normally provided by full length VWF.
        This conclusion is also confirmed in HemA mice. When compared to rFVIIIFc in HemA
        mice, rFVIII-155NWF-031 has shown shorter            t 1 /2  and lesser AUC, meaning in this
        configuration, the D'D3 domains (VWF-03 1) successfully prevents binding of the FVIII
        protein (rFVIII-155) to endogenous VWF, which has half-life extending properties to
        some degree, as well as a FVIII half-life limiting property. Full length VWF is 250 kDa,
        and forms multimers such that endogenous VWF can be up to 2 MDa, and therefore it is
        consistent with this hypothesis that the 55 kDa D'D3 region of VWF does not provide the
        same protection normally afforded by the much large endogenous VWF in this context.
        Since the VWF fragment prevents endogenous VWF from binding rFVIII-155NWF-03 1,
        in this particular construct the half-life is decreased in the HemA mouse. Therefore, the
        results in Table 12B indicate that the rFVIII-155NWF-031 molecule is capable of

                                               164
        preventing the FVIII half-life extender (endogenous VWF) from binding the rFVIII
        155/VWF-031.           However, the experiment shows that removing the FVIII half-life
        limiting factor has opened up the possibility of extending a half-life of the FVIII protein
        beyond 1.5 fold or 2 fold shown previously. When FVIII is combined with other half-life
        extension elements as shown in Figure 4, a breakthrough of the 2 fold half-life extension
        ceiling of FVIII could be achieved.
        Table 12B. FVIII-155/VWF-031 and FVIIIFc PK in FVIII/VWF DKO mice
    Treatment             5min     T1/2   MRT    Cl            Vss         AUC_D
                        Recovery   (hr)   (hr)   (mL/hr/kg)    (mL/kg)     (hr*kg*mIU/mL/mIU)
                           (%)
    FVIIIFc DKO             43     1.6    1.9    63.9          123.2       0.02
    FVIII-155/VWF-          49     9.9    6.9    11.6          80.5        0.09
    031 DKO
    Fold Increase                  6.2    3.6    5.5                       4.5
    FVIII-155/VWF-          69     10.8   7.7    11.9          92.1        0.08
    031 HemA
    FVIIIFc HemA            86     16.4   20.3   2.9           57.7        0.35
        Example 12: Optimization of the D'D3-Fc linker of FVIII/D'D3 heterodimer (Figure 13)
[03861            To allow rFVIIIFc to escape the VWF clearance pathway and eliminate the 2 fold
        FVIII half-life extension ceiling, the VWF D'D3 fragment has been incorporated into the
        rFVIIIFc molecule (Figure 2), resulting in an FVIIIFc/VWF heterodimer.           In order to
        eliminate the interaction between rFVIIIFc and endogenous VWF and maximize the
        D'D3 FVIII protection potential, the linker between the D'D3 domain and the Fc region
        was adjusted to allow the optimal FVIII/D'D3 binding. A more optimal linker will allow
        the D'D3 domain to have greater FVIII protection than a less optimal linker construct
        does.      This can be tested by hydrodynamic injection of the DNA constructs in
        FVIII/VWF DKO mice. A more optimal construct will yield higher steady state protein
        expression of the FVIIIFc/D'D3 heterodimer.
[0387]            Three   different FVIIIFc/D'D3      heterodimers   (Figure   3, Example 3)   were
        engineered for optimal linker selection. The possible linkers between the D'D3 domains
        and the Fc region were listed in Table 13. Those DNA constructs were administered into
        FVIII/VWF DKO mice by hydrodynamic injection ("HDI") at 100 gg/mouse, and plasma

                                              165
       samples were collected 48hr post HDI. Circulating FVIIIFc/D'D3 heterodimer activity
       was analyzed by a FVIII chromogenic assay.
[03881          The study result was shown in Figure 13. 48 hours post HDI, similar expression
       level were reached by FVIII-064 and FVIII-159, indicating the 20aa linker and the 35aa
       linker promote similar level of FVIII/D'D3 interaction.        In another hand, FVIII-160
       showed significantly higher expression than FVIII-064, meaning that the 48aa linker
       allows better FVIII/D'D3 binding compare to the 20aa and 35aa linkers.
[03891          An optimal linker between the VWF fragment and the Fc region is one of the key
       elements of the FVIIIFc/VWF heterodimer. Finding the best linker will allow the optimal
       interaction between FVIII and the VWF fragment, prevent FVIII binding to endogenous
       VWF, enable FVIII to escape the VWF clearance pathway, and extend the FVIII half-life
       beyond the plasma VWF half-life.
       Table 13: Different linkers between D'D3 and Fc fragment
           DNA                                  Linker between D'D3 and Fe
         construct
         FVIII-064
       (SEQ ID NO: 20 aa= I D G G G G S G G G G S L V P R G S G G
            92)
         FVIII- 159    35 aa= I S G G G G S G G G G S G G G G S G G G G S G G G G S L V P R G
       (SEQ ID NO:     35a=G         GG   S    G    GG      G   S   G   GG      G   SV
            93)
         FVIII- 160    48 aa = I S G G G G S G G G G S G G G G S G G G G S G G G G S G G G G
                                                                                               S
       (SEQ ID NO:     LVPRGSGGGGSGGGGSGGG
            94)        L PGG            G   S    G   G
       Example 13: Single chain FVIII stability
[03901          The Single chain FVIII protein might be more stable than its dual chain isoform.
       To test this hypothesis, two DNA constructs were made: FVIII-136 (processable FVIIIFc
       with the D'D3 domain) and FVIII-148 (Single Chain (SC) FVIIIFc with the D'D3
       domain, which contains R1645A/R1648A mutation to prevent cleavage between FVIII
       heavy chain and light chain).
[03911          Both plasmids were administered into FVIII/VWF DKO mice by hydrodynamic
       injection. Plasma samples were collected 24hr and 48hr post injections to measure the
       expression level of the two FVIIIFc/D'D3 isoforms. As shown in Figure 14, at both time
       points, a trend of better expression was observed by the SC-FVIIIFc/D'D3 construct

                                               166
       (FVIII-148) (p=0.12, p=0.19), indicating single chain FVIII might be more stable or
       better expressed than its dual chain isoform (FVIII-136). The PK profile of the two FVIII
       isoforms and their cell culture expression levels will be further investigated. The single
       chain FVIII isoform could be potentially used to replace the conventional dual chain
       isoform to achieve better protein production and better in vivo FVIII half-life.
       Example 14. PEGylation
[0392]          One or more polyethylene glycol (PEG) molecules can be attached within any
       regions of the FVIII protein, the VWF fragment, or both. As FVIII does not have a free
       cysteine at its surface based on crystal structure (PDB:2R7E, Shen et al., Blood 111:1240
       (2008); PDB:3CDZ, Ngo, Structure, 16:597-606 (2008)), one approach is to insert a
       cysteine containing peptide (e.g., GGGSGCGGGS) (SEQ ID NO: 107) into or link it to
       the FVIII protein, the VWF fragment, or both. PEG molecules containing maleimide can
       then be conjugated specifically to the cysteine introduced on the recombinant FVIII
       protein.    Briefly, the recombinant FVIII protein containing the Cys insertion can be
       constructed by standard molecular technology, and the recombinant FVIII protein
       expressed in mammalian expression system (e.g., HEK293, CHO, BHK21, PER.C6, and
       CAP cells) can be purified via affinity and ion exchange chromatography. The purified
       recombinant FVIII protein is reduced by Tris(2-carboxyethyl)phosphine            (TCEP) to
       expose the thiol group of the introduced cysteine and then reacted with maleimide PEG.
       The resulting recombinant FVIII protein is tested for procoagulant activity and extended
       half-life.
[0393]          PEG is attached to at least one of the locations disclosed in U.S. Appl. No.
       61/670,553, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety , or other suitable
       insertion sites. The FVIII activity of the PEGylated recombinant FVIII protein is analyzed
       using a FVIII chromogenic assay. The PK of the PEGylated recombinant FVIII protein is
       analyzed in HemA mice and FVIII-VWF DKO Mice as described above.
       Example 15: FVIII stability in HemA and FVIII/VWF double knockout (DKO) plasma
[0394]          Plasma stability of different FVIIIFc fusions was tested in HemA or FVIII/VWF
       double knockout (DKO) plasma. For stability assay, 5 IU/ml of various FVIIIFc proteins
       were incubated with either mouse HemA or DKO plasma at 37 0 C.               Aliquots were
       collected at different time points to measure activity by FVIII chromogenic assay.

                                            167
       Activity at each time point was measured in duplicate and average activity was plotted as
       a function of time.
[03951          For the FVIIIFc immuno-precipitation assay, 5gg FVIIIFc was incubated with
       either 250gl of PBS or mouse DKO plasma for 24hrs at 37 0 C. FVIIIFc was immuno
       precipitated by adding 5gg sheep anti-FVIII polyclonal antibody (ab61370) for lhr at
       room temperature and 100gl protein A beads. After 4xlml PBS washes, beads were re
       suspended in 50gl 1x reducing SDS-PAGE buffer. After boiling, 20gl sample (i.e. ~ 1gg
       FVIIIFc) was loaded on to 4-15% Bio-Rad stain free gel. Gel was imaged by Bio-rad
       system followed by western analysis with FVIII anti heavy chain antibody (GMAO 12).
[0396]          Activity of FVIIIFc (dual chain FVIII molecule, which has separate FVIII heavy
       and light chains, held together by non-covalent interactions) decreases with time in both
       HemA and DKO plasma (Figure 18A). Due to lack of VWF mediated protection, loss in
       FVIIIFc activity was more pronounced in DKO plasma. This loss in FVIII activity was
       mainly due to dissociation or degradation of FVIII heavy chain (HC).       About a 75%
       reduction in FVIIIFc heavy chain was observed after a 24hr incubation in DKO plasma
       (Figure 18B). No significant reduction was observed for either light chain (LC) (data not
       shown) or non-processed/single chain FVIIIFc ( i.e. FVIII molecule in which light chain
       and heavy chain are still held together covalently- top band in the gel picture)
       (Figure 18B).
[03971          As VWF is proposed to increase the stability of FVIII in vivo, we tested if
       chimeric protein- FVIII-VWF heterodimer (FVIII155:VWF31, which has VWF D'D3
       covalently, attached to FVIII through Fc) was more stable in Hem A and DKO plasma.
       From plasma stability data shown in Figure 19, the presence of D'D3 increased the
       stability of FVIIIFc, both in HemA and DKO plasma. Single chain FVIIIFc without D'D3
       was used as control in these experiments (scFVIII). From Figure 19, single chain FVIII
       was more stable than dual chain FVIIIFc; however the presence of D'D3 significantly
       increased the plasma stability of single chain FVIIIFc molecule further. This suggests
       that D'D3 stabilizes FVIII, not just by holding heavy and light chain together but also
       through some other unknown mechanisms.

                                            168
       Example 16: Use of Furin/PACE for VWF processing
[0398]         VWF is a unique protein in the sense that it contains a very large pro-peptide
       (i.e.D1D2 domain of VWF, ~85kDa).          The VWF pro-peptide serves as an internal
       chaperone for proper folding of VWF molecule.        Two enzymes were tested for VWF
       processing- PC5 and Furin (PACE). VWF031 construct (D1D2D'D3Fc) was transiently
       co-transfected in HEK293 cells with various concentrations of either PC5 or PACE.
       After four days, the tissue culture media was collected and subjected to protein A pull
       down. Even at a lower concentration (2.5%), furin (PACE) was more efficient than 10%
       PC5, in removing the pro-peptide (D1D2) from D'D3Fc (Figure 20). Removal of D1D2
       is important, as the presence of D1D2 has been implicated in preventing interaction of
       D'D3 with FVIII.
       Example 17: VWF fragment in FVIII-VWF heterodimer prevents FVIII interaction with
       full length VWF
[0399]         A ForteBio octet instrument was used to test FVIII construct 155/VWF31
       heterodimer binding to full length VWF (Figure 21A). For the binding assay, full length
       VWF was captured by using APS sensor, followed by blocking with 1% BSA.            After
       blocking, different FVIII constructs were tested for VWF binding.     As predicted, wild
       type FVIII and FVIIIFc bound strongly to the VWF sensors.        FVIII Y1680F mutant,
       which is known to have low or no affinity for VWF showed significantly reduced VWF
       binding. FVIII155/VWF31 heterodimer did not bind at all to full length VWF, confirming
       shielding of FVIII with D'D3 in FVIII-VWF heterodimer.
[0400]         The same experiment was performed in reverse orientation to determine if the
       D'D3 portion in the FVIII-VWF heterodimer can interact with other FVIII molecules not
       covalently attached to D'D3. As shown in Figure 21B, the VWF31 (D'D3Fc) construct
       alone when immobilized on protein G sensor can bind strongly to FVIII, however the
       D'D3 in FVIII155:VWF31 heterodimer did not show any binding to FVIII. Protein G
       alone with FVIII was used as control. These binding experiments confirmed that D'D3 in
       heterodimer can interact with only one FVIII molecule which is covalently attached to it
       and prevent FVIII from interacting with full length wild type VWF molecules.
[0401]         To determine the exact binding affinity of VWF D'D3 for FVIII molecule, surface
       plasma resonance experiments were performed with VWF031 (Figure 22).           VWF031

                                              169
       construct (D'D3Fc) was captured by using anti-human IgG and B-domain deleted FVIII
       was passed over D'D3Fc containing chip. A KD of about 1OnM was observed for FVIII.
       This affinity is about 25-fold lower compare to full length wild type VWF molecule and
       is similar to what is reported previously in literature.
       Example 18: Effect of different linker length in between D'D3 and Fc on heterodimer
       activity and PK
[0402]         To check if varying the length of thrombin cleavable linker in between D'D3 and
       Fc has any effect on the PK and activity of FVIII-VWF heterodimer, different VWF
       constructs were co-expressed along with FVIII 155.           Three different linker lengths
       constructs listed in Table 14A were tested (VWF031, VWF035 and VWF036).                 Each
       plasmid was mixed with FVII1l55 plasmid (Example 5) and transfected into HEK293
       cells. At day four post transfection, cell culture media was harvested and concentrated to
       10 IU/ml FVIII chromogenic activity.
[0403]         Concentrated cell media was then administered into 8-12 weeks old FVIII/VWF
       DKO mice at 100 IU/10 mL/kg dose. Plasma samples were collected at 5min, 8hr, 16hr,
       24hr, 32hr and 48hr post dosing. FVIII activity of the plasma samples were analyzed by
       FVIII chromogenic assay and half-life was calculated using WinNonlin-Phoenix program.
[0404]         As shown in Figure 23, when the linker length between D'D3 and Fc fragment
       was increased from 48 aa to 73aa or 98aa, the half-life of the corresponding
       FVIIIFc/VWF heterodimer increased and reached 12.2hr and 13.3hr respectively. This
       represents a 1.5 to 1.6 fold increase over 48aa long variant. To date, the 98aa linker is the
       most optimal linker to utilize the FVIII protection activity of the D'D3 fragment, and it
       will be incorporated into FVIIIFc/VWF heterodimer to further improve its half-life.
[04051         To compare the effect of linker on FVIII activity, FVIII chromogenic and aPTT
       assay were performed on tissue culture media from cells expressing different FVIII-VWF
       heterodimers.     Though aPTT activity was 2-fold reduced compare to chromogenic
       activity for heterodimer constructs, no significant difference was seen between various
       linkers, except when the linker also contain a PARI site next to thrombin site (Table
       14B).

                                               170
       Table 14A. Sequence of Variable Linker in between VWF D'D3 and Fc
DNA construct                                 Linker between D'D3 and Fe
                 48aa=ISGGGGSGGGGSGGGGSGGGGSGGGGSGGGGSLV
   VWF031
                 P R G S G G G G S G G G G S (SEQ ID NO: 95)
                 73aa= I S G G G G S G G G G S G G G G S G G G G S G G G G S G G G G S G G G
   VWF035        GSGGGGSGGGGSGGGGSGGGGSLVPRGSGGGGSGGGG
                 S (SEQ ID NO: 96)
                 98aa=IS G G G G S G G G G S G G G G S G G G G S G G G G S G G G G S G G G
   VWF036        G SG G G G S G G G G S G G G G S G G G G S G G G G S G G G G S G G G G S
                 G G G G S G G G G S L V P R G S G G G G S G G G G S (SEQ ID NO: 97)
       Table 14B: Heterodimer activity with different linker length
                                      Linker length
 Sample     Sample description       between D'D3       Chromogenic              Chromogenic/
   ID                                  and Fc (aa)         IU/mL      aPTT IU/mL      aPTT
    1    FVIII Fc 155+VWF15                20               1.81         0.85         2.14
    2    FVIII Fc 155+VWF31                48               2.32         1.05         2.21
    3    FVIII Fc 155+VWF33                35               2.21         1.02         2.16
    4    FVIII Fc 155+VWF35                73               2.65         1.24         2.14
    5    FVIII Fc 155+VWF36                98               2.75         1.11         2.47
                                           26
         FVIII Fc 155+VWF39                                 1.85         1.21          1.53
    6                              (thrombin+PAR1)
       Example 19: Linking FVIII with VWF fragment using sortase enzyme
[0406]         In another aspect, a VWF fragment (e.g. D1D2D'D3 or D'D3 domain) is attached
       to FVIII by using sortase mediated in vitro protein ligation method. In one example,
       Staphylococcus aureus sortase A (LPXTG) recognition motif was introduced at the C
       terminus of VWF fragment and Gly(n) residue at the N-terminus of FVIII (where the
       number of glycine residues is variable). The FVIII molecule used can be either single
       chain or dual chain.    The sortase catalyzed trans-peptidation reaction will covalently
       attach the VWF fragment to FVIII. Reverse orientation of recognition motif can also be
       used to link these two proteins, where we have FVIII at the N-terminus with LPXTG

                                             171
        motif and VWF fragment at the C-terminus with Gly(n) (See Figure 24- example of
        sortase ligation for reference). The LPXTG motif and Glycine residues can be replaced
        with other sortase recognition sequences.
[04071          VWF fragment containing sortase A recognition sequence Fc fusion protein was
        also made.     For Fc fusion constructs, VWF D1D2D'D3 fragment was fused with Fc
        region of IgG through a GS linker that contains a sortase recognition sequence and a
        thrombin cleavage site (Table 15 and 16).    Once protein is expressed and purified on
        Protein A column, the Fc region can be removed by thrombin cleavage. Resulting VWF
        fragment with sortase A recognition site can then be used for ligation with FVIII
        molecule (Figure 24- Example of sortase ligation for reference- row E).
[0408]          pSYN-VWF-051 has a 54 amino acids linker with sortase and thrombin site in
        between the VWF fragment and the Fc region. Synthesis of DNA fragment coding for 54
        amino acids linker (ISGGGGSGGG GSGGGGSGGG GSGGGGSGGG GSLPETGALR
        PRVVGGGGSG GGGS) (SEQ ID NO: 98) and a portion of the Fc region was outsourced
        (Genewiz Sequence no-10-210746313, shown below).            A fragment of the Genewiz
        construct was sub cloned into the EcoRV/RsRII digested pSYN-VWF-03 1.
        Genewiz-Sequence no-10-210746313(SEQ ID NO: 99)
[0409]          AGGAGCCGATATCTGGCGGTGGAGGTTCCGGTGGCGGGGGATCCGGCGGTGGAGGTTCCGGCG
        GTGGAGGTTCCGGTGGCGGGGGATCCGGTGGCGGGGGATCCTTACCTGAAACTGGAGCCCTGCGGCCCC
        GGGTCGTCGGCGGTGGAGGTTCCGGTGGCGGGGGATCCGACAAAACTCACACATGCCCACCGTGCCCAG
        CTCCAGAACTCCTGGGCGGACCGTCAGTCTT
[0410]          The sequence of N-terminus pentaglycine containing single chain FVIII is shown
        in Table 17 and 18.
        Table-15: Nucleotide sequence of pSYN-VWF051 (VWF D1D2D'D3Fc with sortase A
        recognition motif and thrombin cleavable linker in between VWF fragment and Fc) (SEQ
        ID NO: 100)
          1     ATGATTCCTG    CCAGATTTGC   CGGGGTGCTG   CTTGCTCTGG    CCCTCATTTT
        51      GCCAGGGACC    CTTTGTGCAG   AAGGAACTCG   CGGCAGGTCA    TCCACGGCCC
       101      GATGCAGCCT     TTTCGGAAGT  GACTTCGTCA   ACACCTTTGA    TGGGAGCATG
       151      TACAGCTTTG    CGGGATACTG   CAGTTACCTC   CTGGCAGGGG    GCTGCCAGAA
       201      ACGCTCCTTC     TCGATTATTG  GGGACTTCCA   GAATGGCAAG    AGAGTGAGCC
       251      TCTCCGTGTA     TCTTGGGGAA  TTTTTTGACA   TCCATTTGTT    TGTCAATGGT
       301      ACCGTGACAC    AGGGGGACCA   AAGAGTCTCC   ATGCCCTATG    CCTCCAAAGG
       351      GCTGTATCTA    GAAACTGAGG   CTGGGTACTA   CAAGCTGTCC    GGTGAGGCCT
       401      ATGGCTTTGT    GGCCAGGATC   GATGGCAGCG   GCAACTTTCA    AGTCCTGCTG
       451      TCAGACAGAT    ACTTCAACAA   GACCTGCGGG   CTGTGTGGCA    ACTTTAACAT
       501      CTTTGCTGAA    GATGACTTTA   TGACCCAAGA   AGGGACCTTG    ACCTCGGACC
       551      CTTATGACTT     TGCCAACTCA  TGGGCTCTGA   GCAGTGGAGA    ACAGTGGTGT
       601      GAACGGGCAT    CTCCTCCCAG   CAGCTCATGC   AACATCTCCT    CTGGGGAAAT

                             172
 651 GCAGAAGGGC CTGTGGGAGC AGTGCCAGCT TCTGAAGAGC ACCTCGGTGT
 701 TTGCCCGCTG CCACCCTCTG GTGGACCCCG AGCCTTTTGT GGCCCTGTGT
 751 GAGAAGACTT TGTGTGAGTG TGCTGGGGGG CTGGAGTGCG CCTGCCCTGC
 801 CCTCCTGGAG TACGCCCGGA CCTGTGCCCA GGAGGGAATG GTGCTGTACG
 851 GCTGGACCGA CCACAGCGCG TGCAGCCCAG TGTGCCCTGC TGGTATGGAG
 901 TATAGGCAGT GTGTGTCCCC TTGCGCCAGG ACCTGCCAGA GCCTGCACAT
 951 CAATGAAATG TGTCAGGAGC GATGCGTGGA TGGCTGCAGC TGCCCTGAGG
1001 GACAGCTCCT GGATGAAGGC CTCTGCGTGG AGAGCACCGA GTGTCCCTGC
1051 GTGCATTCCG GAAAGCGCTA CCCTCCCGGC ACCTCCCTCT CTCGAGACTG
1101 CAACACCTGC ATTTGCCGAA ACAGCCAGTG GATCTGCAGC AATGAAGAAT
1151 GTCCAGGGGA GTGCCTTGTC ACTGGTCAAT CCCACTTCAA GAGCTTTGAC
1201 AACAGATACT TCACCTTCAG TGGGATCTGC CAGTACCTGC TGGCCCGGGA
1251 TTGCCAGGAC CACTCCTTCT CCATTGTCAT TGAGACTGTC CAGTGTGCTG
1301 ATGACCGCGA CGCTGTGTGC ACCCGCTCCG TCACCGTCCG GCTGCCTGGC
1351 CTGCACAACA GCCTTGTGAA ACTGAAGCAT GGGGCAGGAG TTGCCATGGA
1401 TGGCCAGGAC ATCCAGCTCC CCCTCCTGAA AGGTGACCTC CGCATCCAGC
1451 ATACAGTGAC GGCCTCCGTG CGCCTCAGCT ACGGGGAGGA CCTGCAGATG
1501 GACTGGGATG GCCGCGGGAG GCTGCTGGTG AAGCTGTCCC CCGTCTATGC
1551 CGGGAAGACC TGCGGCCTGT GTGGGAATTA CAATGGCAAC CAGGGCGACG
1601 ACTTCCTTAC CCCCTCTGGG CTGGCGGAGC CCCGGGTGGA GGACTTCGGG
1651 AACGCCTGGA AGCTGCACGG GGACTGCCAG GACCTGCAGA AGCAGCACAG
1701 CGATCCCTGC GCCCTCAACC CGCGCATGAC CAGGTTCTCC GAGGAGGCGT
1751 GCGCGGTCCT GACGTCCCCC ACATTCGAGG CCTGCCATCG TGCCGTCAGC
1801 CCGCTGCCCT ACCTGCGGAA CTGCCGCTAC GACGTGTGCT CCTGCTCGGA
1851 CGGCCGCGAG TGCCTGTGCG GCGCCCTGGC CAGCTATGCC GCGGCCTGCG
1901 CGGGGAGAGG CGTGCGCGTC GCGTGGCGCG AGCCAGGCCG CTGTGAGCTG
1951 AACTGCCCGA AAGGCCAGGT GTACCTGCAG TGCGGGACCC CCTGCAACCT
2001 GACCTGCCGC TCTCTCTCTT ACCCGGATGA GGAATGCAAT GAGGCCTGCC
2051 TGGAGGGCTG CTTCTGCCCC CCAGGGCTCT ACATGGATGA GAGGGGGGAC
2101 TGCGTGCCCA AGGCCCAGTG CCCCTGTTAC TATGACGGTG AGATCTTCCA
2151 GCCAGAAGAC ATCTTCTCAG ACCATCACAC CATGTGCTAC TGTGAGGATG
2201 GCTTCATGCA CTGTACCATG AGTGGAGTCC CCGGAAGCTT GCTGCCTGAC
2251 GCTGTCCTCA GCAGTCCCCT GTCTCATCGC AGCAAAAGGA GCCTATCCTG
2301 TCGGCCCCCC ATGGTCAAGC TGGTGTGTCC CGCTGACAAC CTGCGGGCTG
2351 AAGGGCTCGA GTGTACCAAA ACGTGCCAGA ACTATGACCT GGAGTGCATG
2401 AGCATGGGCT GTGTCTCTGG CTGCCTCTGC CCCCCGGGCA TGGTCCGGCA
2451 TGAGAACAGA TGTGTGGCCC TGGAAAGGTG TCCCTGCTTC CATCAGGGCA
2501 AGGAGTATGC CCCTGGAGAA ACAGTGAAGA TTGGCTGCAA CACTTGTGTC
2551 TGTCGGGACC GGAAGTGGAA CTGCACAGAC CATGTGTGTG ATGCCACGTG
2601 CTCCACGATC GGCATGGCCC ACTACCTCAC CTTCGACGGG CTCAAATACC
2651 TGTTCCCCGG GGAGTGCCAG TACGTTCTGG TGCAGGATTA CTGCGGCAGT
2701 AACCCTGGGA CCTTTCGGAT CCTAGTGGGG AATAAGGGAT GCAGCCACCC
2751 CTCAGTGAAA TGCAAGAAAC GGGTCACCAT CCTGGTGGAG GGAGGAGAGA
2801 TTGAGCTGTT TGACGGGGAG GTGAATGTGA AGAGGCCCAT GAAGGATGAG
2851 ACTCACTTTG AGGTGGTGGA GTCTGGCCGG TACATCATTC TGCTGCTGGG
2901 CAAAGCCCTC TCCGTGGTCT GGGACCGCCA CCTGAGCATC TCCGTGGTCC
2951 TGAAGCAGAC ATACCAGGAG AAAGTGTGTG GCCTGTGTGG GAATTTTGAT
3001 GGCATCCAGA ACAATGACCT CACCAGCAGC AACCTCCAAG TGGAGGAAGA
3051 CCCTGTGGAC TTTGGGAACT CCTGGAAAGT GAGCTCGCAG TGTGCTGACA
3101 CCAGAAAAGT GCCTCTGGAC TCATCCCCTG CCACCTGCCA TAACAACATC
3151 ATGAAGCAGA CGATGGTGGA TTCCTCCTGT AGAATCCTTA CCAGTGACGT
3201 CTTCCAGGAC TGCAACAAGC TGGTGGACCC CGAGCCATAT CTGGATGTCT
3251 GCATTTACGA CACCTGCTCC TGTGAGTCCA TTGGGGACTG CGCCGCATTC
3301 TGCGACACCA TTGCTGCCTA TGCCCACGTG TGTGCCCAGC ATGGCAAGGT
3351 GGTGACCTGG AGGACGGCCA CATTGTGCCC CCAGAGCTGC GAGGAGAGGA
3401 ATCTCCGGGA GAACGGGTAT GAGGCTGAGT GGCGCTATAA CAGCTGTGCA
3451 CCTGCCTGTC AAGTCACGTG TCAGCACCCT GAGCCACTGG CCTGCCCTGT
3501 GCAGTGTGTG GAGGGCTGCC ATGCCCACTG CCCTCCAGGG AAAATCCTGG
3551 ATGAGCTTTT GCAGACCTGC GTTGACCCTG AAGACTGTCC AGTGTGTGAG

                                      173
3601     GTGGCTGGCC    GGCGTTTTGC  CTCAGGAAAG  AAAGTCACCT  TGAATCCCAG
3651     TGACCCTGAG    CACTGCCAGA  TTTGCCACTG   TGATGTTGTC AACCTCACCT
3701     GTGAAGCCTG    CCAGGAGCCG  ATATCTGGCG  GTGGAGGTTC  CGGTGGCGGG
3751     GGATCCGGCG    GTGGAGGTTC  CGGCGGTGGA  GGTTCCGGTG  GCGGGGGATC
3801     CGGTGGCGGG    GGATCCTTAC  CTGAAACTGG  AGCCCTGCGG  CCCCGGGTCG
3851     TCGGCGGTGG    AGGTTCCGGT  GGCGGGGGAT  CCGACAAAAC  TCACACATGC
3901     CCACCGTGCC    CAGCTCCAGA  ACTCCTGGGC  GGACCGTCAG  TCTTCCTCTT
3951     CCCCCCAAAA    CCCAAGGACA  CCCTCATGAT  CTCCCGGACC  CCTGAGGTCA
4001     CATGCGTGGT    GGTGGACGTG  AGCCACGAAG  ACCCTGAGGT  CAAGTTCAAC
4051     TGGTACGTGG    ACGGCGTGGA  GGTGCATAAT  GCCAAGACAA  AGCCGCGGGA
4101     GGAGCAGTAC    AACAGCACGT  ACCGTGTGGT  CAGCGTCCTC  ACCGTCCTGC
4151     ACCAGGACTG    GCTGAATGGC  AAGGAGTACA  AGTGCAAGGT  CTCCAACAAA
4201     GCCCTCCCAG    CCCCCATCGA  GAAAACCATC   TCCAAAGCCA AAGGGCAGCC
4251     CCGAGAACCA    CAGGTGTACA  CCCTGCCCCC  ATCCCGGGAT  GAGCTGACCA
4301     AGAACCAGGT    CAGCCTGACC  TGCCTGGTCA  AAGGCTTCTA  TCCCAGCGAC
4351     ATCGCCGTGG    AGTGGGAGAG  CAATGGGCAG  CCGGAGAACA  ACTACAAGAC
4401     CACGCCTCCC    GTGTTGGACT  CCGACGGCTC  CTTCTTCCTC  TACAGCAAGC
4451     TCACCGTGGA    CAAGAGCAGG  TGGCAGCAGG  GGAACGTCTT  CTCATGCTCC
4501     GTGATGCATG    AGGCTCTGCA  CAACCACTAC  ACGCAGAAGA  GCCTCTCCCT
4551     GTCTCCGGGT    AAATGA
  Table-16: Protein sequence of VWF051 (VWF D1D2D'D3Fc with sortase A recognition
  motif and thrombin cleavable linker in between VWF fragment and Fc; sortase A site
  shown in bold) (SEQ ID NO: 101)
   1     MIPARFAGVL    LALALILPGT  LCAEGTRGRS   STARCSLFGS DFVNTFDGSM
  51     YSFAGYCSYL    LAGGCQKRSF  SIIGDFQNGK   RVSLSVYLGE FFDIHLFVNG
 101     TVTQGDQRVS    MPYASKGLYL  ETEAGYYKLS  GEAYGFVARI  DGSGNFQVLL
 151     SDRYFNKTCG    LCGNFNIFAE  DDFMTQEGTL   TSDPYDFANS WALSSGEQWC
 201     ERASPPSSSC    NISSGEMQKG  LWEQCQLLKS   TSVFARCHPL VDPEPFVALC
 251     EKTLCECAGG    LECACPALLE  YARTCAQEGM  VLYGWTDHSA  CSPVCPAGME
 301     YRQCVSPCAR    TCQSLHINEM  CQERCVDGCS  CPEGQLLDEG  LCVESTECPC
 351     VHSGKRYPPG    TSLSRDCNTC  ICRNSQWICS  NEECPGECLV  TGQSHFKSFD
 401     NRYFTFSGIC    QYLLARDCQD  HSFSIVIETV  QCADDRDAVC  TRSVTVRLPG
 451     LHNSLVKLKH    GAGVAMDGQD  IQLPLLKGDL  RIQHTVTASV  RLSYGEDLQM
 501     DWDGRGRLLV    KLSPVYAGKT  CGLCGNYNGN  QGDDFLTPSG  LAEPRVEDFG
 551     NAWKLHGDCQ    DLQKQHSDPC  ALNPRMTRFS  EEACAVLTSP  TFEACHRAVS
 601     PLPYLRNCRY    DVCSCSDGRE  CLCGALASYA  AACAGRGVRV  AWREPGRCEL
 651     NCPKGQVYLQ    CGTPCNLTCR  SLSYPDEECN  EACLEGCFCP  PGLYMDERGD
 701     CVPKAQCPCY    YDGEIFQPED  IFSDHHTMCY  CEDGFMHCTM  SGVPGSLLPD
 751     AVLSSPLSHR    SKRSLSCRPP  MVKLVCPADN   LRAEGLECTK TCQNYDLECM
 801     SMGCVSGCLC    PPGMVRHENR  CVALERCPCF  HQGKEYAPGE  TVKIGCNTCV
 851     CRDRKWNCTD    HVCDATCSTI  GMAHYLTFDG   LKYLFPGECQ YVLVQDYCGS
 901     NPGTFRILVG    NKGCSHPSVK  CKKRVTILVE  GGEIELFDGE  VNVKRPMKDE
 951     THFEVVESGR    YIILLLGKAL  SVVWDRHLSI   SVVLKQTYQE KVCGLCGNFD
1001     GIQNNDLTSS    NLQVEEDPVD  FGNSWKVSSQ  CADTRKVPLD  SSPATCHNNI
1051     MKQTMVDSSC    RILTSDVFQD  CNKLVDPEPY   LDVCIYDTCS CESIGDCAAF
1101     CDTIAAYAHV    CAQHGKVVTW  RTATLCPQSC  EERNLRENGY  EAEWRYNSCA
1151     PACQVTCQHP    EPLACPVQCV  EGCHAHCPPG  KILDELLQTC  VDPEDCPVCE
1201     VAGRRFASGK    KVTLNPSDPE  HCQICHCDVV  NLTCEACQEP  ISGGGGSGGG
1251     GSGGGGSGGG    GSGGGGSGGG  GSLPETGALR   PRVVGGGGSG GGGSDKTHTC
1301     PPCPAPELLG    GPSVFLFPPK  PKDTLMISRT   PEVTCVVVDV SHEDPEVKFN
1351     WYVDGVEVHN    AKTKPREEQY  NSTYRVVSVL   TVLHQDWLNG KEYKCKVSNK
1401     ALPAPIEKTI    SKAKGQPREP  QVYTLPPSRD  ELTKNQVSLT  CLVKGFYPSD
1451     IAVEWESNGQ    PENNYKTTPP  VLDSDGSFFL  YSKLTVDKSR  WQQGNVFSCS
1501     VMHEALHNHY    TQKSLSLSPG  K*

                                     174
  Table 17: Nucleotide sequence of FVIII 265 (FVIII single chain molecule with
  pentaglycines at N-terminus) (SEQ ID NO: 102)
   1     ATGCAAATAG    AGCTCTCCAC  CTGCTTCTTT   CTGTGCCTTT TGCGATTCTG
  51     CTTTAGTGGA    GGAGGAGGAG  GAGCCACCAG   AAGATACTAC CTGGGTGCAG
 101     TGGAACTGTC    ATGGGACTAT  ATGCAAAGTG   ATCTCGGTGA GCTGCCTGTG
 151     GACGCAAGAT     TTCCTCCTAG AGTGCCAAAA   TCTTTTCCAT TCAACACCTC
 201     AGTCGTGTAC    AAAAAGACTC  TGTTTGTAGA   ATTCACGGAT CACCTTTTCA
 251     ACATCGCTAA    GCCAAGGCCA  CCCTGGATGG   GTCTGCTAGG TCCTACCATC
 301     CAGGCTGAGG     TTTATGATAC AGTGGTCATT   ACACTTAAGA ACATGGCTTC
 351     CCATCCTGTC    AGTCTTCATG  CTGTTGGTGT   ATCCTACTGG AAAGCTTCTG
 401     AGGGAGCTGA    ATATGATGAT  CAGACCAGTC   AAAGGGAGAA AGAAGATGAT
 451     AAAGTCTTCC    CTGGTGGAAG  CCATACATAT   GTCTGGCAGG TCCTGAAAGA
 501     GAATGGTCCA    ATGGCCTCTG  ACCCACTGTG   CCTTACCTAC TCATATCTTT
 551     CTCATGTGGA    CCTGGTAAAA  GACTTGAATT   CAGGCCTCAT TGGAGCCCTA
 601     CTAGTATGTA    GAGAAGGGAG  TCTGGCCAAG   GAAAAGACAC AGACCTTGCA
 651     CAAATTTATA    CTACTTTTTG  CTGTATTTGA   TGAAGGGAAA AGTTGGCACT
 701     CAGAAACAAA    GAACTCCTTG  ATGCAGGATA   GGGATGCTGC ATCTGCTCGG
 751     GCCTGGCCTA    AAATGCACAC  AGTCAATGGT   TATGTAAACA GGTCTCTGCC
 801     AGGTCTGATT    GGATGCCACA  GGAAATCAGT   CTATTGGCAT GTGATTGGAA
 851     TGGGCACCAC     TCCTGAAGTG CACTCAATAT   TCCTCGAAGG TCACACATTT
 901     CTTGTGAGGA    ACCATCGCCA  GGCGTCCTTG   GAAATCTCGC CAATAACTTT
 951     CCTTACTGCT    CAAACACTCT  TGATGGACCT   TGGACAGTTT CTACTGTTTT
1001     GTCATATCTC     TTCCCACCAA CATGATGGCA   TGGAAGCTTA TGTCAAAGTA
1051     GACAGCTGTC    CAGAGGAACC  CCAACTACGA   ATGAAAAATA ATGAAGAAGC
1101     GGAAGACTAT    GATGATGATC  TTACTGATTC   TGAAATGGAT GTGGTCAGGT
1151     TTGATGATGA    CAACTCTCCT  TCCTTTATCC   AAATTCGCTC AGTTGCCAAG
1201     AAGCATCCTA    AAACTTGGGT  ACATTACATT   GCTGCTGAAG AGGAGGACTG
1251     GGACTATGCT    CCCTTAGTCC  TCGCCCCCGA   TGACAGAAGT TATAAAAGTC
1301     AATATTTGAA    CAATGGCCCT  CAGCGGATTG   GTAGGAAGTA CAAAAAAGTC
1351     CGATTTATGG    CATACACAGA  TGAAACCTTT   AAGACTCGTG AAGCTATTCA
1401     GCATGAATCA    GGAATCTTGG  GACCTTTACT   TTATGGGGAA GTTGGAGACA
1451     CACTGTTGAT     TATATTTAAG AATCAAGCAA   GCAGACCATA TAACATCTAC
1501     CCTCACGGAA     TCACTGATGT CCGTCCTTTG   TATTCAAGGA GATTACCAAA
1551     AGGTGTAAAA    CATTTGAAGG  ATTTTCCAAT   TCTGCCAGGA GAAATATTCA
1601     AATATAAATG    GACAGTGACT  GTAGAAGATG   GGCCAACTAA ATCAGATCCT
1651     CGGTGCCTGA    CCCGCTATTA  CTCTAGTTTC   GTTAATATGG AGAGAGATCT
1701     AGCTTCAGGA    CTCATTGGCC  CTCTCCTCAT   CTGCTACAAA GAATCTGTAG
1751     ATCAAAGAGG    AAACCAGATA  ATGTCAGACA   AGAGGAATGT CATCCTGTTT
1801     TCTGTATTTG    ATGAGAACCG  AAGCTGGTAC   CTCACAGAGA ATATACAACG
1851     CTTTCTCCCC    AATCCAGCTG  GAGTGCAGCT   TGAGGATCCA GAGTTCCAAG
1901     CCTCCAACAT    CATGCACAGC  ATCAATGGCT   ATGTTTTTGA TAGTTTGCAG
1951     TTGTCAGTTT    GTTTGCATGA  GGTGGCATAC   TGGTACATTC TAAGCATTGG
2001     AGCACAGACT    GACTTCCTTT  CTGTCTTCTT   CTCTGGATAT ACCTTCAAAC
2051     ACAAAATGGT    CTATGAAGAC  ACACTCACCC   TATTCCCATT CTCAGGAGAA
2101     ACTGTCTTCA     TGTCGATGGA AAACCCAGGT   CTATGGATTC TGGGGTGCCA
2151     CAACTCAGAC     TTTCGGAACA GAGGCATGAC   CGCCTTACTG AAGGTTTCTA
2201     GTTGTGACAA    GAACACTGGT  GATTATTACG   AGGACAGTTA TGAAGATATT
2251     TCAGCATACT     TGCTGAGTAA AAACAATGCC   ATTGAACCAA GAAGCTTCTC
2301     TCAAAACCCA    CCAGTCTTGA  AGGCCCATCA   GGCCGAAATA ACTCGTACTA
2351     CTCTTCAGTC    AGATCAAGAG  GAAATTGACT   ATGATGATAC CATATCAGTT
2401     GAAATGAAGA    AGGAAGATTT  TGACATTTAT   GATGAGGATG AAAATCAGAG
2451     CCCCCGCAGC     TTTCAAAAGA AAACACGACA   CTATTTTATT GCTGCAGTGG
2501     AGAGGCTCTG    GGATTATGGG  ATGAGTAGCT   CCCCACATGT TCTAAGAAAC
2551     AGGGCTCAGA    GTGGCAGTGT  CCCTCAGTTC   AAGAAAGTTG TTTTCCAGGA
2601     ATTTACTGAT    GGCTCCTTTA  CTCAGCCCTT   ATACCGTGGA GAACTAAATG
2651     AACATTTGGG    CCTCCTCGGC  CCATATATAA   GAGCAGAAGT TGAAGATAAT
2701     ATCATGGTAA    CTTTCAGAAA  TCAGGCCTCT   CGTCCCTATT CCTTCTATTC
2751     TAGCCTTATT     TCTTATGAGG AAGATCAGAG   GCAAGGAGCA GAACCTAGAA
2801     AAAACTTTGT    CAAGCCTAAT  GAAACCAAAA   CTTACTTTTG GAAAGTGCAA

                                      175
2851      CATCATATGG   CACCCACTAA  AGATGAGTTT    GACTGCAAAG    CCTGGGCTTA
2901      TTTCTCTGAT   GTTGACCTGG  AAAAAGATGT    GCACTCAGGC    CTGATTGGAC
2951      CCCTTCTGGT   CTGCCACACT  AACACACTGA    ACCCTGCTCA    TGGGAGACAA
3001      GTGACAGTAC   AGGAATTTGC   TCTGTTTTTC   ACCATCTTTG    ATGAGACCAA
3051      AAGCTGGTAC   TTCACTGAAA  ATATGGAAAG    AAACTGCAGG    GCTCCCTGCA
3101      ATATCCAGAT   GGAAGATCCC  ACTTTTAAAG    AGAATTATCG    CTTCCATGCA
3151      ATCAATGGCT   ACATAATGGA   TACACTACCT   GGCTTAGTAA    TGGCTCAGGA
3201      TCAAAGGATT   CGATGGTATC   TGCTCAGCAT   GGGCAGCAAT    GAAAACATCC
3251      ATTCTATTCA   TTTCAGTGGA  CATGTGTTCA    CTGTACGAAA    AAAAGAGGAG
3301      TATAAAATGG   CACTGTACAA   TCTCTATCCA   GGTGTTTTTG    AGACAGTGGA
3351      AATGTTACCA   TCCAAAGCTG  GAATTTGGCG    GGTGGAATGC    CTTATTGGCG
3401      AGCATCTACA   TGCTGGGATG  AGCACACTTT    TTCTGGTGTA    CAGCAATAAG
3451      TGTCAGACTC   CCCTGGGAAT  GGCTTCTGGA    CACATTAGAG    ATTTTCAGAT
3501      TACAGCTTCA   GGACAATATG  GACAGTGGGC    CCCAAAGCTG    GCCAGACTTC
3551      ATTATTCCGG   ATCAATCAAT  GCCTGGAGCA    CCAAGGAGCC    CTTTTCTTGG
3601      ATCAAGGTGG   ATCTGTTGGC  ACCAATGATT    ATTCACGGCA    TCAAGACCCA
3651      GGGTGCCCGT   CAGAAGTTCT  CCAGCCTCTA    CATCTCTCAG    TTTATCATCA
3701      TGTATAGTCT   TGATGGGAAG  AAGTGGCAGA    CTTATCGAGG    AAATTCCACT
3751      GGAACCTTAA   TGGTCTTCTT   TGGCAATGTG   GATTCATCTG    GGATAAAACA
3801      CAATATTTTT   AACCCTCCAA   TTATTGCTCG   ATACATCCGT    TTGCACCCAA
3851      CTCATTATAG   CATTCGCAGC  ACTCTTCGCA    TGGAGTTGAT    GGGCTGTGAT
3901      TTAAATAGTT   GCAGCATGCC  ATTGGGAATG    GAGAGTAAAG    CAATATCAGA
3951      TGCACAGATT   ACTGCTTCAT  CCTACTTTAC    CAATATGTTT    GCCACCTGGT
4001      CTCCTTCAAA   AGCTCGACTT  CACCTCCAAG    GGAGGAGTAA    TGCCTGGAGA
4051      CCTCAGGTGA   ATAATCCAAA  AGAGTGGCTG    CAAGTGGACT    TCCAGAAGAC
4101      AATGAAAGTC   ACAGGAGTAA  CTACTCAGGG    AGTAAAATCT    CTGCTTACCA
4151      GCATGTATGT   GAAGGAGTTC  CTCATCTCCA    GCAGTCAAGA    TGGCCATCAG
4201      TGGACTCTCT   TTTTTCAGAA   TGGCAAAGTA   AAGGTTTTTC    AGGGAAATCA
4251      AGACTCCTTC   ACACCTGTGG   TGAACTCTCT   AGACCCACCG    TTACTGACTC
4301      GCTACCTTCG   AATTCACCCC  CAGAGTTGGG    TGCACCAGAT    TGCCCTGAGG
4351      ATGGAGGTTC   TGGGCTGCGA  GGCACAGGAC    CTCTACTGA
  Table 18: Protein sequence of FVIII 265 (FVIII single chain molecule with pentaglycines
  at N-terminus; pentaglycine shown in bold) (SEQ ID NO: 103)
    1     MQIELSTCFF   LCLLRFCFSG  GGGGATRRYY    LGAVELSWDY    MQSDLGELPV
  51      DARFPPRVPK   SFPFNTSVVY  KKTLFVEFTD    HLFNIAKPRP    PWMGLLGPTI
 101      QAEVYDTVVI   TLKNMASHPV   SLHAVGVSYW   KASEGAEYDD    QTSQREKEDD
 151      KVFPGGSHTY   VWQVLKENGP  MASDPLCLTY    SYLSHVDLVK    DLNSGLIGAL
 201      LVCREGSLAK   EKTQTLHKFI   LLFAVFDEGK   SWHSETKNSL    MQDRDAASAR
 251      AWPKMHTVNG   YVNRSLPGLI  GCHRKSVYWH    VIGMGTTPEV    HSIFLEGHTF
 301      LVRNHRQASL   EISPITFLTA  QTLLMDLGQF    LLFCHISSHQ    HDGMEAYVKV
 351      DSCPEEPQLR   MKNNEEAEDY   DDDLTDSEMD   VVRFDDDNSP    SFIQIRSVAK
 401      KHPKTWVHYI   AAEEEDWDYA   PLVLAPDDRS   YKSQYLNNGP    QRIGRKYKKV
 451      RFMAYTDETF   KTREAIQHES  GILGPLLYGE    VGDTLLIIFK    NQASRPYNIY
 501      PHGITDVRPL   YSRRLPKGVK  HLKDFPILPG    EIFKYKWTVT    VEDGPTKSDP
 551      RCLTRYYSSF   VNMERDLASG   LIGPLLICYK   ESVDQRGNQI    MSDKRNVILF
 601      SVFDENRSWY   LTENIQRFLP  NPAGVQLEDP    EFQASNIMHS    INGYVFDSLQ
 651      LSVCLHEVAY   WYILSIGAQT   DFLSVFFSGY   TFKHKMVYED    TLTLFPFSGE
 701      TVFMSMENPG   LWILGCHNSD   FRNRGMTALL   KVSSCDKNTG    DYYEDSYEDI
 751      SAYLLSKNNA   IEPRSFSQNP   PVLKAHQAEI   TRTTLQSDQE    EIDYDDTISV
 801      EMKKEDFDIY   DEDENQSPRS   FQKKTRHYFI   AAVERLWDYG    MSSSPHVLRN
 851      RAQSGSVPQF   KKVVFQEFTD  GSFTQPLYRG    ELNEHLGLLG    PYIRAEVEDN
 901      IMVTFRNQAS   RPYSFYSSLI   SYEEDQRQGA   EPRKNFVKPN    ETKTYFWKVQ
 951      HHMAPTKDEF   DCKAWAYFSD  VDLEKDVHSG    LIGPLLVCHT    NTLNPAHGRQ
1001      VTVQEFALFF   TIFDETKSWY   FTENMERNCR   APCNIQMEDP    TFKENYRFHA
1051      INGYIMDTLP   GLVMAQDQRI  RWYLLSMGSN    ENIHSIHFSG    HVFTVRKKEE

                                                176
     1101        YKMALYNLYP    GVFETVEMLP    SKAGIWRVEC     LIGEHLHAGM     STLFLVYSNK
     1151        CQTPLGMASG    HIRDFQITAS    GQYGQWAPKL     ARLHYSGSIN    AWSTKEPFSW
     1201        IKVDLLAPMI     IHGIKTQGAR   QKFSSLYISQ     FIIMYSLDGK    KWQTYRGNST
     1251        GTLMVFFGNV     DSSGIKHNIF   NPPIIARYIR     LHPTHYSIRS     TLRMELMGCD
     1301        LNSCSMPLGM    ESKAISDAQI    TASSYFTNMF     ATWSPSKARL    HLQGRSNAWR
     1351        PQVNNPKEWL    QVDFQKTMKV    TGVTTQGVKS     LLTSMYVKEF     LISSSQDGHQ
     1401        WTLFFQNGKV    KVFQGNQDSF    TPVVNSLDPP     LLTRYLRIHP    QSWVHQIALR
     1451        MEVLGCEAQD     LY*
        Example 20: Plasma stability and PK of FV111198 in HemA and FVIII/VWF double
        knockout (DKO) plasma
[0411]           The Plasma stability of FVIII 198 (which is a partial B-domain containing single
        chain FVIIIFc molecule-226N6; where 226 represents the N-terminus 226 amino acids of
        FVIII B-domain and N6 represents six N-glycosylation sites in the B-domain) was
        compared to single chain FVIIIFc (FVIII 155/Fc) in FVIII/VWF double knockout (DKO)
        plasma. Schematic representation of FVIII55 and FV111198 can be seen in Figure 25.
[0412]           For the stability assay, 5 IU/ml of FVIII 198 or FVIIIFc proteins was incubated
        with mouse or DKO plasma at 37 0 C. Aliquots were collected at different time points for
        activity measurement by FVIII chromogenic assay. Activity at each time point was
        measured in duplicate and average activity was plotted as a function of time.          In the
        stability assay, the presence of partial B-domain increased the stability of single chain
        FVIIIFc (Figure 26A).
[0413]           The half-life of FVIII 198 (single chain-B226N6) was also compared with
        FVIII155 (single chain B-domain deleted FVIII) in DKO mice. FVIII 198 has at least
        about a 1.5 fold longer half-life compared to FVIII55 (Figure 26B). These experiments
        suggest that there might be a co-relation between FVIII stability and its in-vivo half-life.
            FV111198 nucleotide sequence (FVIIIFc with partial B-domain, 226N6)(SEQ ID NO: 104)
          1      ATGCAAATAG    AGCTCTCCAC    CTGCTTCTTT     CTGTGCCTTT    TGCGATTCTG
        51       CTTTAGTGCC    ACCAGAAGAT    ACTACCTGGG     TGCAGTGGAA     CTGTCATGGG
       101       ACTATATGCA    AAGTGATCTC    GGTGAGCTGC     CTGTGGACGC    AAGATTTCCT
       151       CCTAGAGTGC     CAAAATCTTT   TCCATTCAAC     ACCTCAGTCG    TGTACAAAAA
       201       GACTCTGTTT    GTAGAATTCA    CGGATCACCT     TTTCAACATC    GCTAAGCCAA
       251       GGCCACCCTG GATGGGTCTG CTAGGTCCTA CCATCCAGGC TGAGGTTTAT
       301       GATACAGTGG    TCATTACACT    TAAGAACATG     GCTTCCCATC     CTGTCAGTCT
       351       TCATGCTGTT    GGTGTATCCT    ACTGGAAAGC     TTCTGAGGGA    GCTGAATATG
       401       ATGATCAGAC     CAGTCAAAGG   GAGAAAGAAG     ATGATAAAGT     CTTCCCTGGT
       451       GGAAGCCATA     CATATGTCTG   GCAGGTCCTG     AAAGAGAATG    GTCCAATGGC
       501       CTCTGACCCA     CTGTGCCTTA   CCTACTCATA     TCTTTCTCAT    GTGGACCTGG
       551       TAAAAGACTT    GAATTCAGGC    CTCATTGGAG     CCCTACTAGT    ATGTAGAGAA
       601       GGGAGTCTGG     CCAAGGAAAA   GACACAGACC     TTGCACAAAT    TTATACTACT
       651       TTTTGCTGTA    TTTGATGAAG    GGAAAAGTTG     GCACTCAGAA    ACAAAGAACT
       701       CCTTGATGCA GGATAGGGAT GCTGCATCTG CTCGGGCCTG GCCTAAAATG
       751       CACACAGTCA ATGGTTATGT AAACAGGTCT CTGCCAGGTC TGATTGGATG
       801       CCACAGGAAA TCAGTCTATT GGCATGTGAT TGGAATGGGC ACCACTCCTG

                             177
 851 AAGTGCACTC AATATTCCTC GAAGGTCACA CATTTCTTGT GAGGAACCAT
 901 CGCCAGGCGT CCTTGGAAAT CTCGCCAATA ACTTTCCTTA CTGCTCAAAC
 951 ACTCTTGATG GACCTTGGAC AGTTTCTACT GTTTTGTCAT ATCTCTTCCC
1001 ACCAACATGA TGGCATGGAA GCTTATGTCA AAGTAGACAG CTGTCCAGAG
1051 GAACCCCAAC TACGAATGAA AAATAATGAA GAAGCGGAAG ACTATGATGA
1101 TGATCTTACT GATTCTGAAA TGGATGTGGT CAGGTTTGAT GATGACAACT
1151 CTCCTTCCTT TATCCAAATT CGCTCAGTTG CCAAGAAGCA TCCTAAAACT
1201 TGGGTACATT ACATTGCTGC TGAAGAGGAG GACTGGGACT ATGCTCCCTT
1251 AGTCCTCGCC CCCGATGACA GAAGTTATAA AAGTCAATAT TTGAACAATG
1301 GCCCTCAGCG GATTGGTAGG AAGTACAAAA AAGTCCGATT TATGGCATAC
1351 ACAGATGAAA CCTTTAAGAC TCGTGAAGCT ATTCAGCATG AATCAGGAAT
1401 CTTGGGACCT TTACTTTATG GGGAAGTTGG AGACACACTG TTGATTATAT
1451 TTAAGAATCA AGCAAGCAGA CCATATAACA TCTACCCTCA CGGAATCACT
1501 GATGTCCGTC CTTTGTATTC AAGGAGATTA CCAAAAGGTG TAAAACATTT
1551 GAAGGATTTT CCAATTCTGC CAGGAGAAAT ATTCAAATAT AAATGGACAG
1601 TGACTGTAGA AGATGGGCCA ACTAAATCAG ATCCTCGGTG CCTGACCCGC
1651 TATTACTCTA GTTTCGTTAA TATGGAGAGA GATCTAGCTT CAGGACTCAT
1701 TGGCCCTCTC CTCATCTGCT ACAAAGAATC TGTAGATCAA AGAGGAAACC
1751 AGATAATGTC AGACAAGAGG AATGTCATCC TGTTTTCTGT ATTTGATGAG
1801 AACCGAAGCT GGTACCTCAC AGAGAATATA CAACGCTTTC TCCCCAATCC
1851 AGCTGGAGTG CAGCTTGAGG ATCCAGAGTT CCAAGCCTCC AACATCATGC
1901 ACAGCATCAA TGGCTATGTT TTTGATAGTT TGCAGTTGTC AGTTTGTTTG
1951 CATGAGGTGG CATACTGGTA CATTCTAAGC ATTGGAGCAC AGACTGACTT
2001 CCTTTCTGTC TTCTTCTCTG GATATACCTT CAAACACAAA ATGGTCTATG
2051 AAGACACACT CACCCTATTC CCATTCTCAG GAGAAACTGT CTTCATGTCG
2101 ATGGAAAACC CAGGTCTATG GATTCTGGGG TGCCACAACT CAGACTTTCG
2151 GAACAGAGGC ATGACCGCCT TACTGAAGGT TTCTAGTTGT GACAAGAACA
2201 CTGGTGATTA TTACGAGGAC AGTTATGAAG ATATTTCAGC ATACTTGCTG
2251 AGTAAAAACA ATGCCATTGA ACCAAGAAGC TTCTCTCAGA ATTCAAGACA
2301 CCCTAGCACT AGGCAAAAGC AATTTAATGC CACCACAATT CCAGAAAATG
2351 ACATAGAGAA GACTGACCCT TGGTTTGCAC ACAGAACACC TATGCCTAAA
2401 ATACAAAATG TCTCCTCTAG TGATTTGTTG ATGCTCTTGC GACAGAGTCC
2451 TACTCCACAT GGGCTATCCT TATCTGATCT CCAAGAAGCC AAATATGAGA
2501 CTTTTTCTGA TGATCCATCA CCTGGAGCAA TAGACAGTAA TAACAGCCTG
2551 TCTGAAATGA CACACTTCAG GCCACAGCTC CATCACAGTG GGGACATGGT
2601 ATTTACCCCT GAGTCAGGCC TCCAATTAAG ATTAAATGAG AAACTGGGGA
2651 CAACTGCAGC AACAGAGTTG AAGAAACTTG ATTTCAAAGT TTCTAGTACA
2701 TCAAATAATC TGATTTCAAC AATTCCATCA GACAATTTGG CAGCAGGTAC
2751 TGATAATACA AGTTCCTTAG GACCCCCAAG TATGCCAGTT CATTATGATA
2801 GTCAATTAGA TACCACTCTA TTTGGCAAAA AGTCATCTCC CCTTACTGAG
2851 TCTGGTGGAC CTCTGAGCTT GAGTGAAGAA AATAATGATT CAAAGTTGTT
2901 AGAATCAGGT TTAATGAATA GCCAAGAAAG TTCATGGGGA AAAAATGTAT
2951 CGTCAGAAAT AACTCGTACT ACTCTTCAGT CAGATCAAGA GGAAATTGAC
3001 TATGATGATA CCATATCAGT TGAAATGAAG AAGGAAGATT TTGACATTTA
3051 TGATGAGGAT GAAAATCAGA GCCCCCGCAG CTTTCAAAAG AAAACACGAC
3101 ACTATTTTAT TGCTGCAGTG GAGAGGCTCT GGGATTATGG GATGAGTAGC
3151 TCCCCACATG TTCTAAGAAA CAGGGCTCAG AGTGGCAGTG TCCCTCAGTT
3201 CAAGAAAGTT GTTTTCCAGG AATTTACTGA TGGCTCCTTT ACTCAGCCCT
3251 TATACCGTGG AGAACTAAAT GAACATTTGG GACTCCTGGG GCCATATATA
3301 AGAGCAGAAG TTGAAGATAA TATCATGGTA ACTTTCAGAA ATCAGGCCTC
3351 TCGTCCCTAT TCCTTCTATT CTAGCCTTAT TTCTTATGAG GAAGATCAGA
3401 GGCAAGGAGC AGAACCTAGA AAAAACTTTG TCAAGCCTAA TGAAACCAAA
3451 ACTTACTTTT GGAAAGTGCA ACATCATATG GCACCCACTA AAGATGAGTT
3501 TGACTGCAAA GCCTGGGCTT ATTTCTCTGA TGTTGACCTG GAAAAAGATG
3551 TGCACTCAGG CCTGATTGGA CCCCTTCTGG TCTGCCACAC TAACACACTG
3601 AACCCTGCTC ATGGGAGACA AGTGACAGTA CAGGAATTTG CTCTGTTTTT
3651 CACCATCTTT GATGAGACCA AAAGCTGGTA CTTCACTGAA AATATGGAAA
3701 GAAACTGCAG GGCTCCCTGC AATATCCAGA TGGAAGATCC CACTTTTAAA
3751 GAGAATTATC GCTTCCATGC AATCAATGGC TACATAATGG ATACACTACC
3801 TGGCTTAGTA ATGGCTCAGG ATCAAAGGAT TCGATGGTAT CTGCTCAGCA
3851 TGGGCAGCAA TGAAAACATC CATTCTATTC ATTTCAGTGG ACATGTGTTC
3901 ACTGTACGAA AAAAAGAGGA GTATAAAATG GCACTGTACA ATCTCTATCC
3951 AGGTGTTTTT GAGACAGTGG AAATGTTACC ATCCAAAGCT GGAATTTGGC
4001 GGGTGGAATG CCTTATTGGC GAGCATCTAC ATGCTGGGAT GAGCACACTT
4051 TTTCTGGTGT ACAGCAATAA GTGTCAGACT CCCCTGGGAA TGGCTTCTGG
4101 ACACATTAGA GATTTTCAGA TTACAGCTTC AGGACAATAT GGACAGTGGG
4151 CCCCAAAGCT GGCCAGACTT CATTATTCCG GATCAATCAA TGCCTGGAGC

                                     178
4201     ACCAAGGAGC    CCTTTTCTTG GATCAAGGTG  GATCTGTTGG CACCAATGAT
4251     TATTCACGGC ATCAAGACCC AGGGTGCCCG TCAGAAGTTC TCCAGCCTCT
4301     ACATCTCTCA    GTTTATCATC  ATGTATAGTC TTGATGGGAA GAAGTGGCAG
4351     ACTTATCGAG    GAAATTCCAC  TGGAACCTTA ATGGTCTTCT TTGGCAATGT
4401     GGATTCATCT    GGGATAAAAC  ACAATATTTT TAACCCTCCA ATTATTGCTC
4451     GATACATCCG    TTTGCACCCA  ACTCATTATA GCATTCGCAG CACTCTTCGC
4501     ATGGAGTTGA    TGGGCTGTGA  TTTAAATAGT TGCAGCATGC CATTGGGAAT
4551     GGAGAGTAAA    GCAATATCAG  ATGCACAGAT TACTGCTTCA TCCTACTTTA
4601     CCAATATGTT    TGCCACCTGG  TCTCCTTCAA AAGCTCGACT TCACCTCCAA
4651     GGGAGGAGTA    ATGCCTGGAG  ACCTCAGGTG AATAATCCAA AAGAGTGGCT
4701     GCAAGTGGAC    TTCCAGAAGA  CAATGAAAGT CACAGGAGTA ACTACTCAGG
4751     GAGTAAAATC    TCTGCTTACC  AGCATGTATG TGAAGGAGTT CCTCATCTCC
4801     AGCAGTCAAG    ATGGCCATCA  GTGGACTCTC TTTTTTCAGA ATGGCAAAGT
4851     AAAGGTTTTT    CAGGGAAATC  AAGACTCCTT CACACCTGTG GTGAACTCTC
4901     TAGACCCACC    GTTACTGACT  CGCTACCTTC GAATTCACCC CCAGAGTTGG
4951     GTGCACCAGA    TTGCCCTGAG  GATGGAGGTT CTGGGCTGCG AGGCACAGGA
5001     CCTCTACGAC    AAAACTCACA  CATGCCCACC GTGCCCAGCT CCAGAACTCC
5051     TGGGCGGACC    GTCAGTCTTC  CTCTTCCCCC CAAAACCCAA GGACACCCTC
5101     ATGATCTCCC    GGACCCCTGA  GGTCACATGC GTGGTGGTGG ACGTGAGCCA
5151     CGAAGACCCT    GAGGTCAAGT  TCAACTGGTA CGTGGACGGC GTGGAGGTGC
5201     ATAATGCCAA    GACAAAGCCG  CGGGAGGAGC AGTACAACAG CACGTACCGT
5251     GTGGTCAGCG    TCCTCACCGT  CCTGCACCAG GACTGGCTGA ATGGCAAGGA
5301     GTACAAGTGC    AAGGTCTCCA  ACAAAGCCCT CCCAGCCCCC ATCGAGAAAA
5351     CCATCTCCAA    AGCCAAAGGG  CAGCCCCGAG AACCACAGGT GTACACCCTG
5401     CCCCCATCCC    GGGATGAGCT  GACCAAGAAC CAGGTCAGCC TGACCTGCCT
5451     GGTCAAAGGC    TTCTATCCCA  GCGACATCGC CGTGGAGTGG GAGAGCAATG
5501     GGCAGCCGGA    GAACAACTAC  AAGACCACGC CTCCCGTGTT GGACTCCGAC
5551     GGCTCCTTCT    TCCTCTACAG  CAAGCTCACC GTGGACAAGA GCAGGTGGCA
5601     GCAGGGGAAC    GTCTTCTCAT  GCTCCGTGAT GCATGAGGCT CTGCACAACC
5651     ACTACACGCA    GAAGAGCCTC  TCCCTGTCTC CGGGTAAATG A
  FVIII 198 protein sequence (SEQ ID NO: 105)
   1     MQIELSTCFF    LCLLRFCFSA  TRRYYLGAVE LSWDYMQSDL GELPVDARFP
  51     PRVPKSFPFN    TSVVYKKTLF  VEFTDHLFNI AKPRPPWMGL LGPTIQAEVY
 101     DTVVITLKNM    ASHPVSLHAV  GVSYWKASEG AEYDDQTSQR EKEDDKVFPG
 151     GSHTYVWQVL    KENGPMASDP  LCLTYSYLSH VDLVKDLNSG LIGALLVCRE
 201     GSLAKEKTQT    LHKFILLFAV  FDEGKSWHSE TKNSLMQDRD AASARAWPKM
 251     HTVNGYVNRS    LPGLIGCHRK  SVYWHVIGMG TTPEVHSIFL EGHTFLVRNH
 301     RQASLEISPI    TFLTAQTLLM  DLGQFLLFCH ISSHQHDGME AYVKVDSCPE
 351     EPQLRMKNNE    EAEDYDDDLT  DSEMDVVRFD DDNSPSFIQI RSVAKKHPKT
 401     WVHYIAAEEE    DWDYAPLVLA  PDDRSYKSQY LNNGPQRIGR KYKKVRFMAY
 451     TDETFKTREA    IQHESGILGP  LLYGEVGDTL LIIFKNQASR PYNIYPHGIT
 501     DVRPLYSRRL    PKGVKHLKDF  PILPGEIFKY KWTVTVEDGP TKSDPRCLTR
 551     YYSSFVNMER    DLASGLIGPL  LICYKESVDQ RGNQIMSDKR NVILFSVFDE
 601     NRSWYLTENI    QRFLPNPAGV  QLEDPEFQAS NIMHSINGYV FDSLQLSVCL
 651     HEVAYWYILS    IGAQTDFLSV  FFSGYTFKHK MVYEDTLTLF PFSGETVFMS
 701     MENPGLWILG    CHNSDFRNRG  MTALLKVSSC DKNTGDYYED SYEDISAYLL
 751     SKNNAIEPRS    FSQNSRHPST  RQKQFNATTI PENDIEKTDP WFAHRTPMPK
 801     IQNVSSSDLL    MLLRQSPTPH  GLSLSDLQEA KYETFSDDPS PGAIDSNNSL
 851     SEMTHFRPQL    HHSGDMVFTP  ESGLQLRLNE KLGTTAATEL KKLDFKVSST
 901     SNNLISTIPS    DNLAAGTDNT  SSLGPPSMPV HYDSQLDTTL FGKKSSPLTE
 951     SGGPLSLSEE    NNDSKLLESG  LMNSQESSWG KNVSSEITRT TLQSDQEEID
1001     YDDTISVEMK    KEDFDIYDED  ENQSPRSFQK KTRHYFIAAV ERLWDYGMSS
1051     SPHVLRNRAQ    SGSVPQFKKV  VFQEFTDGSF TQPLYRGELN EHLGLLGPYI
1101     RAEVEDNIMV    TFRNQASRPY  SFYSSLISYE EDQRQGAEPR KNFVKPNETK
1151     TYFWKVQHHM    APTKDEFDCK  AWAYFSDVDL EKDVHSGLIG PLLVCHTNTL
1201     NPAHGRQVTV    QEFALFFTIF  DETKSWYFTE NMERNCRAPC NIQMEDPTFK
1251     ENYRFHAING    YIMDTLPGLV  MAQDQRIRWY LLSMGSNENI HSIHFSGHVF
1301     TVRKKEEYKM    ALYNLYPGVF  ETVEMLPSKA GIWRVECLIG EHLHAGMSTL
1351     FLVYSNKCQT    PLGMASGHIR  DFQITASGQY GQWAPKLARL HYSGSINAWS
1401     TKEPFSWIKV    DLLAPMIIHG  IKTQGARQKF SSLYISQFII MYSLDGKKWQ
1451     TYRGNSTGTL    MVFFGNVDSS  GIKHNIFNPP IIARYIRLHP THYSIRSTLR
1501     MELMGCDLNS    CSMPLGMESK  AISDAQITAS SYFTNMFATW SPSKARLHLQ
1551     GRSNAWRPQV    NNPKEWLQVD  FQKTMKVTGV TTQGVKSLLT SMYVKEFLIS
1601     SSQDGHQWTL    FFQNGKVKVF  QGNQDSFTPV VNSLDPPLLT RYLRIHPQSW
1651     VHQIALRMEV    LGCEAQDLYD  KTHTCPPCPA PELLGGPSVF LFPPKPKDTL

                                              179
     1701       MISRTPEVTC     VVVDVSHEDP  EVKFNWYVDG      VEVHNAKTKP   REEQYNSTYR
     1751       VVSVLTVLHQ     DWLNGKEYKC  KVSNKALPAP      IEKTISKAKG   QPREPQVYTL
     1801       PPSRDELTKN     QVSLTCLVKG  FYPSDIAVEW      ESNGQPENNY   KTTPPVLDSD
     1851       GSFFLYSKLT     VDKSRWQQGN  VFSCSVMHEA      LHNHYTQKSL   SLSPGK*
        Example 21. Expression of D1D2 protein of VWF
[0414]          Proper folding of D'D3 domain is essential for its binding to FVIII.        VWF
        propeptide (D1D2-amino acids 1-763) is required for efficient disulfide bond formation
        and folding of D'D3. It acts as an internal chaperone for D'D3 folding. VWF constructs
        making VWF fragments can either be expressed where VWF propeptide (i.e. D1D2
        domain) is directly attached to D'D3 domain and removed during the regular intracellular
        processing of D'D3 ( i.e. in cis) or, it can either be expressed from other plasmid i.e. in
        trans. We designed FVIII-VWF heterodimer in such a way where D1D2 can either be
        expressed in cis or trans.
[04151          Cloning VWF 053: VWF 053 clone expresses VWF propeptide (D1D2 domain)
        for in trans expression of D1D2 . VWF propeptide was PCR amplified from full length
        using ESC 54 and ESC124.
        ESC54-VWF forward with BsiW1 site (SEQ ID NO: 111)
         (CGCTTCGCGACGTACGGCCGCCACCATGATTCCTGCCAGATTTGCCGGGGTGCTGCTTGCTC)
        ESC 124 - D1D2 cloning oligo with NotI site-reverse (SEQ ID NO: 112)
         (CTAGACTCGAGCGGCCGCTCACCTTTTGCTGCGATGAGACAGGGGACTGCTGAGGACAGC)
[0416]          PCR product was digested with BsiW1 and Notl and ligated into BsiW1/Notl
        digested pCDNA 4.
        Nucleotide sequence of VWF 053 (VWF D1D2-propeptide) (SEQ ID NO: 113)
          1     ATGATTCCTG     CCAGATTTGC  CGGGGTGCTG      CTTGCTCTGG   CCCTCATTTT
        51      GCCAGGGACC     CTTTGTGCAG  AAGGAACTCG      CGGCAGGTCA   TCCACGGCCC
       101      GATGCAGCCT     TTTCGGAAGT  GACTTCGTCA      ACACCTTTGA   TGGGAGCATG
       151      TACAGCTTTG     CGGGATACTG  CAGTTACCTC      CTGGCAGGGG   GCTGCCAGAA
       201      ACGCTCCTTC     TCGATTATTG  GGGACTTCCA      GAATGGCAAG   AGAGTGAGCC
       251      TCTCCGTGTA     TCTTGGGGAA  TTTTTTGACA      TCCATTTGTT   TGTCAATGGT
       301      ACCGTGACAC     AGGGGGACCA  AAGAGTCTCC      ATGCCCTATG   CCTCCAAAGG
       351      GCTGTATCTA     GAAACTGAGG  CTGGGTACTA      CAAGCTGTCC   GGTGAGGCCT
       401      ATGGCTTTGT     GGCCAGGATC  GATGGCAGCG      GCAACTTTCA   AGTCCTGCTG
       451      TCAGACAGAT     ACTTCAACAA  GACCTGCGGG      CTGTGTGGCA   ACTTTAACAT
       501      CTTTGCTGAA     GATGACTTTA  TGACCCAAGA      AGGGACCTTG   ACCTCGGACC
       551      CTTATGACTT     TGCCAACTCA  TGGGCTCTGA      GCAGTGGAGA   ACAGTGGTGT
       601      GAACGGGCAT     CTCCTCCCAG  CAGCTCATGC      AACATCTCCT   CTGGGGAAAT
       651      GCAGAAGGGC     CTGTGGGAGC  AGTGCCAGCT      TCTGAAGAGC   ACCTCGGTGT
       701      TTGCCCGCTG     CCACCCTCTG  GTGGACCCCG      AGCCTTTTGT   GGCCCTGTGT
       751      GAGAAGACTT     TGTGTGAGTG  TGCTGGGGGG      CTGGAGTGCG   CCTGCCCTGC
       801      CCTCCTGGAG     TACGCCCGGA  CCTGTGCCCA      GGAGGGAATG   GTGCTGTACG
       851      GCTGGACCGA     CCACAGCGCG  TGCAGCCCAG      TGTGCCCTGC   TGGTATGGAG

                                              180
       901       TATAGGCAGT   GTGTGTCCCC   TTGCGCCAGG     ACCTGCCAGA  GCCTGCACAT
       951      CAATGAAATG    TGTCAGGAGC   GATGCGTGGA     TGGCTGCAGC   TGCCCTGAGG
     1001       GACAGCTCCT    GGATGAAGGC   CTCTGCGTGG     AGAGCACCGA  GTGTCCCTGC
     1051       GTGCATTCCG    GAAAGCGCTA   CCCTCCCGGC     ACCTCCCTCT  CTCGAGACTG
     1101       CAACACCTGC    ATTTGCCGAA   ACAGCCAGTG     GATCTGCAGC  AATGAAGAAT
     1151       GTCCAGGGGA    GTGCCTTGTC   ACTGGTCAAT     CCCACTTCAA  GAGCTTTGAC
     1201       AACAGATACT    TCACCTTCAG   TGGGATCTGC     CAGTACCTGC   TGGCCCGGGA
     1251        TTGCCAGGAC   CACTCCTTCT   CCATTGTCAT     TGAGACTGTC  CAGTGTGCTG
     1301       ATGACCGCGA    CGCTGTGTGC   ACCCGCTCCG     TCACCGTCCG  GCTGCCTGGC
     1351       CTGCACAACA    GCCTTGTGAA   ACTGAAGCAT     GGGGCAGGAG   TTGCCATGGA
     1401        TGGCCAGGAC   ATCCAGCTCC   CCCTCCTGAA     AGGTGACCTC  CGCATCCAGC
     1451       ATACAGTGAC    GGCCTCCGTG   CGCCTCAGCT     ACGGGGAGGA  CCTGCAGATG
     1501       GACTGGGATG    GCCGCGGGAG   GCTGCTGGTG     AAGCTGTCCC  CCGTCTATGC
     1551       CGGGAAGACC    TGCGGCCTGT   GTGGGAATTA     CAATGGCAAC  CAGGGCGACG
     1601       ACTTCCTTAC    CCCCTCTGGG   CTGGCGGAGC     CCCGGGTGGA  GGACTTCGGG
     1651       AACGCCTGGA    AGCTGCACGG   GGACTGCCAG     GACCTGCAGA  AGCAGCACAG
     1701       CGATCCCTGC    GCCCTCAACC   CGCGCATGAC     CAGGTTCTCC  GAGGAGGCGT
     1751       GCGCGGTCCT    GACGTCCCCC   ACATTCGAGG     CCTGCCATCG   TGCCGTCAGC
     1801       CCGCTGCCCT    ACCTGCGGAA   CTGCCGCTAC     GACGTGTGCT  CCTGCTCGGA
     1851       CGGCCGCGAG    TGCCTGTGCG   GCGCCCTGGC     CAGCTATGCC  GCGGCCTGCG
     1901       CGGGGAGAGG    CGTGCGCGTC   GCGTGGCGCG     AGCCAGGCCG  CTGTGAGCTG
     1951       AACTGCCCGA    AAGGCCAGGT   GTACCTGCAG     TGCGGGACCC  CCTGCAACCT
     2001       GACCTGCCGC    TCTCTCTCTT   ACCCGGATGA     GGAATGCAAT  GAGGCCTGCC
     2051        TGGAGGGCTG   CTTCTGCCCC   CCAGGGCTCT     ACATGGATGA  GAGGGGGGAC
     2101        TGCGTGCCCA   AGGCCCAGTG   CCCCTGTTAC     TATGACGGTG  AGATCTTCCA
     2151       GCCAGAAGAC    ATCTTCTCAG   ACCATCACAC     CATGTGCTAC   TGTGAGGATG
     2201       GCTTCATGCA    CTGTACCATG   AGTGGAGTCC     CCGGAAGCTT  GCTGCCTGAC
     2251       GCTGTCCTCA    GCAGTCCCCT   GTCTCATCGC     AGCAAAAGG
        Protein sequence of VWF 053 (VWF D1D2-Propeptide) (SEQ ID NO: 114)
          1     MIPARFAGVL    LALALILPGT   LCAEGTRGRS     STARCSLFGS   DFVNTFDGSM
        51      YSFAGYCSYL    LAGGCQKRSF   SIIGDFQNGK     RVSLSVYLGE   FFDIHLFVNG
       101       TVTQGDQRVS   MPYASKGLYL   ETEAGYYKLS     GEAYGFVARI   DGSGNFQVLL
       151       SDRYFNKTCG   LCGNFNIFAE   DDFMTQEGTL     TSDPYDFANS  WALSSGEQWC
       201      ERASPPSSSC    NISSGEMQKG   LWEQCQLLKS     TSVFARCHPL  VDPEPFVALC
       251      EKTLCECAGG    LECACPALLE   YARTCAQEGM     VLYGWTDHSA  CSPVCPAGME
       301      YRQCVSPCAR    TCQSLHINEM   CQERCVDGCS     CPEGQLLDEG   LCVESTECPC
       351      VHSGKRYPPG    TSLSRDCNTC   ICRNSQWICS     NEECPGECLV   TGQSHFKSFD
       401      NRYFTFSGIC    QYLLARDCQD   HSFSIVIETV     QCADDRDAVC   TRSVTVRLPG
       451       LHNSLVKLKH   GAGVAMDGQD   IQLPLLKGDL     RIQHTVTASV  RLSYGEDLQM
       501       DWDGRGRLLV   KLSPVYAGKT   CGLCGNYNGN     QGDDFLTPSG   LAEPRVEDFG
       551      NAWKLHGDCQ    DLQKQHSDPC   ALNPRMTRFS     EEACAVLTSP   TFEACHRAVS
       601       PLPYLRNCRY   DVCSCSDGRE   CLCGALASYA     AACAGRGVRV  AWREPGRCEL
       651      NCPKGQVYLQ    CGTPCNLTCR   SLSYPDEECN     EACLEGCFCP   PGLYMDERGD
       701      CVPKAQCPCY    YDGEIFQPED   IFSDHHTMCY     CEDGFMHCTM   SGVPGSLLPD
       751      AVLSSPLSHR    SKR
[0417]          The foregoing description of the specific embodiments will so fully reveal the
        general nature of the invention that others can, by applying knowledge within the skill of
        the art, readily modify and/or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments,
        without undue experimentation, without departing from the general concept of the present
        invention. Therefore, such adaptations and modifications are intended to be within the
        meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments, based on the teaching

                                              181
       and guidance presented herein. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology
       herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation, such that the terminology or
       phraseology of the present specification is to be interpreted by the skilled artisan in light
       of the teachings and guidance.
[0418]         Other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art
       from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. It is
       intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only, with a true
       scope and spirit of the invention being indicated by the following claims.
[0419]         All patents and publications cited herein are incorporated by reference herein in
       their entirety.

                                           182
CLAIMS
1. A chimeric protein comprising a Factor VIII ("FVIII") protein and an adjunct moiety
    (AM), which are linked by a covalent bond, wherein the adjunct moiety inhibits or
    prevents endogenous VWF from binding to the FVIII protein.
2. The chimeric protein of claim 1, wherein the covalent bond prevents dissociation of the
    adjunct moiety from the FVIII protein in the presence of endogenous VWF.
3. The chimeric protein of claim 1 or 2, wherein the covalent bond is a peptide bond.
4. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the covalent bond is a disulfide
    bond.
5. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the covalent bond is a linker
    between the FVIII protein and the adjunct moiety.
6. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 1-5, wherein the adjunct moiety prevents the
    FVIII protein from being cleared through a VWF clearance pathway.
7. The chimeric protein of claim any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the adjunct moiety
    inhibits or prevents endogenous VWF from binding to the FVIII protein by shielding or
    blocking a VWF binding site on the FVIII protein.
8. The chimeric protein of claim 7, wherein the VWF binding site is located in the A3
    domain or the C2 domain of the FVIII protein or both the A3 domain and the C2 domain.
9. The chimeric protein of claim 8, wherein the VWF binding site is the amino acid
    sequence corresponding to amino acids 1669 to 1689 and 2303 to 2332 of SEQ ID NO:
     16.
10. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the chimeric protein does not
    comprise a FVIII half-life limiting factor.
11. The chimeric protein of claim 10, wherein the FVIII half-life limiting factor comprises a
    full-length VWF protein or a mature VWF protein.
12. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein the half-life of the FVIII
    protein is extendable beyond the half-life limitation of the FVIII protein in the presence of
     endogenous VWF.
13. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein the adjunct moiety has at least
     one VWF-like FVIII protecting property.
14. The chimeric protein of claim 13, wherein the VWF-like FVIII protecting property
     comprises protecting the FVIII protein from one or more protease cleavages, protecting
     the FVIII protein from activation, stabilizing the heavy chain and/or the light chain of the
     FVIII protein, or preventing clearance of the FVIII protein by one or more scavenger
     receptors.

                                           183
15. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 1 to 14, wherein the adjunct moiety comprises
    a polypeptide, a non-polypeptide moiety, or both.
16. The chimeric protein of claim 15, wherein the polypeptide comprises an amino acid
    sequence of at least about 40, at least about 50, at least about 60, at least about 70, at least
    about 80, at least about 90, at least about 100, at least about 110, at least about 120, at
    least about 130, at least about 140, at least about 150, at least about 200, at least about
    250, at least about 300, at least about 350, at least about 400, at least about 450, at least
    about 500, at least about 550, at least about 600, at least about 650, at least about 700, at
    least about 750, at least about 800, at least about 850, at least about 900, at least about
    950, or at least about 1000 amino acids in length.
17. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 1 to 16, wherein the adjunct moiety comprises
    a VWF fragment, an immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof, albumin or a
    fragment thereof, an albumin binding moiety, a PAS sequence, a HAP sequence,
    transferrin or a fragment thereof, or any combinations thereof.
18. The chimeric protein of claim 17, wherein the non-polypeptide moiety comprises
    polyethylene glycol (PEG), polysialic acid, hydroxyethyl starch (HES), a derivative
    thereof, or any combinations thereof.
19. The chimeric protein of claim 17, wherein the adjunct moiety comprises a VWF fragment
    comprising a D' domain and a D3 domain of VWF, wherein the VWF fragment is
    associated with the FVIII protein by a non-covalent bond in addition to the covalent bond.
20. The chimeric protein of claim 17 or 19, wherein the VWF fragment is a monomer.
21. The chimeric protein of claim 19 or 20, wherein the VWF fragment comprises two, three,
    four, five, or six VWF fragments linked to one or more of each other.
22. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 1-21, wherein the VWF fragment comprises at
    least one heterologous moiety (HI) and an optional linker between the VWF fragment
    and the heterologous moiety (HI).
23. The chimeric protein of claim 22, wherein the at least one heterologous moiety (HI)
    linked to the VWF fragment comprises a polypeptide, a non-polypeptide moiety, or both.
24. The chimeric protein of claim 22 or 23, wherein the heterologous moiety (HI) comprises
    a moiety that extends the half-life of the FVIII protein.
25. The chimeric protein of claim 24, wherein the heterologous moiety (HI) comprises an
    immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof, albumin or a fragment thereof, an
    albumin binding moiety, a PAS sequence, a HAP sequence, transferrin or a fragment
    thereof, or any combinations thereof.
26. The chimeric protein of claim 24, wherein the non-polypeptide moiety comprises
    polyethylene glycol (PEG), polysialic acid, hydroxyethyl starch (HES), a derivative
    thereof, or any combinations thereof.

                                            184
27. The chimeric protein of claim 25, wherein the heterologous moiety (HI) comprises a first
    Fc region.
28. The chimeric protein of claim 24, wherein the heterologous moiety (HI) comprises an
    amino acid sequence comprising at least about 50 amino acids, at least about 100 amino
    acids, at least about 150 amino acids, at least about 200 amino acids, at least about 250
    amino acids, at least about 300 amino acids, at least about 350 amino acids, at least about
    400 amino acids, at least about 450 amino acids, at least about 500 amino acids, at least
    about 550 amino acids, at least about 600 amino acids, at least about 650 amino acids, at
    least about 700 amino acids, at least about 750 amino acids, at least about 800 amino
    acids, at least about 850 amino acids, at least about 900 amino acids, at least about 950
    amino acids, or at least about 1000 amino acids.
29. The chimeric protein of claim 22, wherein the chimeric protein comprises a linker
    between the VWF fragment and the heterologous moiety (H1), which is a cleavable
    linker.
30. The chimeric protein of claim 29, wherein the cleavable linker comprises one or more
    cleavable site.
31. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 29 or 30 wherein the cleavable linker is
    capable of being cleaved by a protease selected from the group consisting of factor XIa,
    factor XIIa, kallikrein, factor VIIa, factor IXa, factor Xa, factor Ila (thrombin), Elastase-2,
    Granzyme-B, TEV, Enterokinase, Protease 3C, Sortase A, MMP-12, MMP-13, MMP-17,
    and MMP-20.
32. The chimeric protein of claim 29, wherein the cleavable                      linker  comprises
    TLDPRSFLLRNPNDKYEPFWEDEEK (SEQ ID NO: 56).
33. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 29 to 32, wherein the cleavable linker
    comprises one or more cleavage sites comprising an amino acid sequence selected from
    the group consisting of RRRR (SEQ ID NO: 52), RKRRKR (SEQ ID NO: 53), RRRRS
    (SEQ ID NO: 54), TQSFNDFTR (SEQ ID NO: 47), SVSQTSKLTR (SEQ ID NO: 48),
    DFLAEGGGVR (SEQ ID NO: 49), TTKIKPR (SEQ ID NO: 50), LVPRG (SEQ ID NO:
    55), ALRPRVVGGA (SEQ ID NO: 51), KLTRAET (SEQ ID NO: 29), DFTRVVG (SEQ
    ID NO: 30), TMTRIVGG (SEQ ID NO: 31),                     SPFRSTGG (SEQ ID NO: 32),
    LQVRIVGG (SEQ ID NO: 33), PLGRIVGG (SEQ ID NO: 34), IEGRTVGG (SEQ ID
    NO: 35), LTPRSLLV (SEQ ID NO: 36), LGPVSGVP (SEQ ID NO: 37), VAGDSLEE
    (SEQ ID NO: 38), GPAGLGGA (SEQ ID NO: 39), GPAGLRGA (SEQ ID NO: 40),
    APLGLRLR (SEQ ID NO: 41), PALPLVAQ (SEQ ID NO: 42), ENLYFQG (SEQ ID
    NO: 43), DDDKIVGG (SEQ ID NO: 44), LEVLFQGP (SEQ ID NO: 45), and
    LPKTGSES (SEQ ID NO: 46).
34. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 1 to 33, wherein the FVIII protein comprises
    FVIII and at least one heterologous moiety (H2).
35. The chimeric protein of claim 34, wherein the heterologous moiety (H2) is capable of
    extending the half-life of the FVIII protein.

                                          185
36. The chimeric protein of claim 34 or 35, wherein the heterologous moiety (H2) comprises
    a polypeptide, a non-polypeptide moiety, or both.
37. The chimeric protein of claim 34 or 35, wherein the heterologous moiety (H2) comprises
    an immunoglobulin constant region or a portion thereof, albumin or a fragment thereof,
    an albumin binding moiety, a PAS sequence, a HAP sequence, transferrin or a fragment
    thereof, or any combinations thereof.
38. The chimeric protein of claim 34 or 35, wherein the non-polypeptide moiety comprises
    polyethylene glycol (PEG), polysialic acid, hydroxyethyl starch (HES), a derivative
    thereof, or any combinations thereof.
39. The chimeric protein of claim 34, wherein the heterologous moiety (H2) comprises a
    second Fc region.
40. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 1 to 39, which comprises a first polypeptide
    chain comprising the VWF fragment, a first heterologous moiety, and a linker and a
    second polypeptide chain comprising the FVIII protein and a second heterologous moiety,
    wherein the first polypeptide chain and the second polypeptide chain are linked to each
    other by a covalent bond.
41. The chimeric protein of claim 40, wherein the first heterologous moiety and the second
    heterologous moiety are linked to each other by the covalent bond, wherein the covalent
    bond prevents replacement of the VWF fragment in the first polypeptide chain with
    endogenous VWF in vivo.
42. The chimeric protein of claim 41, wherein the covalent bond is a disulfide bond.
43. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 34 to 42, wherein the FVIII protein is linked to
    the second heterologous moiety (H2) by a linker
44. The chimeric protein of claim 43, wherein the linker between the FVIII protein and the
    second heterologous moiety is a cleavable linker.
45. The chimeric protein of claim 34 to 44, wherein the first heterologous moiety (HI) and
    the second heterologous moiety (H2) are linked by a linker.
46. The chimeric protein of claim 45, wherein the linker is a scFc linker.
47. The chimeric protein of claim 46, wherein the scFc linker is a processable linker.
48. The chimeric protein of claims 1-47 comprising a formula selected from the group
    consisting of:
                  (a)    V-LI-HI-L3-C-L2-H2,
                  (b)    H2-L2-C-L3-HI-LI-V,
                  (c)    C-L2-H2-L3-V-L1-Hi,

                                             186
                   (d)     Hi-Li-V-L3-H2-L2-C,
                   (e)     Hi-Li-V-L3-C-L2-H2,
                   (f)     H2-L2-C-L3-V-L1-Hi,
                   (g)     V-L1-H1-L3-H2-L2-C,
                   (h)     C-L2-H2-L3-H1-L1-V,
                   (i)     H2-L3-H1-L1-V-L2-C,
                   ()      C-L2-V-L1-H1-L3-H2,
                   (k)     V-L2-C-L1-H1-L3-H2, and
                   (1)     H2-L3-H1-L1-C-L2-V,
            wherein V comprises a VWF fragment comprising the D' domain and the D3
            domain of VWF;
            L I is an optional linker;
            L2 is an optional linker;
            L3 in (a) to (f) is an optional linker,
            L3 in (g) to (1)is an optional scFc linker,
            Each of HI and H2 comprises an optional heterologous moiety;
            C comprises a FVIII protein; and
            (-) is a peptide bond or one or more amino acids.
49. The chimeric protein of claims 1-47 comprising a formula selected from the group
    consisting of:
            (m)       V-Li-Hi: H2-L2-C,
            (n)       V-Li-Hi:C-L2-H2;
            (o)       Hi-Li-V:H2-L2-C;
            (p)       Hi-Li-V:C-L2-H2;
            (q)       V:C-Li-Hi:H2;
            (r)       V:Hi-Li-C:H2;
            (s)       H2:Hi-Li-C:V,
            (t)       C:V-Li-Hi:H2, and
            (u)       C:Hi-Li-V:H2,

                                            187
             wherein V is a VWF fragment comprising the D' domain and the D3 domain of
             VWF;
             L I is an optional linker;
             L2 is an optional linker;
             HI is a first heterologous moiety;
             H2 is a second heterologous moiety;
             C is a FVIII protein;
             (-) is a peptide bond or one or more amino acids; and
             (:) is a covalent bond between the HI and the H2.
50. The chimeric protein of claim 48 and 49, wherein the VWF fragment and the FVIII
     protein are associated with each other by a non-covalent bond in addition to the covalent
     bond, the peptide bone, or the one or more amino acids
5 1. The chimeric protein of claim 48 and 49, wherein the VWF fragment inhibits or prevents
     binding of endogenous VWF to the FVIII protein.
52. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 49 to 5 1, wherein the covalent bond between
     the HI and the H2 is a disulfide bond.
53. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 48 to 52, wherein HI comprises a polypeptide,
     a non-polypeptide moiety, or both.
54. The chimeric protein of claim 53, wherein HI comprises an immunoglobulin constant
     region or a portion thereof, albumin or fragment thereof, an albumin binding moiety, a
     PAS sequence, a HAP sequence, transferrin or a fragment thereof, or any combinations
     thereof.
55. The chimeric protein of claim 53 or 54, wherein HI comprises a first Fc region.
56. The chimeric protein of claim 53, wherein the non-polypeptide moiety comprises
     polyethylene glycol (PEG), polysialic acid, hydroxyethyl starch (HES), a derivative
     thereof, or any combinations thereof.
57. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 48 to 56, wherein H2 comprises a polypeptide,
     a non-polypeptide moiety, or both.
58. The chimeric protein of claim 57, wherein H2 comprises an immunoglobulin constant
     region or a portion thereof, albumin or fragment thereof, an albumin binding moiety, a
     PAS sequence, a HAP sequence, transferrin or a fragment thereof, or any combination
     thereof.
59. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 48 to 58, wherein H2 comprises a second Fc
     region.

                                           188
60. The chimeric protein of claim 59, wherein the non-polypeptide moiety comprises
    polyethylene glycol (PEG), polysialic acid, hydroxyethyl starch (HES), a derivative
    thereof, or any combinations thereof.
61. The chimeric protein of claim 60, wherein the covalent bond is a disulfide bond.
62. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 1 to 61, wherein the FVIII protein comprises a
    third heterologous moiety (H3).
63. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 1 to 62, wherein the FVIII protein comprises a
    fourth heterologous moiety (H4).
64. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 1 to 63, wherein the FVIII protein comprises a
    fifth heterologous moiety (H5).
65. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 1 to 64, wherein the FVIII protein comprises
    the sixth heterologous moiety (H6).
66. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 61 to 65, wherein one or more of the third
    heterologous moiety (H3), the fourth heterologous moiety (H4), the fifth heterologous
    moiety (H5), the sixth heterologous moiety (H6) are capable of extending the half-life of
    the FVIII protein.
67. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 1 to 66, wherein the third heterologous moiety
    (H3), the fourth heterologous moiety (H4), the fifth heterologous moiety (H5), and the
    sixth heterologous moiety (H6) are linked to the C terminus or N terminus of FVIII or
    inserted between two amino acids of FVIII.
68. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 1 to 67, wherein one or more of the third
    heterologous moiety (H3), the fourth heterologous moiety (H4), the fifth heterologous
    moiety (H5), or the sixth heterologous moiety (H6) comprises an amino acid sequence
    comprising at least about 50 amino acids, at least about 100 amino acids, at least about
    150 amino acids, at least about 200 amino acids, at least about 250 amino acids, at least
    about 300 amino acids, at least about 350 amino acids, at least about 400 amino acids, at
    least about 450 amino acids, at least about 500 amino acids, at least about 550 amino
    acids, at least about 600 amino acids, at least about 650 amino acids, at least about 700
    amino acids, at least about 750 amino acids, at least about 800 amino acids, at least about
    850 amino acids, at least about 900 amino acids, at least about 950 amino acids, or at least
    about 1000 amino acids.
69. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 1 to 68, which the half-life of the FVIII is
    extended at least about 1.5 times, at least about 2 times, at least about 2.5 times, at least
    about 3 times, at least about 4 times, at least about 5 times, at least about 6 times, at least
    about 7 times, at least about 8 times, at least about 9 times, at least about 10 times, at least
    about 11 times, or at least about 12 times longer than wild-type FVIII.
70. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 1 to 69, wherein the half-life of the FVIII
    protein is at least about 10 hours, at least about 11 hours, at least about 12 hours, at least
    about 13 hours, at least about 14 hours, at least about 15 hours, at least about 16 hours, at
    least about 17 hours, at least about 18 hours, at least about 19 hours, at least about 20

                                          189
    hours, at least about 21 hours, at least about 22 hours, at least about 23 hours, at least
    about 24 hours, at least about 36 hours, at least about 48 hours, at least about 60 hours, at
    least about 72 hours, at least about 84 hours, at least about 96 hours, or at least about 108
    hours.
71. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 22 to 70, wherein the linker between the FVIII
    protein and the second heterologous moiety or the linker between the VWF fragment and
    the first heterologous moiety further comprises a first cleavage site (P1) at the N-terminal
    region of the linker, a second cleavage site (P2) at the C-terminal region of the linker, or
    both.
72. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 22 to 71, wherein the linker between the FVIII
    protein and the second heterologous moiety, the linker between the VWF fragment and
    the first heterologous moiety, or both comprises TLDPRSFLLRNPNDKYEPFWEDEEK
    (SEQ ID NO: 56).
73. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 22 to 71 wherein the linker between the FVIII
    protein and the second heterologous moiety, the linker between the VWF fragment and
    the first heterologous moiety, or both are cleaved by a protease selected from the group
    consisting of factor XIa, factor XIIa, kallikrein, factor VIIa, factor IXa, factor Xa, factor
    Ila (thrombin), Elastase-2, Granzyme-B, TEV, Enterokinase, Protease 3C, Sortase A,
    MMP-12, MMP-13, MMP-17, and MMP-20.
74. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 22 to 73, wherein the linker between the FVIII
    protein and the second heterologous moiety, the linker between the VWF fragment and
    the first heterologous moiety, or both comprise an amino acid sequence selected from the
    group consisting of RRRR (SEQ ID NO: 52), RKRRKR (SEQ ID NO: 53), RRRRS (SEQ
    ID NO: 54), TQSFNDFTR (SEQ ID NO: 47), SVSQTSKLTR (SEQ ID NO: 48),
    DFLAEGGGVR (SEQ ID NO: 49), TTKIKPR (SEQ ID NO: 50), LVPRG (SEQ ID NO:
    55), ALRPRVVGGA (SEQ ID NO: 51), KLTRAET (SEQ ID NO: 29), DFTRVVG (SEQ
    ID NO: 30), TMTRIVGG (SEQ ID NO: 31),                     SPFRSTGG (SEQ ID NO: 32),
    LQVRIVGG (SEQ ID NO: 33), PLGRIVGG (SEQ ID NO: 34), IEGRTVGG (SEQ ID
    NO: 35), LTPRSLLV (SEQ ID NO: 36), LGPVSGVP (SEQ ID NO: 37), VAGDSLEE
    (SEQ ID NO: 38), GPAGLGGA (SEQ ID NO: 39), GPAGLRGA (SEQ ID NO: 40),
    APLGLRLR (SEQ ID NO: 41), PALPLVAQ (SEQ ID NO: 42), ENLYFQG (SEQ ID
    NO: 43), DDDKIVGG (SEQ ID NO: 44), LEVLFQGP (SEQ ID NO: 45), and
    LPKTGSES (SEQ ID NO: 46).
75. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 71 to 74, wherein the first enzymatic cleavage
    site and the second enzymatic cleavage site are identical or different.
76. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 5 to 75, wherein one or more of the linker
    between the FVIII protein and the adjunct moiety, the linker between the FVIII protein
    and the second heterologous moiety, and the linker between the VWF fragment and the
    first heterologous moiety have a length of about 1 to about 2000 amino acids.
77. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 5 to 75, wherein one or more of the linker
    between the FVIII protein and the adjunct moiety, the linker between the FVIII protein
    and the second heterologous moiety, and the linker between the VWF fragment and the

                                          190
    first heterologous moiety have a length of at least about 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90,
    100, 110, 120, 130, 140, 150, 160, 170, 180, 190,200,210,220,230,240,250,300,350,
    400, 450, 500, 550, 600, 650, 700, 750, 800, 850, 900, 950, 1000, 1200, 1400, 1600,
    1800, or 2000 amino acids.
78. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 5 to 77, wherein one or more of the linker
    between the FVIII protein and the adjunct moiety, the linker between the FVIII protein
    and the second heterologous moiety, and the linker between the VWF fragment and the
    first heterologous moiety comprise a gly/ser peptide.
79. The chimeric protein of claim 78, wherein the gly/ser peptide has a formula of (Gly4Ser)n
    or S(Gly4Ser)n, wherein n is a positive integer selected from the group consisting of 1, 2,
    3,4,5,6,7,8,9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, or 100.
80. The chimeric protein of claim 79, wherein the (Gly4Ser)n linker is (Gly4Ser)3 or
    (Gly4Ser)4.
81. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 5 to 80, wherein the linker between the FVIII
    protein and the adjunct moiety is a cleavable linker.
82. The chimeric protein of claim 81, wherein the cleavable linker comprises one or more
    thrombin cleavage sites.
83. The chimeric protein of claim 81 or 82, wherein the cleavable linker comprises
    TLDPRSFLLRNPNDKYEPFWEDEEK (SEQ ID NO: 56).
84. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 81 to 83, wherein cleavable linker is cleaved
    by a protease selected from the group consisting of factor XIa, factor XIIa, kallikrein,
    factor VIIa, factor IXa, factor Xa, factor Ila (thrombin), Elastase-2, Granzyme-B, TEV,
    Enterokinase, Protease 3C, Sortase A, MMP-12, MMP-13, MMP-17, and MMP-20.
85. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 81 to 83, wherein the cleavable linker comprise
    an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of RRRR (SEQ ID NO: 52),
    RKRRKR (SEQ ID NO: 53), RRRRS (SEQ ID NO: 54), TQSFNDFTR (SEQ ID NO:
    47), SVSQTSKLTR (SEQ ID NO: 48), DFLAEGGGVR (SEQ ID NO: 49), TTKIKPR
    (SEQ ID NO: 50), LVPRG (SEQ ID NO: 55), ALRPRVVGGA (SEQ ID NO: 51),
    KLTRAET (SEQ ID NO: 29), DFTRVVG (SEQ ID NO: 30), TMTRIVGG (SEQ ID NO:
    31), SPFRSTGG (SEQ ID NO: 32), LQVRIVGG (SEQ ID NO: 33), PLGRIVGG (SEQ
    ID NO: 34), IEGRTVGG (SEQ ID NO: 35), LTPRSLLV (SEQ ID NO: 36), LGPVSGVP
    (SEQ ID NO: 37), VAGDSLEE (SEQ ID NO: 38), GPAGLGGA (SEQ ID NO: 39),
    GPAGLRGA (SEQ ID NO: 40), APLGLRLR (SEQ ID NO: 41), PALPLVAQ (SEQ ID
    NO: 42), ENLYFQG (SEQ ID NO: 43), DDDKIVGG (SEQ ID NO: 44), LEVLFQGP
    (SEQ ID NO: 45), and LPKTGSES (SEQ ID NO: 46).
86. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 5 to 85, wherein the linker between the FVIII
    protein and the adjunct moiety further comprises a sortase recognition motif.
87. The chimeric protein of claim 86, wherein the sortase recognition motif comprises the
    sequence of LPXTG (SEQ ID NO: 106 ).

                                            191
88. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 19 to 87, wherein the VWF fragment
    comprises the D' domain and the D3 domain of VWF.
89. The chimeric protein of claim 88, wherein the VWF fragment inhibits or prevents binding
    of endogenous VWF to a FVIII protein.
90. The chimeric protein of claim 88 or 89, wherein the amino acid sequence of the D'
    domain of the VWF fragment is at least 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99%, or 100%
    identical to amino acids 764 to 866 of SEQ ID NO: 2.
91. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 88 to 90, wherein the amino acid sequence of
    the D3 domain of the VWF fragment is at least 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99%, or
    100% identical to amino acids 867 to 1240 of SEQ ID NO: 2.
92. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 88 to 91, wherein the VWF fragment contains
    at least one amino acid substitution at a residue corresponding to residue 1099, residue
    1142, or both residues 1099 and 1142 of SEQ ID NO: 2.
93. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 88 to 91, wherein in the sequence of the VWF
    fragment, an amino acid other than cysteine is substituted for a residue corresponding to
    residue 1099, residue 1142, or both residues 1099 and 1142 of SEQ ID NO: 2.
94. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 88 to 93, wherein the sequence of the VWF
    fragment comprises amino acids 764 to 1240 of SEQ ID NO: 2.
95. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 88 to 94, wherein the VWF fragment further
    comprises the D1 domain, the D2 domain, or the D1 and D2 domains of VWF.
96. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 88 to 95, wherein the VWF fragment further
    comprises a VWF domain selected from the group consisting of the Al domain, the A2
    domain, the A3 domain, the D4 domain, the B1 domain, the B2 domain, the B3 domain,
    the C1 domain, the C2 domain, the CK domain, one or more fragments thereof, and any
    combinations thereof.
97. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 88 to 95, wherein the VWF fragment consists
    essentially of or consists of: (1) the D' and D3 domains of VWF or fragments thereof; (2)
    the Dl, D', and D3 domains of VWF or fragments thereof; (3) the D2, D', and D3
    domains of VWF or fragments thereof; (4) the Dl, D2, D', and D3 domains of VWF or
    fragments thereof; or (5) the Dl, D2, D', D3, and Al domains of VWF or fragments
    thereof.
98. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 88 to 97, further comprising a signal peptide of
    VWF, which is operably linked thereto.
99. The chimeric protein of any one of claims 19 to 98, wherein the VWF fragment is
    pegylated, glycosylated, hesylated, or polysialylated.
100.        The chimeric protein of any one of claims 1 to 99, wherein the FVIII protein
    comprises one or more domains of FVIII selected from the group consisting of the Al

                                           192
    domain, the A2 domain, the B domain, the A3 domain, the C1 domain, the C2 domain,
    one or more fragment thereof, and any combinations thereof.
101.        The chimeric protein of claim 100, wherein the FVIII protein comprises the Al
    domain, the A2 domain, the A3 domain, and the C1 domain, and the optional C2 domain.
102.        The chimeric protein of claim 100 or 101, wherein the FVIII protein comprises the
    B domain or a portion thereof.
103.        The chimeric protein of any one of claims 100 to 102, which comprises an amino
    acid sequence at least 60%, 70%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99%, or 100%
    identical to SEQ ID NO: 16 or SEQ ID NO: 18.
104.        The chimeric protein of any one of claims 100 to 103, wherein the FVIII protein is
     SQ B domain deleted FVIII.
105.        The chimeric protein of any one of claims 100 to 104, wherein the FVIII protein
    comprises single chain FVIII.
106.        The chimeric protein of claim 105, wherein the single chain FVIII contains at least
    one amino acid substitution at a residue corresponding to residue 1648, residue 1645, or
    both of full-length mature Factor VIII polypeptide (SEQ ID NO: 16) or residue 754,
    residue 751, or both of SQ BDD Factor VIII (SEQ ID NO: 18).
107.        The chimeric protein of claim 106, wherein the amino acid substitution is an
    amino acid other than Arginine.
108.        The chimeric protein of any one of claims 1 to 107, wherein the FVIII protein
    comprises a first chain and a second chain, the first chain comprises a heavy chain of
    FVIII and the second chain comprises a light chain of Factor VIII, wherein the heavy
    chain and the light chain are associated with a metal bond.
109.        A polynucleotide encoding the chimeric protein of any one of claims I to 108.
110.        The polynucleotide of claim 110, further comprising an additional polynucleotide
    sequence, which encodes PC5, PC7, or furin.
111.        The polynucleotide of claim 109 or 110, further comprising an additional
    polynucleotide sequence, which encodes a D1 domain and D2 domain of VWF.
112.        A vector or vectors comprising the polynucleotide of any one of claims 109 to 111
    and one or more promoter operably linked to the polynucleotide or the set of
    polynucleotides.
113.        The vector or vectors of claim 112, further comprising an additional vector, which
    comprises a second polynucleotide chain encoding PC5, PC7, or furin.
114.        The vector or vectors of claim 112 or 113, further comprising an additional vector,
    which comprises a polynucleotide sequence encoding a Dl domain and a D2 domain of
    VWF.

                                            193
115.         A host cell comprising the polynucleotide of any one of claims 109 to 111 or the
    vector of any one of claims 112 to 114.
116.         The host cell of claim 115 comprising an additional vector encoding PC5, PC7, or
    furin.
117.         The host cell of claim 115 or 116, further comprising an additional vector, which
    comprises a polynucleotide sequence encoding a D1 domain and a D2 domain of VWF.
118.         The host cell of claim 115 or 118, which is a mammalian cell.
119.         The host cell of claim 118, wherein the mammalian cell is selected from the group
    consisting of HEK293 cell, CHO cell, and BHK cell.
120.         A pharmaceutical composition comprising the chimeric protein of any one of
    claims 1 to 108, the polynucleotide of claim 109 or 111, the vector of claim 112 or 114,
    or the host cell of any one of claims 115 and 118 and a pharmaceutically acceptable
    carrier.
121.         The composition of any one of claims 120, wherein the half-life of the FVIII
    protein of the chimeric protein is extended in FVIII/VWF double knock out ("DKO")
    mice compared to the half-life of the FVIII protein of the chimeric protein without the
    VWF fragment.
122.         The composition of claim 120 or 121, which the half-life of FVIII is extended at
    least about 1.5 times, at least about 2 times, at least about 2.5 times, at least about 3 times,
    at least about 4 times, at least about 5 times, at least about 6 times, at least about 7 times,
    at least about 8 times, at least about 9 times, at least about 10 times, at least about 11
    times, at least about 12 times, at least 20 times, at least 30 times, or at least 40 times
    longer than wild type FVIII.
123.         The composition of claim 120 or 122, wherein the half-life of Factor VIII is at
    least 6 hours, at least 7 hours at least 9 hours, at least 10 hours, at least 11 hours, at least
     12 hours, at least 15 hours, at least about 17 hours, at least about 18 hours, at least about
     19 hours, at least about 20 hours, at least about 21 hours, at least about 22 hours, at least
    about 23 hours, at least about 24 hours, at least about 25 hours, at least about 26 hours, at
    least about 27 hours, at least about 28 hours, at least about 29 hours, at least about 30
    hours, at least about 31 hours, at least about 32 hours, at least about 33 hours, at least
    about 34 hours, at least about 35 hours, at least about 36 hours, at least about 48 hours, at
    least about 60 hours, at least about 72 hours, at least about 84 hours, at least about 96
    hours, or at least about 108 hours.
124.         The composition of any one of claims 120 to 123, which is administered by a
    route selected from the group consisting of topical administration, intraocular
    administration,     parenteral    administration,    intrathecal    administration,    subdural
    administration and oral administration.
125.         The composition of claim 124, wherein the parenteral                 administration is
    intravenous or subcutaneous administration.

                                            194
126.        The composition of any one of claims 120 to 125, which is used to treat a bleeding
    disease or condition in a subject in need thereof.
127.        The composition of claim 126, wherein the bleeding disease or condition is
    selected from the group consisting of a bleeding coagulation disorder, hemarthrosis,
    muscle bleed, oral bleed, hemorrhage, hemorrhage into muscles, oral hemorrhage,
    trauma, trauma capitis, gastrointestinal bleeding, intracranial hemorrhage, intra
    abdominal hemorrhage, intrathoracic hemorrhage, bone fracture, central nervous system
    bleeding, bleeding in the retropharyngeal space, bleeding in the retroperitoneal space,
    bleeding in the illiopsoas sheath and any combinations thereof.
128.        The composition of claim 126 or 127, wherein the subject is scheduled to undergo
    a surgery.
129.        The composition of any one of claims 126 or 127, wherein the treatment is
    prophylactic or episodic.
130.        A method of preventing or inhibiting interaction of a FVIII protein with
    endogenous VWF comprising adding to a subject in need thereof an effective amount of
    the chimeric protein of any one of claims 1 to 108, the polynucleotide of any one of
    claims 109 to 111, the vector of any one of claims 112 to 114, the host cell of any one of
    claims 115 to 119, or the composition of any one of claims 120 to 129, wherein the VWF
    fragment inhibits or prevents interaction of the FVIII protein with endogenous VWF.
131.        A method of removing or reducing a half-life limiting factor of a FVIII protein,
    wherein the method comprises adding an effective amount of the chimeric protein of any
    one of claims 1 to 108, the polynucleotide of any one of claims 109 to 111, the vector of
    any one of claims 112 to 114, the host cell of any one of claims 115 to 119, or the
    composition of any one of claims 120 to 129, wherein the chimeric protein or the
    chimeric protein encoded by the polynucleotide, the vector, or expressed by the host cell
    prevents or inhibits interaction of the FVIII protein with endogenous VWF.
132.        A method of extending or increasing the half-life of a FVIII protein, wherein the
    method comprises adding an effective amount of the chimeric protein of any one of
    claims I to 108, the polynucleotide of any one of claims 109 to 111, the vector of any one
    of claims 112 to 114, the host cell of any one of claims 115 to 119, or the composition of
    any one of claims 120 to 129, wherein the VWF fragment of the chimeric protein
    prevents or inhibits interaction of the FVIII protein with endogenous VWF.
133.        The method of claim 132, wherein the half-life of the FVIII protein is extended at
    least about 1.5 times, at least about 2 times, at least about 2.5 times, at least about 3 times,
    at least about4 times, at least about 5 times, at least about 6 times, at least about 7 times,
    at least about 8 times, at least about 9 times, at least about10 times, at least about 11
    times, or at least about 12 times longer than wild-type FVIII.
134.        The method of claim 133, wherein the half-life of Factor VIII is at least about 17
    hours, at least about 18 hours, at least about 19 hours, at least about 20 hours, at least
    about 21 hours, at least about 22 hours, at least about 23 hours, at least about 24 hours, at
    least about 26 hours, at least about 27 hours, at least about 28 hours, at least about 29

                                            195
    hours, at least about 30 hours, at least about 31 hours, at least about 32 hours, at least
    about 33 hours, at least about 34 hours, at least about 35 hours, at least about 36 hours, at
    least about 48 hours, at least about 60 hours, at least about 72 hours, at least about 84
    hours, at least about 96 hours, or at least about 108 hours.
135.        A method of treating a bleeding disease or condition in a subject in need thereof
    comprising administering an effective amount of the chimeric protein of any one of
    claims I to 108, the polynucleotide of any one of claims 109 to 111, the vector of any one
    of claims 112 to 114, the host cell of any one of claims 115 to 119, or the composition of
    any one of claims 120 to 129, wherein the bleeding disease or disorder is selected from
    the group consisting of a bleeding coagulation disorder, hemarthrosis, muscle bleed, oral
    bleed, hemorrhage, hemorrhage into muscles, oral hemorrhage, trauma, trauma capitis,
    gastrointestinal bleeding, intracranial hemorrhage, intra-abdominal hemorrhage,
    intrathoracic hemorrhage, bone fracture, central nervous system bleeding, bleeding in the
    retropharyngeal space, bleeding in the retroperitoneal space, bleeding in the illiopsoas
    sheath, and any combinations thereof.
136.        The method of claim 135, wherein the treatment is prophylactic or on demand
    (episodic).
137.        The method of any one of claims 130 to 136, wherein the effective amount is 0.1
     gg/kg to 500 mg/kg.
138.        The method of any one of claims 130 to 137, wherein the chimeric protein, the
    polynucleotide, the host cell, or the composition is administered by a route selected from
    the group consisting of topical administration, intraocular administration, parenteral
    administration, intrathecal administration, subdural administration and oral
    administration.
139.        The method of claim 138, wherein the parenteral administration is selected from
    the group consisting of intravenous administration, subcutaneous administration,
    intramuscular administration, and intradermal administration,
140.        The method of any one of claims 130 to 139, wherein the subject is a human.
141.        The method of claim 140, wherein the subject is suffering from hemophilia A.
142.        A method of making a chimeric protein, comprising transfecting one or more host
    cell with the polynucleotide of any one of claims 109 to 111 or the vector of any one of
    claims 112 to 114, and expressing the VWF fragment or the chimeric protein in the host
    cell.
143.        The method of claim 142, wherein the vector further comprises a polynucleotide
    encoding a processing enzyme.
144.        The method of claim 143, wherein the processing enzyme is PACE.
145.        The method of claim 144, wherein PACE cleaves the D1D2 domains of the VWF
    fragment.

                                         196
146.       The method of claim 142 and 143, wherein further comprising transfecting one or
    more host cell with a polynucleotide sequence expressing a D1 domain and a D2 domain
    of VWF.
147.       A method of constructing the chimeric protein of any one of claims 1 to 108
    comprising ligating the adjunct moiety with the FVIII protein by a covalent bond in the
    presence of a sortase enzyme.
Date: <removed-date>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-date>
              !       "    # $      %   &'
                            (('#)'* + '                   (
                               * , -',
                                ) * ),# )
              !       "     ( & )           .'    ,) /               , -          0       ' 0            ( ) ,.
<removed-apn>
              !       "                          1 + 1 2+1 2(
              !       "     $ 3        4          %
              !       "            2    2
              !       "         5 1 65*
              !       "          2 2
              !       "         5 1 65*5
              !       "          2 2
              !       "         5 1557*
              !       "          2 72
              !       "         5 17 *
              !       "          2 2 7
              ! 5 "
              ! 7 "         4               8 9      $
              !       "
              !       "     56
              !       "    0 '
              !       "    ($:$        4;
              !       "
              4    4                   4 4                                                           4             4     4       5
                            4      44      44                 4          4       4              4   44    4            444
                       4    4       44      4 4              4    4444                          444 4                    4       6
                           4       4                     4       4                    44        4          4 4 4             4
                      4    4        4 4                       4 4            4       4               4                  4 44
                  4            4 444              4          44      4               444       4          4    4        444      5
                       4    4           44       4       4                    4                4                   4    4
                   4           4    44          44    4 4         4                        4              44             4 4     6
                                                                                      4

<removed-date>
                   4                       44                   4    44      4       44 44                    44               4
                      4            4 4         4 4      4 44                 444444                  4       444 44 4 4               4    4   5
              4           4 4      4           4    4 44 4                   4               4                444                  4       4   55
               444         4                   4    4    44                          4                       4                                 7
                       4 4          4          4 4          4                    4 4 4 4                      4            4       4      4    76
<removed-apn>
                       4 4             4            4 4                              4       4        4          4            44           4   6
              4                        4 4 4 4          4        44 44        4                                       4 4          44 4
               4       444 4                       4        4                         444                4    4      4    4                4    5
                  44                       4             4 4 4                   444             4                   44    4      4        4
                  4       44 4 4           4            4            4            4      4                   44       4                    4    6
                  4        4 4 4 4                       444        4            4       444         4                                 44
                   4                44 4           44 4              4       4        4 4                    4                    4    4 4
               44           4                      4     4          4        44 4                                444          4 44              5
                           4       4           4                44 4         4                                        4    4      4
                      4    4               4 4      4    4               4                            4 4                     4            4    6
              4 4                       4       4 4                              4                           4            4
                                    4 44 4                          4                                        4
              44            4                  4 4       4                           4444 4                   4 4 4                       44    5
              4 4 4         4      4    4                4          4            4           4                       4     4               4   5
                               4       4       44                    4                4          4       4 4                   4          4    56
                                           4       4        4    4           4                           4 4                              4    7
               4      4 4              4                                     4                       4 4          4       4    4 4             6
               4 4         4                                         4       4               4 4                 4 4       44      444         65
                      4    4        4               4                4                       4       4 4              4    4 4 4
              44                        4                    4           4        4           4      4 4                      4       4         6
              4       4            4        4            4 4                     4    44                                  4 4      4       4
                                                                                         4

<removed-date>
                                         4               444             4                           4                            4 4
                          4    4        4                4 4         4                                4 4         4        4       44           5
                              4         4                    4       4 4      4               4       44 4                4               44
              4 4         4        4            4       44    44 44                  4           4                        4            44       6
                   4          44   4             4                   4        444                                  4          4 4
<removed-apn>
                  4            4   4                     4       44 4            4    4          4            44                  444
              44 4 4 4               4           4            4               4      4                                4            4      4     5
               4                     4           4          4 4               4                                4      4 4          44
              4        4 4              4       4       4                    44                           4    44 4            44 4        4    6
              4           4 4           4 4      4      4    4           4                           4                        4                5
                                         4 44 4                       44 4           44       4               4    4               4       4   7
               4                        4 4 4                     4          4           4               4     4           4                   75
                   44 4              4              4                        44          4                    4    4      4       4            6
                              44 4          4                4       4       4 4 4            4                                       4        66
              4           4    4            4 4         4                     4              4            4    4               4          4
                      4            4         4                4       4              4           4                            4           4
               4           4                     4                           44                                4                  44 4          5
                                            44      4    44          44       4              4            4        4
                  4    4      4          4 4                 4 4 4                                   4            4 4      4           44       6
                   4                                    4             4                                       9 4                          4
                  4                44               4 4           4              4            4       4           4 4 4        4      4 4
                  44      44             4 4             4       <                       4                   44                       4         5
                   4                     4                    4                                          4                            44
                       4      4    4                     4    4                                       4                   4 4          4        6
                          4                     4            4       4               4                         4                  44 4
                               4             4      4         4                   44                     4        4       4        4           5
                                                                                         4

<removed-date>
                                   4             44                     4     4                                       4                   4    55
                                                         4       4                                           4        4        4               7
               4           4               4 4      4       4    4                                   4       4 4                      4        76
                    4 4                      4                   4 4                                                      4       4            6
                       4           44               4 44            4            4            4                  4                 44
<removed-apn>
                                       4         4           4                                        4 4            4         4                5
                               4    4       4           4                        4               4    4
              4         4      4       44       44       4                        4                                           4                 6
              4 4       4      4    4            4              4            4 4 4 4 44                           4               4        4
                        4          4             4       44 4                                4 4          4       4
                               4 4           4                          4     4      4               4 4              4        4 44 4           5
              4             4      4    4    4 4         4              4            4       4       4       4                            4
                    4 44           4 4           4           4 44                                     4 44 4                      4             6
                  4 4      4       4 4           4               4       4           4       4       4        4                   44
                            4                       4       4                         4              4    4444        4           4
                  44    4           4 4          4          4        4                        44         4       4            4 4      4        5
                    4          4    4 4      4                                    4 4         4                           4           44       5
                                            4 44                             44                  4           4    444 4                4 4     56
              4    4    4              4        4       4                     4      4               4    4 4 4                4               7
               4            4                4           4 4                      4                      4 4          4           4       4    6
              4    4                                                                             4                    4       4 44 4 4         65
                                        444                                   4      4           4           4        4    4 4 4 4
               4       4 4                              4    4               4                       4 4 4                4               4     6
              4     4      44          4                4    4      4                    4 44 4 4                44 4                     44
               4                                4           44          44           4 4 4            4                   4        4
                       4 4              4                       4            44       4                   44 4 4          4 4                   5
                                                                                         4

<removed-date>
                       4            4                       4 4 4 4           4               4              4    4            4
              4    4          4             4                444 4                                       4           4     4                     6
                   4      4    4                4        4            4              4                   4       4         44
               4          4        4 44                         4            4       44 4            4            44       4             4
              44               4                   4         4               44 44            4          4       4             4     444         5
<removed-apn>
                   44 444                   4      4                  4          4    4 4 4                   4             444          4
                  4    4               4            4                         4       4              4                         4         4       6
                  4    4                                     4                   4            4           44          4 4 4             4     5
               44      4      4    4       4            4                4                            4 4        4                            7
              44          4 44 4                         4       4 4                             4               4          4       444       75
                   4      4         4 4                 4       4    44      4    4      4            444                                     6
                   4           4           4    4                                44      4 4         4 4      4      4    444                 66
                                    44             4                  4      4       4       4 4                            4           4
              4       4    4       4                     4                           4 4 4                4 4 4                4444      4   5
                   4       4 4 4 44            4         4      4    4       44              44           4      44 4                   4    5 5
                          44                444          4            4                      4 4             4                  4        4   5
                                           4            4                         4 4                444              4     4            4   5 6
                      4            4 4      4               4 4444                            4          4                  4            4   5
               44 44 4             4    44      4 4         4            4                           4 44             4     4       4        5
                               4        4 4             4    4        4               4              4               4     4                 5 5
                   4      4        44      4    4 4             4    44              4           4            4      4         44 44         5
                          4            4       4 4              4                4       4       4    4                         4        4   5 6
                          4                              44                  4                       4    4                          4 4     5
               4       4 4 4            444                     4    4       4 4         4           44              4          4    44      55
                      4 4      4                    4            4                           4       4        44                4            555
              4    4           4    4                       4 4               4      4 4         4 4                      44    4       4    57
                                                                                         4

<removed-date>
              4             4      4 4                   4               4       4         4                              44 4             576
                           4                            4                4    44            4        4           4                4 44     56
               4               4                        44       4               4    4              4       4                             5
               4 4                              4 4          4 4         4            4 4                   4 4           4       4 4      5 5
                   4        4      4                4                4           4         4 4          4              4                   7
<removed-apn>
              4         4                      4        4444                 4    4                     4 4                   4            7 6
              44 4                 4               4            4 4 4                  4             4            4        4               7
                    4      4        4          4444                  4        44            4                4 4          4 4 4            7
                                                             4      444      444       4                44        4       4           4    7 5
               4           4 4                 4            4                44        4             4       4                4444         7
               4                           4        4 4         4            4         4                 4            444             4    7 6
              4    4 44 4                  4        4        44                  4    4                 4                                  7
               4 4 4                           4            4    4               4          4        4 4              44                   7
               4            4                                        4       4    4        4                  4               4            7 5
                           4 4      4 4 4                       4 4                         44          4    4         4          4    4   75
                    4          4                                     4                      4                     4           4            756
              44            44                                      444      4    4                      4    4           4    4 44        77
               4    4       4          4    4               4 4                  4     444               4    4               444 4        76
                    4 4        4        4                       4             4 44                                                    4    765
               4    4      4                   4            4 4                   44       4         4           4    4                4   7
                       4 4                     4        4           4            4    4             4                     4                7 6
               4       4            4                       44       4            4 4                         4           4       4        6
               44      4                4       4                       4     4       4                  444 4 4       4               4   6
                                    4              4                 44                        4            4 4                            6 5
              4        4                           4    44          4             4 44              44           4    44 4         4       6
                        44                      4                                4          4           4    4         44         4        6 6
                                                                                       4        5

<removed-date>
                       44                          4        4 44                     4                        4             4            4      6
                      4    4       4    4                                                    4 4                      44 4 4            4       6
                      4                44 44 44          44          4            4                            4                    4           6 5
              44          44       4 4                   4       4 44         4                        4                   4                    6
                       4      44    4      4            4           44                   4                    4                 4           4   6 6
<removed-apn>
                  4                                4    4 44 44                                       4    4               4    4           4   65
                  4    444          4      4 4              4       4                 4                            44                           67
                                    44      4      4             4 4          4          4                                              4       675
              44       4       4    4 4            44            4                   4       4         4                         4 4            66
               4 44           4                                                               4                            44 4      44         666
                  4                    4                4    4 4                             4                    4        4 4                  6
                      4 44              444                 4                                    4         4      44 4          4 4
                                   44      4        4    4444                 44             4            44 4        4     44      4               5
              4       4    4           4       4         4       4                   4       4 4 44           4    4                4
                       44      4                    4 4                                      44        4                   4    44                  6
                  4       4 4                               4       4         4                        4      4            4 4           4
                       4      4                4        4       4 4           444             4       4            4                    4 4
                   4           4            4      4         4      4    4        4      4                4        4            44                  5
                              4                          4      4                 4                    4              4     4               4
              4 4      4      44    4                                        4                   4        4 4                        4              6
              4           4            4    4               4        4                                                          4        4
                      4        4        4 4 4                        44      44      4                        4                                  5
                   44                   4 4              4          444                               4    4 4        44    4                    55
                  4 4 4            4                     4          4                    44                        4       4 4       4      4    7
                               4       4       4 4       4          4                 4          4                 4            4    4           76
                  44          4             4      4        44           4       4            4       4    4                        44           6
                                                                                         4        7

<removed-date>
                      4            4       4    4            4 4                         4 4                       4                        4
                          4                 4                   44       4                   4             4 4        4     4               4    5
              44               4                            4    4           4    4      4             4                            4 4
                          4 4              4                          4           4           4           4                 4          4         6
                               4                                4    4       4                             4           4                   4
<removed-apn>
              4        4            4       4                         4              4       4        44 4        4        4       4    4
              4               4                4            4    444         44 4                         44                4          4444      5
                   44 4 4                                4       4               4                        444               44 44 444
              4    4          4             444                      444         444                           4 4                 4    4 4      6
                   4          4    4       4    4       4    4       44       4      4       4        4       4             4       44
                              4    444          4                4                    4               4       4            4       4
                  4 4                  4                 44          4           4               4        4                                44    5
              4    4           4 4 4               4     4                                             4       444                 4            5
                                               4 4           4        4      444         4                    4                4           44   56
              4                     4                                 4               4          4 4           444         4 4          4       7
              44       44               4       4       4                                4                        4    4       4    4      4    6
              4       4                        4        4        4       4       4           4                 4            44 4 4              65
              4 4                      4        44           4 4              4      4        4                    4 4      4 4         44
                  4       4                 4      4                  4                       4               4 44          4 44            4    6
              4           4        4        4                4       4        4                  4             4      4         4          44
                           44              4       44        44 4                    4       4             4                   44
                          4            4 44                                           4                   4    4            4                    5
              4                4        4          4     4          44               44       44               4 444
               4              4     4           4        4      4    4           44      4 44          4                    4               4    6
                           4 4         4           4        4                 4 4        4 4              444 44               444         4
                  4           4            4                                         4 4                  44                       4
                                                                                         4        6

<removed-date>
              4           4             4       4 4              4 4                  44 4             4                44             4     5
                               4                                44 4         4                            4       44
              4                    44      4             4      4        4        4 4                          4               44      4     6
                   4                    4          4        444          4 4 4 4                                           4                5
                   <               4 4         4            4            4   4            4               4            4 44            44   7
<removed-apn>
              44          4                     4 4          4           4           4             4 9 4 4                              4   75
                      4                4    4           444      4                444                     4            4                    6
              4            4           4444 44           4      4    4           4         4               4 44                         4   66
                           4       44       4               4       4            4 44 44           4 4        4 44 4
                                   4           4    4 4 4           4    4    4       4                   4
                   4      444          4       4         44      4 4                                   4           4    4       4 4          5
               4          4            44          4    4                                 4       4       4        4        4           4
                               4           4 4          4           4            4         4              4            4       4             6
                  4    4 4 4        44      44                          44   4       44           44           4                4      4
                  4    4           4 4         44       4                4   4            4 4          4          4    4444 44          4
              4       4                4           4            444 4        4        4       4        4          4         44         4     5
                   44      4           4 44             44       4                        4                44           4          4
                  44 4                         444      4       4                          4               4      4    44       4       4    6
              4    4          4            4       4     44             4         4                            444 4        44
                   4 4        4    4 4 4            4    4 4        4                              4       44      4       4            4   5
                   4 4         4       4 4 4             4444 4                   4       44          4            4               4        55
               4 4                 4        4               4    4      4                                      4                       4    7
                              44    44              4           4 4                                           4                    4    4   76
                                   4 4 44 4                  4 4              4            4                            4      4            6
                       44           4 44                             4       4 4           4           4               4    4      4 4
                              4            4             4      4    4 4 4            4 44 4           4       4                    4        5
                                                                                      4

<removed-date>
              4     4                      44 4 4             4 4                                         4    4       4      44
                   4        4                      4          4                       4      44                               4        4    6
                  4 4          4                        44                                4 4      4       4      4           4 44 4
                           4 4      4                            4 4          44         4                    4       444 4 4          4
              4        4            4      4                     4 44         4           4       4                            4            5
<removed-apn>
               4        44             4                         4    4                   44       4 4     4                   4 4 4
                  4 4                   4 4              4       4 4                      4 4         4               4        4      4     6
              4                4        4                                                4 4      444      4               44         4
                                    44 4                  4       4           4              4     4      4           4    4      4
                  4 444 4               4           4         4      4 4 4                         4 4 4          4                    4    5
                    4       4          44      4          4          4                       44           44                               5
              4    4    4                   4 4              4 4                 4                 44         44           4 44            56
              4                     4           444       4                  4       4                                 4 4            4    7
              4         4          4                             4           4                            4                                6
                        4                                 44      4                               4 44        4 4         4                65
                    4      4       4                      4       4          4            4           4           4    4          4 4
              4        4                   4                  4                      4    4                4 4            4 4 4 4           6
              4             4           4 4                          4                4            44                      4          4
              4     4      44                   4         4 4         44             4                     4      4 4      4      4
              4                4        4       4 4              4           4                        4                   4            4    5
                                    44          4            4                               4     4444 4                      4
                                       4                     4                   44 4         4                4       4      4    4        6
                            44                  44                    4      4                4       4                           444
                           44                            4    4 4        4        4 4         4    4      4            4 4 4
                   4 4         4                                 4                    44              4   44      4                         5
              4    4 44        4                          4 44                            4       4           4           4 4          4
                                                                                     4

<removed-date>
              4     4      44           4                            4        4 4          4 4                              4       44           6
                            4      4 4 4                 44      4    4          4                         4                 4      4         5
                       4                4           4        4 4         4       4                 4                                     4    7
                               4    4          4 4                44 4                              4          4 4      4           4         75
                        4               4        4       4           4            4                                4    44                    6
<removed-apn>
              4    4 4                                       4       4                    4    4 4          4                    44           66
                           4                     4       4    4                           4 4                      4    4       4
              44       44          44 4         4                    4       4 4               4        4          4    4       4 4
                        4                  4                     4            4                        44 4                             4        5
                                        4 44                         4       44      4              4      4       4        4
                           4            4 44        4                4 4             4             4           4                                 6
               4       4    4          4       4 4            4       44         4    4                 4 4 44          444      44
                                    4           4                                                          4        4            44 4
              4         4                        4      444 4                                  4    4      4                    4                5
              4     4 4 4                  4            444          4           4 4                    4                        44
                               4           4     4                4              44           4            4                        44 4         6
                       4    4          4                 4           4       4                 4    4       4 4                  4
                   4       4       4       4            4 4      44                                 4 4        4    4        4 4 4            5
              4    4                        4             4                       4                 4       44              4        4        55
              44 4      4              44                                     4 44         44                  4            4       4    4    7
                       4            4      4 4 4          44             4           4                              4                   4     76
                       4       4 4                      4444 44 4            4        44                       4 4                      4     6
                           4       4       4     44      4    4      4 4      4      4     4 4          44              4    4 4
                    4                   4       4 4 4 4                  4    444          4            44               44          4           5
                                       4    4            4            4       4                4       4    4                   4 4          5
              4             44             44    4      4 4      4 4         4                 4    44 4                4 4                  5 6
                                                                                      4

<removed-date>
               4               4       44 4 44                    4        4 4      4       4      44 4                   4    4         5
                               4       44 4                           4                 4                 444         4                  5
                                   4     4       44 44        4    444 4            4        4                    4    4 4         4     5 5
               4           4           44    4 4       4           4             4       4       4 4 44        4                 4       5
                  44 4              44                    4    4 4               4 4                      4       4                  4   5 6
<removed-apn>
                   4                4        4 4          44               44            44            44      4      4        4 4       5
                  4    4            4        444               4      44 4       4          4         4       4 4         44   4         5
              4           4              4 4          4 4          4            4        4 4           4      4                      4   5 5
               4                            4 4       4       44           4             4 4       4      4    4                         55
                              4    4     4       4         4       4                         4         4      44                         556
                   4      4    4              44                           4    4       4    4     4 4                                   57
                      4            4         4         4               4        4 4 44           4 4          4           44 4       4   56
                   4       4           444                    4    44           4       44        4                                      56
              !       "
              !       "     6
              !       "     )
              !       "    ($:$        4;
              !       "
              !       "    :        = 4 9
              !       "    > ?      > ?
              !       "    /@.         4          ;    %
              !       "
              !       "    :    = 4 9
              !       "    > ? >75 ?
              !       "    /@. 0 0 9              $
              !       "
              !       "    :    = 4 9
              !       "    >75 ? >655?
              !       "    /@. 0A0$:4
              !       "
              !       "    :    = 4 9
              !       "    >657? >    ?
              !       "    /@. 0 0$:4
                                                                                    4

<removed-date>
              !     "
              !     "    :    = 4 9
              !     "    >    ? > 7 ?
              !     "    /@. ' 0$:4
              !     "
              !     "    :    = 4 9
              !     "    >   5? >   5?
<removed-apn>
              !     "    B44 4 3 4 <                   4    94    < $       99      4:      $ 4    %
              !     "
              &              9$ ' 4 '9             C    ' 4       < /4                  ' 4           ' 4
                     9$         <    C9            <    ' 4             <    C9 '9          < '9          9       9    C9
              ' 4 '9         <        9            C        <     9 ' ;      C    /4    '      C9      C      ' ;         <
                  9 &        <9       9    C      ' 4       <    <9    <      9    <9                 ' 4         <       <
                                                                                        5
               <             <      '9        9    C        9                 < ' ;      C            '           <    <
              5                                   7                             7                                     6
              '9    /4          9             9 /4         <9           <          C     C    ' ;             (
                                          6
               C    /4      '         <    C9 /4           C9           < ' ;           '9    /4          9 &          9$
               <9 ' 4           9    <        <            <9                C9         ' 4       <    <9      <9      <
                        9       <         ' 4      <9       <    C    /4    ' 4 '9            ' ;         <       9       <
              '      C              /4                      9 ' ; '9         <9    C    '      <       C9      <          <
                                                                                                                       5
                                                                             4

<removed-date>
                     <        < '        C    '              C    ' 4           ' ; ' ;       C    &        C9
                                         5                                 7                                7
                      <    C9            C9       9 ' ;      9$    <9 ' ;        C    ' 4 '            9    9; ' 4
                                   6                               6
<removed-apn>
                      9       9     <                  9;    <            '9    ' 4       9   9$    9$       9       9
                9    <    '               9       9     <         &              <        <         9;
               <                         <        9    C9     9 /4         C    ' 4 '9        <    (        9$
              /4    ' ;    9$            9$    C      /4    ' 4            <           <      C9            <
               <    ' 4       <     <                  <    ' 4    <       9$ ' 4                           <9 ' 4
                                   5                               5                                7
              '9     C9    <      ' 4                   < &       /4             <9       <   9;    C9 ' ; (
                           7                                 6                                6
                9 ' 4      <        9    9$ /4         <     9$ ' 4         < &               <9 '9               <
              /4      9    9$      <    ' 4 '9         C9    <              9         (            '             &
               <                  '9     <    /4      ' ;     <    <        9    <     9$              <
                    ' ;             <          <      /4              9    C9          <      9$    <      /4    (
                9     <    <      '9     <9    9$      9$     <    C9       9             9 '9     ' ;      <    '
                                                             5                               5
                                                                           4

<removed-date>
               C9      <           <      '9    '         9         9;          <        9 '                      <
                       7                                7                             6
               9$       <          <            /4      C9      <          9 (        C       <        9    C    ' ;
               6
<removed-apn>
              '       '9     <9    C       C9    C        9     <         <           <9                   ' 4 '9
              ' ;      <          ' ; (             9   C       9        /4                   C9 /4               <
              ' 4 ' ; ' ; '9              ' ; ' 4 /4           <    C9 '9        9 /4         C9 /4        '9
               9$       <         (       '         9         /4    <           <    (           < ' 4       < /4
                                                                                      5
              ' 4 &         ' ;       <         ' ;                       9$                  <        < ' ;
               5                                 7                              7                                 6
              '9                  (        C9 /4        C9 ' 4       9 /4      '9                9    <9     <
                                           6
              ' ;                 &       ' ;    9; ' ;         < '9       < '9                      /4     <
                  9    9$ /4       <9 ' 4           <   <      C9   <      <          <          < '        <9 '
                  < '                 < ' ; ' ;         C           C9    9$     9       <           ' 4          9$
              '9      /4          ' ;      C        < '       ' 4   9;    <          (           < ' ;      <
                                                                                                                  5
              ' ;                  <            (         9 ' ;     9$    <    ' 4           '        9$ '9      &
                                           5                              7                               7
                                                                          4

<removed-date>
               C9 '9           C          9                   ' 4    <      ' 4 /4                    C9         9    9$    C9      C
                                       6                                     6
                      ' 4      <      (       '9      ' 4 /4            9    9$              9$       <9             '9    '        <
                                                                    5                                        5
<removed-apn>
              '9       <9 ' ; /4               <          9    <        9 ' ;           < '9                  <             <          <
                      5                                       5                                      5
              ' 4             ' 4         9    <9 ' 4 ' 4 ' 4                <      ' 4         < '9             < /4      '9      /4
              5                                   5                                         5                                      5
              ' 4      9; '9                   9$         < '9       <                      '         <       9$      <        <
                                              5                                     5                                      5
              /4       <9                      <          <    C9    9$      <      '                 C9      <      '9        9
                                      55                                    55                                       57
                  9    <9      9$ ' ;                          <    '               ' 4      <                         <    <       C
                              57                                    56                                       56
               <       9$      9$         <            <9 &         ' ;             '9          < ' ;         <      /4     9$      <
                      5                                   5                                       7
              ' 4              <       9$      <       <9      <9 ' ;           <                     C               9$           ' ;
              7                                       7                                     7                                      7
                       C          9 ' ; (             (        C9 &          <       <9      <               ' ;       <    C      &
                                        7                                           7                                      7
              (        <       C9 &               9       < /4       9$         <       9                     9$ ' ; ' 4 /4
                                  7                                         7                                    7
                          9       9    9$                 9 (       '9          9    <      '9           9             9    <      '9
                              7                                     75                                       75
               9$      9$ &           /4       <              /4     <       9$ ' 4 ' ; '                            '9    ' 4
                      77                                      77                        76
                                                                                        4        5

<removed-date>
                  <                  <     C9    <       C9      <          '        <9 ' ;                         <    &
              76                                7                                   7                                    6
                  9 &           <    <    /4        9       <    <           <       9$       9$       < &         /4    '9
                                          6                                 6                                      6
<removed-apn>
              (             '       '9     <    /4      ' 4                 '9       <        9$    <       C      (
                                    6                                 6                                    6
                  <    <             <9 ' 4      9$         <          C9 /4         <                 <    <      '      C9
                            6                                   6                                  6
               <      /4     <      '9    ' ; '9         <       9; '        <       C9 ' ; (              /4       <    ' ;
                      6                                 6                               65
              ' 4      C9    <        9    C9               < &       ' 4 (          <9             C9      C      ' ;       <
              65                                67                                  67                                   66
                       <     <9            C     9$         <          <             <9 /4                 /4            ' ;
                                          66                                6                                      6
               <9      <        <     9 '        9$         <    C9    C    '9                     /4          < '        <
                  <    <        9 (        9$       9 /4         <     <     <       <       '9    /4       C9
              /4                <     <                                C    ' ;         <          /4      '       /4     <
              '9       9$ &          <    ' ;            C9 (          C            /4       /4                9       < '9
                                                                                                                          5
               <9                                           <    <    ' 4               9 /4       /4       9; ' ; '9
                                           5                                 7                                  7
              (                 9           9 /4        /4             <             C9       <9                    <    /4
                                     6                                 6
                                                                                4        7

<removed-date>
               <        <           <        < '          C    ' ;       <                  '       '        ' ;          C9
                  9     9   '                     /4                    ' ;       9$ /4        ' ;       C      < '
<removed-apn>
                  9    9;    <      /4        9       9            <    ' 4 ' ;         C9 '9            <    /4     9$
                      ' ;       9       9    9$ ' 4        C9      <    (     '        '                &      <
               C9 &         /4      ' ;       9       9    <      '9                    C9       9      ' ; /4       C
                                                              5                                  5
                      ' ;    <      '        <            /4      ' ;    9$             9$      <9            ' ; /4
                        7                                     7                                  6
               <             <9 ' ;          C9    <          9    <               9             <      ' ;    <    ' 4
                        6
               <       C     <      ' ;      C9           ' 4     ' 4    <9 ' 4 (              /4        <    ' 4
              (         <    <      /4      /4     C9      9;     '9     C9 ' 4         C9               <     9$
                  9    <                    '9    '               '9          '            <    <9             <
               9; '9         <9 '             9    <      ' 4      9$ ' 4         <            /4        C9    <
              (        9$            9$           ' 4      <       9$ /4                <      /4               <    <
                        5                                     5                                  7
              (       ' 4   (        <       9$    9$         <    <                   ' ;
                        7                                     6                                  6
                                                                              4        6

<removed-date>
               C9    <    /4      ' ;    9$           ' ;    <       9$ /4          <              /4      ' 4     <
              '9    '9     C      ' 4       9     <    <     <      /4        C9           '        9$       9 ' ;
<removed-apn>
               9$         (        <                   <    (        <    ' ; /4           /4      '              C9
               <          ' 4      <                   9$       <     <            /4      /4       9$      9$    C9
              ' ; ' 4      9$ /4            9    9$    C9    C9               <9 /4                ' ;             9
                                                                                               5
                     9$    9$           (       ' ;    C     <9      <         9 '9                        ' ;
                      5                                 7                                      7
              /4     C                  ' ;       <     9       9 '9                   9           ' 4            C
                      6                                 6
                    /4             <    ' 4      C    /4    /4      ' ; &          &               '9            '9
                      9            <     9; /4        '9    /4      ' 4 /4         /4               <9 (         ' ;
                <     9   (       ' 4    <9             <            <    ' ; '9            <      '9       9$     9
                          '9      '9            ' 4     9           /4        <     <9 ' 4             <     9
              /4    ' 4       9    C9       9         /4             <        <9    C9              C
                                                        5                                      5
               C      9    <            ' ; '9         9$           ' 4        9 '9                ' 4
                      7                                 7                                      6
                                                                          4

<removed-date>
                    &       ' 4     9                  9$             '9    &          9 '9       '        C    /4
                        6
              '9     <9     /4              <          <       <       <        <    /4           /4             9$
<removed-apn>
              /4        <           <    9$ (         ' 4     '                 <                 '9
                     <            ' 4    9$           '        <      ' 4       C    /4               9     9 /4
              ' ;                                     '9      ' ;                    /4       9    <9            <
              ' ;           ' 4    9$           ' 4    9$      9$      9$       C9         9$      9$ ' ; &
                        5                               5                                   7
              ' 4           /4     C9 /4          <    9$         <                    < /4           9    C9
                        7                               6                                     6
                <    9$      <    '9    '         9 &         /4            ' ; /4        ' 4      C      /4
                        <       9 ' ;    <                <           ' 4 ' ;         C   '       '9        9    <
                     C      &                   /4                    '9    &        ' ; /4           <         ' ;
                9           (     /4     C9 /4                         <9        9    <9 &        /4       C9 /4
                     <9      9$    C        9         ' 4               9       <      < ' ;
                                                                                           5
              '9    /4      '9                  '9     <9               <        < '      '9       C9 '          C9
                        5                               7                                     7
                                                                            4

<removed-date>
                <         ' 4           '9    <9             9 ' ; (              9    C            /4      9
                      6                              6
                      <   ' ; '9                   ' 4    9$ '                  /4     <9   &       /4     C9
                                                    5                                  5
<removed-apn>
                < '        9$ ' 4         9 ' ;                   <    '9              9$       < ' ;
                     5                              5                                  5
                    /4    /4       9$          < /4          <    9$ '          ' 4 '       /4
                     5                            5                                    5
                          '9              <   9;    9$   '       ' 4       9$                             ' ;
                     5                              5                                  5
               C           C9            9$ '9           ' 4      9$ ' ;              /4                  '9
                     5                              55                                 55
               <     <        9     <          <                           9$    C9             9    9$ ' 4
                     57                             57                                 56
               9$ ' ;      <        9         9$         ' ; /4                                     ' ;     <
                   56                               5                                  5
                9     9       9    C     9$ ' 4      9    <9      C    ' ;            &      <        9    C
                     7                              7                                  7
              ' 4    <    ' 4      C           9    <    ' 4 '                    <    9$   '9             C9
                     7                              7                                  7
                    /4        9 /4                  <9       <     9             C9    C9           ' ; /4
                     7                              7                                  7
               9$    9;   '       /4    /4    9$          <      ' 4 (                          9         /4
                     7                              7                                  7
              ' ; /4      &             '9           <       <    9$        9                   < ' ; ' 4
                   75                               75                                 77
                                                                       4

<removed-date>
                      <    C    ' 4 /4      '9     <9            C9        9         &       (         < ' 4
                     77                            76                                 76
              '9     9$     < ' 4       9    <    ' 4     /4    /4                   /4       C9 ' ; /4
                     7                             7                                  6
<removed-apn>
                9 /4      ' ;       9 /4    ' ; ' 4       ' 4 ' 4 ' ; ' 4 ' 4                '9        9 '
                   6                             6                         6
              '9    /4     C9 /4       C     9$             <              < ' ; '9           <9 ' ; ' 4
                     6                             6                              6
              ' 4               '9                ' 4       <    9$ ' 4          < ' ;           9 '       /4
                     6                             6                                6
              /4     <                '9                  ' ;             9$    C9 &         /4     C9
                     6                             6                                  65
                < '         9    C          (      <             <         9     <    C      /4    '9
                     65                            67                                 67
               <    &     ' ;         ' ;       < '              <    '9        9$       <   ' ; /4         9;
                     66                            66                                 6
               C9          9$ ' ;            <    (        C9 /4          C9    <             9$ ' ;         <
                     6
                     C9                <        9 (       '9    /4    '         <    ' ;     '9        <
              '9     9$     9    <     9$ '           9           9       9$ /4       <      /4
               C9    <      <    <    '9     9;    C9      <     9$       <    /4     <       C9       <     9
                9    C9   '9    (           /4     C9      C    ' ;        <         '        C     <
                                                    5                                    5
                                                                      4

<removed-date>
               C9    <       9    <        9    <9 /4                 C             '        <                   ' ;
                     7                                     7                                    6
                         /4                    (       '           < ' 4       <        9    9$         < ' 4 '9
                     6
<removed-apn>
                     <    <      &      <          9                 /4        <    (           9   ' 4            9
              /4         B44 (             9 ' ; &                   /4        C9 /4        '           < '9
              /4     9   /4       9$    <9 /4              <       < '     &                /4      '       /4    <9
                < ' 4            &     (               /4      '9     C    '        (                   < (
               C    C9    C       C9    9$             '       '               C                                   9
                     5                                     5                                    7
               9$   <     C9      C    ' 4         9    <       C9    <9        <            <          <         <
                     7                                     6                                    6
              ' ;        '           < ' 4 '           ' ;      C    &              '9      ' ;         <    C9 /4
               C9   C9   ' ;      9;    <       C9             /4                    9;      C9     /4           '9
               9$    <            C9    <               9$                                           <           /4
               9$ ' ;        9       9 (        <              /4                            9$              C   ' 4
                    <    (        <    /4              ' 4      9$ ' 4         C9    C       <9     ' 4           <
                                                                                              5
                                                                           4

<removed-date>
                            ' ;       9    <    (                            /4        <              /4          ' 4
                        5                                   7                                     7
                9    <9     ' 4 (                <      '9       C9 '             < /4         <      /4    ' ;    9;
                      6                                     6
<removed-apn>
              '9     C9      9$ ' ;        C     <      ' 4     &        9       <     9$      9$       9         /4
               <9 '         (        <          (           <    <      9$ '9         (        <      ' ;     < '
              /4        9       9    <        < ' ; (            9$      9                <    <       C     <     9$
               9$ ' ;        <      /4    &                         <    9       <    /4       9$                 ' 4
               <     C9              <              <           ' ;      < /4                 (              C
                                                            5                                     5
                    ' 4      9; /4         9$ ' ; (                     9$       <                     <     C9    <
                      7                                     7                                     6
                        9       < '9       <    /4      '        <      C9       C9            9$      <     9$    C9
                        6
              ' 4    <      ' 4      9$    C9    <          <           <             /4      ' 4     '9          '9
                    '       ' 4 ' ;              <       <       9$              <9            <      /4     <    ' ;
               9$ /4            9    <    ' ;            9$      9$ /4           9$ (          <            '9      <
                             9$      C9          C9 '            9$      <             <      '9       9$ '        C
                                                                             4

<removed-date>
               C9    <    ' 4   <    '9     <                   <          <    '9    /4          9    9$    9$
                      5                            5                                      7
                9    <     9$   9$ (       '9           9$      C9              '9     <       C9            <
                      7                            6                                      6
<removed-apn>
               <    ' ;         <9          <    ' 4    <      '           <    /4    '           9    C9 /4
                9    <     9$          <    <9         ' 4         9       C9 ' 4      C9     '       ' ;    <
                <    <     C9   C9    C9    C9    <             9$ ' ;           <    /4       <      /4    (
              '9      9    C9         <9    9$ /4          <               C     9;                     <    <
              ' ; /4       <    C9    <     C9 ' ;     &               ' ; ' 4 /4             &         <
                                                                                          5
              '9    /4    ' 4         <      9          <       9$         <          ' ;         9    <    '9
                      5                            7                                    7
                9     <    C    C9    <9 /4            (                    <          <       <        < '9
                      6                            6
               <           9$    9 ' 4      <          /4      /4          C9     <       9    9$ '9            <
              ' ;     9          9     9    9;    <        9 /4             <     9            9; ' 4           9
               9$         '     9$    <                '                   <    /4    '9      /4       <
                    /4     C                     '9    '       /4           9    <     9$
                                                                       4

<removed-date>
              /4       9$     /4    <     9$       9       <    C                         9    <       <       C9       9
                                                           5                                      5
              ' 4      <       <    9$     9    <      '9       <            '9       &               ' 4      <    &
                          7                                7                                      6
<removed-apn>
                      '         <   C9 /4                  <    9$       <       <     C9 /4          &             ' ;
                          6
              /4       <       C9   C9    <    '9       <      &       /4             /4          <   /4                9
                       5                                5                                      5
                  <    C       <                <      '9       <       C9       C9    <      '        9$      <     9$
                       5                                5                                      5
                          <    <9   <                  '       '        C9        <            <       <        < '9
                       5                                5                                      5
               <               9$   C9 ' 4      <       C9                            '9          <       <
                       5                                5                                      5
              &        C9           <    '9    ' ;              C9                    ' ;       <      <      ' ;    C9
                       55                               55                                     57
              (        C       <    <    /4    '               '9        <             <9      C       9;            <
                       57                               56                                     56
              '9      /4       C9    <    <     9$      9$      C      ' ;            (        <       <            ' 4
                       5                                5                                      7
                          <     <   <          &        <               9$        <    C9      <       <      ' ;    C9
                       7                                7                                      7
               <                    9$          <      '       ' ;               C9 ' 4 '9                           <9
                       7                                7                                7
              /4       <      /4     <     9    <       <          9         /4               /4      ' ;           (
                       7                                7                                      7
                                                                             4        5

<removed-date>
               <9    <                <      <     <   ' 4     9    <      ' 4 &         <9    9        ' ;
                     7                                  7                                75
                    '        ' ; /4              ' ;          <        9       <     <    9   9$   C9 '9
                     75                                 77                               77
<removed-apn>
               C9             9$ &               /4    ' 4         (           <     C9 '      <    9 /4
                     76                                 76                               7
              /4     <9      (            /4           '     ' 4 &                   <   <    <     9    9$
                     7                                  6                                6
              '9     <        <       9      <
                     6
              !     "
              !     "
              !     "     )
              !     "    '9      =    4
              !     "
              !     "    ;$ <; ;         %
              !     "
               9$    <    '          9       9 &             9 '        C9         9$
              !     "
              !     "    7
              !     "     )
              !     "    '9      =    4
              !     "
              !     "    ;$ <; ;         %
              !     "
              (               9              <   C9
              !     "
              !     "    6
              !     "     )
                                                                           4        7

<removed-date>
              !     "    '9      =    4
              !     "
              !     "    ;$ <; ;       %
              !     "
              (             '              9 ' ;   <   <
<removed-apn>
              !     "    5
              !     "    6
              !     "     )
              !     "    '9      =    4
              !     "
              !     "    ;$ <; ;       %
              !     "    5
              (             '              9 ' ;   <   <
              !     "    7
              !     "    6
              !     "     )
              !     "    '9      =    4
              !     "
              !     "    ;$ <; ;       %
              !     "    7
              /4                9    9 (           <
              !     "    6
              !     "
              !     "     )
              !     "    '9      =    4
              !     "
              !     "       '
              !     "    6
              ' 4       9    9$ ' 4 ' 4       9$ ' 4   9$ ' 4   9   9$ ' 4 ' 4   9$ ' 4   9$
                                                                4    6

<removed-date>
                  9 ' 4      9$ ' 4
              !       "
              !       "
              !       "    )
              !       "   '9     =    4
<removed-apn>
              !       "
              !       "     '
              !       "
              ' 4 ' 4        9$ ' 4        9   9$ ' 4    9$ ' 4 ' 4    9$   9 ' 4    9$ ' 4   9$
              ' 4 ' 4        9$      9
              !       "
              !       "
              !       "    )
              !       "   '9     =    4
              !       "
              !       "     '
              !       "
              ' 4      9$       9    9    9$    9   9$    9 ' 4   9$    9   9   9$    9   9$ ' 4
                  9    9$       9    9
              !       "
              !       "
              !       "    )
              !       "   '9     =    4
              !       "
              !       "     '
              !       "
              ' 4      9$       9    9    9$    9   9$    9 ' 4   9$    9   9   9$    9   9$ ' 4
                                                                  4

<removed-date>
                  9    9$         9
              !       "
              !       "
<removed-apn>
              !       "     )
              !       "    '9      =     4
              !       "
              !       "       '
              !       "
                  9       9    9$       9 ' 4   9$    9   9$   9    9   9$ ' 4   9   9$   9   9$
                  9       9    9$ ' 4
              !       "
              !       "
              !       "     )
              !       "    '9      =     4
              !       "
              !       "       '
              !       "
              ' 4 ' 4             9    9$ ' 4 ' 4    9$    9 ' 4   9$   9$ ' 4 ' 4 ' 4    9   9$
              ' 4 ' 4          9$       9 ' 4   9$   9$ ' 4
              !       "
              !       "
              !       "     )
              !       "    '9      =     4
              !       "
              !       "       '
              !       "
                                                                   4

<removed-date>
              ' 4       9 ' 4 ' 4 ' 4            9$ ' 4 ' 4 ' 4           9 ' 4 ' 4 ' 4          9 ' 4      9$
                  9 ' 4 ' 4 ' 4
<removed-apn>
              !     "
              !     "
              !     "     )
              !     "    '9    =       4
              !     "
              !     "    ./                4    ; ;     %
              !     "
              &                                     9   C9   <    C      C           <               '9     C
               <     C        9
              !     "     5
              !     "
              !     "     )
              !     "    ($:$      4;
              !     "     5
              ' 4    C9 '9        '9       <9    <9           < ' 4 /4                     9    9; ' ;      <9
              &               9 ' ;                 <             9$ /4       ' ; ' 4 '9        C     9$    9$
              '9    /4     9$      <        9    C      9$   C   '       C9       9 /4   /4     <9    <     <
               C9          C      /4             C      C9 ' ; (               C    '          ' 4    <     9$
                                                                                    5
              '9     9$    9$      9; &             <                <   9$    C9              ' 4         /4
              5                                 7                             7                            6
                                                                         4

<removed-date>
               <9 ' ;        C9 /4        /4             C9              <    '       &       ' 4     9 (       9$ /4
                                          6
                  9         (       ' 4 /4          < /4            9    <9    9;      <      ' 4     9            < ' 4
<removed-apn>
                       <9 ' ; ' ;                C9         9           '9             <            ' ; ' ;     <      /4
               C       9$       <     <     9 (          C9      <9 /4         9;             /4          <            '
                  <    9$ &         ' 4     9 ' ;        9$              <             C9      <9     9   <9               9
                                                                                                                        5
              (       /4    ' ;           /4     <      ' ;             '         9       <                 < ' 4
                                           5                                   7                               7
                      /4     <      '9              <       9           ' 4    <               <     C9         C9
                                     6                                   6
              (        <     C                           C      ' 4 /4         C      ' ;             <   <        9    9;
              (         9            C9    <    '           9           &             ' ; '9        ' ; ' 4 ' 4            9
              ' 4 '9        ' 4      9;    9$    <      &       (        C9 /4        '         <    <9 /4     '       '9
                  9          9$       <                     <    <      (     '9       <        9 /4      <9    9; (
              /4                < &         <    C9      C9      9$           /4      (         9         C
                                     5                                   5                                7
                  < (        C9      C          /4      '9      '       (     '9              ' 4     9
                             7                                   6                                   6
                                                                                  4

<removed-date>
                  9    9$          C9    C           C9 ' 4              C9                 &       ' ;               <
                       C                 C     <    (               9       9 (             (       ' ;       < &
<removed-apn>
                      ' 4    <9 /4       <    /4    ' ;       9    <     9$                  9$                   '9
              &        <    '     '                 ' 4           ' ;    <9 ' ; ' ; ' ;                      C9 ' ;
                  9         &     ' ; /4      /4    '9       C    ' ; ' ; ' ; '                 9    9$       9    C
                                                             5                               5
                                  '9      9 /4      ' 4      <     <    (        9$    <     C9      9; /4        (
                       7                             7                                 6
               <9           ' 4 ' 4                         ' ;    9; ' ;        <9 ' 4      9$             /4
               6
              ' 4      9$ ' ; ' ; '9            9    <9      <      9            <9         '       '         <    9$
                      '9              < '9     <     <9      <     <    /4      '9     C    &       ' 4      <9    C9
              ' ;            C9    C     <     C9 '9              ' 4                 (                 9     <
                        <    9$                <9       <         /4        < ' ;      C9
                                                                                       5
               C       <    '           ' 4     9 '9         9$    <9 '                <9    9$ (             <
               5                               7                                 7                                 6
               C9 ' ; /4          '9     9$          <9       9 '9      '9             9$    <          < /4       <
                                         6
                                                                            4

<removed-date>
              (                <    ' ;    C       9$                      9$       <                  C     <       <9      <
               9;      C9 /4         C9 /4                ' ;         <    9$    C9      <          9 ' ;    9$ '9           <
<removed-apn>
                       C9 '9         <9    <9         9       9    C      /4    '       &             '9    ' ;             ' 4
                  9       <                   <    9$                            <       <9      <              9 /4        ' ;
                                                                                                                             5
                      '9        < '                       &           9 ' ;      <      '9      '     /4                     C
                                           5                                     7                                   7
                  9 /4         C    ' ;           '       '9          9    9;    <9              C9         '
                                     6                                     6
              '9       C             9$ '          9$ ' 4             < /4                            ' ;    9$              C
                                                                  5                                   5
                      ' 4       9 '               &       (           9         '           <    <9 /4       C      ' ;         9
                      5                                   5                                     5
                                      9 /4         <              (             /4      ' 4      <9    9;    <9
              5                                   5                                     5                                   5
                  9             < ' 4              C9 ' ;          C                9 /4         C     C        9       <    <9
                                          5                                     5                                   5
               C9      C       <    (      <      &       /4       <9           ' ;      C9            C9            C       9$
                                    55                                    55                                57
               C          9     <          C9 /4           C      &         9 &                 '      9$       <            9;
                              57                                  56                                  56
                                <    <    (       '           9 ' ;        C    '9      '       '9      < &          C9 ' 4
                      5                                   5                                     7
                                                                                    4

<removed-date>
                               <      /4          9       9    <      ' ;    <      '        C9       < ' ;        <9      <9
              7                                       7                                     7                                     7
              ' ;         9    <9             ' ;                 9 ' 4      <9                       9    <      '       '       ' 4
                                              7                                     7                                     7
<removed-apn>
                               9$ '9              9    C          9         '           9 '9      (        9$         9    C9 '9
                                  7                                         7                                     7
                       <               C      '       ' 4      C9      C9            9$           '       ' ;                      <
                              7                                       75                                  75
               C9 ' ;          9$      9;      C      ' 4 (           '9     C9      9$ &          9$      <                      '
                  77                                      77                                      76
              /4          9       9       9 ' ;                       &                     '9                9    9$      C9      9$
              76                                      7                                     7                                     6
              (           <               9               9 ' ;                             ' 4    <       <9              C9      C
                                              6                                     6                                     6
                  9 ' ; ' ;            9$         9    9$         < ' 4             ' ;         9 '       '           9               9
                                      6                                     6                                     6
                      &        C9 (            C      '9       9$                   (       (         9       < ' ; &             /4
                              6                                       6                                   6
               C       C9      9$                 9       <                         '9            '                <                  <
                      6                                       6                                   65
               C9      C9 ' 4 ' 4              C9                      <     <              ' ;    C       <      /4          9       9
              65                                      67                                    67                                    66
               C9         9 '         '                           9    C9            9$         9 ' ; '                   ' 4 ' 4
                                              66                                    6                                     6
                  <    C9 ' ; '                C9         9       9             <    9$      9$       9 &          9$ /4          (
                                                                                        4

<removed-date>
               <9 ' ;             9               ' ;    C9      C9            C           <    <       <        9       9    9$
                       C9               9     <     <    9$               9                9                 '       '       ' ;
<removed-apn>
                  9    <                            9     <           &       '            9                     9       9    9;
                                                                                                                              5
                  <    <      '       /4      9     9    C9               9       < '9                  C       <        <    <
                                             5                                 7                                        7
              '9      ' 4 (             <    9$ ' 4                    C9      <       ' ; '           ' 4              C     <
                                       6                               6
              /4          9             9                <       C9    '          <        C9       9 '          '           9 ' 4
               C9 '            '9       <     C9 (                ' ;         <       9$       9
              '           9       9$       9 /4     9;            '                                    9    ' ;      C9
               C       <          <    /4     C9    9$                    (       ' ; '9           &                &       ' ;
               <      '        ' 4      C9 ' 4           '9               '       (        &           9    '        <       C9
                                                             5                                         5
               C9         9        9    <    '     &              &       /4                        <        <                <
                          7                                  7                                         6
               9$                 9$    9$ ' ; ' 4                '        9$ ' ; &                    9     C       C       <
                          6
              &                   C           9$             9    ' 4 '9              9;                    '9       C9 (
                                                                                  4        5

<removed-date>
                  <    <      '           9           '           9       <              <   9$       9    9$      <
                      /4          9               <    9$              <        9 /4                  <           '     C
<removed-apn>
                          9            <      '        <      /4      /4      /4         <   <        <            C    C9
               <      ' ;     /4          <            <              &       /4        C    9$       9       9 '9     '
                        5                                         5                                   7
                       C               C9 '                   ' ;     '             (             '       '        C9 (
                          7                                     6                                     6
              '                        <       <                                                   <       <            C9
                                              '       /4      /4               9$                 (        C9 /4        C9
                  <    C9      <      '        C      &        <      '                 C                     9    C9 '9
                      '       /4                  <       9    <9     ' ;       < ' 4        <9 ' 4        9$ /4
                      ' ;      C      '9          9           '       ' ;       9       C9 '      '9       C9      <    <
                                                                                                      5
              (        C9     ' 4 (            C          9    <       <        <                         '
                        5                                         7                                   7
                  <               < '                  C9      <                    /4             <       <9 ' 4       <
                          6                                       6
               C9      C9     '9                  9    9$ '            C9       9                 '        C      /4    C9
                                                                                    4        7

<removed-date>
                      '9      9    <    '9      ' 4          <             C    '9             9$
                       C9                        <    '9                /4      ' ; ' ;        C9         9    C9
<removed-apn>
                       9;     9    <    '       &      <    (              C9    9$       9    C9              C9
                            ' ;    <9 '                <           <        < ' 4              C9               9
                                                        5                                 5
               9$             9 ' ;      <             C9   '9        9 (           9          9$             ' 4
                        7                               7                                 6
              '       '9      9    9$            9$         ' 4    <    /4          9     9    C       9$       9
                        6
                      '9     9$          <9            C9   '9    /4             C            ' ; '             9
                  9 (              9$ ' 4 ' 4           9    <9 '9         <     <      ' ;       9       < /4
                              9       9 (        C                    < ' 4      <       <    '       '
                  9         ' 4                  C9               &        C9       < ' ;             '9
              /4        <     9             <    C9     9   ' 4    C9 '             9 /4       C9      <9      <
                        5                               5                                 7
               <      /4          '      C9 /4               9$    <       9$ ' ;              9$      <       C9
                        7                               6                                 6
                  9     <    <    /4                         9$    <    /4      (              <9              <
                                                                       4        6

<removed-date>
              ' ;            C     9$      C9            C9         9 '              <     9   9$     < (
              ' ;           /4              <       9                                <    C9          < ' 4
<removed-apn>
               <     9;     '             ' 4 '         '9       9$         <       <    /4    9$    C            '9
              /4    ' 4      C9             9       9 ' 4        <       C9         9$     9   <                  ' ;
                                                                                                5
               9$           ' 4    9; ' ; '             (        <9         <       C9               9$    <
                        5                                   7                                   7
                     9;      <        9                  <          9    9$               <    C9   ' 4    C       <
                      6                                     6
               <     <      ' ;    C9                       9           '       ' 4       <           9 '         (
                                                         5                                     5
              ' 4           ' 4 ' 4             '                   <           '         <    9$
                     5                                   5                                     5
              /4     C9      9; ' 4        <                <   '9       C9              '9          <        9
                     5                                   5                                     5
              '      9$      9$ /4               <      '9      (               '9                   C9 '9         C9
                     5                                   5                                     5
               C9                     9 ' ;                                     ' ;       <9 ' ;    ' ;    C9
                     5                                   55                                   55
                  9 /4            &        <     <              ' ;      C      ' ;            <9   ' ;           ' ;
                     57                                  57                                    56
                    '                 9    9$ '9            9    C                  <     <    C9   '9    (        <9
                     56                                  5                                     5
                                                                                4

<removed-date>
               C              ' 4 ' 4 /4                  '9             9; ' ;         <9         <   &           9       9
                       7                                   7                                    7
                  9    9$     (       /4            '9    '       '9    ' 4                9       <       9 /4         9$
                       7                                   7                                    7
<removed-apn>
                       C       <       <    /4      /4     C                      C     C9 ' ;             <       9    C
                       7                                   7                                7
               C9              9$            <9 '9            <               '                (                   <
                       7                                   7                                    7
                        <      9$      <9           '9    ' 4           /4             ' ; '                   &       /4
                       75                                  75                                   77
               C9      C      '9      '             ' 4     9     '9     9$       <9       9    C       <9         9       9
                       77                                  76                                   76
                                  9    <9                 ' ;           '9                 < ' 4                9$ '9
                       7                                   7                                  6
               <      '        C      /4     <       9$ '                C9       <     C9      <9      C       9;      <
                       6                                   6                                    6
              /4              (       (     &       ' 4    9$      C9    <    ' ;               C      ' ;      <       <
                       6                                   6                                    6
              ' 4      9;     ' 4      <9    C        9 ' ;       /4    ' ;                     <      ' ; /4          (
                       6                                 6                                      6
                  9       <                     <    9$                 /4        <    (        C9     '        C9
                       6                                   6                                    65
              '        9$     ' 4 (             < '9              /4     C9 /4                          C      ' 4
                       65                                  67                                   67
               C       C       C9            C      ' ;            C9    <         9    9;      <9      C       C9
                       66                                  66                                   6
                                                                              4

<removed-date>
              '       &             '9    '        <    '9      ' 4      9$       <    '                   &
                       6
              ' ;      9$      C9    C     <            '        <9 '9            C    (       ' 4         '         <
<removed-apn>
               <9             &     ' ;    C9            9$         <         /4       &       ' 4         ' ;
              '9              '9     9;    <9                       9 &            <       9 '             '
              (           9         (      C        9       <   (       /4        C     C9 /4        '9     <       <
                                                            5                                    5
                               <9    <    &       ' 4            <9 '                   <9      9$     < /4         C
                          7                                 7                                    6
                       C9     /4          &              9$         9    <    ' 4          <          9; '9        /4
                        6
                       <                      <         (               (     ' 4          < &         9    C9
               C              /4     <9       9 '        <       <                C9    9$             < &         ' 4
                  9       <   (           '9      ' ;    C                        C9 ' 4         9     <            <9
                  <            9; ' 4      9$      <            ' 4 '9                 (        <9     9       <     9
                      '       ' 4    9;       9    C9    <               9$       C        9    9;          <      /4
                          5                                 5                                    7
              ' ;                   ' 4    9$ &                         (          <            <     C9             <
                          7                                 6                                    6
                                                                              4

<removed-date>
              ' 4 '9                   <       C          9     9          <9                9          C
              &        <9         9           ' ;         <    <     <     9;               C9    <9   '9        < '
<removed-apn>
                  9    C9         <    C9             &       /4     C     C           < '       /4    ' ;       9     9
                  <            <      (       '                C    '      9$         9$               ' 4 '9         <9
                      '9              (        9$      C9 (          <9       9            '9      9    C9           '9
                                                                                                   5
              &                       &           <    <      ' ;         '            9    <      9   &        9$
                          5                                     7                                  7
                  < &                     9    <      ' 4               9 ' ; ' 4                       C9 ' 4         9
                          6                                     6
                  9    <9      C       C9 '           &        C    ' 4    C9         9;     9    9$       9    <    ' 4
              '9              (                           < '9          9 '       ' 4       9; '9       9$           /4
              '       '        9$      <               9;                 /4      ' ;       C           <       C9 &
               <      /4       C9         < /4         C9      C9             < /4          <      9                  C9
                  9 &          <9 /4           <               C                       9     9     9           ' ;     <
                                                                5                                  5
              (                9;      C9              C       C          '            <    <    /4     <      /4     C
                          7                                     7                                  6
                                                                                  4

<removed-date>
                        <    '               ' ;      9    C        C9    9$ /4        /4      '            9           ' ;
                        6
               9$      9$                     C9 '9        <9            '9            (        9$                  9    9;
<removed-apn>
              /4    (                        ' 4          '9       &           /4                  <       <            ' 4
                    ' ;               <9
              !     "        7
              !     "      7
              !     "      0 '
              !     "      ($:$      4;
              !     "   7
              4     444 4        4               4                                                 4                    4           5
              4    4 44 4        4    4                   4        44          4           4    4 4         4 44         4
                    4                        4       44 4                  4 4              4444                     4       44     6
              4        4              4 44444         4                   4 44         4        4      4                44 4
                   44       44           4            4                   4            4       4       4            4         4
               4 4 4                 4    4 4         44 44 4                      4                4               4               5
                       4         4        444                 4     4         44 4         4    4      4 4       4       444
               4 444 44          4    4 444                               44       4 4      4 4                     4               6
              444 4 44                   44                   4     4                  4        4       4 4                   4
                    4             4444 4              44       4           4        4              4    4       4       4 4 44     5
                   4                 44      4444     4 4 4 4                 4 444            4 4      4                      4   55
                    4      44        4444              4       4 44 4 444 44                        4       4       4 4       4    7
                       4                                   4444          4 4 4         4 4             4        444 4              76
                       4             4        4        4 4        444     4        4            4          4         44            6
                                                                               4

<removed-date>
              4    4             44        4        44 4                  44           4 4      4                  4      44      4
                    4                      444                  44 4 4                     4             444      4            4        5
               4            4    4          4                       4    4                     4    44 4      4           4       44
                    4          4 44    4 4 4                    4 4       44           44       4      44    44 444 44            44    6
               44          44    4    4    4    4       4        4        4            444          4              4              4
<removed-apn>
               4    4 44                             4       444                  4                44 44      4           4444
                       4 4       4 4                    44 4        4     4            4       4                  4                     5
                    4      4 4    44       4 44 44           44 4             44 44                      4         4           4
              44    4 4444 44               4        4          4 4      4 4 4         444              44 4               44           6
              4     4      4     44    4    44                  4            4         4            44            4 4 4 4
                   4    4 4          44 44      4 4      44      4 4         4 4 44 4               4         4        44      4
               4                           4        44      4 4      4       4444               4444 4             44      4            5
                  44              4    4 444        4       444 4        444          4 4          4        4 4 4 4                4   5
              4    444      4    4                          4             4      4         4                 44    4       4 4 4       56
               4       4          4    4       4                              4                4 444 44                4 4        44   7
              4 4      444       4 4 44             4 4 44 4             44           4                           4        4      4    6
              44       44             4        4    4 4 44 4 4            44                            44        4           4        65
               4           4     4     4 4              44               44 4         4        4 4      4    44            4
                    4 4               4             4                     4      4              4 4           4    4          44        6
              4        4    4    4 4       4                                                    4 4 4              444 4 444
              4            4     44 4 4 4            4          4            4            4     4 444                     4
              4     4444          4         4        4                           4 44           4 4                44 4 4               5
              4    4              4       44                4             4 44 44 4                      4    4       4    4      4
              4     4      44    4 4        4       4 4                  4    44444 4 4                 4     4 4      44 44            6
                           4 4 4       44 4 4               4    4       4       4444          44       44         4      4 44
                  4 4444         4 4 4 4 44          4       4                            4    4 4 44 4            4           444
                                                                                  4

<removed-date>
              4 4 4444                           4        4                4                      4 4 4              4          4 4       5
                       4           4         4            44 44            444 4         4 4                    4       4       4    4
                       4    44     4 4 4         44    44 4                        444       4    4 4          4         4 4              6
               4      4 4              4 4            4       4             4       4                 44      44    4    444        4    5
              444              4   44         4       44 4 4               44 444                4        444               4    4 4     7
<removed-apn>
                  444 44             4        44      44          4    4    4 44                  4    4       4        4 44 4 4         75
              4             4      4          44       4          4         4      4     4 4          44      4 4    4      4        4   6
                        4444 4           4                    4       4                     4             4          4       44 44       66
              44 44        4       444                4 44        4            44       44 4          44 444             4           4
              44444         4            44 4 4        4           4           4        444          4444 4             4       4
                               4     444 4 44                     4        444          4    4                      444 4 444             5
              4444             4 4 44         4       44      44 4 4 44 4                4 4          4             4    4      4    4
              4       4 44 4             4    4                4444        4 4      4 444             4 4       4           444444        6
                   4 4               4       4    4    4 44                4       4 4444 4               4 4               4        4
              44      4 4          444 4444            4          4    4 44444 4                 444            4 4 4 444444
               4               4         4    4 4          4 4444              4 4 4                           44    4          4         5
                       4 44        4     44            4 4 444             4       4        44 4 44                  44
               44              4         444      4 4      4      4            4    4       4    44444                  44          4     6
              44                       4 44444         444             4       4    444               44       4    444      4       4
                  4     444        4 4                     44      4       4 444            4             4    44            4 44        5
                  4 4      444 4 44 4 4 4              44      44 44 4444444                     4    44 444        4 4444 44            55
               444 4        44         44 4 44             4                       4 4 4         4 4 4         4            4    44      7
              44        4      4 4 44                      4       4       4    4        444 4         4 44              4 4        4    76
                       4 4               4    4           44 4             4        4       44 4      4       44    444 4 44 4           6
              44 444 4 4           4         4             4444444                 4     44      4444           4 4                  4
              44      444      4 4     444            4 4 444 4                4        4    4    44      4 4               44 4 4        5
                                                                                    4

<removed-date>
              4       4    4 4 4                   4        44       4       44 4 4                       444 44            4 4             4
                  4 44 444          4 44            4 44444          4 4 4                 4          4 4          44          4                 6
              44444 4          4 44 4              4            4    4            4 4 4 4              4 4      4 44           4 44        4
              444              4       4       4                    4    4    4                4          4    4       4    4      4
               44      444 4        4           4       4       4        4 44         4       4        4           4        4      4 4           5
<removed-apn>
              4 4 4            4       4                4        44 4        44                       4            4       4    4          4
              4 444 444            4                        44 444           4     4                   4 44        4        44444444             6
              44                    4       4           44              4    4    4                   4    444 4 4
                          4 44              4 444            4       4 4      4 44 444                     4 44 4
              444      4 4                  4444        4            444           44                         4444             4 4         4     5
               4 44        4        4              4        444      4       44                                 4              4                5
               44         4                    4        44 4 4           4        4       44              44    44         444 4 4              56
                  4444                             4    4    4      44 4      444                      444 4                       44       4   7
                      4                             4    44      4      4         4        4 4         4      4444 4 4 4                444     6
                      44 4 4 4             4    4 4 44444 4                       44 4444 4                4 4      4                           65
              44                   444      44      4        44 4        4       44 444               4       4 4444        44             44
              4 4 44           4                444         44       4       4     444                                 4 444           4    4    6
                          444           4      44           444 44                4       4                4       4 4         44 4        44
              4       4    4       4    4 4        4    4    4          44 4      44 44               44 4             4    4       4      4
               4      4    444 4        4 4                     4             4444 4444                4      4 4      4           4             5
                  4        4 4                      4       4        4       4    4                    4 4                 44 444 4
                      4 4              4                    4        44      444                           4    44          4       4            6
                          4        4            4 4                 4 44         444       44         4            4                        4
               4 4 44 4             4 44            4 4 4 44 4               4        44                  4 444        4
                      4                 4          4            4             4    4       44         4    4 4         4 4      4      4 44      5
                   4 44444 4                       44           44      44 4      4444                4             44 4            44 4
                                                                                      4           5

<removed-date>
               4 4            4        4    444 4           4           4         444                             4                 4               6
               4           444 44 4                 4        4               4        4                                        4 4      44       5
              4 4         44                 4           4 4 44              4 4      4 4             44                                4        7
              4            4       4 4      4444                 4           4       4444 4                444 444                 4             75
                          44 4          4 4         4 4 4            4            444 4 4 4                4                   4       44        6
<removed-apn>
              44           4 4      44       4 4        4    4                   4    44                   4      4    4 44        4        4    66
                      4                4    4            4      44      44 44 4            4              4       4         4          4 4
                          4         4      444444 4 4            4      4    4444             4            4 44                4       4        5
                           4 4      4        444             4      4        444              44                               44               5 5
              4            4       4       4 4                  4    4       4 4                                  4 4       44 44               5
               4 4                         44                       4 4      4    4 4 4                    4 4        4    4           4    4   5 6
               44 4           4    4                    444                  4 4           4          4            4       44      44           5
                   4      4    4 4      4                            4       44            4                       4       44      4    4       5
               4          4    4 4 4         4                          4    44                4                  4 4               4           5 5
              4    4      4        4 4              4           44 44                4 4              4       4    444             4        4   5
              4        44                                44             4        4             4       4444 4 44            4           44      5 6
                       44      4                4 4      4                    4       44              4    4 4        4            4    4       5
                          4        4        4                    4       4 44 4                4          4        4            44         4    55
              4    444        44    4      4 4          4 4 4        4                4               4        4      44    4                   555
              4                            4444              4          4            44        4          4    44                  4 4          57
               4          44 4 4           4444 4                       44           4                4 44 4 44             444         4 4     576
                  4    44      4        4       4       4444                      4       4    4           4          44       4                56
              4           4    4        44 4                4    4           4                             4 44             444        444      5
                           4        444      44 4                    4 4                       4 4                 4 4          4           4   5 5
                   4               4            44          4           4    4                        4    4 4                     4    4       7
               4                             4          4 4      4            4                                                                 7
                                                                                      4           7

<removed-date>
              !       "     6
              !       "         6
              !       "     )
              !       "    '9    =       4
              !       "
              !       "    #00 ./
<removed-apn>
              !       "     6
              ' 4      C9 '9        '9       <9    <9            < ' 4 /4                             9    9; ' ;     <9
              &                 9 ' ;                 <               9$ /4          ' ; ' 4 '9            C    9$    9$
              '9      /4     9$      <        9    C       9$   C    '        C9         9 /4       /4     <9   <     <
               C9            C      /4             C       C9 ' ; (                   C       '           ' 4   <     9$
                                                                                              5
              '9       9$    9$      9; &             <                  <    9$      C9                  ' 4        /4
              5                                   7                                  7                               6
               <9 ' ;        C9 /4        /4               C9         <      '       &        ' 4     9 (       9$ /4
                                          6
                  9         (       ' 4 /4            < /4       9    <9      9;      <       ' 4     9          < ' 4
                       <9 ' ; ' ;                  C9       9        '9               <             ' ; ' ;     <    /4
               C       9$       <     <       9 (          C9   <9 /4         9;              /4           <         '
                  <    9$ &         ' 4       9 ' ;        9$         <               C9       <9     9    <9            9
                                                                                                                      5
              (       /4    ' ;           /4       <      ' ;        '           9       <                  < ' 4
                                                                                 4        6

<removed-date>
                                          5                                     7                                 7
                      /4     <    '9               <       9           ' 4      <             <     C9            C9
                                   6                                    6
              (        <     C                          C      ' 4 /4           C      ' ;             <    <        9    9;
<removed-apn>
              (         9          C9     <    '           9           &               ' ; '9      ' ; ' 4 ' 4               9
              ' 4 '9        ' 4    9;     9$    <      &       (        C9 /4          '       <    <9 /4        '       '9
                  9          9$       <                    <    <      (       '9       <      9 /4         <9    9; (
              /4                < &        <    C9      C9      9$             /4      (       9            C
                                   5                                    5                                   7
                  < (        C9    C           /4      '9      '       (       '9            ' 4       9
                             7                                  6                                   6
                  9    9$          C9     C             C9 ' 4                  C9                 &       ' ;               <
                       C                  C     <      (                   9       9 (             (       ' ;       < &
                      ' 4    <9 /4        <    /4      ' ;         9    <       9$                  9$                   '9
              &        <    '     '                    ' 4             ' ;      <9 ' ; ' ; ' ;                    C9 ' ;
                  9         &     ' ; /4       /4      '9       C      ' ; ' ; ' ; '                   9    9$       9    C
                                                                5                                   5
                                  '9       9 /4        ' 4      <       <      (        9$    <     C9      9; /4        (
                                                                                   4

<removed-date>
                       7                               7                                 6
               <9           ' 4 ' 4                           ' ;    9; ' ;        <9 ' 4      9$           /4
               6
              ' 4      9$ ' ; ' ; '9              9    <9      <      9            <9         '     '         <    9$
<removed-apn>
                      '9              < '9     <       <9      <     <    /4      '9     C    &     ' 4      <9    C9
              ' ;            C9    C     <     C9 '9                ' 4                 (               9     <
                        <    9$                <9         <         /4        < ' ;      C9
                                                                                         5
               C       <    '           ' 4       9 '9         9$    <9 '                <9    9$ (           <
               5                               7                                   7                               6
               C9 ' ; /4          '9     9$            <9       9 '9      '9             9$    <        < /4       <
                                         6
              (              <    ' ;    C     9$                    9$       <                C     <       <9    <
               9;      C9 /4       C9 /4              ' ;       <    9$    C9      <        9 ' ;    9$ '9         <
                       C9 '9       <9    <9       9       9    C    /4    '       &           '9    ' ;           ' 4
                  9     <                 <    9$                          <       <9    <              9 /4      ' ;
                                                                                                                   5
                      '9        < '                   &         9 ' ;      <      '9    '     /4                   C
                                         5                                 7                                 7
                  9 /4       C    ' ;         '       '9        9    9;    <9            C9         '
                                                                              4

<removed-date>
                                       6                                    6
              '9       C               9$ '         9$ ' 4             < /4                                ' ;    9$              C
                                                                   5                                       5
                      ' 4         9 '              &       (           9           '           <    <9 /4         C      ' ;         9
                      5                                    5                                       5
<removed-apn>
                                        9 /4        <              (               /4      ' 4      <9      9;    <9
              5                                    5                                       5                                     5
                  9               < ' 4             C9 ' ;          C                  9 /4         C       C        9       <    <9
                                           5                                       5                                     5
               C9      C       <      (     <      &       /4       <9             ' ;      C9              C9            C       9$
                                      55                                   55                                    57
               C          9       <         C9 /4           C      &           9 &                 '        9$       <            9;
                              57                                   56                                      56
                                  <    <   (       '           9 ' ;        C      '9      '       '9        < &          C9 ' 4
                      5                                    5                                       7
                               <      /4       9       9    <      ' ;      <      '        C9         < ' ;      <9      <9
              7                                    7                                       7                                     7
              ' ;         9    <9          ' ;                 9 ' 4        <9                         9    <    '       '       ' 4
                                           7                                       7                                     7
                               9$ '9           9    C          9           '        9$      9$ /4                 <      '9      (
                                  7                                        7                                     7
                      '9                    C9 '9           C9      C9                         9 ' ;
                              7                                    75                                      75
              ' ;      <9 ' ; ' ;           C9                 9 /4                &        <       <            ' ;      C      ' ;
                      77                                   77                                      76
                       <9 ' ;              ' ;             '                   9    9$ '9              9    C             <       <
                                                                                       4

<removed-date>
              76                                    7                                 7                                     6
               C9 '9          (        <9      C          ' 4 ' 4 /4                  '9             9; ' ;          <9         <
                                              6                               6                                     6
              &           9       9       9    9$ (       /4            '9    '       '9      ' 4               9       <       9
                                      6                                 6                                   6
<removed-apn>
              /4       9$              C       <     <    /4    /4       C                     C     C9 ' ;             <       9
                              6                                 6                                   6
               C       C9              9$            <9 '9          <                 '             (                   <
                      6                                 6                                     65
                          <    9$      <9           '9    ' 4           /4            ' ; '                 &       /4       C9
              65                                    67                                67                                    66
               C      '9      '               ' 4       9 '9     9$      <9       9    C       <9       9       9
                                              66                              6                                     6
                  9    <9                     ' ;         '9              < ' 4                9$ '9         <      '        C
              /4       <       9$ '                  C9    <     C9      <9    C       9;      <    /4              (       (
              &       ' 4      9$      C9      <    ' ;          C      ' ;    <       <      ' 4    9; ' 4          <9      C
                  9 ' ; /4            ' ;                  <    ' ; /4        (           9     <                       <    9$
                                                                                                                             5
                              /4       <      (      C9 '        C9           '        9$ ' 4 (                 < '9
                                               5                               7                                   7
              /4       C9 /4                         C    ' 4            C     C       C9            C      ' ;              C9
                                       6                                 6
               <          9    9;      <9      C     C9         '        &             '9      '        <       '9      ' 4      9$
                                                                                  4

<removed-date>
               <    '                     &             ' ;      9$      C9       C     <            '        <9 '9
               C    (       ' 4           '         <    <9             &     ' ;       C9            9$       <
<removed-apn>
              /4    &       ' 4           ' ;           '9              '9        9;    <9                     9 &
                <       9   '             '             (           9         (         C        9       < (       /4
                                                            5                                    5
               C     C9     /4      '9     <       <                     <9       <    &       ' 4            <9 '
                      7                                     7                                    6
                     <9      9$       < /4         C             C9 /4                 &              9$       9    <
                      6
              ' 4       <            9; '9        /4             <                         <         (             (
              ' 4       <   &         9    C9            C              /4        <9       9 '        <       <
               C9    9$               < &         ' 4       9       < (                '9      ' ;    C
               C9 ' 4           9     <            <9       <            9; ' 4         9$      <            ' 4 '9
                    (        <9       9       <     9           '       ' 4       9;       9    C9    <             9$
                        5                                   5                                    7
               C        9    9;            <      /4    ' ;                   ' 4       9$ &                       (
                        7                                 6                                      6
                <            <       C9             < ' 4       '9                <     C        9       9          <9
                                                                              4

<removed-date>
                      9          C                &        <9       9            ' ;         <    <     <     9;
                     C9    <9 '9        < '           9    C9       <       C9           &       /4     C     C
<removed-apn>
                < '       /4    ' ;     9     9       <          <      (        '                C    '      9$
               9$               ' 4 '9       <9           '9            (         9$      C9     (      <9       9
                                                                                           5
                    '9      9    C9         '9    &                     &            <    <      ' ;         '
                      5                               7                                      7
                9    <      9 &        9$             <   &                  9    <      ' 4               9 ' ;
                      6                               6
              ' 4                C9 ' 4       9       9    <9    C          C9 '         &        C    ' 4    C9
               9;     9    9$     9    <    ' 4 '9              (                            <   '9        9 '
              ' 4    9;   '9     9$         /4    '       '      9$         <             9;                 /4
              ' ;    C           <     C9 &        <      /4     C9          < /4         C9      C9             <
              /4     <      9                C9       9   &      <9 /4            <               C
                                                      5                                      5
                9     9     9         ' ;     < (                9;         C9            C       C          '
                      7                               7                                      6
                <    <    /4     <    /4     C                < '                ' ;         9    C     C9    9$
                                                                        4

<removed-date>
                        6
              /4    /4       '           9           ' ;    9$       9$                   C9 '9              <9           '9
                    (           9$               9    9; /4         (                    ' 4              '9      &
<removed-apn>
              /4                 <    <              ' 4            ' ;             <9
              !     "
              !     "        7
              !     "      0 '
              !     "      '9 =          4
              !     "
              !     "      #00 ./
              !     "
              4     444 4        4               4                                                   4                    4           5
              4    4 44 4        4    4                    4        44          4            4    4 4         4 44         4
                    4                        4        44 4                  4 4               4444                     4       44     6
              4        4              4 44444          4                   4 44          4        4      4                44 4
                   44       44           4             4                   4             4       4       4            4         4
               4 4 4                 4    4 4          44 44 4                       4                4               4               5
                       4         4        444                  4     4         44 4          4    4      4 4       4       444
               4 444 44          4    4 444                                44        4 4      4 4                     4               6
              444 4 44                   44                    4     4                   4        4       4 4                   4
                    4             4444 4               44       4           4         4              4    4       4       4 4 44     5
                   4                 44      4444      4 4 4 4                 4 444             4 4      4                      4   55
                    4      44        4444               4       4 44 4 444 44                         4       4       4 4       4    7
                       4                                    4444          4 4 4          4 4             4        444 4              76
                       4             4        4         4 4        444     4         4            4          4         44            6
                                                                                4

<removed-date>
              4    4             44        4        44 4                  44           4 4         4                  4      44      4
                    4                      444                  44 4 4                     4                444      4            4        5
               4            4    4          4                       4    4                        4    44 4      4           4       44
                    4          4 44    4 4 4                    4 4       44           44          4      44    44 444 44            44    6
               44          44    4    4    4    4       4        4        4            444             4              4              4
<removed-apn>
               4    4 44                             4       444                  4                   44 44      4           4444
                       4 4       4 4                    44 4        4     4            4          4                  4                     5
                    4      4 4    44       4 44 44           44 4             44 44                         4         4           4
              44    4 4444 44               4        4          4 4      4 4 4         444                 44 4               44           6
              4     4      4     44    4    44                  4            4         4               44            4 4 4 4
                   4    4 4          44 44      4 4      44      4 4         4 4 44 4                  4         4        44      4
               4                           4        44      4 4      4       4444                  4444 4             44      4            5
                  44              4    4 444        4       444 4        444          4 4             4        4 4 4 4                4   5
              4    444      4    4                          4             4      4         4                    44    4       4 4 4       56
               4       4          4    4       4                              4                   4 444 44                4 4        44   7
              4 4      444       4 4 44             4 4 44 4             44           4                              4        4      4    6
              44       44             4        4    4 4 44 4 4            44                               44        4           4        65
               4           4     4     4 4              44               44 4         4           4 4      4    44            4
                    4 4               4             4                     4      4                 4 4           4    4          44        6
              4        4    4    4 4       4                                                       4 4 4              444 4 444
              4            4     44 4 4 4            4          4            4            4        4 444                     4
              4     4444          4         4        4                           4 44              4 4                44 4 4               5
              4    4              4       44                4             4 44 44 4                         4    4       4    4      4
              4     4      44    4 4        4       4 4                  4    44444 4 4                    4     4 4      44 44            6
                           444 4       4    4               444           4      44               444 44              4      4
               4       4 4       44 4      444          4    4      4     4 4         4 4          4        444       44 44          44
                                                                                  4           5

<removed-date>
               4           4 4          4      4    4       4    4444         4 4                         4            4 444 4444 4              5
                  4 4      4           4                4        4 4                       4          4        4      4     4               4
               4              44    444 4                   4 4              4                        4        44 44 4                           6
               4      44       4        4                       4       4             4 4                     4 44         444      44 4        5
                       4                        4 4      4 44 4          4    44           44         4 44 4          4         44              7
<removed-apn>
              4 444        4                                4                 4           4               4            4       4    44 4        75
               4 4         44       4      4 44          4 444444                         44              44      444       4444         4      6
                          444           44 4        4    4          4        4    444 4               4           4         444                 66
                      4                 4           4            44444        4            4           4              4         4
                                   4 4      44 4        4       44                 4           4       4 44           4    4    4 4      44
                                            4      4             4      4    4    4444                     4          4        4444 4            5
               444 444                 4                        44 4          4 4          44         4        4            444 4 44
               4                   4       44      44            4 4 4 4           4 4 4               4                   4    44               6
               4      4    444         4        4           4                4    4            4          44      4444      4       4
              4       4        4           4 4                  4        4       4444444              4    4      4 44 44            4
               4 44                4       4                     4 4 4             444                 4      4       44 4           44          5
                                   44              4             4      4        4 4                      4    4      4    4
                      4 4      4 4 44               4    4                       44                           4 4 4         4 4 4                6
               4 4        4 4              4    4 4 4 4             4 4                       44 4                    4    4        4    4
                       4      44       44                4      4    44       4                                4      44            4           5
                       4      44       4    4       4           4    44      4     4                              4 44                  4       55
                      4 4               4          4     4      4       4    4             4              44 44                4 4       4      7
                  4    444             4        44           44                                4 4                4        4            4 4     76
              444 4 44 4                    44               44      4                4 4 4                            4        44       4      6
               4 4        4            4    4                   4       4         4                        4       444      4           4
              4        4            44         4 4       444        44 4         4 4          4       4 4      4                4        4       5
                                                                                      4           7

<removed-date>
                   4      44 4                   4                         4444              4        4            44         4
              4    44                4 4            4         44 44        4444 4                     44           4           4   6
              44 4 44          4 44         4 4         4    44    4      4    4    44 44                         4    4      4
               4          44     4               4            4    4      44 4              4    4        4
               4 44            4 44      444                   4       4 44   44 4                   4 4                      44   5
<removed-apn>
                       4 4          4           4        4          4          44           4         4 4                      4
               4 4                   4      4       4                         4     4       4    4         4                       7
              !       "
              !       "
              !       "     )
              !       "    '9    =       4
              !       "
              !       "         D 9
              !       "
                  <       <     <       <       9       <     <     <     <    9       <        <     <       <       9       <
                  <       <     <       9       <       <     <     <     9    <       <        <     <       9       <       <
                  <       <     9       <       <       <     <     9     <    <       <        <     9       <       <       <
                  <       9     <       <       <       <     9     <     <    <       <        9     <       <       <       <
                                                                                            5
                  9       <     <       <       <       9     <     <     <    <       9        <     <       <       <       9
              5                                     7                              7                                      6
                  <       <     <       <       9       <     <     <     <    9       <        <     <       <       9       <
                                            6
                  <       <     <       9       <       <     <     <     9    <       <        <     <       9       <       <
                                                                              4         6

<removed-date>
              <   <    9    <    <   <   <    9    <    <   <   <    9    <    <    <
              <   9    <    <    <   <   9    <    <    <   <   9    <    <    <    <
<removed-apn>
              9   <    <    <    <   9   <    <    <    <   9   <    <    <    <    9
                                                                                   5
              <   <    <    <    9   <   <    <    <    9   <   <    <    <    9    <
                                5                      7                      7
              <   <    <    9    <   <   <    <    9    <   <   <    <    9    <    <
                           6                      6
              <   <    9    <    <   <   <    9    <    <   <   <    9    <    <    <
              <   9    <    <    <   <   9    <    <    <   <   9    <    <    <    <
              9   <    <    <    <   9   <    <    <    <   9   <    <    <    <    9
              <   <    <    <    9   <   <    <    <    9   <   <    <    <    9    <
              <   <    <    9    <   <   <    <    9    <   <   <    <    9    <    <
                           5                      5                      7
              <   <    9    <    <   <   <    9    <    <   <   <    9    <    <    <
                      7                      6                      6
              <   9    <    <    <   <   9    <    <    <   <   9    <    <    <    <
              9   <    <    <    <   9   <    <    <    <   9   <    <    <    <    9
                                                       4

<removed-date>
                  <       <       <   <    9    <    <    <   <   9    <    <    <   <   9    <
                  <       <       <   9    <    <    <    <   9   <    <    <    <   9   <    <
<removed-apn>
                  <       <       9   <    <    <    <    9   <   <    <    <    9   <   <    <
                                                         5                      5
                  <       9       <   <    <    <    9    <   <   <    <    9    <   <   <    <
                       7                            7                      6
                  9       <       <   <    <    9    <    <   <   <    9    <    <   <   <    9
               6
                  <       <       <   <    9    <    <    <   <   9    <    <    <   <   9    <
                  <       <       <   9    <    <    <    <   9   <    <    <    <   9   <    <
                  <       <       9   <    <    <    <    9   <   <    <    <    9   <   <    <
                  <       9       <   <    <    <    9    <   <   <    <    9    <   <   <    <
                                                                           5
                  9       <       <   <    <    9    <    <   <   <    9    <    <   <   <    9
               5                               7                      7                      6
                  <       <       <   <    9    <    <    <   <   9    <    <    <   <   9    <
                                          6
                  <       <       <   9
              !       "
              !       "    6
              !       "       )
                                                                  4   5

<removed-date>
              !       "    '9    =     4
              !       "
              !       "         D 9
              !       "
              !       "    )   '
              !       "    > ? >   ?
<removed-apn>
              !       "      <2 <2 9 9 ; 4                     $        :
              !       "
              !       "    )     '
              !       "    >     ?    >6 ?
              !       "        <2    <2 <2         <2     9 9 ; 4       $               :
              !       "
                  <       <     9     <       <       9    <   <    9   <       <       9   <   <   9       <
                  <       9     <     <       9       <    <   9    <   <       9       <   <   9   <       <
                  9       <     <     9       <       <    9   <    <   9       <       <   9   <   <       9
                  <       <     9     <       <       9    <   <    9   <       <       9   <   <   9       <
                                                                                    5
                  <       9     <     <       9       <    <   9    <   <       9       <   <   9   <       <
              5                                   7                         7                           6
                  9       <     <     9       <       <    9   <    <   9       <       <   9   <   <       9
                                          6
                  <       <     9     <       <       9    <   <    9   <       <       9   <   <   9       <
                  <       9     <     <       9       <    <   9    <   <       9       <   <   9   <       <
                  9       <     <     9       <       <    9   <    <   9       <       <   9   <   <       9
                                                                        4       5

<removed-date>
              <   <    9    <    <   9   <    <    9    <   <   9    <    <    9    <
                                                                                   5
              <   9    <    <    9   <   <    9    <    <   9   <    <    9    <    <
                                5                      7                      7
<removed-apn>
              9   <    <    9    <   <   9    <    <    9   <   <    9    <    <    9
                           6                      6
              <   <    9    <    <   9   <    <    9    <   <   9    <    <    9    <
              <   9    <    <    9   <   <    9    <    <   9   <    <    9    <    <
              9   <    <    9    <   <   9    <    <    9   <   <    9    <    <    9
              <   <    9    <    <   9   <    <    9    <   <   9    <    <    9    <
              <   9    <    <    9   <   <    9    <    <   9   <    <    9    <    <
                           5                      5                      7
              9   <    <    9    <   <   9    <    <    9   <   <    9    <    <    9
                      7                      6                      6
              <   <    9    <    <   9   <    <    9    <   <   9    <    <    <    <
              9   <    <    <    <   9   <    <    <    <   9   <    <    <    <    9
              <   <    <    <    9   <   <    <    <    9   <   <    <    <    9    <
              <   <    <    9    <   <   <    <    9    <   <   <    <    9    <    <
                                                       4    5

<removed-date>
               <    <   9   <    <    <    <    9   <   <    <    <    9   <   <    <
                                               5                      5
               <    9   <   <    <    <    9    <   <   <    <    9    <   <   <    <
                   7                      7                      6
<removed-apn>
               9    <   <   <    <    9    <    <   <   <    9    <    <   <   <    9
              6
               <    <   <   <    9    <    <    <   <   9    <    <    <   <   9    <
               <    <   <   9    <    <    <    <   9   <    <    <    <   9   <    <
               <    <   9   <    <    <    <    9   <   <    <    <    9   <   <    <
               <    9   <   <    <    <    9    <   <   <    <    9    <   <   <    <
                                                                 5
               9    <   <   <    <    9    <    <   <   <    9    <    <   <   <    9
              5                      7                      7                      6
               <    <   <   <    9    <    <    <   <   9    <    <    <   <   9    <
                                6
               <    <   <   9    <    <    <    <   9   <    <    <    <   9   <    <
               <    <   9   <    <    <    <    9   <   <    <    <    9   <   <    <
               <    9   <   <    <    <    9    <   <   <    <    9    <   <   <    <
               9    <   <   <    <    9    <    <   <   <    9    <    <   <   <    9
                                                                                   5
                                                        4   5

<removed-date>
                  <       <       <       <       9       <       <       <       <       9       <       <       <       <       9       <
                                               5                                       7                                       7
                  <       <       <       9       <       <       <       <       9       <       <       <       <       9       <       <
                                       6                                       6
<removed-apn>
                  <       <       9       <       <       <       <       9       <       <       <       <       9       <       <       <
                                                                      5                                       5
                  <       9       <       <       <       <       9       <       <       <       <       9       <       <       <       <
                      5                                       5                                       5
                  9       <       <       <       <       9       <       <       <       <       9       <       <       <       <       9
              5                                       5                                       5                                       5
                  <       <       <       <       9       <       <       <       <       9       <       <       <       <       9       <
                                              5                                       5                                       5
                  <       <       <       9       <       <       <       <       9       <       <       <       <       9       <       <
                                      55                                      55                                      57
                  <       <       9       <       <       <       <       9       <       <       <       <       9       <       <       <
                              57                                      56                                      56
                  <       9       <       <       <       <       9       <       <       <       <       9       <       <       <       <
                      5                                       5                                       7
                  9       <       <       <       <       9       <       <       <       <       9       <       <       <       <       9
              7                                       7                                       7                                       7
                  <       <       <       <       9       <       <       <       <       9       <       <       <       <       9       <
                                              7                                       7                                       7
                  <       <       <       9       <       <       <       <       9       <       <       <       <       9       <       <
                                      7                                       7                                       7
                  <       <       9       <       <       <       <       9       <       <       <       <       9       <       <       <
                              7                                       75                                      75
                                                                                          4       5

<removed-date>
                  <       9     <     <    <       <     9   <   <   <       <     9   <   <   <       <
                      77                               77                        76
                  9       <     <     <    <       9     <   <   <   <       9     <   <   <   <       9
              76                               7                         7                         6
<removed-apn>
              !       "
              !       "    7
              !       "     )
              !       "    '9    =     4
              !       "
              !       "         D 9
              !       "
                  9       <     <     9    <       <     9
              !       "
              !       "
              !       "     )
              !       "    '9    =     4
              !       "
              !       "         D 9
              !       "
                  <       <     9     <    <       9     <   <   9   <       <     9   <   <   <
              !       "
              !       "     5
              !       "     )
              !       "    '9    =     4
              !       "
              !       "         D 9
              !       "
                  <       <     9     <    <       9     <   <   <   <       9     <   <   <   <       9
                                                                     4       5

<removed-date>
              !       "
              !       "     6
              !       "     )
              !       "    '9      =     4
              !       "
              !       "           D 9
              !       "
<removed-apn>
                  <       <       9     <    <    9    <   <    9   <   <        9   <   <   9   <
                  <       9
              !       "       5
              !       "
              !       "     )
              !       "    '9      =     4
              !       "
              !       "           D 9
              !       "
              !       "    )   '
              !       "    > ? > ?
              !       "      <2 <2 <2            <2   9 9 ; 4       $        :
              !       "       5
                  <       <       <     <    9    <    <   <    <   9   <        <   <   <   9
              !       "       7
              !       "
              !       "     )
              !       "    '9      =     4
              !       "
              !       "           D 9
              !       "
              !       "    )   '
              !       "    > ? >   ?
              !       "      <2 <2 <2            <2   9 9 ; 4       $         :
                                                                    4   55

<removed-date>
              !       "       7
                  <       <       <     <       9       <    <   <   <    9       <        <       <   <   9       <
                  <       <       <     9       <       <    <   <   9    <       <        <       <   9   <       <
<removed-apn>
                  <       <       9     <       <       <    <   9   <    <       <        <       9   <   <       <
                  <       9       <     <       <       <    9   <   <    <       <        9       <   <   <       <
                                                                                       5
                  9       <       <     <       <       9    <   <   <    <       9        <       <   <   <       9
              5                                     7                         7                                6
                  <       <       <     <       9       <    <   <   <    9       <        <       <   <   9       <
                                            6
                  <       <       <     9
              !       "       6
              !       "
              !       "     )
              !       "    '9      =     4
              !       "
              !       "           D 9
              !       "
              !       "    )   '
              !       "    > ? > ?
              !       "      <2 <2 <2                <2     9    9 ; 4   %        $            :
              !       "       6
                  <       <       <     <       9       <    <   <   <    9       <        <       <   <   9
              !       "
              !       "    7
                                                                         4        57

<removed-date>
              !     "     )
              !     "    '9   =      4
              !     "
              !     "         4843          D 9
              !     "
              !     "    &    . ' )
<removed-apn>
              !     "    > ? > ?
              !     "    .B 4    484
              !     "
               <             C9 '9    ' 4         C9
              !     "
              !     "    7
              !     "     )
              !     "    '9   =      4
              !     "
              !     "         4843          D 9
              !     "
              !     "    &    . ' )
              !     "    > ? > ?
              !     "    .B 4    484
              !     "
              ' ;    C       C9 '9    /4    /4     <
              !     "
              !     "    6
              !     "     )
              !     "    '9   =      4
              !     "
              !     "         4843          D 9
              !     "
              !     "    &    . ' )
              !     "    > ? > ?
              !     "    .B 4     484
                                                       4   56

<removed-date>
              !       "
               C9 &           C9 '9              /4     <   <
              !       "
              !       "   6
              !       "    )
<removed-apn>
              !       "   '9      =     4
              !       "
              !       "        4843              D 9
              !       "
              !       "   &        . '      )
              !       "   > ?      > ?
              !       "   +4       D9             484
              !       "
                  9    9$     C    '9        9    C9    <   <
              !       "
              !       "   6
              !       "    )
              !       "   '9      =     4
              !       "
              !       "        4843              D 9
              !       "
              !       "   :    = 4 9
              !       "   > ? > ?
              !       "   ./ 4     484
              !       "
                            /4     '9            /4     <   <
              !       "
              !       "   6
              !       "    )
              !       "   '9      =     4
              !       "
                                                                4   5

<removed-date>
              !     "         4843            D 9
              !     "
              !     "   :    = 4 9
              !     "   > ? > ?
              !     "   . B4    484
              !     "
<removed-apn>
               9$             < '9            /4    <     <
              !     "
              !     "   6
              !     "    )
              !     "   '9    =      4
              !     "
              !     "         4843            D 9
              !     "
              !     "   :      = 4 9
              !     "   > ?    > ?
              !     "   .B4      484
              !     "
                              < '9       C9 /4      <     <
              !     "     5
              !     "   6
              !     "    )
              !     "   '9    =      4
              !     "
              !     "         4843            D 9
              !     "
              !     "   :   = 4 9
              !     "   > ? > ?
              !     "   . 4 > C9$:3            ?    484
              !     "     5
                     C9     9$ '9         9             /4
                                                              4   7

<removed-date>
              !    "       7
              !    "    6
              !    "     )
              !    "    '9     =      4
              !    "
              !    "           4843           D 9
<removed-apn>
              !    "
              !    "    :       = 4 9
              !    "    > ?     > ?
              !    "      4     4 2            484
              !    "       7
                       <    9$ /4         9     < /4   9$
              !    "       6
              !    "    6
              !    "     )
              !    "    '9     =      4
              !    "
              !    "           4843           D 9
              !    "
              !    "    :     = 4 9
              !    "    > ? > ?
              !    "      94 E<: 2#            484
              !    "       6
              /4   ' 4         < ' ;      9
              !    "
              !    "    6
              !    "     )
              !    "    '9     =      4
              !    "
              !    "           4843           D 9
              !    "
                                                            4   7

<removed-date>
              !       "   :    = 4        9
              !       "   > ? > ?
              !       "   && 2            484
              !       "
                  <    9$ ' 4      <            <   < ' 4
<removed-apn>
              !       "
              !       "   6
              !       "    )
              !       "   '9   =      4
              !       "
              !       "        4843           D 9
              !       "
              !       "   :    = 4        9
              !       "   > ? > ?
              !       "   && 2            484
              !       "
                  <    9$ ' 4      <          '9    < ' 4
              !       "
              !       "   6
              !       "    )
              !       "   '9   =      4
              !       "
              !       "        4843           D 9
              !       "
              !       "   :    = 4        9
              !       "   > ? > ?
              !       "   && 2 7          484
              !       "
              ' 4      9$          <          '9      '9
              !       "
              !       "   6
                                                            4   7

<removed-date>
              !   "    )
              !   "   '9    =     4
              !   "
              !   "        4843           D 9
              !   "
              !   "   :    = 4        9
<removed-apn>
              !   "   > ? > ?
              !   "   && 2            484
              !   "
               9$ ' 4           9$        /4    ' 4
              !   "
              !   "   7
              !   "    )
              !   "   '9    =     4
              !   "
              !   "        4843           D 9
              !   "
              !   "   :      = 4 9
              !   "   >5?    >7?
              !   "     /      484
              !   "
                  '             <9    C           <
              !   "
              !   "   6
              !   "    )
              !   "   '9    =     4
              !   "
              !   "        4843           D 9
              !   "
              !   "   :      = 4 9
              !   "   > ?    > ?
              !   "         9$D 4              484
                                                      4   7

<removed-date>
              !   "
              ' ; ' ; ' ;         <            /4    <     <
              !   "
              !   "   6
              !   "    )
<removed-apn>
              !   "   '9      =       4
              !   "
              !   "         4843               D 9
              !   "
              !   "   :        = 4        9
              !   "   >5?      >7?
              !   "     9$     4           > )           , ?   484
              !   "
                        /4                C          <    9$
              !   "     5
              !   "   6
              !   "    )
              !   "   '9      =       4
              !   "
              !   "         4843               D 9
              !   "
              !   "   :      = 4 9
              !   "   > ? > ?
              !   "     $9 4    '
              !   "     5
                   9$     <       C9       <     9         9
              !   "     7
              !   "
              !   "    )
              !   "   '9      =       4
              !   "
                                                                 4   7

<removed-date>
              !     "         4843                D 9
              !     "     7
               C9             9      C    '       ' ;   C    C9 '9
              !     "     6
<removed-apn>
              !     "
              !     "     )
              !     "    '9      =       4
              !     "
              !     "         484
              !     "     6
                  9 /4        9              C9     9   <        C9 '9
              !     "
              !     "
              !     "     )
              !     "    '9      =       4
              !     "
              !     "         484
              !     "
              ' ;    C            ' 4               <    <    < /4   '9
              !     "
              !     "    7
              !     "     )
              !     "    '9      =       4
              !     "
              !     "         484
              !     "
               C9    C9      <               <     9$ '9
              !     "
              !     "
                                                                      4   7

<removed-date>
              !     "     )
              !     "    '9    =     4
              !     "
              !     "         48
              !     "
              ' 4         '9       9$ '9      /4   /4   <   < ' 4
<removed-apn>
              !     "
              !     "
              !     "     )
              !     "    '9    =     4
              !     "
              !     "         484
              !     "
              '9    '9    '9    '9
              !     "
              !     "    5
              !     "     )
              !     "    '9    =     4
              !     "
              !     "         484
              !     "
              '9     <    '9    '9       <    '9
              !     "
              !     "
              !     "     )
              !     "    '9    =     4
              !     "
              !     "         484
              !     "
              '9    '9    '9    '9        9
                                                               4    75

<removed-date>
              !     "
              !     "
              !     "     )
              !     "    '9    =     4
              !     "
              !     "         484
<removed-apn>
              !     "
                    /4     9$ '9            <
              !     "     5
              !     "
              !     "     )
              !     "    '9    =     4
              !     "
              !     "         484       4 %        D 9
              !     "     5
               C9         ' ;      9$ '9          9    C                '9    '        9$ '       ' ;   <   <9
                     9$    C       9;           ' ;                <
              !     "     7
              !     "
              !     "    0 '
              !     "    '9 =        4
              !     "
              !     "          62.F%2/@.20A0            F    C /              4    4 % #      @          =$9 ; -
                         /@.2
              !     "     7
                     4     4                 4     4       444 4    4             4                                5
                     4                  4         4                          4
              !     "     6
              !     "    56
              !     "    0 '
                                                                         4        77

<removed-date>
              !       "    '9      =   4
              !       "
              !       "             2 ) 82 /@.2 ;49 4       0A0    > 2 75 4:         $ 4    %? F   C 5 (        4 %
                            $            =$9 ; - /@.2
              !       "     6
                  4         4                4         4       4    4      4     4     4                    4         5
<removed-apn>
                  4 4                                                                                                 56
              !       "
              !       "
              !       "    0 '
              !       "    '9 =        4
              !       "
              !       "            62 .F% 2 /@.20A0     F   C /              4    4 % #     @          =$9 ; -
                           /@.2
              !       "
                       4       4            4     4   444 4   4            4                                          5
                       4                4        4                     4
              !       "    5
              !       "    7
              !       "    0 '
              !       "    '9 =        4
              !       "
              !       "         2 ) 82 /@. 0A0         > 2 77 4:       $ 4      %? F    C 5(     4 %    $
                           =$9 ; - /@.2
              !       "    5
                  4         4                4         4       4    4                   4   4   444                   5
              44                                                                                                      7
              !       "    5
              !       "
              !       "    0 '
              !       "    '9 =        4
              !       "
              !       "            62 .F% 2 /@.20A0     F   C /              4    4 % #     @          =$9 ; -
                           /@.2
              !       "    5
                                                                   4       76

<removed-date>
                       4       4           4     4   444 4     4            4                                           5
                       4               4        4                       4
              !       "    5
              !       "    5
              !       "    0 '
              !       "    '9 =       4
<removed-apn>
              !       "
              !       "            2 ) 82/@.20A0  49       4    '   > 2             4:   $ 4     % ? F   C 5(     4 %
                            $           =$9 ; - /@.2
              !       "    5
                  4         4               4         4         4   4                4 4     4            4             5
                                                                                                                        5
              !       "    5
              !       "
              !       "    0 '
              !       "    '9 =       4
              !       "
              !       "            62 .F% 2 /@.20A0    F   C /                  4    4 % #     @         =$9 ; -
                           /@.2
              !       "    5
                       4       4           4     4   444 4     4            4                                           5
                       4               4        4                       4
              !       "    5
              !       "    5
              !       "    0 '
              !       "    '9 =       4
              !       "
              !       "         2) 82 /@.20A0 '        > 27 5 4:         $ 4        % ? F    C 5(     4 %     $
                           =$9 ; - /@.2
              !       "    5
                  4         4               4         4         4   4                4 4     4            4             5
                                                                                                                        5
              !       "    5
              !       "
                                                                    4       7

<removed-date>
              !       "    0 '
              !       "    '9 =         4
              !       "
              !       "        $   % 8         $9
              !       "    5
                  4        4            44 44            4       4        4             4        444         44      444            4    5
<removed-apn>
                  4                 4       4    4    4 4         4                    4            4        44           44 4
                  4    44      4    4 4         4            4                 4                         4 4         4                   6
                       444                                        4            4           4     4                             44
              4 4 4 4          4    4 444                                          44               4        4        4 44 44
              4        4      4    4    44            44          4       44 4                      4                44             4    5
              44       4            4                 4 4        4 44 44                            4       4                  4
                   4 44 44         4    4      44     4 4        4             4                        4 44              4    4         6
              4                4    4          44    44                   4            4        4 4             4              4
              4    4 4                          4         4               4                                     4    4    4             5
                   4           4                      4      4        4 4                  4            4    4            4 4           55
                          4 4              4    4    4    44                   4 44                 4    4            4                 7
              4 44 4                   4                     44       4                4    4            4       4                      76
                          4                4                 4            4                     4       4444               4    4       6
                          4 4                   4            44 4                 4                 4
                           4       444 444           4           44           4        4            4    4            4 4                5
              4           4             44           4            44                   4    4               4
                       4 4 4                         4           4    4                4            4    4 4               4    4        6
                          4 4       4                44          44       4 4 4         4 4         4                 4 44 4
                  4 4                  4              4      44 4 4 4                               4       4        4444      4    4
              444          4       4                  4 4 4               4    4            4           44      4    4    4         4    5
                          4    4        44               44           4 4              44       4 4             4    4
                                                                                   4        6

<removed-date>
              !       "    55
              !       "
              !       "    0 '
              !       "    '9 =         4
              !       "
              !       "         6 2=F% F          C   C
              !       "    55
<removed-apn>
                   4      4 4       4 4       44               4
              !       "    57
              !       "
              !       "    0 '
              !       "    '9 =         4
              !       "
              !       "             29 8 F        C   4
              !       "    57
                      4             4        4            4            4        4       4
              !       "    56
              !       "
              !       "    0 '
              !       "    '9 =         4
              !       "
              !       "     @    2.@02/@.20A0             F    C ./               4             4 % #   @
              !       "    56
                                 4      4     44 4 4 4                  4                                   4   5
                            4        4                             4
              !       "    5
              !       "     7
              !       "    0 '
              !       "    '9 =         4
              !       "
              !       "     @    2) 82 .          F   C       $;    $%$     4 %     $
              !       "    5
                  4    44       4        4    4            44                           4   4                    7
              !       "    7
              !       "
                                                                            4       6

<removed-date>
              !       "   0 '
              !       "   '9 =           4
              !       "
              !       "     @     2 .F%2 /@. 0 0 0A0                $           $       $ F    C #    @
              !       "   7
                                    4    4    4               4 4
<removed-apn>
              !       "   7
              !       "
              !       "   0 '
              !       "   '9 =           4
              !       "
              !       "     @ 72) 82/@.            0A0    $     $ F     C       $)/
              !       "   7
                  4         4     4 4                      4            4 4          4
              !       "   7
              !       "
              !       "    )
              !       "   '9      =      4
              !       "
              !       "   /@.20 0 0A0
              !       "   7
              &               9$ ' 4 '9            C    ' 4     < /4                     ' 4         ' 4
                       9$       <     C9           <    ' 4           <     C9 '9            < '9        9     9    C9
              ' 4 '9          <         9          C      <     9 ' ;       C    /4      '      C9    C      ' ;       <
                  9 &         <9        9    C    ' 4     <    <9   <        9      <9               ' 4       <       <
                                                                                         5
               <              <     '9        9    C      9                  < ' ;        C          '         <    <
              5                                   7                            7                                   6
                                                                            4       6

<removed-date>
              '9      /4        9             9 /4         <9             <          C     C      ' ;           (
                                          6
               C      /4    '         <    C9 /4           C9             < ' ;           '9      /4        9 &         9$
               <9 ' 4           9    <        <            <9                  C9         ' 4       <    <9      <9     <
<removed-apn>
                        9       <         ' 4      <9       <    C    /4      ' 4 '9              ' ;       <       9    <
              '        C            /4                      9 ' ; '9           <9    C    '        <     C9      <       <
                                                                                                                        5
                       <        < '        C      '              C    ' 4           ' ; ' ;        C    &        C9
                                           5                                   7                                 7
                        <    C9            C9         9 ' ;      9$    <9 ' ;        C    ' 4 '             9    9; ' 4
                                     6                                 6
                        9       9     <                    9;    <            '9    ' 4       9    9$    9$         9    9
                  9    <    '                 9       9     <         &              <        <          9;
               <                           <          9    C9     9 /4         C    ' 4 '9         <    (        9$
              /4      ' ;    9$            9$      C      /4    ' 4            <           <       C9            <
               <      ' 4       <     <                    <    ' 4    <       9$ ' 4                            <9 ' 4
                                     5                                 5                                 7
              '9       C9    <      ' 4                     < &       /4             <9       <    9;    C9 ' ; (
                             7                                   6                                 6
                                                                               4     6

<removed-date>
                  9 ' 4      <        9    9$ /4         <     9$ ' 4      < &              <9 '9                 <
              /4        9    9$    <      ' 4 '9         C9    <           9         (             '             &
               <                  '9       <    /4      ' ;     <   <      9    <     9$               <
<removed-apn>
                      ' ;             <          <      /4           9    C9          <     9$      <      /4    (
                  9     <    <    '9       <9    9$      9$     <   C9     9             9 '9      ' ;      <    '
                                                               5                            5
               C9      <           <      '9    '         9         9;          <        9 '                      <
                       7                                 7                            6
               9$       <          <            /4       C9     <          9 (        C     <          9    C    ' ;
               6
              '       '9     <9    C       C9    C        9     <         <           <9                   ' 4 '9
              ' ;      <          ' ; (             9    C      9        /4                 C9 /4                 <
              ' 4 ' ; ' ; '9              ' ; ' 4 /4           <    C9 '9        9 /4       C9 /4          '9
               9$       <         (       '         9         /4    <           <    (         < ' 4         < /4
                                                                                      5
              ' 4 &         ' ;       <         ' ;                       9$                <          < ' ;
               5                                 7                              7                                 6
              '9                  (        C9 /4         C9 ' 4      9 /4      '9              9    <9       <
                                           6
                                                                          4      6

<removed-date>
              ' ;               &       ' ;    9; ' ;           < '9          < '9                        /4     <
                9    9$ /4       <9 ' 4           <    <     C9      <        <            <          < '        <9 '
                < '                 < ' ; ' ;          C             C9    9$         9       <           ' 4            9$
<removed-apn>
              '9    /4          ' ;      C        < '       ' 4      9;    <              (           < ' ;      <
                                                                                                                         5
              ' ;                <            (           9 ' ;      9$    <      ' 4             '        9$ '9        &
                                         5                                 7                                   7
               C9 '9       C        9                 ' 4    <      ' 4 /4                 C9         9    9$    C9      C
                                 6                                   6
                    ' 4    <    (       '9    ' 4 /4            9    9$            9$      <9             '9    '        <
                                                            5                                     5
              '9     <9 ' ; /4           <        9    <        9 ' ;         < '9                 <             <          <
                    5                                 5                                   5
              ' 4         ' 4       9    <9 ' 4 ' 4 ' 4              <    ' 4         < '9            < /4      '9      /4
              5                             5                                     5                                     5
              ' 4    9; '9               9$       < '9       <                    '        <       9$      <        <
                                        5                                 5                                     5
              /4     <9                  <        <    C9    9$      <    '                C9      <      '9        9
                                55                                  55                                    57
                9    <9    9$ ' ;                      <    '             ' 4      <                        <    <       C
                          57                                56                                    56
               <     9$    9$       <          <9 &         ' ;           '9          < ' ;        <      /4     9$      <
                    5                             5                                     7
                                                                              4       6

<removed-date>
              ' 4            <       9$    <     <9      <9 ' ;           <                    C             9$           ' ;
              7                                 7                                     7                                   7
                       C        9 ' ; (         (        C9 &          <       <9      <            ' ;         <    C    &
                                      7                                       7                                     7
              (        <     C9 &           9       < /4         9$       <       9                  9$ ' ; ' 4 /4
<removed-apn>
                                7                                     7                                 7
                        9       9    9$             9 (         '9        9    <      '9        9               9    <    '9
                            7                                   75                                  75
               9$      9$ &         /4     <            /4       <     9$ ' 4 ' ; '                         '9      ' 4
                      77                                77                        76
                  <                  <     C9    <       C9      <            '        <9 ' ;                        <    &
              76                                7                                     7                                   6
                  9 &           <    <    /4        9       <    <             <       9$      9$       < &         /4    '9
                                          6                                   6                                     6
              (             '       '9     <    /4      ' 4                   '9       <       9$    <       C      (
                                    6                                 6                                     6
                  <    <             <9 ' 4      9$         <          C9 /4           <                <    <      '      C9
                            6                                   6                                   6
               <      /4     <      '9    ' ; '9         <       9; '          <       C9 ' ; (             /4       <    ' ;
                      6                                 6                                 65
              ' 4      C9    <        9    C9               < &       ' 4 (            <9            C9      C      ' ;       <
              65                                67                                    67                                  66
                       <     <9            C     9$         <          <               <9 /4                /4            ' ;
                                          66                                  6                                     6
               <9      <        <     9 '        9$         <    C9    C      '9                    /4          < '        <
                                                                                  4       65

<removed-date>
                  <    <      9 (           9$       9 /4         <       <       <      <       '9    /4       C9
              /4              <      <                                    C    ' ;          <          /4    '       /4     <
              '9       9$ &         <    ' ;              C9 (            C             /4       /4              9       < '9
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                            5
               <9                                          <      <    ' 4                  9 /4       /4       9; ' ; '9
                                            5                                     7                                 7
              (               9              9 /4        /4               <              C9       <9                  <    /4
                                    6                                     6
               <        <           <        < '          C    ' ;            <                   '     '        ' ;            C9
                  9     9   '                       /4                     ' ;         9$ /4       ' ;       C        < '
                  9    9;     <     /4          9     9               <    ' 4 ' ;           C9 '9           <    /4       9$
                      ' ;       9       9    9$ ' 4        C9         <    (       '        '               &        <
               C9 &         /4      ' ;         9     9    <       '9                        C9        9    ' ; /4         C
                                                              5                                        5
                      ' ;     <     '        <            /4       ' ;        9$             9$       <9          ' ; /4
                        7                                     7                                        6
               <              <9 ' ;         C9      <        9       <                 9              <    ' ;      <    ' 4
                        6
               <       C      <     ' ;      C9           ' 4      ' 4        <9 ' 4 (             /4        <    ' 4
                                                                                   4        67

<removed-date>
              (           <     <    /4      /4     C9      9;    '9       C9 ' 4          C9              <     9$
                  9    <                     '9    '              '9            '            <    <9             <
               9; '9            <9 '           9    <      ' 4     9$ ' 4          <             /4        C9    <
<removed-apn>
              (        9$             9$           ' 4      <      9$ /4                   <     /4               <   <
                        5                                    5                                       7
              (       ' 4      (      <       9$    9$       <     <                    ' ;
                        7                                    6                                       6
               C9      <       /4    ' ;      9$           ' ;     <       9$ /4           <              /4    ' 4    <
              '9      '9        C    ' 4       9       <    <      <    /4         C9            '         9$     9 ' ;
               9$              (      <                     <     (        <    ' ; /4           /4       '           C9
               <               ' 4    <                     9$
              !       "    7
              !       "     77
              !       "     )
              !       "    '9 =          4
              !       "
              !       "    /@.20A0
              !       "    7
                  9             9    <    '9       9$      9$ &       /4       <             /4       <       9$ ' 4 ' ;
              '               '9    ' 4             <                  <       C9      <       C9     <          '     <9
                                                                               4        66

<removed-date>
              ' ;                  <    &           9 &           <    <    /4        9     <    <           <     9$
               9$     < &         /4    '9      (             '       '9     <    /4      ' 4               '9     <
                                                                                          5
<removed-apn>
               9$    <     C      (                 <    <             <9 ' 4      9$       <          C9 /4       <
              5                                 7                                 7                               6
                      <    <      '      C9      <      /4     <      '9    ' ; '9         <     9; '        <     C9
                                        6
              ' ; (       /4       <    ' ; ' 4          C9    <        9    C9             < &       ' 4 (        <9
                     C9    C      ' ;       <            <     <9            C     9$       <          <           <9
              /4          /4            ' ;      <9      <        <     9 '        9$       <    C9    C    '9
                    /4        < '        <          <    <        9 (        9$       9 /4       <     <     <     <
                                                                                                                   5
              '9    /4     C9                   /4                <     <                              C    ' ;       <
                                         5                                   7                               7
                    /4    '       /4     <      '9       9$ &          <    ' ;            C9 (        C          /4
                                   6                                   6
              /4              9       < '9       <9                                         <    <    ' 4             9
              /4    /4     9; ' ; '9            (                 9           9 /4        /4           <           C9
               <9                  <    /4       <        <            <      < '          C    ' ;     <
                                                                              4       6

<removed-date>
              '       '    ' ;          C9       9       9 '                   /4                 ' ;      9$ /4
              ' ;      C       < '         9    9;    <      /4      9     9         <    ' 4 ' ;          C9 '9
                                  5                                 5                          7
<removed-apn>
               <      /4    9$         ' ;       9       9    9$ ' 4      C9    <   (     '       '             &
                            7                                 6                            6
               <            C9 &       /4      ' ;       9     9    <    '9                C9         9 ' ; /4
               C           ' ;    <    '        <            /4    ' ;    9$         9$    <9             ' ; /4
               <            <9 ' ;      C9      <        9    <            9            < ' ;      <      ' 4    <
               C       <   ' ;    C9           ' 4 ' 4        <9 ' 4 (         /4    <    ' 4             (         <
               <      /4   /4     C9    9; '9         C9 ' 4        C9          <    9$               9    <
                                                          5                                5
                      '9   '           '9            '         <    <9          <          9; '9           <9 '
                       7                              7                              6
                  9    <   ' 4    9$ ' 4        <            /4     C9    <         (      9$              9$
               6
              ' 4      <    9$ /4               <    /4              <    <    (    ' 4 (          <       9$    9$
                  <    <               ' ;                                C9    <   /4    ' ;      9$           ' ;
               <       9$ /4      <            /4    ' 4       < '9      '9     C   ' 4       9       <    <     <
                                                                          4

<removed-date>
              /4       C9            '        9$     9 ' ;    9$         (           <                 <    (       <
                                                                                          5
              ' ; /4          /4     '              C9   <         ' 4    <                     9$
               5                                    7                                7
<removed-apn>
              !       "    7
              !       "
              !       "     )
              !       "    '9      =      4
              !       "
              !       "    /@.20A0           %$:4     > 2 7744G          5'1         7 ' :     4    $ ?
              !       "
              !       "    )   '
              !       "    > ? > ?
              !       "      <2 <2 <2               <2   9 9 ; 4      5          :
              !       "    7
                  <       <      <       <     9     <    <    <     <       9        <    <       <    <       9    <
                  <       <      <       9     <     <    <    <     9       <        <    <       <    9
              !       "    7
              !       "
              !       "     )
              !       "    '9      =      4
              !       "
              !       "          D 9
              !       "    7
              '9      '9      '9     '9        9
              !       "    75
              !       "    5
              !       "      )
              !       "    '9      =      4
                                                                             4

<removed-date>
              !    "
              !    "         D 9
              !    "    75
              '9    <    '9   '9       <    '9
<removed-apn>
              !    "    77
              !    "
              !    "    0 '
              !    "    '9 =       4
              !    "
              !    "          72.F%2 /@.            $           $    $ F       C   4
              !    "    77
                        4     4 44      4
              !    "    76
              !    "
              !    "    0 '
              !    "    '9 =       4
              !    "
              !    "          2 ) 82/@. F            C       $)/
              !    "    76
                    4         4 4 4        4    4       4
              !    "    7
              !    "
              !    "    0 '
              !    "    '9 =       4
              !    "
              !    "         762 .F% F         C     $)/
              !   "     7
              444               4 4                         4                          4   4   5
                                   4                             4
              !    "    6
              !    "      7
              !    "    0 '
              !    "    '9 =       4
                                                                           4

<removed-date>
              !       "
              !       "         7 2 ) 8 F          C ) )
              !   "        6
               44 4        44    4       4                  4   4             4                4               4            5
              4                                                 4     4    4                    4                            7
<removed-apn>
              !       "    6
              !       "     6
              !       "     )
              !       "    '9    =       4
              !       "
              !       "         D 9
              !       "    6
                          9     <       <     <       <    9    <     <    <       <       9       <     <     <     <
                  9       <     <       <     <       9    <    <     <    <       9       <       <     <     <     9
                      /4       9$ '9          <       9    <    <     <    <       9       <       <     <     <     9
              !       "    6
              !       "     76
              !       "    0 '
              !       "    '9 =          4
              !       "
              !       "    ; - 2./           2     * FC     C       ./   2.        $       9     F       C 4        4843
                              D 9            3    F        F$ .     %$:4    G              9 ; 2                     :3 9
                               5
              !       "    6
                          4 44      4    4             4   4      4 4                  4                  4     4    4      5
                          4 44       4      4 4        4 44 4                                       444
                  4                          4    4                   4   4                 4                               6
               4                        4                             4   44      44    4      4    44    4 44        4
                                         4            44                           4    44                      44
                                                                          4

<removed-date>
                   4          4    4444                 4 44        4       4            4         4      4    4                           5
                                                            4                    4       4 44          4                          444
                                           4    4           44      4       4                     4 444 4              44 4                6
                  44 4                                  4          44           44           4    4 4      4                 4        4
<removed-apn>
                              4    4           4               4    4           4             4                444      4                 5
                          4         4      4                        4       4    4                 4      44                4             55
                  4        4            44 44              4       4        4             4        444         44      444            4   7
                  4                 4       4      4    4 4         4                    4            4        44           44 4          76
                  4    44      4    4 4         4              4                 4                         4 4         4                  6
                       444                                          4            4           4     4                             44
              4 4 4 4          4    4 444                                            44               4        4        4 44 44            5
              4        4      4    4    44              44          4       44 4                      4                44             4
              44       4            4                   4 4        4 44 44                            4       4                  4         6
                   4 44 44         4    4      44       4 4        4             4                        4 44              4    4
              4                4    4          44      44                   4            4        4 4             4              4
              4    4 4                          4           4               4                     4               4    4    4              5
                   4           4                        4      4        4 4                  4            4    4            4 4
                          4 4              4    4      4    44                   4 44                 4    4            4                  6
              4 44 4                   4                       44       4                4    4            4       4
                          4                4                   4            4                     4       4444               4    4
                          4 4                   4              44 4                 4                 4                                    5
                           4       444 444             4           44           4        4            4    4            4 4               5
              4           4             44             4            44                   4    4           4       4                  4    56
                                            4                                        4            4        4 444 4           4 4 4        7
                      4                4           4    44                          4             4                                       76
                                                                                     4

<removed-date>
              !       "    6
              !       "
              !       "    0 '
              !       "    '9 =          4
              !       "
              !       "    ' =94 :           $=      C       9 ;   $   9                 F4         3    $    %       $   C
                             $)/1) )          %          % ; - 2./   2               G             9 ; 2
                            $2   5
<removed-apn>
              !   "        6
              444                    4 4                     4                                 4                  4                 5
                                    4                             4                            4
                   4                     4                             4        4 4 444            4 4    4       4                 6
                       4            4 44                     4         4
              !       "    6
              !       "    7
              !       "     )
              !       "    '9    =       4
              !       "
              !       "    ; - 2/ 2 76 C4 4 7                    4: $ 4        %         D 9    3 F               C    /@.
                           =94 :  4 % C . 9                       $ G <        C         $= 0 ' =94 :              $%         =$9
                           7 4: $ 4 %     D 9
              !       "    6
                          9     <       <    <       <   9       <    <    <       <       9       <     <    <    <
                  9       <     <       <    <       9   <       <    <    <       9       <       <     <    <    9
                  <       <     <       <    9       <   <       <    <    9       <       <       <     <    9    <
                  <       <     <       9    <       <   <       <    9         /4       9$ '9           <    9    <
                                                                                       5
                  <       <     <       9    <       <   <       <    9
              5                                  7
                                                                           4

<removed-date>
              !       "    6
              !       "
              !       "    0 '
              !       "    '9 =          4
              !       "
              !       "             9 ; 2                     H2    6
              !       "    6
<removed-apn>
                           4     4        4 4                       4                                  4                       4   5
                                         4                                4                       4
                  4                      4                          4                                  4                           6
                  4                                    4                  4                                    4       4 444
              4       4 4 4                               4        4    44                     4           4
              !       "    65
              !       "     6
              !       "     )
              !       "    '9    =       4
              !       "
              !       "         D 9
              !       "    65
                          9     <     <       <       <       9    <     <    <       <       9       <     <      <       <
                  9       <     <     <       <       9       <    <     <    <       9       <       <     <      <       9
                  <       <     <     <       9       <       <    <     <    9       <       <       <     <      9       <
                  <       <     <     9       <       <       <    <     9    <       <       <       <     9      <       <
                                                                                          5
                  <       <     9     <       <       <       <    9     <    <       <       <       9     <      <       <
              5                                   7                               7                                    6
                  <       9         /4       9$ '9            <    9     <    <       <       <       9     <      <       <
                                          6
                                                                              4       5

<removed-date>
                  <       9
              !       "    67
              !       "     6
              !       "    0 '
<removed-apn>
              !       "    '9 =      4
              !       "
              !       "          9 ; 2                  H2       6
              !       "    67
                           4    4       4 4                      4                                   4              4   5
                                     4                                   4                       4
                  4                  4                           4                                   4              4   6
                                          4                      4                               4
                  4                       4                                      4                   4
                       4        4 4444        4    4 4           4                   4           4 44               4   5
                       4                                                                                                6
              !       "    66
              !       "
              !       "     )
              !       "    '9   =    4
              !       "
              !       "    ./    2/@.2.       C       9$% : 9
              !       "    66
              &                                   9    C9    <       C       C               <            '9   C
               <       C        9 ' 4    C9 '9        '9     <9      <9               < ' 4 /4                  9
               9; ' ;         <9 &                9 ' ;               <                      9$ /4    ' ; ' 4 '9
                                                                             4           7

<removed-date>
               C     9$    9$ '9        /4       9$      <      9    C       9$      C       '        C9         9 /4        /4
                                                                                             5
               <9    <     <     C9              C      /4           C       C9 ' ; (                         C      '
              5                                 7                               7                                            6
              ' 4    <     9$ '9         9$      9$      9; &           <                        <    9$      C9
<removed-apn>
                                        6
              ' 4         /4     <9 ' ;          C9 /4        /4             C9               <      '       &       ' 4         9
              (      9$ /4          9           (       ' 4 /4          < /4            9     <9      9;      <      ' 4         9
                      < ' 4              <9 ' ; ' ;                  C9         9            '9               <              ' ;
              ' ;    <    /4     C       9$         <     <     9 (          C9      <9 /4            9;             /4
                                                                                                                              5
               <          '         <    9$ &           ' 4     9 ' ;        9$               <               C9      <9         9
                                         5                                   7                                        7
               <9             9 (       /4      ' ;           /4     <      ' ;              '           9       <
                                 6                                   6
                  < ' 4                 /4       <      '9              <       9            ' 4      <               <       C9
                     C9        (         <       C                           C      ' 4 /4            C      ' ;                 <
               <      9    9; (             9            C9    <    '           9            &               ' ; '9          ' ;
              ' 4 ' 4         9 ' 4 '9          ' 4      9;    9$    <      &       (         C9 /4          '           <    <9
                                                                                4        6

<removed-date>
              /4    '       '9          9          9$       <                  <    <      (       '9     <        9 /4
                                     5                                5                                   7
               <9    9; (           /4                < &        <    C9    C9      9$             /4    (         9
                             7                                  6                                   6
               C                        < (        C9    C           /4    '9      '       (       '9          ' 4         9
<removed-apn>
                                        9    9$          C9     C           C9 ' 4                  C9                 &
              ' ;               <            C                  C     <    (                   9       9 (             (
              ' ;       < &                 ' 4    <9 /4        <    /4    ' ;         9    <       9$                  9$
                            '9      &        <    '     '                  ' 4             ' ;      <9 ' ; ' ; ' ;
                                                                5                                   5
                     C9 ' ;             9         &     ' ; /4       /4    '9       C      ' ; ' ; ' ; '                   9
                     7                                   7                                  6
               9$       9    C                          '9       9 /4      ' 4      <       <      (      9$    <       C9
               6
               9; /4        (        <9           ' 4 ' 4                          ' ;      9; ' ;        <9 ' 4        9$
                    /4              ' 4      9$ ' ; ' ; '9             9    <9      <          9          <9           '
              '         <    9$             '9              < '9      <     <9      <       <      /4    '9     C      &
              ' 4    <9      C9 ' ;                C9    C      <     C9 '9                ' 4                 (
                                                                                            5
                                                                               4

<removed-date>
                  9       <                     <    9$                  <9         <           /4        < ' ;        C9
               5                                     7                                   7                                   6
                                     C       <      '           ' 4         9 '9         9$      <9 '                  <9    9$
                                             6
              (           <          C9 ' ; /4            '9     9$              <9         9 '9      '9               9$    <
<removed-apn>
                  < /4         <    (                <    ' ;    C       9$                      9$       <                  C
               <       <9      <     9;      C9 /4         C9 /4                ' ;         <    9$    C9      <          9 ' ;
               9$ '9           <             C9 '9         <9    <9         9       9    C      /4    '       &             '9
                                                                                                                             5
              ' ;             ' 4       9       <                   <    9$                            <       <9      <
                                             5                                   7                                     7
                  9 /4        ' ;           '9          < '                     &           9 ' ;      <      '9      '     /4
                                     6                                   6
                               C        9 /4         C    ' ;           '       '9          9    9;    <9              C9
                                                                5                                     5
              '                     '9       C             9$ '          9$ ' 4             < /4                            ' ;
                      5                                   5                                   5
               9$              C            ' 4         9 '             &       (           9         '           <    <9 /4
              5                                     5                                   5                                 5
               C      ' ;       9                             9 /4       <              (             /4      ' 4      <9    9;
                                            5                                   5                                     5
               <9                       9               < ' 4            C9 ' ;          C                9 /4         C     C
                                    55                                  55                                  57
                                                                                    4

<removed-date>
                  9       <    <9      C9    C       <      (        <      &       /4       <9             ' ;    C9            C9
                              57                                    56                                      56
                       C       9$      C        9       <            C9 /4           C      &           9 &             '        9$
                      5                                     5                                       7
                  <            9;                       <    <      (       '           9 ' ;        C      '9    '     '9          <
<removed-apn>
              7                                     7                                     7                                     7
              &        C9 ' 4                        <      /4          9       9    <      ' ;      <      '      C9       < ' ;
                                            7                                       7                                   7
               <9      <9             ' ;       9    <9             ' ;                 9 ' 4        <9                     9    <
                                      7                                     7                                     7
              '       '       ' 4                    9$ '9              9    C          9           '        9$    9$ /4
                              7                                     75                                      75
               <      '9      (             '9                       C9 '9           C9      C9                       9 ' ;
                      77                                    77                                      76
                                      ' ;    <9 ' ; ' ;              C9                 9 /4                &      <     <
              76                                7                                         7                                     6
              ' ;      C      ' ;            <9 ' ;                 ' ;             '                   9    9$ '9          9    C
                                            6                                       6                                   6
                       <       <       C9 '9        (        <9      C              ' 4 ' 4 /4                    '9             9;
                                      6                                     6                                     6
              ' ;      <9         < &           9       9       9    9$ (           /4              '9      '     '9    ' 4
                              6                                     6                                       6
                  9       <       9 /4       9$              C       <       <      /4      /4       C                   C       C9
                      6                                     6                                       65
              ' ;         <       9    C     C9              9$              <9 '9              <                 '             (
              65                                    67                                      67                                  66
                                                                                        4

<removed-date>
                          <                   <      9$    <9           '9      ' 4           /4            ' ; '
                                            66                                  6                               6
              &       /4       C9      C    '9    '             ' 4         9 '9       9$      <9       9    C       <9       9
                  9                     9    <9                 ' ;             '9              < ' 4                9$ '9
<removed-apn>
               <      '        C    /4       <       9$ '                  C9    <     C9      <9    C       9;      <    /4
                      (       (     &       ' 4      9$    C9      <    ' ;            C      ' ;    <       <    ' 4        9;
                                                                                                                             5
              ' 4      <9      C        9 ' ; /4          ' ;                    <    ' ; /4        (         9       <
                                           5                                     7                                   7
                          <    9$                 /4       <    (          C9 '        C9           '        9$ ' 4 (
                                       6                                   6
                  < '9              /4       C9 /4                          C    ' 4            C       C        C9            C
              ' ;                 C9    <        9    9;    <9         C     C9           '     &                '9      '
               <      '9       ' 4      9$    <      '                      &             ' ;      9$       C9    C       <
                      '           <9 '9       C      (     ' 4              '         <    <9            &       ' ;      C9
                       9$          <         /4      &     ' 4              ' ;           '9             '9       9;      <9
                                                             5                                      5
                                   9 &           <       9 '                '             (         9            (        C
                          7                                    7                                    6
                                                                                  4

<removed-date>
                  9       <   (       /4     C     C9 /4        '9    <         <                     <9      <    &
                          6
              ' 4              <9 '                <9      9$     < /4          C             C9     /4            &
                       9$         9    <    ' 4       <          9; '9      /4                <                        <
<removed-apn>
                      (               (     ' 4       < &         9   C9              C              /4       <9       9
              '        <       <             C9    9$             < &       ' 4          9       <   (             '9
              ' ;      C                     C9 ' 4         9     <             <9       <            9; ' 4        9$
                          5                                 5                                    7
               <              ' 4 '9              (        <9     9     <        9           '       ' 4      9;       9
                          7                                 6                                    6
               C9      <               9$    C        9    9;         <     /4       ' ;                     ' 4    9$
              &                       (       <            <     C9              < ' 4 '9                     <     C
                  9       9            <9             9          C                   &        <9         9         ' ;
                  <    <       <       9;          C9      <9   '9      < '              9    C9         <    C9
              &       /4       C       C      < '         /4    ' ;     9        9       <            <      (     '
                                                                                                 5
                       C      '        9$    9$                 ' 4 '9          <9           '9              (      9$
                          5                                 7                                    7
                                                                            4

<removed-date>
               C9 (          <9       9         '9          9    C9           '9       &                     &         <
                        6                                   6
               <      ' ;         '         9    <          9   &        9$                < &                   9    <
              ' 4               9 ' ; ' 4                        C9 ' 4            9       9    <9      C     C9 '
<removed-apn>
              &        C    ' 4    C9      9;       9    9$         9    <    ' 4 '9                   (
                  < '9          9 '       ' 4    9; '9           9$           /4       '       '        9$    <
               9;                 /4      ' ;    C               <       C9 &           <      /4       C9       < /4
                                                            5                                      5
               C9      C9             < /4       <          9                     C9       9 &          <9 /4         <
                        7                                   7                                      6
                       C                    9       9       9           ' ;        < (                  9;    C9
                        6
               C       C          '         <    <      /4       <      /4        C                <   '             ' ;
                  9    C     C9    9$ /4        /4      '           9         ' ;       9$      9$                    C9
              '9       <9         '9            (        9$               9       9; /4        (                     ' 4
                      '9    &             /4                <    <            ' 4              ' ;            <9 ' ;
               <       C9   (      C9      <     9$      9$      <       9$ ' 4         9$                             <
                        5                                 5                                        7
                                                                              4

<removed-date>
                  <   9$        9 /4     C             C     9$   9$       <     9$    <      ' ;    C9
                       7                                6                                 6
              &                 9 '9     C9      9$         /4    C9       <    /4    /4      /4    ' ; /4
                  9 (             ' ;    9$           /4     <    C    '         9;    <9     /4    ' ;       <
<removed-apn>
              /4            /4    (     '       ' 4    <     C9   <        9$ '9                             <9
              '         9    C9    <9 '9        /4    /4      9 /4               C9 /4              (
              ' ;     9;          '         <    <           <9   <        <     <    /4          9 '        <
                                                                                          5
              ' 4            9$ ' 4      9$                  <    C9              9    <      ' 4    <        <
                        5                               7                                 7
                      9$    '9           9$           /4     <9   C9             9$    9$         9 '9      ' ;
                       6                                6
                             C9    <    '             /4      9            C9    <            /4     <        <
                                                       5                               5
               C      <9     9$       9 ' ;           ' 4   /4             9;             9   '         <
                      5                                5                               5
               9$           '     '      <9      <     C9    C9   9$       9$ /4              ' ;       9 ' ;
                      5                                5                               5
                  <     9    C     C             <9     9    <             C9 /4      ' ;      <        9 '9
                      5                                5                               5
               9;                     < '       /4     C      9   <         9 /4      &       (             ' 4
                      5                                55                              55
                                                                       4

<removed-date>
                      (       '       (        <9      C9           <        9              9             9   9$     <
                       57                                     57                                 56
               <      '9      '9      '9      '9          9    <       <     <        <     9     <       <    <     <
                       56                                     5                                  5
                  9       <       <       <       <       9    <       <     <        <     9     <       <    <     <
<removed-apn>
                       7                                      7                                  7
                  9       <       <       <       <       9 '9      <      '9    '9        <    '9        9          9
                       7                                     7                                   7
               <      '9       9$      9$ &           /4      <            /4        <     9$ ' 4     ' ; '
                       7                                      7                                7
              '9      ' 4                 <                   <     C9      <        C9    <          '       <9 ' ;
                       7                                      7                                  7
                               <      &           9 &          <    <      /4         9     <    <            <     9$
                       75                                     75                                 77
               9$       <     &       /4      '9      (            '       '9        <    /4    ' 4                '9
                       77                                     76                                 76
               <       9$      <       C      (                <    <                <9 ' 4      9$       <         C9
                       7                                      7                                  6
              /4       <                  <    <      '       C9    <      /4        <    '9    ' ;   '9      <     9;
                       6                                      6                                  6
              '        <       C9 ' ; (               /4      <    ' ; ' 4           C9    <      9    C9            <
                       6                                      6                                  6
              &       ' 4     (        <9              C9     C    ' ;       <             <     <9           C     9$
                       6                                      6                                  6
                  <            <               <9 /4               /4            ' ;       <9    <        <    9 '
                       6                                      6                                  65
                                                                                 4         5

<removed-date>
               9$      <     C9    C    '9                  /4      < '           <        <      <        9 (
                      65                               67                                 67
               9$      9    /4     <     <     <       <    '9    /4        C9                   /4              <
                      66                               66                                 6
                  <                            C      ' ;     <         /4       '       /4       <    '9     9$
<removed-apn>
                      6
              &       <     ' ;          C9 (          C          /4    /4                   9       < '9     <9
                                                  <    <    ' 4              9 /4        /4       9; ' ; '9
              (               9           9 /4        /4           <              C9      <9                  <
              /4      <       <          <        < '        C    ' ;        <                   '     '     ' ;
                                                        5                                    5
                      C9      9     9 '                     /4                   ' ;      9$     /4    ' ;    C
                       7                                7                                  6
                  < '         9    9;    <    /4        9     9             <    ' 4 ' ;          C9 '9       <
                        6
              /4      9$          ' ;     9       9    9$   ' 4    C9       <    (       '       '           &
               <             C9 &       /4    ' ;       9     9    <    '9                        C9       9 ' ;
              /4      C           ' ;    <    '        <          /4    ' ;       9$              9$    <9
              ' ; /4         <           <9 ' ;        C9    <      9       <                9             < ' ;
                                                                        4            7

<removed-date>
               <    ' 4   ' 4      C     <      ' ;    C9           ' 4 ' 4        <9 ' 4       (       /4       <
                      5                                 5                               7
              ' 4         (         <    <      /4    /4     C9      9; '9         C9 ' 4        C9              <
                      7                                 6                               6
               9$             9    <                  '9    '             '9            '           <    <9
<removed-apn>
              ' 4          9; '9         <9 '           9    <      ' 4       9$ ' 4     <              /4       C9
               <          (        9$            9$         ' 4      <        9$ /4              <      /4
                <    <    (       ' 4 (          <     9$    9$       <       <                 ' ;
                           C9      <    /4      ' ;    9$           ' ;       <    9$ /4         <              /4
                                                                                            5
              ' 4     <   '9      '9     C      ' 4     9       <    <        <   /4     C9             '        9$
                      5                                 7                                 7
                9 ' ;      9$           (        <                   <    (        <    ' ;     /4      /4      '
                    6                                   6
                     C9    <            ' 4      <                   9$           ' ;       <       <       <       <
                9     <       <     <       <     9         /4       9$ '9          <       9       <       < ' ;
               <     C9   (        C9    <       9$    9$    <       9$ ' 4        9$                               <
                <    9$       9 /4       C             C     9$      9$       <    9$    <      ' ;      C9
                                                                          4        6

<removed-date>
              &                   9 '9     C9      9$         /4    C9       <    /4    /4      /4      ' ; /4
                                                          5                                 5
                  9 (               ' ;    9$           /4     <    C    '         9;    <9     /4      ' ;       <
                          7                               7                               6
              /4              /4    (     '       ' 4    <     C9   <        9$ '9                               <9
<removed-apn>
                          6
              '           9    C9    <9 '9        /4    /4      9 /4               C9 /4                (
              ' ;      9;           '         <    <           <9   <        <     <    /4          9 '          <
              ' 4              9$ ' 4      9$                  <    C9              9    <      ' 4      <        <
                       9$     '9           9$           /4     <9   C9             9$    9$         9 '9        ' ;
                               C9    <    '             /4      9            C9    <            /4       <        <
                          5                               5                                 7
               C       <9      9$       9 ' ;           ' 4   /4             9;             9   '           <
                        7                                 6                                 6
               9$             '     '      <9      <     C9    C9   9$       9$ /4              ' ;         9 ' ;
                  <       9    C     C             <9     9    <             C9 /4      ' ;      <          9 '9
               9;                       < '       /4     C      9   <         9 /4      &       (               ' 4
                      (       '     (      <9      C9          <     9              9               9    9$       <
                                                                         4

<removed-date>
               <
              !       "    6
              !       "     6
              !       "     )
              !       "    '9      =       4
<removed-apn>
              !       "
              !       "    4    624:        $ 4     %      D 9
              !       "    6
                          9     <       <       <    <     9     <       <    <     <       9     <     <    <    <
                  9       <     <       <       <    9     <     <       <    <     9       <     <     <    <    9
                      /4       9$ '9            <    9     <     <       <    <     9       <     <     <    <    9
              !       "
              !       "     55
              !       "     )
              !       "    '9 =            4
              !       "
              !       "    ; - 2./             2     :4    9   ;9$
              !       "
              ' 4      C9 '9        '9         <9   <9           < ' 4 /4                         9    9; ' ;    <9
              &                 9 ' ;                <                9$ /4       ' ; ' 4 '9           C    9$   9$
              '9      /4       9$      <        9   C     9$   C     '       C9     9 /4        /4     <9   <    <
               C9              C    /4              C     C9 ' ; (                 C    '             ' 4   <    9$
                                                                                        5
                                                                             4

<removed-date>
              '9       9$    9$      9; &           <                       <    9$      C9                 ' 4           /4
              5                                 7                                       7                                 6
               <9 ' ;        C9 /4        /4             C9              <      '       &       ' 4     9 (        9$ /4
                                          6
                  9         (       ' 4 /4          < /4            9    <9      9;      <      ' 4     9             < ' 4
<removed-apn>
                       <9 ' ; ' ;                C9         9           '9               <            ' ; ' ;      <      /4
               C       9$       <     <     9 (          C9      <9 /4           9;             /4           <            '
                  <    9$ &         ' 4     9 ' ;        9$              <               C9      <9     9    <9               9
                                                                                                                           5
              (       /4    ' ;           /4     <      ' ;             '           9       <                 < ' 4
                                           5                                     7                               7
                      /4     <      '9              <       9           ' 4      <               <     C9          C9
                                     6                                   6
              (        <     C                           C      ' 4 /4           C      ' ;             <    <        9    9;
              (         9            C9    <    '           9           &               ' ; '9        ' ; ' 4 ' 4             9
              ' 4 '9        ' 4      9;    9$    <      &       (        C9 /4          '         <    <9 /4      '       '9
                  9          9$       <                     <    <      (       '9       <        9 /4       <9    9; (
              /4                < &         <    C9      C9      9$             /4      (         9          C
                                     5                                   5                                   7
                                                                                    4

<removed-date>
                  < (        C9    C          /4    '9      '       (       '9            ' 4       9
                             7                               6                                   6
                  9    9$          C9    C           C9 ' 4                  C9                 &       ' ;               <
                       C                 C     <    (                   9       9 (             (       ' ;       < &
<removed-apn>
                      ' 4    <9 /4       <    /4    ' ;         9    <       9$                  9$                   '9
              &        <    '     '                 ' 4             ' ;      <9 ' ; ' ; ' ;                      C9 ' ;
                  9         &     ' ; /4      /4    '9       C      ' ; ' ; ' ; '                   9    9$       9    C
                                                             5                                   5
                                  '9      9 /4      ' 4      <       <      (        9$    <     C9      9; /4        (
                       7                             7                                     6
               <9           ' 4 ' 4                         ' ;      9; ' ;          <9 ' 4      9$             /4
               6
              ' 4      9$ ' ; ' ; '9            9    <9      <          9            <9         '       '         <    9$
                      '9              < '9     <     <9      <       <      /4      '9     C    &       ' 4      <9    C9
              ' ;            C9    C     <     C9 '9                ' 4                   (                 9     <
                        <    9$                <9       <           /4          < ' ;      C9
                                                                                           5
               C       <    '           ' 4     9 '9         9$      <9 '                  <9    9$ (             <
               5                               7                                     7                                 6
                                                                                4

<removed-date>
               C9 ' ; /4          '9     9$              <9         9 '9      '9               9$    <        < /4         <
                                         6
              (              <    ' ;    C       9$                      9$       <                  C     <       <9      <
               9;      C9 /4       C9 /4                ' ;         <    9$    C9      <          9 ' ;    9$ '9           <
<removed-apn>
                       C9 '9       <9    <9         9       9    C      /4    '       &             '9    ' ;             ' 4
                  9     <                   <    9$                            <       <9      <              9 /4        ' ;
                                                                                                                           5
                      '9      < '                       &           9 ' ;      <      '9      '     /4                     C
                                         5                                     7                                   7
                  9 /4       C    ' ;           '       '9          9    9;    <9              C9         '
                                   6                                     6
              '9       C           9$ '          9$ ' 4             < /4                            ' ;    9$              C
                                                                5                                   5
                      ' 4     9 '               &       (           9         '           <    <9 /4       C      ' ;         9
                      5                                 5                                     5
                                    9 /4         <              (             /4      ' 4      <9    9;    <9
              5                                 5                                     5                                   5
                  9           < ' 4              C9 ' ;          C                9 /4         C     C        9       <    <9
                                        5                                     5                                   5
               C9      C     <    (      <      &       /4       <9           ' ;      C9            C9            C       9$
                                  55                                    55                                57
               C        9     <          C9 /4           C      &         9 &                 '      9$       <            9;
                            57                                  56                                  56
                                                                                  4

<removed-date>
                                <    <      (       '           9 ' ;      C      '9      '     '9        < &          C9 ' 4
                    5                                       5                                   7
                             <      /4          9       9    <      ' ;    <      '        C9     < ' ;        <9      <9
              7                                     7                                     7                                   7
              ' ;       9    <9             ' ;                 9 ' 4      <9                     9    <      '       '       ' 4
<removed-apn>
                                            7                                     7                                   7
                             9$ '9              9    C          9         '        9$      9$ /4               <      ' 4 (
                                7                                         7                                   7
                    ' 4                      C9 '9           C9      C9                       9 ' ;
                            7                                       75                                75
              ' ;    <9 ' ; ' ;              C9                 9 /4              &        <     <            ' ;      C      ' ;
                    77                                      77                                  76
                     <9 ' ;                 ' ;             '                 9    9$ '9          9    C               <       <
              76                                    7                                 7                                       6
               C9 '9        (        <9      C              ' 4 ' 4 /4                    '9           9; ' ;          <9         <
                                            6                                     6                                   6
              &         9       9       9    9$ (           /4            '9      '       '9    ' 4               9       <       9
                                    6                                     6                                   6
              /4     9$              C       <       <      /4      /4     C                     C     C9 ' ;             <       9
                            6                                       6                                 6
               C     C9              9$              <9 '9            <                   '           (                   <
                    6                                   6                                       65
                        <    9$      <9             '9      ' 4           /4              ' ; '               &       /4       C9
              65                                    67                                    67                                  66
               C    '9      '               ' 4         9 '9         9$    <9         9    C     <9       9       9
                                            66                                    6                                   6
                                                                                      4

<removed-date>
                  9    <9                 ' ;           '9                  < ' 4                   9$ '9         <    '        C
              /4       <       9$ '                C9      <       C9    <9      C          9;      <    /4            (       (
              &       ' 4      9$    C9    <      ' ;              C    ' ;      <          <    ' 4      9; ' 4        <9      C
<removed-apn>
                  9 ' ; /4          ' ;                    <    ' ; /4          (            9       <                     <    9$
                                                                                                                                5
                              /4     <    (        C9 '            C9           '           9$ ' 4 (               < '9
                                           5                                     7                                    7
              /4       C9 /4                       C    ' 4              C       C          C9            C      ' ;            C9
                                     6                                   6
               <          9    9;    <9    C       C9           '        &                  '9      '        <     '9      ' 4      9$
               <      '                    &               ' ;         9$    C9         C       <             '        <9 '9
               C      (        ' 4         '           <    <9              &       ' ;         C9               9$     <
              /4      &        ' 4         ' ;             '9               '9          9;      <9                      9 &
                  <       9    '           '               (            9           (           C        9        < (       /4
                                                               5                                         5
               C       C9      /4    '9       <     <                        <9         <    &       ' 4               <9 '
                        7                                      7                                       6
                       <9       9$       < /4       C                  C9 /4                 &                   9$     9      <
                        6
                                                                                    4

<removed-date>
              ' 4       <            9; '9      /4             <                         <           (             (
              ' 4       <   &         9   C9           C            /4          <9       9 '          <       <
               C9    9$               < &       ' 4       9       < (                '9      ' ;      C
<removed-apn>
               C9 ' 4           9     <          <9       <          9; ' 4           9$      <              ' 4 '9
                    (        <9       9     <     9           '     ' 4         9;       9    C9      <             9$
                        5                                 5                                    7
               C        9    9;           <     /4    ' ;                   ' 4       9$ &                         (
                        7                               6                                        6
                <            <       C9           < ' 4       '9                <     C          9       9          <9
                        9            C                &        <9       9            ' ;         <    <       <     9;
                     C9      <9 '9          < '           9    C9       <       C9           &       /4       C     C
                < '         /4      ' ;     9     9       <          <      (        '                C      '      9$
               9$                   ' 4 '9       <9           '9            (         9$      C9     (        <9       9
                                                                                               5
                    '9          9    C9         '9    &                     &            <    <      ' ;           '
                        5                                 7                                      7
                9    <          9 &       9$              <   &                  9    <      ' 4                 9 ' ;
                        6                                 6
                                                                            4            5

<removed-date>
              ' 4                    C9 ' 4       9       9    <9    C        C9 '       &        C    ' 4    C9
               9;       9    9$       9    <    ' 4 '9              (                        <   '9        9 '
              ' 4    9;     '9       9$         /4    '       '      9$       <           9;                 /4
<removed-apn>
              ' ;    C               <     C9 &        <      /4     C9        < /4       C9      C9             <
              /4     <          9                C9       9   &      <9 /4          <             C
                                                          5                                  5
                9       9       9         ' ;     < (                9;       C9          C       C          '
                        7                                 7                                  6
                <    <      /4       <    /4     C                < '              ' ;       9    C     C9    9$
                        6
              /4    /4      '         9         ' ;    9$      9$                   C9 '9         <9         '9
                    (        9$             9    9; /4        (                    ' 4           '9    &
              /4                <    <          ' 4           ' ;             <9 ' ;      <       C9 (        C9
               <     9$      9$      <     9$ ' 4      9$                            <       <    9$       9 /4
               C             C       9$    9$    <     9$      <    ' ;       C9         &                 9 '9
                        5                               5                                    7
               C9    9$             /4     C9    <    /4      /4    /4    ' ; /4             9   (           ' ;
                      7                                   6                                  6
                                                                          4          7

<removed-date>
               9$             /4    <    C    '      9;    <9 /4        ' ;        < /4              /4    (
              '       ' 4      <    C9   <     9$ '9                              <9 '           9    C9    <9
              '9      /4      /4     9 /4            C9   /4            (              ' ;    9;           '
<removed-apn>
                  <    <            <9   <     <     <    /4        9 '           <    ' 4            9$ ' 4
               9$                   <    C9           9    <    ' 4         <      <          9$ '9
                                                                                         5
               9$             /4    <9   C9          9$    9$       9 '9         ' ;                  C9    <
                          5                           7                                  7
              '               /4     9         C9    <          /4          <      <    C     <9      9$       9
                          6                           6
              ' ;             ' 4 /4           9;             9 '            <          9$           '     '
                                                     5                                  5
               <9      <       C9   C9   9$    9$ /4            ' ;          9 ' ;       <       9    C     C
                       5                           5                                    5
                       <9       9   <          C9 /4      ' ;    <           9 '9       9;                     <
                       5                           5                                    5
              '       /4       C     9   <        9 /4    &     (                ' 4         (       '     (
                       5                             5                                  5
               <9      C9           <     9           9             9       9$     <    <
                       5                             55                                 55
              !       "
              !       "
              !       "    0 '
              !       "    '9 =      4
                                                                        4         6

<removed-date>
              !     "
              !     "      ; - 2./           2
              !     "
              4     444 4        4               4                                                      4                    4             5
              4    4 44 4        4    4                    4        44              4           4    4 4         4 44         4
<removed-apn>
                    4                        4        44 4                      4 4              4444                     4       44       6
              4        4              4 44444          4                       4 44         4        4      4                44 4
                   44       44           4             4                       4            4       4       4            4         4
               4 4 4                 4    4 4          44 44 4                          4                4               4                 5
                       4         4        444                  4       4           44 4         4    4      4 4       4       444
               4 444 44          4    4 444                                    44       4 4      4 4                     4                 6
              444 4 44                   44                    4       4                    4        4       4 4                   4
                    4             4444 4               44       4               4        4              4    4       4       4 4 44       5
                   4                 44      4444      4 4 4 4                     4 444            4 4      4                        4   55
                    4      44        4444               4       4 44 4 444 44                            4       4       4 4       4      7
                       4                                    4444            4 4 4           4 4             4        444 4                76
                       4             4        4         4 4        444         4        4            4          4         44              6
              4    4             44          4        44 4                  44          4 4      4                    4      44    4
                    4                        444                44 4 4                      4               444      4            4        5
               4            4    4            4                     4      4                    4    44 4        4           4     44
                    4          4 44      4 4 4                  4 4         44          44       4      44      44 444 44          44      6
               44          44    4    4      4    4     4          4        4           444          4                4            4
               4    4 44                               4       444                  4               44 44        4           4444
                       4 4       4 4                    44 4        4       4           4       4                    4                     5
                    4      4 4    44         4 44 44           44 4             44 44                       4         4           4
              44    4 4444 44                 4        4        4 4        4 4 4        444              44 4                 44           6
              4     4      4     44      4    44                4              4        4            44              4 4 4 4
                                                                                    4

<removed-date>
                   4    4 4            44 44        4 4      44      4 4         4 4 44 4               4         4        44      4
               4                               4        44      4 4      4       4444               4444 4             44      4            5
                  44                4      4 444        4       444 4        444          4 4          4        4 4 4 4                4   5
              4    444      4      4                            4             4      4         4                 44    4       4 4 4       56
<removed-apn>
               4       4            4      4       4                              4                4 444 44                4 4        44   7
              4 4      444         4 4 44               4 4 44 4             44           4                           4        4      4    6
              44       44               4          4    4 4 44 4 4            44                            44        4           4        65
               4           4       4       4 4              44               44 4         4        4 4      4    44            4
                    4 4                 4               4                     4      4              4 4           4    4          44        6
              4        4    4      4 4         4                                                    4 4 4              444 4 444
              4            4       44 4 4 4              4          4            4            4     4 444                     4
              4     4444            4           4        4                           4 44           4 4                44 4 4               5
              4    4                4       44                  4             4 44 44 4                      4    4       4    4      4
              4     4      44      4 4          4       4 4                  4    44444 4 4                 4     4 4      44 44            6
                           444 4           4    4               444           4      4             444 44              4      4
               4       4 4         44 4        444          4    4      4     4 4         4 4       4        444       44 44          44
               4           4 4          4      4    4       4    4444         4 4                      4          4 444 4444 4              5
                  4 4      4           4                4        4 4                       4       4        4    4     4               4
               4            44      444 4                   4 4              4                     4        44 44 4                         6
               4    44         4        4                       4       4             4 4                  4 44       444      44 4        5
                       4                        4 4      4 44 4          4    44           44      4 44 4        4         44              7
              4 444        4                                4                 4           4            4          4       4    44 4        75
               4 4         44       4      4 44          4 444444                         44           44    444       4444           4    6
                        444             44 4        4    4          4        4    444 4            4         4         444                 66
                    4                   4           4            44444        4            4        4            4         4
                                   4 4      44 4        4       44                   4         4    4 44         4    4    4 4        44
                                                                                      4

<removed-date>
                                            4    4               4    4      4    4444                  4          4        4444 4           5
               444 444                 4                        44 4          4 4          44      4        4            444 4 44
               4                   4       44    44              4 4 4 4           4 4 4            4                   4    44              6
               4      4    444         4        4           4                4    4            4       44      4444      4       4
<removed-apn>
              4       4        4           4 4                  4        4       4444444           4    4      4 44 44              4
               4 44                4       4                     4 4 4             444              4      4       44 4             44       5
                                   44            4               4    4          4 4                   4    4      4    4
                      4 4      4 4 44               4    4                       44                        4 4 4         4 4 4               6
               4 4        4 4              4    4 4 4 4             4 4                       44 4                 4    4        4      4
                       4      44       44                4      4    44       4                             4      44            4          5
                       4      44       4    4       4           4    44      4     4                           4 44                  4      55
                      4 4               4        4       4      4     4      4             4           44 44                4 4         4   7
                  4    444             4        44           44                                4 4             4        4            4 4    76
              444 4 44 4                    44               44      4                4 4 4                         4        44         4   6
               4 4        4            4    4                   4     4           4                     4       444      4           4
              4        4            44         4 4       444        44 4         4 4          4    4 4      4                4          4    5
                   4      44 4                   4                               4444               4          4            44       4
              4    44                  4 4          4           44 44            4444 4                        44           4           4    6
              44 4 44          4 44         4 4         4    44      4        4       4       44 44                      4      4    4
               4          44       4             4              4    4        44 4                 4    4          4
               4 44            4 44        444                   4       4 44      44 4                     4 4                      44      5
                       4 4          4           4        4            4               44           4           4 4                      4
               4 4                     4    4       4                              4          4    4    4           4       4 4444           6
               4 4 4                4                   4           4 44                            4           4
                       4444            44      4 4              4    4                    4             4          4    4
                      4        4        4      44 4              4           44           44            4           4                   4    5
                                                                                      4

<removed-date>
                      4 44             44 4 444                      4     4    4       4 4 4 4          4     4                  5
              4                4                    4       4    4             44           4 4      4    4 44           44       56
                   44 444                       4               4    4    4444         4            444       44 4        4       7
                  4 44        4    4           4 4                    4                 4       4        4    44    44    4       6
<removed-apn>
              4           4                        44 4              4         4        4 4                    4          4 4     65
              44           4            4 44 44             4 44 4        4                               4          4
                                   4 4      44           4           4    44 4         4             4    4         44             6
                  4                    4       4    4                4    44    4       4 4          4 44 4
                               4 44
              !       "
              !       "
              !       "     )
              !       "    '9      =       4
              !       "
              !       "       ./       2
              !       "
                      ' ;         <     <       <       <       9    <     <       <        <       9         /4     9$ '9
                  <       9       <
              !       "
              !       "
              !       "     )
              !       "    '9      =       4
              !       "
              !       "       ./       2 5
              !       "
                          9       <     <       <       <       9    <     <       <        <       9     <     <     <       <
                                                                                   4

<removed-date>
                  9       <     <     <    <   9   <   <   <   <   9       /4    9$ '9    <
                  9       <
              !       "
<removed-apn>
              !       "     6
              !       "     )
              !       "    '9    =     4
              !       "
              !       "    ./       2 5
              !       "
                          9     <     <    <   <   9   <   <   <   <   9     <    <   <   <
                  9       <     <     <    <   9   <   <   <   <   9   <     <    <   <   9
                      /4      9$ '9        <   9   <   <   <   <   9   <     <    <   <   9
              !       "
              !       "     6
              !       "     )
              !       "    '9    =     4
              !       "
              !       "    /@.
              !       "
                          9     <     <    <   <   9   <   <   <   <   9     <    <   <   <
                  9       <     <     <    <   9   <   <   <   <   9   <     <    <   <   9
                      /4      9$ '9        <   9   <   <   <   <   9   <     <    <   <   9
                                                               4

<removed-date>
              !       "       5
              !       "    7
              !       "     )
              !       "    '9      =       4
              !       "
              !       "    /@.
              !       "       5
<removed-apn>
                          9       <       <    <       <   9   <   <   <     <       9   <   <   <   <
                  9       <       <       <    <       9   <   <   <   <     9       <   <   <   <   9
                  <       <       <       <    9       <   <   <   <   9     <       <   <   <   9   <
                  <       <       <       9    <       <   <   <   9       /4     9$ '9      <   9   <
                                                                                 5
                  <       <       <       9    <       <   <   <   9
              5                                    7
              !       "     7
              !       "     6
              !       "     )
              !       "    '9      =       4
              !       "
              !       "    /@.        5
              !       "       7
                          9       <       <    <       <   9   <   <   <     <       9   <   <   <   <
                  9       <       <       <    <       9   <   <   <   <     9       <   <   <   <   9
                  <       <       <       <    9       <   <   <   <   9     <       <   <   <   9   <
                                                                       4

<removed-date>
                  <       <       <     9       <       <       <     <    9    <       <       <   <   9    <       <
                                                                                            5
                  <       <       9     <       <       <       <     9    <    <       <       <   9   <    <       <
              5                                     7                               7                            6
                  <       9           /4       9$ '9            <     9    <    <       <       <   9   <    <       <
<removed-apn>
                                            6
                  <       9
              !       "       6
              !       "
              !       "     )
              !       "    '9      =       4
              !       "
              !       "    ; - 2/@.2                     D 9
              !       "       6
                          9       <     <       <       <       9     <    <    <       <       9   <   <    <       <
                  9       <       <     <       <       9       <     <    <    <       9       <   <   <    <       9
                       9$              C9       < ' 4               '9    9$ '9     /4      /4      <   <    <       <
                  9       <       <     <       <       9
              !       "
              !       "
              !       "    0 '
              !       "    '9 =            4
              !       "
              !       "            F E2                      $2      2    7 5
              !       "
              4    4          4    4                        4                               4               4            5
                                                                                4

<removed-date>
                           4                              4                                 4            4        444          4
                                                                 4                                       4        4 4444               6
              4 4 4              4              4         4 44                              4            4
              !     "
<removed-apn>
              !     "        55
              !     "      0 '
              !     "      '9 =        4
              !     "
              !     "      ; - 2/@.
              !     "
              4    4                 4 4                                                                4             4       4        5
                            4    44    44                4        4        4                    4       4                  44
               4               4 4 4            4        4    4        4 4                           4 4          4       4            6
                       4                   4 44 4                          4       4                4         4   44          44
              4 4       4                       4                44                 4 4             4                  44
              4         4 4      4         4    4 44 4                4             4                   444               4       4    5
               444         4               4    4   44                      4               4                          4      4
               4        4            44         4 4                       4 4 4 4           4           44 44     4                    6
                               4 4        44 4                   44    4    4           4        4       44 4 4        4
              4            4          4    4             44       4                     4        4          4 4 4 4                   5
               44           4                  4    4        4        44 4                               444       4 44               55
                           4     4         4             44 4         4                                            4                  7
                    4            4                                     4 44 4                            4                            76
                    4                                            4     4                4                     4    4       44         6
                           4              4     4     4 4                  4           4                               4       4
               4 4         4                                  4       4             4 4                  4 4      44      444          5
                    4      4      4             4             4                     4           4 4                4      44
                                 4 4      4     4                           4                   444           4                        6
                                                                               4            5

<removed-date>
              4                            4 4          44 4           4                44 4 4         4        4          4
              44    44 44                  4        4                  4             44           4        44   4           4
              44 4 4 4                 4           4         4          4      4                            4          4    4     5
               4                       4           4     4 4            4                    4    4         4
<removed-apn>
              4                        4                                       4 44 4                      44 4       44    4     6
                       4    4               4       4         4    4   4       4                           44 4        4
                   4       4       4 4 4           4                                4        4         4    4          4 4
               4           4                       4                   44                              4              44 4        5
                                            44      4   44        44    4            4       4             4                     5
                           4                        4    4             44                4 4           4          4         4    56
               4           4 4 4        4      4 4       4                          44                4    4    4                7
               4    4                                   4              4 4           4                 4                   4     6
                                   4               44              4    4                                   4               4    65
                                                        4     4                                       4 4
                                   4       4                  4        44                4 44          4          4         4     6
                        4                   44          4                                    4         4    4     44       44
               4                        4                                  4                 4 4       4    4   4           4
                               4 4             4                   4    4      4             4 4            4       4 44 4        5
              4             4      4    4      4 4      4          4           4     4                4     4         4    4
              4        4                   44                      4                     4       4                     4          6
              4    4444        4           4                           4            44                                 4 44
                                   44               4        4    444 4              4 4 4        4    4          4        4
              4    4                                                                     4                  4     4 44 4 4        5
                                        444                             4      4         4 4      4    4                  4 44
              4 4       44 4                       44   4                            4           44        44         4 4 4       6
               4                   4        4                4    4         4                4    4        4           4         5
                                                                                4            7

<removed-date>
                   444 4                                    4         4       4                           4    4    4                4       7
              44               4                   4         4               44 44           4         4       4             4       444     75
                   44 444                   4      4                  4          4    4 4 4               4                 4           4    6
                   44          4 4 4               4     44      4    4      4       4            4                 4                        66
<removed-apn>
               4 4        4                              444                                              4         4           4    4
                                       44      4 4      4 4      4    4      444                                         44             4
                   4       4 4 4 44            4         4      4    4       44           44              4    44 4                     4     5
                          44                444          4            4                   4 4          4 4444                           4
                  4                    4            4    44 44 4             4    44      4 4          4            4                         6
              4 44             4       4       4                 4    4           44 44                        4            4       4 4
                      4                4       4    4    4                           4        4                4                    4
                      4 4      4                    4            4                        4       4           44                4             5
              4    4           4    4                       4 4               4      4 4      4 4                   4    44             4
               4           4                   4 44      4               4                        44          4             4    4            6
               4       4                                    4                 4                   4            4                    4
              4444                 4    4                   4 4                      4            44 4                  4               4    5
                                                             4      444      444         4             44          4        4           4    55
               4           4 4                 4            4                44          4                44                4    4           7
              4 4                          4                                     4                         4                             4   76
                                                4                                4           4            444           4                    6
                                                        4                                    4            4 4444            4 4 4
                  4                 4           4 4 4                            4           4                                      4444      5
                   44      4 4              4      4                 4               4        4       4                          4
              4       4    44      4           4         44          44              4            4                 4            4 44         6
                   44 4 44 4                        4       4    4    4      44 4        4        4                      4
              4                    4    4      4                44           44      4    4 4 4               44                44 444
                                                                                     4            6

<removed-date>
                            4               4       4    4444      4         444       4 44          4               4 44        4   5
               4           4 4                          4           4    4        4    4 4 44        4           4           4
                               4 44                 4         4     4   4                  4         4 4         44           4      6
                    4 44 4 4            4 44 4           4                         4            4
<removed-apn>
               4 4      44             4            4    44 4      4          4    4           44                    4
                   4       4       4                4    44    4    4   4     4 44 4                                                 5
              444      4                                                                                                             55
              !     "
              !     "
              !     "       )
              !     "      '9      =       4
              !     "
              !     "      /@.
              !     "
              &                9$ ' 4 '9             C      ' 4     < /4                   ' 4           ' 4
                       9$       <      C9            <      ' 4          <    C9 '9            < '9          9       9    C9
              ' 4 '9           <        9            C        <     9 ' ;     C    /4      '        C9    C      ' ;         <
                  9 &          <9       9      C    ' 4       <    <9   <      9      <9                 ' 4         <       <
                                                                                           5
               <               <    '9          9    C        9                < ' ;        C            '           <    <
              5                                     7                            7                                       6
              '9    /4          9               9 /4         <9          <            C     C    ' ;             (
                                            6
               C    /4      '           <      C9 /4         C9          < ' ;             '9    /4          9 &          9$
                                                                              4

<removed-date>
               <9 ' 4           9    <      <            <9                C9         ' 4       <    <9     <9    <
                        9       <         ' 4    <9       <    C    /4    ' 4 '9              ' ;       <    9       <
<removed-apn>
              '        C            /4                    9 ' ; '9         <9    C    '        <     C9     <        <
                                                                                                                  5
                       <        < '        C    '              C    ' 4         ' ; ' ;        C    &       C9
                                           5                               7                                7
                        <    C9            C9       9 ' ;      9$    <9 ' ;      C    ' 4 '             9   9; ' 4
                                     6                               6
                        9       9     <                  9;    <          '9    ' 4       9    9$    9$      9       9
                  9    <    '               9       9     <         &            <        <          9;
               <                           <        9    C9     9 /4       C    ' 4 '9         <    (       9$
              /4      ' ;    9$            9$    C      /4    ' 4          <           <       C9           <
               <      ' 4       <     <                  <    ' 4    <     9$ ' 4                           <9 ' 4
                                     5                               5                               7
              '9       C9    <      ' 4                   < &       /4           <9       <    9;    C9 ' ; (
                             7                                 6                               6
                  9 ' 4      <        9    9$ /4         <     9$ ' 4       < &                <9 '9              <
              /4        9    9$      <    ' 4 '9         C9    <            9         (             '            &
                                                                           4

<removed-date>
               <                  '9       <    /4      ' ;     <   <      9    <    9$             <
                      ' ;             <          <      /4           9    C9         <     9$      <    /4    (
<removed-apn>
                  9     <    <    '9       <9    9$      9$     <   C9     9            9 '9      ' ;    <    '
                                                               5                           5
               C9      <           <      '9    '         9         9;          <       9 '                    <
                       7                                 7                           6
               9$       <          <            /4       C9     <          9 (       C     <        9    C    ' ;
               6
              '       '9     <9    C       C9    C        9     <         <          <9                 ' 4 '9
              ' ;      <          ' ; (             9    C      9        /4                C9 /4               <
              ' 4 ' ; ' ; '9              ' ; ' 4 /4           <    C9 '9        9 /4      C9 /4        '9
               9$       <         (       '         9         /4    <           <   (         < ' 4       < /4
                                                                                     5
              ' 4 &         ' ;       <         ' ;                       9$               <        < ' ;
               5                                 7                              7                              6
              '9                  (        C9 /4         C9 ' 4      9 /4      '9             9    <9     <
                                           6
              ' ;                 &       ' ;    9; ' ;         < '9       < '9                   /4     <
                  9    9$ /4       <9 ' 4           <    <     C9   <      <         <        < '        <9 '
                                                                          4

<removed-date>
                < '                 < ' ; ' ;          C             C9    9$         9       <           ' 4            9$
              '9    /4          ' ;      C        < '       ' 4      9;    <              (           < ' ;      <
                                                                                                                         5
<removed-apn>
              ' ;                <            (           9 ' ;      9$    <      ' 4             '        9$ '9        &
                                         5                                 7                                   7
               C9 '9       C        9                 ' 4    <      ' 4 /4                 C9         9    9$    C9      C
                                 6                                   6
                    ' 4    <    (       '9    ' 4 /4            9    9$            9$      <9             '9    '        <
                                                            5                                     5
              '9     <9 ' ; /4           <        9    <        9 ' ;         < '9                 <             <          <
                    5                                 5                                   5
              ' 4         ' 4       9    <9 ' 4 ' 4 ' 4              <    ' 4         < '9            < /4      '9      /4
              5                             5                                     5                                     5
              ' 4    9; '9               9$       < '9       <                    '        <       9$      <        <
                                        5                                 5                                     5
              /4     <9                  <        <    C9    9$      <    '                C9      <      '9        9
                                55                                  55                                    57
                9    <9    9$ ' ;                      <    '             ' 4      <                        <    <       C
                          57                                56                                    56
               <     9$    9$       <          <9 &         ' ;           '9          < ' ;        <      /4     9$      <
                    5                             5                                     7
              ' 4          <     9$      <     <9      <9 ' ;         <                    C               9$           ' ;
              7                               7                                   7                                     7
                     C      9 ' ; (           (        C9 &          <     <9      <              ' ;       <    C      &
                                  7                                       7                                     7
                                                                              4

<removed-date>
              (        <     C9 &           9       < /4         9$       <       9                  9$ ' ; ' 4 /4
                                7                                     7                                 7
                        9       9    9$             9 (         '9        9    <      '9        9               9    <    '9
                            7                                   75                                  75
<removed-apn>
               9$      9$ &         /4     <            /4       <     9$ ' 4 ' ; '                         '9      ' 4
                      77                                77                        76
                  <                  <     C9    <       C9      <            '        <9 ' ;                        <    &
              76                                7                                     7                                   6
                  9 &           <    <    /4        9       <    <             <       9$      9$       < &         /4    '9
                                          6                                   6                                     6
              (             '       '9     <    /4      ' 4                   '9       <       9$    <       C      (
                                    6                                 6                                     6
                  <    <             <9 ' 4      9$         <          C9 /4           <                <    <      '      C9
                            6                                   6                                   6
               <      /4     <      '9    ' ; '9         <       9; '          <       C9 ' ; (             /4       <    ' ;
                      6                                 6                                 65
              ' 4      C9    <        9    C9               < &       ' 4 (            <9            C9      C      ' ;       <
              65                                67                                    67                                  66
                       <     <9            C     9$         <          <               <9 /4                /4            ' ;
                                          66                                  6                                     6
               <9      <        <     9 '        9$         <    C9    C      '9                    /4          < '        <
                  <    <        9 (        9$       9 /4         <     <       <       <      '9    /4       C9
              /4                <     <                                C      ' ;         <         /4      '       /4     <
                                                                                  4

<removed-date>
              '9       9$ &         <    ' ;                C9 (            C             /4      /4                9       < '9
                                                                                                                               5
               <9                                            <      <    ' 4                  9 /4      /4         9; ' ; '9
                                            5                                       7                                  7
<removed-apn>
              (               9              9 /4        /4                 <              C9      <9                    <    /4
                                    6                                       6
               <        <           <        < '            C    ' ;            <                  '       '        ' ;            C9
                  9     9   '                       /4                       ' ;         9$ /4        ' ;       C        < '
                  9    9;     <     /4          9       9               <    ' 4 ' ;           C9 '9            <    /4       9$
                      ' ;       9       9    9$ ' 4          C9         <    (       '        '                &        <
               C9 &         /4      ' ;         9       9    <       '9                        C9       9      ' ; /4         C
                                                                5                                       5
                      ' ;     <     '        <              /4       ' ;        9$             9$      <9            ' ; /4
                        7                                       7                                       6
               <              <9 ' ;         C9      <          9       <                 9             <      ' ;      <    ' 4
                        6
              ' 4      C      <     ' ;      C9             ' 4      ' 4        <9 ' 4 (              /4        <    ' 4
              (         <     <     /4      /4       C9      9;      '9         C9 ' 4         C9               <       9$
                  9    <                    '9      '                '9              '            <    <9            ' 4
                                                                                     4

<removed-date>
               9; '9         <9 '           9    <    ' 4    9$ ' 4           <          /4       C9      <
              (        9$            9$         ' 4    <     9$ /4                  <    /4                <    <
                        5                               5                                    7
<removed-apn>
              (       ' 4   (        <     9$    9$     <    <                     ' ;
                        7                               6                                    6
               C9      <    /4      ' ;    9$         ' ;    <       9$ /4          <            /4      ' 4     <
              '9      '9     C      ' 4     9     <    <     <      /4        C9         '        9$       9 ' ;
               9$           (        <                 <    (        <    ' ; /4         /4      '              C9
               <            ' 4      <                 9$             9        <     <       <       <     9     <
                  <     <       <     9     <     <     <       <     9        <     <       <       <     9     <
                                                                                             5
                  <     <       <     9     <     <     <       <     9             9$            C9       < ' 4
                        5                               7                                    7
                      '9     9$ '9        /4    /4      <       <     <        <     9       <       <     <     <
                        6                               6
                  9 ' ;      <       C9 (        C9    <     9$      9$       <     9$ ' 4        9$
                        <       <    9$     9 /4       C             C        9$    9$    <       9$      <    ' ;
               C9           &               9 '9       C9    9$           /4        C9    <      /4      /4    /4
                                                                          4

<removed-date>
              ' ; /4            9 (               ' ;    9$           /4        <    C    '        9;    <9 /4
              ' ;       <   /4              /4    (     '       ' 4    <        C9   <     9$     '9
                                                            5                               5
<removed-apn>
                       <9   '           9    C9    <9 '9        /4    /4         9 /4              C9 /4
                        7                                   7                                 6
              (             ' ;      9;           '         <    <              <9   <     <       <    /4        9
                        6
              '        <    ' 4              9$ ' 4      9$                     <    C9             9    <    ' 4
               <        <            9$ '9               9$           /4        <9   C9            9$    9$       9
              '9      ' ;                    C9    <    '             /4         9         C9      <          /4
               <        <    C       <9      9$       9 ' ;           ' 4 /4               9;               9 '
                  <          9$             '     '      <9      <     C9       C9   9$    9$     /4          ' ;
                        5                                 5                                 7
                  9 ' ;         <       9    C     C             <9     9       <          C9     /4    ' ;    <
                      7                                     6                               6
                  9 '9       9;                       < '       /4     C         9   <        9   /4    &     (
                      ' 4           (       '     (      <9      C9             <     9             9             9
               9$       <    <
                                                                            4        5

<removed-date>
              !       "
              !       "      6
              !       "    0 '
              !       "    '9 =            4
              !       "
              !       "    ./           5
<removed-apn>
              !       "
              4       444 4        4               4                                                     4                    4        4    5
                  4    4      4     4       4      4    44 4 4        4                     4           44            4        4      4
              4       444          4                4                         4     44 4                         4    4           4444      6
                              4        44 4             4             4      44444 4                          4 4 4           4       4
               4               4 4 4               44        44          4              4                     4               4    4
               4           4            4      4 4      4            4       4 4        44 4 4 4                          4                 5
              4            4                            4        4           444                4        4        4 4 4        4      4
               4 4        4        444         4 44 4 44 4            4      444                              44          4 4 4 4           6
                           4                444 4        44              4 4                    4        4                    4       4
                  4 4                   4           4             4444        4         44          4            4         4           4   5
                  4    4       4    4 44           4                 44       4444 4 4          4 4               4    444         4 4     55
                  4                        4        4       44       444 4               4          4 444 444          44                  7
              4       4    4 4          4               4                                    4 444           4 4      4       44           76
               4       444 4                            4            4         4         4 4         444      4           4           4    6
                   4          44            4      4             44           4     44 4                     44           4 4 4
                          4    4 4      4           4                         444                   44 44                     4             5
               444 4                   4       4             4 4               4                        4 4                    4      44
               4      4        4        44          4         444        4    4 4                   4 4      44           44      4    4    6
              4    44444 4 4            44 44               44 4      4       4    4     4           4       4            444         4
                          4             4      4    4    44                             4       444                   4            44
              44      4        4 444                    4 4      4 4                     44     4       4    4            4    4            5
                                                                                    4           7

<removed-date>
                       4                          4       4 4 44            4 4444               44 4             44      44
               4        4              4    44    4    444444                  4        4            4 4 4 4 4             444                 6
              44 4                 44       4     4       4    44      4       44                    4           4         4           44
                       4 4 4        4            4     4 4         44      44      44       44        4 4        4 4      44 4         4
<removed-apn>
                    4       44         4     4                              4       44       4       4    4      444 4             4444        5
               4        44         4            44                4    4    444 4            4 44 4 444                   4 4         4       5
                  4 44 4                   44    44 4      4 4                               4                4      4         4              56
                   44 4            4 4 4 4            4           4    4        4                                 4               4 444       7
               44           4      4    444 4         444      4 4 4 4              4 4 4 4 4                44           4                   6
                       4           4    4 44          44              4         4 4 4 4 4 4 4 44                                              65
              44       4            4        4            4    4       4    4            44                  44 4         4       4 4
              4    44              4              4    4              4             4                         4      4             4 4         6
                    4 4             44      4         4    4 4 4            4                                                      4 4
              4         444        4 4444                 4    44 4        4 4          4            4           4            4    4 44
              4                4            4     4 444           4            4        4                            4    44       4 4         5
                        44 4        4       4    4                4        44                4                4 44        44 4
               4    4      4       4    4 4       4       44 4 4               4    4 4                      4    44 444 44                    6
              4     44      44      44                    4444         4       4             4 4              4      4            444 4
              4         4      4             4        4 4      44 4         444          4       4       4    4 4         4 4      4
               444      44 4 4          44 4              4 4         4     4      4     4       4444         4 4                     4        5
                    4444 4 444 4                4 4       4        4                4            4 4                       4      4
              4    4    4                  4 4             44 444          4             4 4                 4                    4            6
              44 444                         4    4 4         4       4                      4           4               4 4              4   5
               44      444         44 4                                        4 4 4 44              4    4 44             44 4 44            7
              4    4        44              4 444         4                              4                    4           4           4       75
                    4      4       44 4      4 4          44      4    4    44          4 44 4444                         44          44      6
                                                                                    4            6

<removed-date>
               444      4444            4                444          44    4      4 4            4       4      44 4 4        4           66
               4        444                         4                 4            4             44444 4                  4       4
                   4        4                                  4 4         44 4 4            4 4                  4           4 4 44
                   4 4      4      4    44                                 4    4                4    4 4        44 44                4     5
<removed-apn>
                   4       444 4 4           444        444        4                         4 4 4           4 4          44 4
              4         444        4 44      4                 4       4 4      44               4 4 44           4    4 4        4         6
                       4    44               4      4       444    4           4         4                4      4            4    44
               4444 4              4        4       4         4        4    4                4           4    444 4444 4              4
               4 4444               4        4 44              4       4                         4 4 4            4 44            4    4    5
                   444              44                         44               4                4    4       4 4                  4
              4    4 4                              4    4    44 44                4 4                        44                       4    6
               4 4      4 4        4         4 4         4 4           4       4 44 4             4 4                      444
                   4 4             4    4               4    44    44                   4    4       44      4                             5
              4    44              4                    4    44    4       4       4         4       44 4         4                        55
               4 44                    4            4    4            4         4       4    4        4 4                 4        44      7
              44           4 4          4       4       444        4           44           44                                44           76
               4       4               4 4444 4          44 4              44               44       4                4 4 4                6
                    4       44          4    4 4         4         4       4                 4        4          4                    4
                  444 4                4    4           4         44        4 4         444       44 4        4 4          4 4 4            5
              4             4           4        4       44 4                   4                             444 4               4
               4           44          4    4    44                4 4             4         4 4 44           444 4 4                       6
               44          4            4 44 4          44    444          4 4      4       44       4       4        4    4444
                        4      4       4     4           44    4                4            4       4       44 4              4      4
                   4                         4 44             444      4 44                      4       444      4 4 4                     5
              4 4                      44               4 4       4            4        4             4               44       4
               4 4                      4    4 4                   4       4       4                              4        4 4        4     6
                                                                                    4

<removed-date>
                      4     4                                                                                             6
              !       "
              !       "      5
              !       "     )
              !       "    '9    =       4
<removed-apn>
              !       "
              !       "    ./           5
              !       "
              &                                         9   C9    <   C       C             <                  '9    C
               <       C        9       <       <       <    <     < ' 4      C9 '9        '9       <9   <9           <
              ' 4 /4                            9    9; ' ;       <9 &                 9 ' ;               <
               9$ /4        ' ; ' 4 '9               C      9$    9$ '9      /4     9$      <        9   C      9$   C
                                                                                           5
              '        C9       9 /4        /4       <9     <     <   C9            C      /4            C      C9 ' ;
              5                                     7                              7                               6
              (              C      '               ' 4     <     9$ '9       9$    9$      9; &           <
                                            6
                  <    9$    C9                     ' 4          /4   <9 ' ;        C9 /4          /4           C9
               <      '     &       ' 4         9 (         9$ /4        9         (       ' 4 /4          < /4       9
               <9      9;    <      ' 4         9            < ' 4            <9 ' ; ' ;                 C9      9
              '9             <              ' ; ' ;         <    /4   C       9$       <       <     9 (        C9   <9
                                                                                                                     5
                                                                              4

<removed-date>
              /4       9;           /4             <            '           <    9$ &       ' 4       9 ' ;        9$
                                           5                                     7                                 7
               <             C9      <9       9    <9               9 (         /4    ' ;           /4     <      ' ;
                                     6                                   6
<removed-apn>
              '         9       <                   < ' 4                       /4     <    '9                <       9
              ' 4      <             <     C9            C9             (        <     C                           C      ' 4
              /4       C    ' ;               <    <        9    9; (             9          C9      <    '           9
              &             ' ; '9        ' ; ' 4 ' 4               9 ' 4 '9          ' 4    9;      9$    <      &       (
               C9 /4        '         <    <9 /4        '       '9          9          9$       <                     <    <
                                     5                                   5                                 7
              (       '9     <        9 /4         <9    9; (           /4                < &         <    C9      C9      9$
                             7                                   6                                   6
                      /4    (         9            C                        < (        C9    C            /4      '9      '
              (       '9            ' 4       9                             9    9$          C9      C             C9 ' 4
                       C9                 &       ' ;               <            C                   C     <      (
                  9     9 (               (       ' ;       < &                 ' 4    <9 /4         <    /4      ' ;         9
               <       9$                  9$                   '9      &        <    '     '                     ' 4
                                                                 5                                   5
                                                                                  4

<removed-date>
              ' ;    <9 ' ; ' ; ' ;                      C9 ' ;         9         &     ' ; /4      /4    '9     C
                     7                                   7                               6
              ' ; ' ; ' ; '                 9    9$       9    C                        '9      9 /4      ' 4    <
               6
<removed-apn>
               <    (        9$    <     C9      9; /4        (      <9           ' 4 ' 4                       ' ;
               9; ' ;        <9 ' 4      9$             /4          ' 4      9$ ' ; ' ; '9            9    <9    <
                9            <9         '       '         <    9$           '9            < '9       <     <9    <
               <    /4      '9     C    &       ' 4      <9    C9 ' ;              C9    C     <     C9 '9
                                                                                         5
              ' 4                 (                 9     <                   <    9$                <9     <
               5                                 7                                 7                             6
              /4        < ' ;      C9                                C       <    '           ' 4     9 '9       9$
                                         6
               <9 '                <9    9$ (             <          C9 ' ; /4          '9     9$          <9     9
              '9    '9             9$    <          < /4       <    (              <    ' ;    C     9$
               9$       <                C       <       <9    <     9;      C9 /4       C9 /4            ' ;     <
               9$    C9      <        9 ' ;      9$ '9         <             C9 '9       <9    <9     9     9    C
                                                                                                                 5
              /4    '       &           '9      ' ;           ' 4       9     <                 <    9$
                                         5                                   7                             7
                                                                             4

<removed-date>
                     <     <9      <                9 /4        ' ;           '9          < '                       &           9
                                   6                                     6
              ' ;    <    '9      '       /4                     C        9 /4         C      ' ;           '       '9          9
                                                                5                                   5
<removed-apn>
               9;    <9            C9           '                       '9     C               9$ '          9$ ' 4             <
                    5                                   5                                     5
              /4                          ' ;    9$              C            ' 4         9 '               &       (           9
              5                                 5                                     5                                     5
                    '         <    <9 /4         C      ' ;         9                             9 /4       <              (
                                      5                                       5                                     5
                    /4    ' 4      <9      9;    <9                       9               < ' 4              C9 ' ;          C
                                  55                                    55                                  57
                        9 /4       C       C        9       <    <9      C9    C       <      (      <      &       /4       <9
                          57                                    56                                  56
                    ' ;    C9              C9            C       9$      C        9       <          C9 /4           C      &
                    5                                   5                                     7
                  9 &             '        9$       <            9;                       <    <    (       '           9 ' ;
              7                                 7                                     7                                   7
               C    '9    '       '9          < &        C9 ' 4                        <      /4        9       9    <      ' ;
                                          7                                   7                                     7
               <    '      C9         < ' ;      <9      <9             ' ;       9    <9           ' ;                 9 ' 4
                                  7                                     7                                   7
               <9                     9    <    '       '       ' 4                    9$ '9            9    C          9
                          7                                     75                                  75
              '      9$    9$ /4                 <      ' 4 (                 ' 4                    C9 '9           C9      C9
                    77                                  77                                    76
                                                                                  4

<removed-date>
                                9 ' ;                                       ' ;      <9 ' ; ' ;            C9             9 /4
              76                                    7                                   7                                   6
                    &        <       <              ' ;      C      ' ;              <9 ' ;               ' ;         '
                                            6                                       6                                 6
<removed-apn>
                9    9$ '9              9    C               <       <       C9 '9          (        <9    C          ' 4 ' 4
                                    6                                       6                                   6
              /4            '9               9; ' ;          <9         < &             9       9     9    9$ (       /4
                            6                                       6                                     6
              '9    '       '9      ' 4                 9       <       9 /4         9$              C     <     <    /4    /4
                    6                                       6                                       65
               C                     C       C9 ' ;             <       9    C       C9              9$          <9 '9        <
              65                                67                                          67                              66
                            '               (                   <                       <    9$      <9         '9    ' 4
                                            66                                      6                                 6
              /4            ' ; '                   &       /4       C9      C      '9      '             ' 4       9 '9     9$
               <9       9    C       <9         9       9                       9    <9                   ' ;         '9
                < ' 4                9$ '9           <      '        C      /4       <       9$ '                C9    <     C9
               <9    C       9;      <      /4              (       (       &       ' 4      9$      C9    <    ' ;          C
                                                                                                                             5
              ' ;    <       <      ' 4      9; ' 4          <9      C          9 ' ; /4            ' ;                <    ' ;
                                             5                                     7                                   7
              /4    (           9       <                       <    9$                     /4       <    (      C9 '        C9
                                     6                                       6
                                                                                        4

<removed-date>
                      '       9$ ' 4 (             < '9              /4       C9 /4                        C    ' 4
               C       C       C9          C      ' ;            C9      <         9    9;      <9    C     C9
<removed-apn>
              '       &             '9    '        <    '9      ' 4      9$       <    '                   &
              ' ;      9$      C9    C     <            '        <9 '9            C    (       ' 4         '         <
               <9             &     ' ;    C9            9$         <         /4       &       ' 4         ' ;
                                                          5                                      5
              '9              '9     9;    <9                       9 &            <       9 '             '
                          7                                 7                                    6
              (           9         (      C        9       <   (       /4        C     C9 /4        '9     <       <
                          6
                               <9    <    &       ' 4            <9 '                   <9      9$     < /4         C
                       C9     /4          &              9$         9    <    ' 4          <          9; '9        /4
                       <                      <         (               (     ' 4          < &         9    C9
               C              /4     <9       9 '        <       <                C9    9$             < &         ' 4
                  9       <   (           '9      ' ;    C                        C9 ' 4         9     <            <9
                          5                                 5                                    7
                  <            9; ' 4      9$      <            ' 4 '9                 (        <9     9       <     9
                          7                                 6                                    6
                                                                              4

<removed-date>
                      '       ' 4      9;         9    C9      <           9$         C      9    9;           <    /4
              ' ;                     ' 4      9$ &                       (            <          <     C9            <
<removed-apn>
              ' 4 '9                   <       C          9     9          <9                9          C
              &        <9         9           ' ;         <    <     <     9;               C9    <9   '9       < '
                  9    C9         <    C9             &       /4     C     C           < '       /4    ' ;      9     9
                                                                                                   5
                  <            <      (       '                C    '      9$         9$               ' 4 '9        <9
                          5                                     7                                  7
                      '9              (        9$      C9 (          <9       9            '9      9    C9          '9
                          6                                     6
              &                       &           <    <      ' ;         '            9    <      9   &       9$
                  < &                     9    <      ' 4               9 ' ; ' 4                       C9 ' 4        9
                  9    <9      C       C9 '           &        C    ' 4    C9         9;     9    9$       9   <    ' 4
              '9              (                           < '9          9 '       ' 4       9; '9       9$          /4
              '       '        9$      <               9;                 /4      ' ;       C           <      C9 &
                                                                5                                  5
               <      /4       C9         < /4         C9      C9             < /4          <      9                 C9
                          7                                     7                                  6
                                                                                  4          5

<removed-date>
                  9 &         <9 /4           <            C                      9       9        9            ' ;       <
                        6
              (               9;      C9             C     C            '         <    <       /4          <    /4       C
<removed-apn>
                        <    '               ' ;      9    C       C9    9$ /4        /4       '            9         ' ;
               9$    9$                       C9 '9        <9           '9            (         9$                9      9;
              /4    (                        ' 4          '9      &           /4                   <       <          ' 4
                    ' ;               <9
                      5
              !     "
              !     "     5
              !     "    0 '
              !     "    '9 =            4
              !     "
              !     "    ./           6
              !     "
              4     444 4        4               4                                                 4                  4           5
              4    4 44 4        4    4                   4       44          4           4     4 4         4 44         4
                    4                        4       44 4                   4 4               4444                   4       44   6
              4      4                4 44444         4                  4 44         4         4      4              44 4
                   44       44           4            4                  4            4        4       4          4           4
               4 4 4                 4    4 4         44 44 4                     4                 4             4               5
                     4           4        444                 4    4         44 4         4     4      4 4       4       444
               4 444 44          4    4 444                              44       4 4         4 4                 4               6
              444 4 44                   44                   4    4                  4         4       4 4                   4
                                                                              4           7

<removed-date>
                    4             4444 4               44         4             4           4             4      4       4     4 4 44       5
                   4                 44      4444      4 4 4 4                     4 444              4 4        4                      4   55
                    4      44        4444                 4       4 44 4 444 44                              4       4       4 4       4    7
                       4                                      4444          4 4 4            4 4              4          444 4              76
<removed-apn>
                       4             4        4           4 4      444         4         4               4        4           44            6
              4    4             44          4        44 4                  44           4 4         4                    4    44      4
                    4                        444                  44 4 4                     4                444        4          4        5
               4            4    4            4                       4    4                     4       44 4        4         4       44
                    4          4 44      4 4 4                    4 4       44           44          4    44      44 444 44            44    6
               44          44    4    4      4    4       4        4        4            444             4                4            4
               4    4 44                               4       444                  4                 44 44          4         4444
                       4 4       4 4                      44 4        4     4            4       4                       4                   5
                    4      4 4    44         4 44 44           44 4             44 44                         4           4         4
              44    4 4444 44                 4        4          4 4      4 4 4         444                 44 4               44           6
              4     4      4     44      4    44                  4            4         4               44              4 4 4 4
                   4    4 4          44 44        4 4      44      4 4         4 4 44 4                  4           4        44    4
               4                             4        44      4 4      4       4444                  4444 4               44    4            5
                  44              4      4 444        4       444 4        444          4 4           4          4 4 4 4                4   5
              4    444      4    4                            4             4      4         4                    44      4     4 4 4       56
               4       4          4      4       4                              4                4 444 44                     4 4      44   7
              4 4      444       4 4 44               4 4 44 4             44           4                                4      4      4    6
              44       44             4          4    4 4 44 4 4            44                               44          4         4        65
               4           4     4       4 4              44               44 4         4        4 4         4    44            4
                    4 4               4               4                     4      4                 4 4             4    4        44        6
              4        4    4    4 4         4                                                       4 4 4                444 4 444
              4            4     44 4 4 4              4          4            4            4        4 444                     4
                                                                                    4            6

<removed-date>
              4       4444          4           4        4                         4 44             4 4                  44 4 4               5
              4    4                4       44                  4             4 44 44 4                      4      4       4    4      4
              4       4    44      4 4          4       4 4                  4    44444 4 4                 4       4 4      44 44            6
                           4 4 4           44 4 4               4    4       4     4444            44       44           4      4 44
<removed-apn>
                  4 4444           4 4 4 4 44            4       4                          4      4 4 44 4              4           444
              4 4 4444                             4        4                4                      4 4 4                4          4 4       5
                       4            4          4            44 44            444 4         4 4                      4       4       4    4
                       4      44    4 4 4          44    44 4                      444         4    4 4          4           4 4              6
               4      4 4               4 4             4       4             4       4                 44      44      4    444        4    5
              444              4    44          4       44 4 4               44 444                4        444                 4    4 4     7
                  444 44               4        44      44          4    4    4 44                  4    4       4          4 44 4 4         75
              4               4     4           44       4          4         4    4       4 4          44      4 4      4      4        4   6
                          4444 4           4                    4       4                   4               4            4       44 44       66
              44 44        4        444                 4 44        4            44       44 4          44 444               4           4
              44444           4            4 444        44           4       4             4        4 4      44 4           444         4
               4      4    4 4         4 4      4           444      44      44    44 4                 4 4         4       4    4      4     5
               4444        4 4                     4             4444        4444 4         4      4    4        4                  4
               4 4                      4      4         4      4    4                4 4                44 444          4              4     6
              4           4                    4         44 444                            4       44       4       4
              4       4             4 4                 4 44        444       44 4                  4                        4 4 4 4
              4 4      4 44             44 4 44          4      4        4 4              4 44 4        4                               4     5
                           4           4           4             4      4     44 4         4 4          44      4       4 44         4 4
              44444                    44          44       444      444 4         4                   444          4 4 4        4 4          6
                  4       4    4 44 4          4            4        444                           4                4            4
               44444 4                  4       4               4        4                                   4 4         44 4 4              5
              44                   4        4 4 4 4             4 4      4    4    44                                    4      4            55
                                                                                      4

<removed-date>
               4    4 4        4 444                4           4       44 44 4            444      444          4                           7
              44 4         4 4          44 4             4           444      4 44         4                 4          44    44             76
               4 4 44              4 4 4        4                   4    4 4               4       4    444      4           4        4      6
                        4      4            4    44         4444 4            4           4        4        4           4 4
<removed-apn>
              4        4    44 44444 4              4       4 4444               4         4 4 4             4          4                     5
               4 4 4               444          4       4       444              44                          44               4
               4    4       4      4             4       4      4 4                                4 4      44 44                4 4          6
                            44                          4 4 4        4 4      4            4 4         4 4              4    4 44 4
                  4 4                      444                  4 4           4      4              4      44    44                  4
              4    44      4                             4      44            4                     4      44    4       4       4            5
              4    44 4            4                        4 44                  4                4 4              4         4      4
              4     4 4                 4        44      44             4    4       4        4     444          4           44          4    6
              4                             44              4       4             4 4444           4 44 4                44              4
              4    4                4 4 4                        4       4 4         4     4 4         4         4       4
              4     4          4                    4        444 4                4       4         4           44          4 4      444      5
                  44 4      4      4       4 4 4         4               4           4         4       44 4                   4              5
                            44 44               4           4           44        4       4    4 4               4      4        4           56
              44 44         44 44 4                         44          4            4 44 4         44      444          4 4      4      4   7
              4    4       4        4      4444                      4       4    4        4           44    4                4              6
              4    4       44      4         4      4           4                          4 4 4            444         444                  65
               4       444         44 4                  4 4                      44                4 4         4            4       4
                    4               44       4              4 4                      4     4 4                   4       4       4            6
                                   4       4 4      4            4      4    4444          4 4      4           4                 4
                  4 44                          4            4                                      4444         44         4 4
              4    4                   4            4           4 4                                4        4       4       44 4              5
               4        44             44           4            4                   4             4 44          44      4 444
                                                                                      4

<removed-date>
                    4    4       4    4 44 4           4       4                   4                4                  4    4    6
               4             4 4          44      4       4 44          44              4 4 444                    4
              4     4 4444           4           44 4         444        4             4   44      4 4            4 4
                     4                4      4         4      44 44      4         4           4                      444        5
<removed-apn>
                    4        4        4 4                      4         4 4       44           4         4    44 44        4
              44 4      4                                 4         4                                4 4       44          4     6
                    4 44 4           4            4       4        44                  4                 4        4    4        5
                    4 44         4    4 4         4    44 4                                         444       4                 5
              !     "
              !     "     6 5
              !     "     )
              !     "    '9 =            4
              !     "
              !     "    ./              6
              !     "
              &                                       9    C9      <    C    C              <                  '9       C
               <     C        9 ' 4          C9 '9        '9       <9   <9              < ' 4 /4                           9
               9; ' ;        <9 &                     9 ' ;              <                  9$ /4        ' ; ' 4 '9
               C     9$      9$ '9        /4       9$      <        9   C    9$        C   '        C9       9 /4      /4
                                                                                           5
               <9    <       <       C9            C      /4            C    C9 ' ; (                     C    '
              5                                   7                             7                                      6
              ' 4    <       9$ '9           9$    9$      9; &          <                     <    9$    C9
                                          6
                                                                               4

<removed-date>
              ' 4           /4     <9 ' ;        C9 /4        /4             C9              <    '       &       ' 4     9
              (      9$ /4            9         (       ' 4 /4          < /4            9    <9    9;      <      ' 4     9
                        < ' 4              <9 ' ; ' ;                C9         9           '9             <            ' ;
<removed-apn>
              ' ;    <      /4     C       9$       <     <     9 (          C9      <9 /4         9;             /4
                                                                                                                         5
               <            '         <    9$ &         ' 4     9 ' ;        9$              <             C9      <9     9
                                           5                                 7                                     7
               <9               9 (       /4    ' ;           /4     <      ' ;             '         9       <
                                   6                                 6
                  < ' 4                   /4     <      '9              <       9           ' 4    <               <     C9
                     C9          (         <     C                           C      ' 4 /4         C      ' ;             <
               <        9    9; (           9            C9    <    '           9           &             ' ; '9        ' ;
              ' 4 ' 4           9 ' 4 '9        ' 4      9;    9$    <      &       (        C9 /4        '         <    <9
              /4    '       '9        9          9$       <                     <    <      (     '9       <        9 /4
                                   5                                 5                                     7
               <9    9; (        /4                 < &         <    C9      C9      9$           /4      (         9
                             7                                 6                                   6
               C                      < (        C9      C          /4      '9      '       (     '9              ' 4     9
                                                                                4

<removed-date>
                                        9    9$          C9    C           C9 ' 4              C9               &
              ' ;               <            C                 C     <    (               9       9 (           (
              ' ;       < &                 ' 4    <9 /4       <    /4    ' ;       9    <     9$                9$
<removed-apn>
                            '9      &        <    '     '                 ' 4           ' ;    <9 ' ; ' ; ' ;
                                                               5                               5
                       C9 ' ;           9         &     ' ; /4      /4    '9       C    ' ; ' ; ' ; '               9
                       7                                 7                               6
               9$       9    C                          '9      9 /4      ' 4      <     <    (      9$    <     C9
               6
               9; /4        (        <9           ' 4 ' 4                         ' ;    9; ' ;      <9 ' 4      9$
                      /4            ' 4      9$ ' ; ' ; '9            9    <9      <      9          <9         '
              '         <    9$             '9              < '9     <     <9      <     <    /4    '9     C    &
              ' 4      <9    C9 ' ;                C9    C     <     C9 '9              ' 4               (
                                                                                         5
                  9     <                     <    9$                <9       <         /4        < ' ;    C9
               5                                   7                               7                             6
                                     C       <    '           ' 4     9 '9         9$    <9 '              <9    9$
                                             6
              (         <            C9 ' ; /4          '9     9$          <9       9 '9      '9           9$    <
                                                                              4

<removed-date>
                  < /4         <    (                <      ' ;    C       9$                      9$       <                  C
               <       <9      <     9;      C9 /4           C9 /4                ' ;         <    9$    C9      <          9 ' ;
               9$ '9           <             C9 '9           <9    <9         9       9    C      /4    '       &             '9
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                               5
              ' ;             ' 4       9       <                     <    9$                            <       <9      <
                                             5                                     7                                     7
                  9 /4        ' ;           '9          < '                       &           9 ' ;      <      '9      '     /4
                                     6                                     6
                               C        9 /4         C      ' ;           '       '9          9    9;    <9              C9
                                                                  5                                     5
              '                     '9       C               9$ '          9$ ' 4             < /4                            ' ;
                      5                                     5                                   5
               9$              C            ' 4         9 '               &       (           9         '           <    <9 /4
              5                                     5                                     5                                 5
               C      ' ;       9                               9 /4       <              (             /4      ' 4      <9    9;
                                            5                                     5                                     5
               <9                       9               < ' 4              C9 ' ;          C                9 /4         C     C
                                    55                                    55                                  57
                  9       <    <9    C9      C       <      (      <      &       /4       <9           ' ;      C9            C9
                              57                                  56                                    56
                       C       9$    C          9       <          C9 /4           C      &           9 &               '      9$
                      5                                     5                                     7
                  <            9;                       <    <    (       '           9 ' ;        C    '9      '       '9        <
              7                                     7                                   7                                     7
                                                                                      4

<removed-date>
              &        C9 ' 4                        <      /4          9       9    <      ' ;    <      '      C9       < ' ;
                                            7                                       7                                 7
               <9      <9             ' ;       9    <9             ' ;                 9 ' 4      <9                     9    <
                                      7                                     7                                   7
              '       '       ' 4                    9$ '9              9    C          9         '           9 '9    (        9$
<removed-apn>
                              7                                     75                                    75
                  9    C9 '9                 <               C      '       ' 4      C9      C9            9$         '       ' ;
                      77                                    77                                    76
                               <       C9 ' ;        9$      9;      C      ' 4 (           '9     C9      9$ &        9$      <
              76                                    7                                       7                                 6
                              '       /4        9       9       9 ' ;                       &                   '9                9
                                            6                                       6                                 6
               9$      C9      9$ (             <               9               9 ' ;                           ' 4    <       <9
                                  6                                         6                                   6
                       C9      C        9 ' ; ' ;            9$         9    9$         < ' 4             ' ;       9 '       '
                              6                                     6                                     6
                  9               9         &        C9 (            C      '9       9$                   (     (         9       <
                      6                                 6                                         65
              ' ; &           /4       C     C9      9$                 9       <                         '9          '
              65                                    67                                      67                                66
               <                  <    C9    C9 ' 4 ' 4              C9                      <     <            ' ;    C       <
                                            66                                      6                                 6
              /4          9       9    C9       9 '         '                           9    C9            9$       9 ' ; '
                      ' 4 ' 4           <    C9 ' ; '                C9         9       9             <    9$    9$       9 &
                                                                                        4

<removed-date>
               9$ /4          (       <9 ' ;           9                ' ;      C9       C9               C       <    <     <
                  9       9    9$             C9             9      <       <    9$                   9            9
                                                                                                                              5
              '       '       ' ;      9      <                             9       <            &        '        9
<removed-apn>
                                              5                                  7                                      7
                  9       9    9;      <      <    '       /4       9       9                        C9 '9      C9      C9
                                      6                                  6
                          9 ' ;                                  ' ;        <9 ' ; ' ;                C9               9 /4
              &        <          <           ' ;      C    ' ;              <9 ' ;                   ' ;           '
                  9    9$      '9         9    C             <       <       C9 '9           (         <9      C            ' 4
              ' 4 /4                  '9               9; ' ;        <9         < &              9        9     9      9$ (
              /4               '9     '       '9    ' 4                 9       <        9 /4          9$              C     <
                                                                5                                       5
               <      /4       /4      C                     C       C9 ' ;              <       9     C       C9            9$
                          7                                     7                                         6
                       <9      '9         <                 '               (                    <                      <    9$
                        6
               <9              '9     ' 4           /4              ' ; '                    &        /4       C9      C    '9
              '                ' 4        9 '9         9$    <9         9    C          <9       9        9                   9
                                                                                    4            5

<removed-date>
               <9                 ' ;           '9              < ' 4            9$ '9           <      '        C
              /4     <       9$ '                C9    <     C9    <9       C    9;      <      /4              (
              (     &       ' 4    9$    C9      <    ' ;          C    ' ;      <       <      ' 4      9; ' 4
<removed-apn>
                        5                               5                                   7
               <9    C        9 ' ; /4          ' ;                <    ' ; /4          (           9       <
                        7                               6                                   6
                        <    9$                 /4     <    (      C9 '          C9             '        9$ ' 4
              (         <   '9          /4       C9 /4                      C   ' 4              C       C       C9
                     C      ' ;          C9      <      9    9;    <9       C    C9             '       &
              '9    '        <    '9    ' 4      9$    <    '                   &               ' ;      9$      C9
               C     <            '      <9 '9         C    (     ' 4           '           <    <9             &
                                                                                            5
              ' ;    C9            9$       <         /4    &     ' 4           ' ;             '9              '9
                      5                                 7                                   7
               9;    <9                     9 &         <       9 '             '               (           9
                      6                                 6
              (      C        9       < (       /4     C     C9 /4      '9       <       <                       <9
               <    &       ' 4          <9 '                <9    9$        < /4        C               C9 /4
                                                                        4           7

<removed-date>
                    &                9$         9    <      ' 4       <             9; '9      /4             <
                        <           (               (       ' 4       < &            9   C9           C            /4
               <9       9   '        <       <               C9    9$                < &       ' 4       9       < (
<removed-apn>
                                                              5                                  5
                    '9      ' ;      C                       C9   ' 4       9        <          <9       <          9;
                        7                                     7                                  6
              ' 4    9$      <              ' 4 '9                (        <9        9     <     9           '     ' 4
                      6
               9;       9    C9      <               9$      C        9    9;            <     /4    ' ;
              ' 4    9$     &                       (         <            <        C9           <   ' 4 '9
               <     C          9       9            <9               9             C                &        <9       9
                    ' ;         <    <       <       9;            C9      <9 '9           < '           9    C9       <
               C9           &       /4       C       C        <   '       /4    ' ;        9     9       <          <
                        5                                     5                                  7
              (     '                C      '        9$      9$                 ' 4 '9          <9           '9
                        7                                     6                                  6
              (      9$      C9 (            <9         9         '9        9       C9         '9    &
              &         <    <      ' ;             '         9    <        9 &          9$              < &
                                                                                4          6

<removed-date>
                9    <    ' 4               9 ' ; ' 4                         C9 ' 4       9       9    <9    C
               C9 '       &        C    ' 4    C9    9;       9    9$          9    <    ' 4   '9            (
                              < '9          9 '     ' 4    9; '9              9$         /4    '       '      9$
<removed-apn>
                                                                                           5
               <           9;                 /4    ' ;    C                  <     C9 &        <      /4     C9
                      5                               7                                    7
                < /4       C9      C9             < /4     <          9                   C9       9 &        <9
                      6                               6
              /4     <             C                  9       9       9            ' ;     <   (              9;
                                                     5                                    5
               C9          C       C          '       <    <      /4          <    /4     C                < '
                     5                               5                                    5
                    ' ;       9    C     C9    9$ /4      /4      '            9         ' ;    9$      9$
                     5                             5                                      5
                     C9   '9       <9         '9          (        9$                9    9;   /4      (
                     5                               5                                    5
                    ' 4           '9    &           /4                <       <          ' 4           ' ;
                     5                               55                                   55
               <9 ' ;      <       C9 (        C9    <     9$      9$         <     9$ ' 4      9$
                   57                                57                                 56
                      <       <    9$       9 /4     C             C          9$    9$    <     9$      <    ' ;
                     56                              5                                    5
               C9         &                 9 '9     C9    9$             /4        C9    <    /4      /4    /4
                     7                               7                                    7
                                                                          4

<removed-date>
              ' ; /4            9 (               ' ;    9$         /4        <    C       '      9;    <9 /4
                   7                                     7                                  7
              ' ;       <   /4              /4    (     '     ' 4    <        C9   <        9$   '9
                       7                                 7                                  7
                       <9   '           9    C9    <9 '9      /4    /4         9 /4               C9 /4
<removed-apn>
                       7                               7                                    7
              (             ' ;      9;           '       <    <              <9   <        <     <    /4        9
                       75                                75                                 77
              '        <    ' 4              9$ ' 4      9$                   <    C9              9    <    ' 4
                       77                                76                                 76
               <        <            9$ '9               9$         /4        <9   C9             9$    9$       9
                       7                                 7                                  6
              '9      ' ;                    C9    <    '           /4         9            C9    <          /4
                       6                                 6                                  6
               <        <    C       <9      9$       9 ' ;         ' 4 /4                  9;             9 '
                       6                                 6                                  6
                  <          9$             '     '      <9    <     C9       C9   9$       9$   /4          ' ;
                       6                                 6                                  6
                  9 ' ;         <       9    C     C           <9     9       <             C9   /4    ' ;    <
                     6                                   6                                  65
                  9 '9       9;                       < '     /4     C         9   <         9   /4    &     (
                     65                                  67                                 67
                      ' 4           (       '     (      <9    C9             <        9           9             9
                       66                                66                                 6
               9$       <    <
                       6
                                                                          4        5

<removed-date>
              !       "        5
              !       "
              !       "     )
              !       "    '9      =     4
              !       "
              !       "       $9 4       9    $         $    :$      =
<removed-apn>
              !       "
              !       "    :          = 4 9
              !       "    > ?        > ?
              !       "    B44        4 3 4 <          4    94    < $         99          4:    $ 4        %
              !       "        5
                       9$ B44          C9     <
              !       "        7
              !       "
              !       "     )
              !       "    '9      =     4
              !       "
              !       "       <              $    4          ; ;      %
              !       "        7
                  <       <       <     9     <    <        <     <       <       9
              !       "        6
              !       "        6
              !       "    0 '
              !       "    '9 =          4
              !       "
              !       "    /@.
              !       "        6
              4    4                   4 4                                                             4               4       4    5
                              4    44    44                 4        4        4                4       4                    44
               4               4 4 4              4         4    4        4 4                       4 4            4       4        6
                       4                     4 44 4                           4       4            4           4   44          44
              4 4         4                       4               44                   4 4         4                    44
                                                                                  4       5

<removed-date>
              4         4 4      4           4    4 44 4                 4             4                   444              4       4    5
               444         4                 4    4   44                       4                  4                        4    4
               4        4            44           4 4                        4 4 4 4              4        44 44     4                   6
                               4 4        44 4                      44    4    4           4          4     44 4 4         4
              4            4          4      4              44       4                     4          4        4 4 4 4                  5
<removed-apn>
               44           4                    4    4         4        44 4                               444        4 44             55
                           4     4           4              44 4         4                                             4                7
                    4            4                                        4 44 4                            4                           76
                    4                                               4     4                4                     4     4       44       6
                           4              4       4     4 4                   4           4                                4     4
               4 4         4                                     4       4             4 4                  4 4      44     444          5
                    4      4      4               4              4                     4           4 4                 4    44
                                 4 4      4       4                            4                   444           4                       6
              4                          4 4          44 4               4                44 4 4            4        4          4
              44    44 44                4        4                      4             44              4        44   4           4
              44 4 4 4               4           4          4             4    4                                 4          4    4       5
               4                     4           4      4 4               4                       4    4         4
              4                      4                                         4 44 4                           44 4       44    4       6
                       4    4             4       4          4      4    4     4                                44 4        4
                   4       4     4 4 4           4                                    4           4         4    4          4 4
               4           4                     4                       44                                 4              44 4          5
                                          44      4   44         44       4            4          4             4                       5
                           4                      4     4                44                4 4              4          4         4      56
               4           4 4 4      4      4 4        4                             44                   4    4    4                  7
               4    4                                 4                  4 4           4                    4                   4       6
                                 4               44                 4     4                                      4               4      65
                                                                                  4           5

<removed-date>
                                                         4       4                                        4 4
                                   4       4                     4        44                4 44           4         4           4     6
                          4                 44           4                                       4         4    4    44         44
               4                        4                                     4                  4 4       4    4   4            4
                               4 4             4                      4    4      4              4 4            4       4 44 4         5
<removed-apn>
              4               4    4    4      4 4       4            4           4     4                 4     4        4      4
              4        4                   44                         4                     4        4                      4          6
              4    4444        4           4                              4            44                                   4 44
                                   44               4         4      444 4              4 4 4         4    4         4          4
              4    4                                                                        4                   4    4 44 4 4          5
                                        444                                4      4         4 4       4    4                 4 44
              4 4         44 4                     44    4                              4            44        44        4 4 4         6
               4                   4        4                 4      4         4                 4    4        4            4         5
                   444 4                                  4           4    4                          4    4    4               4     7
              44               4                   4         4            44 44          4           4     4            4       444   75
                   44 444                   4      4                  4       4    4 4 4              4              4           4    6
                   44          4 4 4               4     44      4    4   4       4              4              4                     66
               4 4        4                              444                                          4         4        4      4
                                       44      4 4      4 4      4    4   444                                       44           4
                   4       4 4 4 44            4         4    4      4    44            44            4    44 4                  4     5
                          44                444          4            4                 4 4          4 4444                      4
                  4                    4            4    44 44 4          4    44       4 4          4          4                      6
              4 44             4       4       4                 4    4        44 44                       4         4       4 4
                      4                4       4    4    4                        4         4              4                 4
                      4 4      4                    4            4                      4        4        44             4             5
              4    4           4    4                     4 4              4      4 4       4 4                 4   44           4
                                                                                   4         5

<removed-date>
               4           4                 4 44        4             4                         44       4               4    4            6
               4       4                                  4                 4                    4           4                    4
              4444                 4    4                 4 4                      4             44 4                 4               4    5
                                                             4    444      444          4            44          4        4           4    55
               4           4 4               4            4                44           4             44                  4    4           7
<removed-apn>
              4 4                        4                                     4                         4                             4   76
                                              4                                4                                       4                   6
                  4                                   4          4 444 4           4 4 4                 4                 4           4
               44                        4            4                                     44 44         44      4    4           4        5
              4                4             4           4 4                             4           4       4    4 4 4               4
                   44          4 4           4            4                 4            4 4 4            44 4        444                   6
               4      4    4       4 44 4        4        4                     4                    4                    4    4      4
                          44           44    4    4      44          44                 44 4 44                       4            4
               4 4444          4            444          444          4             4 44          4 4             4    4                    5
                  4                4    4        4       44 44        4         4            4                         444
               4          4        4 4                    4           4    4    44               4           4 44      44      4 44         6
              4    4                              4              4                                    4 4        44           4
               4 44 4          4             4    4           44                    4                     4       4       4
               4 44        4       4 4       4 44        4                                           444      4                                6
              !       "
              !       "
              !       "     )
              !       "    '9      =     4
              !       "
              !       "    /@.
              !       "
              &                9$ ' 4 '9             C    ' 4         < /4                       ' 4             ' 4
                                                                                    4        5

<removed-date>
                       9$       <    C9            <      ' 4            <    C9 '9             < '9          9       9    C9
              ' 4 '9         <        9            C        <    9 ' ;        C    /4       '        C9    C      ' ;         <
<removed-apn>
                  9 &        <9       9    C      ' 4       <   <9    <        9    <9                    ' 4         <       <
                                                                                            5
               <             <      '9        9    C        9                  < ' ;         C            '           <    <
              5                                   7                              7                                        6
              '9      /4        9             9 /4         <9            <          C        C      ' ;           (
                                          6
               C      /4    '         <    C9 /4           C9            < ' ;              '9      /4        9 &          9$
               <9 ' 4           9    <        <            <9                 C9            ' 4       <    <9      <9      <
                        9       <         ' 4      <9       <   C    /4      ' 4 '9                 ' ;       <       9       <
              '        C            /4                      9 ' ; '9          <9    C       '        <     C9      <          <
                                                                                                                           5
                       <        < '        C      '             C    ' 4           ' ; ' ;           C    &        C9
                                           5                                  7                                    7
                        <    C9            C9         9 ' ;     9$    <9 ' ;        C       ' 4 '             9    9; ' 4
                                     6                                6
                        9       9     <                    9;   <            '9    ' 4          9    9$    9$         9       9
                  9    <    '                 9       9     <        &              <           <          9;
                                                                              4         5

<removed-date>
               <                        <        9    C9     9 /4       C    ' 4 '9         <    (        9$
              /4      ' ;   9$          9$    C      /4    ' 4          <              <    C9            <
<removed-apn>
               <      ' 4    <     <                  <    ' 4    <     9$ ' 4                            <9 ' 4
                                  5                               5                               7
              '9       C9   <    ' 4                   < &       /4           <9        <   9;    C9 ' ; (
                            7                               6                               6
                  9 ' 4     <      9    9$ /4         <     9$ ' 4       < &                <9 '9               <
              /4        9   9$    <    ' 4 '9         C9    <            9         (             '             &
               <                 '9     <    /4      ' ;     <    <      9    <        9$            <
                      ' ;          <          <      /4            9    C9             <    9$    <      /4    (
                  9     <   <    '9     <9    9$      9$     <    C9     9              9 '9     ' ;      <    '
                                                            5                              5
               C9      <          <    '9    '         9          9;          <         9 '                     <
                       7                              7                                6
               9$       <         <          /4       C9     <           9 (           C    <        9    C    ' ;
               6
              '       '9    <9    C     C9    C        9     <          <              <9                ' 4 '9
              ' ;      <         ' ; (           9    C      9         /4                   C9 /4               <
                                                                        4         55

<removed-date>
              ' 4 ' ; ' ; '9              ' ; ' 4 /4           <       C9 '9          9 /4         C9 /4        '9
               9$       <         (       '         9         /4       <           <      (           < ' 4         < /4
                                                                                            5
<removed-apn>
              ' 4 &         ' ;       <         ' ;                          9$                    <        < ' ;
               5                                 7                                 7                                     6
              '9                  (        C9 /4         C9 ' 4         9 /4      '9                  9    <9       <
                                           6
              ' ;                 &       ' ;    9; ' ;           < '9        < '9                        /4     <
                9    9$ /4         <9 ' 4           <    <     C9      <      <             <         < '        <9 '
                < '                   < ' ; ' ;          C             C9    9$       9       <           ' 4            9$
              '9    /4            ' ;      C        < '       ' 4      9;    <            (           < ' ;      <
                                                                                                                         5
              ' ;                  <            (           9 ' ;      9$    <    ' 4             '        9$ '9        &
                                           5                                 7                                 7
               C9 '9         C        9                 ' 4    <      ' 4 /4                C9        9    9$    C9      C
                                   6                                   6
                    ' 4      <    (       '9    ' 4 /4            9    9$          9$       <9            '9    '        <
                                                              5                                   5
              '9     <9 ' ; /4             <        9    <        9 ' ;       < '9                 <             <          <
                    5                                   5                                 5
              ' 4           ' 4       9    <9 ' 4 ' 4 ' 4              <    ' 4       < '9            < /4      '9      /4
              5                               5                                   5                                     5
                                                                             4         57

<removed-date>
              ' 4      9; '9                 9$         < '9       <                    '         <     9$      <          <
                                            5                                   5                                      5
              /4       <9                    <          <    C9    9$    <      '                 C9    <      '9          9
                                      55                                55                                     57
<removed-apn>
                  9    <9      9$ ' ;                        <    '             ' 4      <                         <    <       C
                              57                                  56                                   56
               <       9$      9$       <            <9 &         ' ;           '9          < ' ;       <      /4       9$      <
                      5                                 5                                     7
              ' 4              <       9$    <       <9      <9 ' ;         <                     C             9$             ' ;
              7                                     7                                   7                                      7
                       C          9 ' ; (           (        C9 &        <       <9      <             ' ;         <    C      &
                                        7                                       7                                      7
              (        <       C9 &             9       < /4       9$       <       9                   9$ ' ; ' 4 /4
                                  7                                     7                                  7
                          9       9    9$               9 (       '9        9    <      '9         9               9    <      '9
                              7                                   75                                   75
               9$      9$ &           /4     <              /4     <     9$ ' 4 ' ; '                          '9      ' 4
                      77                                    77                      76
                  <                    <     C9      <       C9    <            '        <9 ' ;                         <      &
              76                                    7                                   7                                      6
                  9 &             <    <    /4          9     <    <             <       9$       9$       < &         /4      '9
                                            6                                   6                                      6
              (               '       '9     <      /4      ' 4                 '9       <        9$    <       C      (
                                      6                                 6                                      6
                  <    <               <9 ' 4        9$       <          C9 /4           <                 <    <      '        C9
                              6                                   6                                    6
                                                                                    4        56

<removed-date>
               <      /4    <     '9     ' ; '9           <       9; '            <      C9 ' ; (            /4       <    ' ;
                      6                                  6                                  65
              ' 4      C9   <        9      C9               < &       ' 4 (             <9             C9      C    ' ;     <
              65                                 67                                     67                                 66
<removed-apn>
                       <    <9            C         9$       <            <              <9 /4               /4            ' ;
                                         66                                    6                                     6
               <9      <      <      9 '            9$       <    C9      C    '9                      /4        < '        <
                  <    <      9 (           9$       9 /4         <       <       <      <       '9    /4       C9
              /4              <      <                                    C    ' ;        <            /4    '       /4     <
              '9       9$ &         <    ' ;              C9 (            C             /4       /4              9       < '9
                                                                                                                            5
               <9                                            <    <    ' 4                9 /4         /4       9; ' ; '9
                                            5                                     7                                 7
              (               9              9 /4        /4               <              C9       <9                  <    /4
                                    6                                     6
               <        <           <        < '          C      ' ;          <                   '     '        ' ;            C9
                  9     9   '                       /4                     ' ;         9$ /4       ' ;       C        < '
                  9    9;     <     /4          9     9               <    ' 4 ' ;           C9 '9           <      /4     9$
                      ' ;       9       9    9$ ' 4          C9       <    (       '      '                 &        <
                                                                                   4         5

<removed-date>
               C9 &         /4    ' ;     9       9    <    '9                    C9         9   ' ; /4         C
                                                        5                                    5
                      ' ;    <    '      <            /4    ' ;    9$             9$      <9             ' ; /4
                        7                               7                                  6
<removed-apn>
               <             <9 ' ;      C9    <        9    <               9               <   ' ;      <    ' 4
                        6
              ' 4      C     <    ' ;    C9           ' 4   ' 4    <9 ' 4 (              /4       <      ' 4
              (         <    <    /4    /4     C9      9;   '9     C9 ' 4         C9              <       9$
                  9    <                '9    '             '9          '            <    <9             ' 4
               9; '9         <9 '         9    <      ' 4    9$ ' 4         <            /4       C9      <
              (        9$          9$         ' 4      <     9$ /4                <      /4                <    <
                        5                               5                                    7
              (       ' 4   (      <     9$    9$       <    <                   ' ;
                        7                               6                                    6
               C9      <    /4    ' ;    9$           ' ;    <     9$ /4          <              /4      ' 4     <
              '9      '9     C    ' 4     9       <    <     <    /4        C9           '        9$       9 ' ;
               9$           (      <                   <    (      <    ' ; /4           /4      '              C9
               <            ' 4    <                   9$           9        <       <       <       <     9     <
                                                                        4        7

<removed-date>
                  <     <     <     9    <       <     <     <     9        <       <       <       <     9       <
                                                                                            5
                  <     <     <     9    <       <     <     <     9            /4       9$     '9        <       9
                        5                              7                                  7
<removed-apn>
                  <     <     <     <    9       <     <     <     <        9 ' ;        <       C9 (          C9
                        6                              6
               <       9$    9$    <    9$ ' 4        9$                            <       <    9$       9 /4
               C             C     9$   9$    <       9$    <    ' ;       C9           &                 9 '9
               C9      9$         /4    C9    <      /4    /4    /4    ' ; /4               9   (             ' ;
               9$           /4     <    C    '        9;    <9 /4      ' ;          < /4                /4    (
              '       ' 4    <     C9   <     9$ '9                              <9 '               9    C9    <9
                                                       5                                    5
              '9      /4    /4      9 /4              C9   /4          (                ' ;      9;           '
                        7                              7                                  6
                  <    <           <9   <     <       <    /4      9 '           <      ' 4              9$ ' 4
                        6
               9$                  <    C9             9    <    ' 4       <        <            9$ '9
               9$           /4     <9   C9            9$    9$     9 '9         ' ;                      C9    <
              '             /4      9         C9      <          /4        <        <    C       <9      9$       9
                                                                       4        7

<removed-date>
              ' ;             ' 4 /4              9;             9 '            <            9$              '     '
               <9      <        C9    C9    9$    9$ /4            ' ;          9 ' ;           <        9    C       C
                          5                              5                                      7
<removed-apn>
                       <9        9    <           C9 /4      ' ;    <           9 '9         9;                        <
                        7                                6                                    6
              '       /4        C      9    <      9 /4      &     (                ' 4              (       '     (
               <9      C9             <      9           9             9       9$       <    <
              !       "
              !       "
              !       "     )
              !       "    '9    =     4
              !       "
              !       "         D 9
              !       "
              !       "    )   '
              !       "    > ? > ?
              !       "      <2 <2         <2    <2    9 9 ; 4
              !       "
                  <       <     <     <     9     <     <    <     <       9        <       <       <     <       9       <
                  <       <     <     9     <     <     <    <     9       <        <       <       <     9       <       <
                  <       <     9     <     <     <     <    9
              !       "
              !       "    5
              !       "    0 '
              !       "    '9 =        4
                                                                           4        7

<removed-date>
              !     "
              !     "               2/@. =$9F49% F                C #      @
              !     "
                               4        4                 4    4      4                  4 4                                              5
                                                                                                                                          5
<removed-apn>
              !     "
              !     "      5
              !     "      0 '
              !     "      '9 =          4
              !     "
              !     "                    2 0 0            $           $     $ F         C    $              29 8 9
              !     "
                  4 4          4                      4                         4       4 4       4        4          4      4 4          5
              !     "
              !     "        6
              !     "      0 '
              !     "      '9 =          4
              !     "
              !     "      /@.           >/@. 0 0 2;9$; ;                  % ?
              !     "
              4    4                   4 4                                                                 4             4       4        5
                            4      44    44                   4        4        4                  4       4                  44
               4               4 4 4              4           4    4        4 4                           4 4        4       4            6
                       4                     4 44 4                             4       4              4         4   44          44
              4 4       4                         4                   44                 4 4           4                  44
              4         4 4        4         4    4 44 4                   4             4                 444               4       4    5
               444         4                 4    4    44                        4                4                       4      4
               4        4              44         4 4                          4 4 4 4            4        44 44     4                    6
                               4 4          44 4                      44    4    4           4        4     44 4 4        4
              4            4            4    4                44       4                     4        4        4 4 4 4                   5
               44           4                    4     4          4        44 4                             444       4 44               55
                                                                                    4         7

<removed-date>
                           4     4           4             44 4      4                                            4             7
                    4            4                                    4 44 4                           4                        76
                    4                                            4    4                4                    4     4       44    6
                           4              4       4    4 4                4           4                               4     4
<removed-apn>
               4 4         4                                    4    4             4 4                 4 4      44     444       5
                    4      4      4               4             4                  4           4 4                4    44
                                 4 4      4       4                          4                 444          4                    6
              4                          4 4          44 4           4                44 4 4           4        4          4
              44    44 44                4        4                  4             44             4        44   4           4
              44 4 4 4               4           4         4          4      4                              4          4    4    5
               4                     4           4     4 4            4                       4   4         4
              4                      4                                       4 44 4                        44 4       44    4    6
                       4    4             4       4         4    4   4       4                             44 4        4
                   4       4     4 4 4           4                                4           4        4    4          4 4
               4           4                     4                   44                                4              44 4       5
                                          44      4   44        44    4            4          4            4                    5
                           4                      4    4             44                4 4             4          4         4   56
               4           4 4 4      4      4 4       4                          44                  4    4    4               7
               4    4                                 4              4 4           4                   4                   4    6
                                 4               44              4    4                                     4               4   65
                                                      4     4                                         4 4
                                 4       4                  4        44                4 44            4          4         4    6
                        4                 44          4                                       4        4    4     44       44
               4                      4                                  4                    4 4      4    4   4           4
                               4 4           4                   4    4      4                4 4           4       4 44 4       5
              4             4    4    4      4 4      4          4           4     4                  4     4         4    4
                                                                              4           7

<removed-date>
              4      4                   44                    4                 4          4                         4       6
              4    4444                                                                                                       6
              !     "
              !     "    75
              !     "     )
<removed-apn>
              !     "    '9      =       4
              !     "
              !     "    /@.             >/@. 0 0 2 9$; ;           % ?
              !     "
              &              9$ ' 4 '9             C    ' 4    < /4                     ' 4           ' 4
                     9$         <    C9            <    ' 4          <    C9 '9             < '9          9       9    C9
              ' 4 '9         <        9            C      <    9 ' ;      C    /4       '        C9    C      ' ;         <
                  9 &        <9       9      C    ' 4     <   <9    <      9    <9                    ' 4         <       <
                                                                                        5
               <             <      '9        9    C      9                < ' ;         C            '           <    <
              5                                   7                          7                                        6
              '9    /4          9             9 /4       <9          <          C        C      ' ;           (
                                          6
               C    /4      '         <      C9 /4       C9          < ' ;              '9      /4        9 &          9$
               <9 ' 4           9    <        <          <9               C9            ' 4       <    <9      <9      <
                        9       <         ' 4      <9     <   C    /4    ' 4 '9                 ' ;       <       9       <
                                                                          4         7

<removed-date>
              '        C            /4                    9 ' ; '9           <9    C    '        <     C9      <        <
                                                                                                                     5
                       <        < '        C    '              C    ' 4           ' ; ' ;        C    &        C9
                                           5                                 7                                 7
                        <    C9            C9       9 ' ;      9$    <9 ' ;        C    ' 4 '             9    9; ' 4
<removed-apn>
                                     6                               6
                        9       9     <                  9;    <            '9    ' 4        9   9$    9$       9       9
                  9    <    '               9       9     <         &              <         <         9;
               <                           <        9    C9     9 /4         C    ' 4 '9         <    (        9$
              /4      ' ;    9$            9$    C      /4    ' 4            <              <    C9            <
               <      ' 4       <     <                  <    ' 4    <       9$ ' 4                            <9 ' 4
                                     5                               5                                 7
              '9       C9    <      ' 4                   < &       /4             <9        <   9;    C9 ' ; (
                             7                                 6                                 6
                  9 ' 4      <        9    9$ /4         <     9$ ' 4         < &                <9 '9               <
              /4        9    9$      <    ' 4 '9         C9    <              9         (             '             &
               <                    '9     <    /4      ' ;     <    <        9    <        9$            <
                      ' ;             <          <      /4              9    C9             <    9$    <      /4    (
                                                                             4         75

<removed-date>
                  9     <    <    '9       <9    9$     9$      <   C9     9              9 '9      ' ;    <    '
                                                               5                             5
               C9      <           <      '9    '         9         9;          <         9 '                    <
                       7                                7                                6
               9$       <          <            /4      C9      <          9 (           C    <       9    C    ' ;
<removed-apn>
               6
              '       '9     <9    C       C9    C        9     <         <              <9               ' 4 '9
              ' ;      <          ' ; (             9   C       9        /4                   C9 /4              <
              ' 4 ' ; ' ; '9              ' ; ' 4 /4           <    C9 '9        9 /4         C9 /4       '9
               9$       <         (       '         9         /4    <           <    (          < ' 4       < /4
                                                                                         5
              ' 4 &         ' ;       <         ' ;                       9$                  <       < ' ;
               5                                 7                              7                                6
              '9                  (        C9 /4        C9 ' 4       9 /4      '9               9    <9     <
                                           6
              ' ;                 &       ' ;    9; ' ;         < '9       < '9                     /4     <
                  9    9$ /4       <9 ' 4           <   <      C9   <      <             <      < '        <9 '
                  < '                 < ' ; ' ;         C           C9    9$     9        <         ' 4          9$
              '9      /4          ' ;      C        < '       ' 4   9;    <          (          < ' ;      <
                                                                                                                 5
                                                                          4         77

<removed-date>
              ' ;                      <              (           9 ' ;      9$      <      ' 4            '        9$ '9        &
                                               5                                     7                                  7
               C9 '9           C          9                   ' 4    <      ' 4 /4                    C9       9    9$    C9      C
                                       6                                     6
                      ' 4      <      (       '9      ' 4 /4            9    9$              9$       <9           '9    '        <
<removed-apn>
                                                                    5                                      5
              '9       <9 ' ; /4               <          9    <        9 ' ;           < '9                <             <          <
                      5                                       5                                   5
              ' 4             ' 4         9    <9 ' 4 ' 4 ' 4                <      ' 4         < '9           < /4      '9      /4
              5                                   5                                         5                                    5
              ' 4      9; '9                   9$         < '9       <                      '         <     9$      <        <
                                              5                                     5                                    5
              /4       <9                      <          <    C9    9$      <      '                 C9    <      '9        9
                                      55                                    55                                     57
                  9    <9      9$ ' ;                          <    '               ' 4      <                       <    <       C
                              57                                    56                                     56
               <       9$      9$         <            <9 &         ' ;             '9          < ' ;       <      /4     9$      <
                      5                                   5                                       7
              ' 4              <       9$      <       <9      <9 ' ;           <                     C             9$           ' ;
              7                                       7                                     7                                    7
                       C          9 ' ; (             (        C9 &          <       <9      <             ' ;       <    C      &
                                        7                                           7                                    7
              (        <       C9 &               9       < /4       9$         <       9                   9$ ' ; ' 4 /4
                                  7                                         7                                  7
                          9       9    9$                 9 (       '9          9    <      '9
                              7                                     75
                                                                                        4        76

