This invention provides compositions in the form of skin substitutes comprising epithelial
cells and mesenchymal cells, wherein the mesenchymal cells are not isolated from the
occipital or nape region of the scalp, as well as methods for using the same.

     SKIN SUBSTITUTES AND METHODS FOR HAIR FOLLICLE NEOGENESIS
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
          [001] This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No.
  2014259787, filed 1 May 2014, which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application
  No. 61/819,332, filed 3 May, 2013, each of which is incorporated herein by
  reference in its entirety.
STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT INTEREST
          [002] This  invention was made        in part with    support from      the  U.S.
  Government. Accordingly, the Government has certain rights in this invention.
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
          [003] The present invention relates to compositions in the form of skin
  substitutes and microspheres comprising neural crest-derived mesencymal cells,
  such as hair follicle dermal cells, e.g., dermal papilla ("DP") cells, or dermal sheath
  cells, that are capable of inducing hair follicles ("HFs"). The present invention also
  relates to methods, uses, and compositions for inducing HF growth and neogenesis.
  In some embodiments, the present invention can be used for the treatment of full- or
  partial-thickness skin loss, wounds, burns, scars, and full- or partial-hair loss.
BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
          [004] Studies of hair and skin continue to be at the forefront of regenerative
  medicine. Skin substitutes were among the earliest products to be developed using
  principles of tissue engineering, and the success of these ventures is evident in the
  clinical use of several commercially available products. In addition, hair restoration is
  one of the fastest growing areas of cosmetic therapies for both men and women.
          [005] The current clinical "gold standard" for treating major skin injuries
  involves the use of split-thickness skin autografts, which involves transplanting the
  epidermis with a portion of the dermis from one location on a patient to another. In
  cases where there is insufficient donor skin to cover the wounds, however, skin
  substitutes may be used. Skin substitutes available today have varied
                                             1

compositions, but generally comprise a nonliving collagen matrix and different
combinations    of keratinocytes     and    fibroblasts. For example, APLIGRAF*
(Organogenesis, Inc., Canton, MA), which is reported to be the most clinically
successful composite skin substitute currently available, is composed of
allogeneic neonatal fibroblasts in bovine type I collagen overlaid with allogeneic
neonatal keratinocytes.
        [006] However, currently available skin substitutes cannot perform all the
functions of normal skin. For example, hair follicle (HF) neogenesis is not
observed using any currently available skin substitute, which limits their use in
patients.   HFs and      their associated     sebaceous glands are important for
appearance, skin hydration, barrier formation, and protection against pathogens.
In,addition, HFs store epidermal stem cells that may be called upon during wound
healing. Thus, skin with HFs heals more rapidly than skin without HFs. In addition,
any stem cells that might exist in skin lacking HFs are located in superficial layers
of the epidermis, making the cells susceptible to loss through minor trauma and
damage through ultraviolet light. Thus, treatments that involve neogenesis of
normal HFs would find much wider application for restoring normal skin function
and appearance.
        [007] During embryogenesis, mesenchymal cells signal the overlying
epithelium to induce HF formation, and in adults a specialized group of
mesenchymal cells, the dermal papilla (DP) cells, have been shown to retain the
capacity to induce HF regeneration (Hardy 1992, Reddy et al., 2001, Gharzi et al.,
2003). DP cells from rodents induce HFs in a variety of assays (reviewed in
Ohyama et al., 2010), but it has been difficult to grow human DP cells that
maintain inductive capacity in culture (Ohyama et al., 2012). This is a significant
problem since DP cells must be enriched in culture to expand the cells needed for
successful clinical use. Recent technological advances have enabled the use of
human cells to form chimeric HFs, for example by combining human keratinocytes
and rodent mesenchymal cells in chamber assays (Ehama et al., 2006), by
combining human scalp dermal papilla cells and mouse epidermal keratinocytes in
flap grafts (Qiao et al., 2009), or by injecting human DP cells, grown as spheroids,
together with mouse epidermal cells in reconstitution or "patch" assays (Kang et
al., 2012).
                                           2

         [008] However, while chimeric HFs are highly valuable as investigative
tools, they lack clinical utility because the HFs produced by these methods are not
fully human constructs (but instead are chimeric rodent/human constructs), are not
completely developed, contain hair shafts in the wrong anatomical location, do not
exhibit long-term graft survival and normal HF cycling, and/or do not form HFs that
contain sebaceous glands. In addition, HFs produced by such methods tend to
grow in variable and uncontrollable directions, resulting in unnatural looking hair.
Thus, the follicles produced by such methods are not useful for human HF
neogenesis in skin lacking hair follicles.
         [009] Thus, a need exists for methods and compositions capable of
generating morphologically-correct, fully-developed, non-immunogenic human hair
follicles. Such methods and compositions would be useful for treating conditions
such as full- or partial-thickness skin loss, wounds, burns, scars, and hair loss.
The present invention fills these needs by providing cellular compositions capable
of hair growth, neogenesis, and regeneration.
         [010] The present invention provides compositions in the form of skin
substitutes and microspheres comprising neural crest-derived mesencymal cells,
wherein the skin substitute is capable of inducing hair follicles that are
morphologically-correct and are useful in any application requiring hair follicle
formation/neogenesis, or in any condition where hair follicle formation/neogenesis
is desired.
         [011] In one embodiment, the skin substitute or microsphere comprises
neural crest-derived mesenchymal cells.           In some embodiments, the skin
substitute or microsphere further comprises epithelial cells, optionally with
collagen. In another embodiment, the skin substitute or microsphere comprises
scalp- or face-derived mesenchymal cells and epithelial cells, optionally with
collagen. In another embodiment, the skin substitute or microsphere comprises
epithelial cells and scalp- or face-derived mesenchymal cells, wherein the
mesencymal cells are neural crest-derived, optionally with collagen. In yet another
embodiment, the skin substitute or microsphere comprises epithelial cells and hair
follicle dermal cells, optionally with collagen. In some aspects the epithelial cells
are keratinocytes. In some aspects the skin substitute comprises cells of human
origin only.
                                            3

       [012] In various embodiments, a skin substitute is provided, comprising
isolated neural crest-derived mesenchymal cells and/or epithelial cells. In some
embodiments, the epithelial cells are keratinocytes, and/or the mesenchymal cells
are hair follicle dermal cells (e.g., one or more of dermal papilla cells, dermal
sheath cells, or hair follicle dermal cells derived from scalp or face).       In some
embodiments, the hair follicle dermal cells are derived from frontal, temporal, mid
scalp, top of head, vertex, or parietal region of the scalp. In some embodiments,
the hair follicle dermal cells are not derived from an occipital or nape region of the
scalp.    In various embodiments, the skin substitutes described above contain
epithelial cells and neural crest-derived mesenchymal cells from a human.             In
some embodiments, the skin substitutes further comprise collagen.              In some
embodiments, the keratinocytes or keratinocyte-like cells are induced pluripotent
stem (iPS) cells differentiated into keratinocytes or keratinocyte-like cells. In some
embodiments, the mesenchymal cells and epithelial cells are taken from the same
donor and/or the same body regions of a donor (e.g., the mesenchymal cells and
epithelial cells are taken from tissue in the same donor region, e.g., keratinocytes
and mesenchymal cells from the frontal scalp).           In some embodiments, the
mesenchymal cells and epithelial cells are taken from different donors and/or
different body regions of a donor (e.g., the mesenchymal cells and epithelial cells
are not taken from tissue in the same donor region, e.g., keratinocytes and
mesenchymal cells from the frontal scalp).
        [013] In various embodiments, a skin substitute is provided, comprising
epithelial cells and hair follicle dermal cells, wherein the hair follicle dermal cells
are not derived from an occipital or nape region of the scalp. In some
embodiments, the epithelial cells are keratinocytes, and/or the mesenchymal cells
are hair follicle dermal cells (e.g., one or more of dermal papilla cells, dermal
sheath cells, or hair follicle dermal cells derived from scalp or face).        In some
embodiments, the hair follicle dermal cells are derived from frontal, temporal, mid
scalp, top of head, vertex, or parietal region of the scalp. In various embodiments,
the skin substitutes described above contain epithelial cells and neural crest
derived mesenchymal cells from a human.             In some embodiments, the skin
substitutes further comprise collagen. In some embodiments, the skin substitutes
are combined in therapeutically effective concentrations (e.g., concentrations not
 naturally found in combination in host tissue) and/or stored in a non-naturally
                                           4

occurring culture medium (e.g., Hanks media, keratinocyte-conditioned medium,
or other cell culture media).
         [014] In various embodiments, the skin substitutes described above
comprise mesenchymal cells (e.g., hair follicle dermal cells) provided within a
matrix, e.g., a ground substance matrix or a collagen matrix such as a collagen
type I matrix. In various embodiments, the skin substitutes described above are
provided in a suspension such as a microsphere.
         [015] In various embodiments, the skin substitutes described above
comprise keratinocytes that are from           one or more       of neonatal foreskin
keratinocytes,     adult   keratinocytes, or keratinocyte-like    cells derived     from
pluripotential stem cells or from epithelial cells.       In some embodiments, the
epithelial cells are primary cells or early passage cells (e.g., first through fourth
passage, more preferably first or second passage).          In some embodiments, the
primary or early passage epithelial cells are mesenchymal cells.               In some
embodiments, the primary or early passage epithelial cells are hair follicle dermal
cells. In some embodiments, the cells are the cells are passaged in keratinocyte
conditioned medium.
         [016] In various embodiments, the epithelial cells and mesenchymal cells
are autologous. For instance, the epithelial cells and hair follicle dermal cells can
be autologous. In some embodiments, the cells are allogenic.
         [017] In  certain   aspects of this    invention, the    neural-crest   derived
mesencymal cells, the scalp-or face-derived mesencymal cells, and the hair
follicle dermal cells, including dermal papilla cells and dermal sheath cells, are not
derived from an occipital or nape region of the scalp. For example, neural-crest
derived mesencymal cells, the scalp-or face-derived mesencymal cells, and the
hair follicle dermal cells, including dermal papilla cells and dermal sheath cells
present in any composition or skin substitute described herein may be isolated
from frontal, temporal, mid scalp, top of head, vertex, or parietal region of the
scalp or from the face.
         [018] Also disclosed herein are methods for transplanting cells capable of
 inducing human hair follicles, comprising delivering to a human subject any one of
the skin substitutes discussed above. In some embodiments, the epithelial cells
discussed above are transplanted on their own (e.g., by coating, implanting,
 and/or injecting the cells into or onto a transplant site in a patient).       In some
                                          5

embodiments, the mesenchymal cells discussed above are transplanted on their
own (e.g., by coating, implanting, and/or injecting the cells into or onto a transplant
site in a patient).  In some embodiments, the epithelail cells are transplanted in
combination with the mesenchymal cells.          In some embodiments, the epithelail
cells   are   transplanted    in   combination    with  the   mesenchymal      cells  at
therapeutically effective concentrations (e.g., concentrations not naturally found in
combination in host tissue). In some embodiments, the transplanted cells can be
used to induce hair follicle growth or hair follicle neogenesis.
        [019] Also disclosed are methods of treatment comprising transplanting the
skin substitutes, as described above.       In some embodiments, the subject to be
treated with any of the compositions or methods described above has a partial
thickness skin loss, full-thickness skin loss, a wound, a burn, a scar, or hair loss.
In some embodiments, transplanting the skin substitute induces eccrine glands
and/or sebaceous glands.
        [020] In some embodiments, the epithelial cells and/or mesenchymal cells
are for use in the methods described above, or are formulated for use in the
methods, or are used in the preparation of a medicament for use in the methods
described above.
        [021] Also disclosed herein are microspheres comprising neural crest
derived mesenchymal cells and/or epithelial cells.         In some embodiments, the
microspheres comprise both mesenchymal cells (e.g. hair follicle dermal cells)
and epithelial cells (e.g., keratinocytes). In some embodiments, the mesenchymal
cells are hair follicle dermal cells, such as dermal papilla cells, dermal sheath
cells, or hair follicle dermal cells derived from scalp or face).            In certain
embodiments, the scalp or face-derived hair follicle dermal cells are from a frontal,
temporal, mid scalp, top of head, vertex, or parietal region of the scalp, but not not
derived from an occipital or nape region of the scalp. In some embodiments, the
the    epithelial cells   and    neural crest-derived    mesenchymal     cells   in  the
 microspheres are human cells, and may further comprise collagen. For example,
 in certain embodiments, the microsphere comprises scalp- or face-derived
 mesenchymal cells (e.g., human cells), wherein the mesenchymal cells are not
 derived from an occipital or nape region of the scalp.
        [022] In some embodiments, the microspheres described above can further
 comprise a matrix, e.g., a ground substance matrix or a collagen matrix such as a
                                           6

collagen type I matrix to contain the dermal.            In some embodiments, the
keratinocytes in the microspheres are from one or more of neonatal foreskin
keratinocytes,      adult  keratinocytes,   or keratinocyte-like   cells  derived   from
pluripotential stem cells or from epithelial cells.       In some embodiments, the
epithelial cells in microspheres are primary cells or early passage cells (e.g., first
through fourth passage, more preferably first or second passage).               In some
embodiments, the primary or early passage epithelial cells are mesenchymal cells.
In some embodiments, the primary or early passage epithelial cells are hair follicle
dermal cells.      In some embodiments, the cells are the cells are passaged in
keratinocyte-conditioned medium.
         [023] In various embodiments, the microspheres described above comprise
autologous mesenchymal cells and/or epithelial cells. In some embodiments, the
mesenchymal cells and/or epithelial cells are allogenic.
         [024] In   various   embodiments,     methods    are    disclosed   herein   for
transplanting cells capable of inducing human hair follicles to a subject,
comprising delivering to a human subject any of the microspheres described
above. In some embodiments, the microsphere is subdermally or intradermally
delivered to a subject. In various embodiments, a method for inducing hair follicle
growth or hair follicle neogenesis is provided, comprising delivering to a human
subject any of the microspheres described above.           In some embodiments, the
microsphere is subdermally or intradermally delivered to a subject.           In various
embodiments, the subject has partial-thickness skin loss, full-thickness skin loss, a
wound, a burn, a scar, or hair loss.
         [025] In various embodiments, a composition is provided herein for use in
inducing hair follicle growth or hair follicle neogenesis in a subject, comprising any
of the microspheres described above. Also disclosed herein are the microspheres
described above for use in the manufacture of a medicament for inducing hair
follicle formation or for inducing hair follicle neogenesis in a subject. In various
embodiments, the subject has partial-thickness skin loss, full-thickness skin loss, a
wound, a burn, a scar, or hair loss.
         [026] Also disclosed herein are methods for making a skin substitute,
comprising (a) mixing a culture of primary or early-passage neural crest-derived
mesenchymal cells with a matrix; and (b) overlaying a culture of primary or early
passage epithelial cells onto the mixture of (a).      For example, the method can
                                            7

  comprise (a) mixing a culture of scalp- or face-derived mesenchymal cells with a
  matrix; and (b) overlaying a culture of primary or early-passage epithelial cells
  onto the mixture of (a), wherein the mesenchymal cells are not derived from an
  occipital region of the scalp. As another example, the method can comprise (a)
  mixing a culture of hair follicle dermal cells with a matrix; and (b) overlaying a
  culture of primary or early-passage epithelial cells onto the mixture of (a), wherein
  the hair follicle dermal cells are not derived from an occipital region of the scalp.
  In various embodiments, the matrix is a collagen matrix (e.g., a collagen type I
  matrix). In various embodiments, the cells are cultured in keratinocyte-conditioned
  medium.
          [0271 In certain embodiments, the compositions described and exemplified
  herein induce hair follicle formation when provided to human subjects, wherein the
  hair follicle that is formed is fully human and therefore does not elicit a host
  immune response.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
          [028] The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated in and constitute
  a part of this specification, illustrate several non-limiting embodiments of the
  invention and together with the description, serve to explain the principles of the
  invention.
          [029] Fig. 1 shows pilosebaceous units, including hair follicles, formed by
  grafting a skin substitute comprising human neonatal foreskin keratinocytes,
  human dermal papilla cells, and type I collagen. Sections were obtained 8 weeks
  after grafting onto nude mice.
          [030] Fig. 2 shows that pilosebaceous units formed by grafting a skin
  substitute comprising human neonatal foreskin keratinocytes, human dermal
  papilla cells, and type I collagen are complete with dermal papillae, hair shafts,
   inner root sheaths (IRS), outer root sheaths (ORS), and sebaceous glands.
          [031] Fig.    3A    shows     the   hybridization   of  a  fluorescein-labeled
  oligonucleotide probe for human Alu DNA to grafts containing hair follicles formed
   by grafting a skin substitute comprising human neonatal foreskin keratinocytes,
   human dermal papilla cells, and type I collagen. Positive signal (green) in the hair
  follicles indicates that the cells are of human origin. Fig. 3B shows a dermal papilla
  formed by grafting a skin substitute comprising human neonatal foreskin
   keratinocytes, human dermal papilla cells, and type I collagen, hybridized with the
                                              8

fluorescein-labeled oligonucleotide probe for human Alu DNA. Positive signal
indicates that the dermal papilla is composed of cells of human origin.
        [032] Fig. 4 shows hair follicles formed by grafting a skin substitute
comprising human neonatal foreskin keratinocytes, human dermal papilla cells,
and type I collagen, stained with an antibody that recognizes human COX IV.
Positive staining (red) in both epithelial and mesenchymal cells (left) indicates that
both are derived from the human cells contained within the graft. No staining is
seen in mouse follicles (right).
        [033] Figs. 5A and 5B show that the dermal papilla niche in the graft formed
by a skin substitute comprising human neonatal foreskin keratinocytes, human
dermal papilla cells, and type I collagen is formed from the dermal papilla cells.
Fig. 5A shows positive signal in fluorescent in situ hybridization analysis using a
human-specific pan-centromeric probe (green) shows that both the hair follicle and
dermal papilla are derived from human cells. Fig. 5B uses a human Y
chromosome-specific probe (red) to mark the hair follicle. The probe bound to
foreskin keratinocytes (male origin), and not the dermal papilla cells (female
origin), indicating that the newly formed dermal papilla was of female origin.
        [034] Figs. 6A, 6B, and 6C show that grafts formed by a skin substitute
comprising human neonatal foreskin keratinocytes, human dermal papilla cells,
and type I collagen stain positively for markers of fully developed hair follicles. Fig.
6A: alkaline phosphatase activity (blue stain) is observed in the dermal papilla
and lower dermal sheath. Fig. 6B: a human-specific Nestin antibody stains cells in
the dermal papilla and lower dermal sheath. Fig. 6C: a human-specific Versican
antibody stains mesenchymal cells in the dermal sheath region.
        [035] Fig. 7 shows that proliferating cells in the graft formed by a skin
substitute comprising human neonatal foreskin keratinocytes, human dermal
papilla cells, and type I collagen are scattered in the basal layer of the epidermis
and dense in the hair follicle matrix. Red staining shows immunoreactivity against
 Ki-67, a marker of cell proliferation.
        [036] Figs. 8A and 8B show that hair follicles in grafts formed by a skin
substitute comprising human neonatal foreskin keratinocytes, human dermal
papilla cells, and type I collagen display normal expression of Keratin 15 and
 Keratin 75. Fig. 8A: Keratin 15 is immunoreactive in the basal layer of the outer
                                           9

root sheath. Fig. 8B: Keratin 75 is immunoreactive in the hair follicle companion
layer.
        [037] Fig. 9 shows a schematic of certain regions of the scalp.
        [038] Fig. 10 shows hair follicles in the grafts made with HDP47 and three
different passages of keratinocytes (p0 (top), p1 (middle), and p3 (bottom)).
Primary or P1 keratinocytes form more hair follicles than P3 keratinocytes.
        [039] Fig. 11 shows the the tabulated results of the experiment shown in
Fig. 10. The optimal passage of human keratinocytes for hair follicle regeneration
is the early passage keratinocytes. The early passage grafts had more and larger
hair follicles with widest hair shafts. Significantly less than primary keratinocytes,
p<0.05,     Significantly greater than passaged keratinocytes, p<0.02
        [040] Fig.   12 shows that dermal papilla microspheres augment HF
formation in both reconstitution assays and in skin grafts. The bottom left two
images show human DP spheroids induce chimeric HFs in reconstitution assay.
Hair fibers are seen in the hypodermis 4 weeks following injection of a mixture of
human DP spheroids and mouse epidermal cells (left-most image). Human DP 2D
cultures do not induce HF. H&E stained horizontal section of injection cyst forming
HFs and sebaceous glands (second image from left).              The bottom right two
images show that human DP spheroids induce human HFs in a reconstitution
assay. Appearance of graft, 8 weeks after grafting on the back of a nude mouse,
is shown in the first of the two images. A representative H&E stained graft section
showing hair follicle with hair shaft is provided in the right-most image.
        [041] Fig. 13 is an H&E stain showing a hair shaft emerging from the
infundibulum of a human hair follicle in a dermal-epidermal composite construct 8
weeks after grafting.
         [042] Fig. 14 is a dermal-epidermal composite (dermal papilla cells from
temporal scalp dermis and neonatal foreskin keratinocytes) photographed under a
dissection microscope after 10 weeks.
         [043] Fig. 15A shows a representative dermal-epidermal composite graft
with hair shafts visible 12 weeks after grafting, while Fig, 15B provides a magnified
view showing the presence of pigmented hair shafts.
         [044] Figs. 16A, 16B, and 16C show H&E and toluidine blue staining in
dermal-epidermal composite grafts after 15 weeks. Figs. 16A-C show telogen hair
follicles, confirmed by club-like appearance and spiky keratin fibers (Fig. 16A),
                                           10

  secondary hair germ with adjacent hair papilla (Fig. 168), and presence of a
  cornified club (Fig. 16C, toluidine blue staining).
          [045] Figs.   17A and     17B   show Ki-67 staining     of dermal-epidermal
  composite grafts. Fig. 17A shows that telogen hair follicles do not contain Ki-67
  positive cells, consistent with the telogen stage of the hair follicle (arrow).    Fig.
  17B shows an anagen hair follicle with dermal papilla (arrow), including dense Ki
  67 reactivity.
          [046] Figs. 18A and 188. Fig. 18A shows a representative H&E stained
  section of a dermal-epidermal composite graft, showing hair follicle inner and
  outer root sheath, and sebaceous gland.            Fig. 18B is antibody staining for
  cathelicidin in the dermal-epidermal composite graft, showing that sebaceous
  gland was highly immunoreactive to an antibody for cathelicidin, an antimicrobial
  peptide.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EXEMPLARY EMBODIMENTS
          [047] The invention provides skin substitutes comprising epithelial cells and
  neural crest-derived mesenchymal cells. In one embodiment, the mesenchymal
  cells are hair follicle dermal cells, which include, for example, dermal papilla cells
  and dermal sheath cells. The neural crest-derived mesenchymal cells may be
  derived from scalp or face. In one embodiment, the neural crest-derived
  mesenchymal cells are derived from a frontal, temporal, mid scalp, top of head,
  vertex, or parietal region of the scalp. In some aspects, the neural crest-derived
  mesenchymal cells are not derived from an occipital or nape region of the scalp. In
  some aspects, the epithelial cells and neural crest-derived mesenchymal cells are
  human. In some aspects, the epithelial cells are keratinocytes or keratinocyte-like
  cells. The skin substitute may further comprise collagen.
          [048] A skin substitute comprising epithelial cells and scalp- or face-derived
  mesenchymal cells, wherein the mesenchymal cells are not derived from an
  occipital or nape region of the scalp is also encompassed. In this embodiment, the
  mesenchymal cells may be hair follicle dermal cells. The hair follicle dermal cells
  may be dermal papilla cells or dermal sheath cells. In some aspects that epithelial
  cells may be keratinocytes or keratinocyte-like cells. In some aspects the dermal
  papilla cells are derived from frontal, temporal, mid scalp, top of head, vertex, or
  parietal region of the scalp. In some aspects the scalp- or face-derived
                                            11

mesencymal cells and the epithelial cells are human. The skin substitute may
further comprise collagen.
        [049] In another embodiment, a skin substitute comprising epithelial cells
and hair follicle dermal cells, wherein the dermal cells are not derived from an
occipital or nape region of the scalp is encompassed. In some embodiments the
epithelial cells are keratinocytes or keratinocyte-like cells. In some embodiments,
the hair follicle dermal cells are dermal papilla cells or dermal sheath cells. In
some aspects the cells of the skin substitute are human. In some aspects the hair
follicle dermal cells are derived from a frontal, temporal, mid scalp, top of head,
vertex, or parietal region of the scalp. The skin substitute may further comprise
collagen.
         [050] In some embodiments, the skin substitutes described herein are
provided with a matrix. The matrix may be a collagen matrix or a ground
substance matrix. In some embodiments, the matrix is a type I collagen matrix.
         [051] In certain embodiments, the epithelial cells of the skin substitute
comprise keratinocytes. In some aspects the keratinocytes are neonatal foreskin
keratinocytes (NFK).
         [052] The skin substitutes comprising epithelial cells may comprise primary
cells or early-passage epithelial cells, wherein early-passage cells are from a first,
second, or third passage. In some aspects, the epithelial cells are keratinocytes
and the keratinocytes are primary cells or early-passage keratinocyte cells,
wherein early-passage cells are from a first, second, or third passage.
         [053] The skin substitute comprising mesencymal cells may comprise
primary cells or early-passage cells, wherein early-passage cells are from a first,
second, third, or fourth passage. In some embodiments, the skin substitute
comprises primary or early-passage dermal papilla cells, wherein early-passage
dermal papilla cells are from a first, second, third, or fourth passage.
         [054] The epithelial cells and mesenchymal cells may be derived from a
same or different donor. The keratinocytes and dermal papilla cells may be
derived from a same or different donor. In some aspects, the cells of the skin
substitute     are  passaged     in  keratinocyte-conditioned     medium.  In  some
embodiments, the epithelial cells and mesenchymal cells are autologous. In some
embodiments, the epithelial cells and hair follicle dermal cells are autologous. In
                                          12

some aspects the epithelial cells and mesenchymal cells are allogenic. In some
aspects the epithelial cells and hair follicle dermal cells are allogenic.
         [055] Methods for transplanting cells capable of inducing human hair
follicles are encompassed, comprising delivering to a human subject or patient a
skin substitute described herein, such as the skin substitute of any of the claims.
         [056] Methods for inducing hair follicle growth or hair follicle neogenesis
comprising delivering to a human subject the skin substitute of any one of the
claims are also encompassed.
         [057] Compositions for use in inducing hair follicle growth or hair follicle
neogenesis comprising the skin substitute of any one of the claims are fully
encompassed.
         [058] Uses of a skin substitute of any one of the claims in the manufacture
of a medicament for inducing hair follicle formation or for inducing hair follicle
neogenesis are encompassed.
         [059] In some embodiments, a subject in need of inducing hair follicle
growth has partial-thickness skin loss, full-thickness skin loss, a wound, a burn, a
scar, or hair loss.
         [060] In some embodiments, the skin substitute of the invention induces
eccrine glands. In some embodiments, the skin substitute of the invention induces
sebaceous glands.
         [061] Methods for transplanting cells capable of inducing hair follicles,
comprising subdermally or intradermally delivering to a human subject neural
crest-derived mesenchymal cells are provided.             In some embodiments, the
methods      further  comprise    transplanting    epithelial   cells  sequentially   or
simultaneioiusly with the mesenchymal cells, optionally with collagen.
         [062] Methods for transplanting cells capable of inducing hair follicles,
comprising subdermally or intradermally delivering to a human subject scalp
derived mesenchymal cells, wherein the mesenchymal cells are not derived from
an occipital region of the scalp together with epithelial cells and optionally collagen
are encompassed.
         [063] Methods for transplanting cells capable of inducing hair follicles,
comprising subdermally or intradermally delivering to a patient hair follicle dermal
cells, such as, dermal papilla cells or dermal sheath cells, wherein the hair follicle
                                           13

dermal cells are not derived from an occipital or nape region of the scalp are also
encompassed.
       [064] Methods of making skin substitutes, comprising (a) mixing a culture of
primary or early-passage neural crest-derived mesenchymal cells with a matrix;
and (b) overlaying a culture of primary or early-passage epithelial cells onto the
mixture of (a) are encompassed, as are methods of making skin substitutes,
comprising (a) mixing a culture of scalp-derived mesenchymal cells with a matrix;
and (b) overlaying a culture of primary or early-passage epithelial cells onto the
mixture of (a), wherein the mesenchymal cells are not derived from an occipital
region of the scalp. In some embodiments, methods of making skin substitutes,
comprising (a) mixing a culture of hair follicle dermal cells, such as dermal papilla
cells or dermal sheath cells, with a matrix; and (b) overlaying a culture of primary
or early-passage epithelial cells onto the mixture of (a), wherein the dermal papilla
cells are not derived from an occipital region of the scalp are encompassed.
       [065] In some embodiments, compositions comprising human dermal
papilla cells for inducing hair follicle neogenesis are encompassed. In one aspect
the human dermal papilla cells are isolated from the frontal, temporal, or parietal
region of human scalp. In one aspect the human dermal papilla cells are not
isolated from the occipital or nape region of human scalp. The composition may
comprise human dermal papilla cells and human keratinocytes. The composition
may comprise human dermal papilla cells, human keratinocytes, and collagen.
        [066] The invention provides a method for inducing human hair follicle
growth in humans. In one aspect the method comprises delivering to a human
subject a composition comprising human dermal papilla cells and human
keratinocytes, optionally in combination with collagen. In some aspects the
composition is delivered subdermally or intradermally.
        [067] In one embodiment, the method comprises delivering to a human
subject a composition comprising human dermal papilla cells that are derived from
the frontal, temporal, or parietal region of the human scalp together with human
keratinocytes, optionally in combination with collagen. In some aspects the
composition is delivered subdermally or intradermally.
        [068] The invention also provides uses for a composition comprising human
dermal papilla cells and human keratinocytes, optionally in combination with
collagen, in the manufacture of a medicament for inducing hair follicle formation or
                                           14

for inducing hair follicle neogenesis. In some aspects the composition is delivered
subdermally or intradermally.
        [069] The invention also provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising
human dermal papilla cells and human keratinocytes, optionally in combination
with collagen, for use in treating a subject who is at risk for, diagnosed with, or
who has hair loss or is in need of hair follicle neogenesis.
        [070] In yet another embodiment, methods and uses comprising grafting to
a human       subject a composition      or skin substitute of the     invention are
encompassed. In some aspect the human subject is in need of hair growth.
        [071] In one embodiment, the method and use comprises delivering to a
human subject a composition or skin substitute of the invention, wherein the
subject has partial-thickness skin loss, full-thickness skin loss, a wound, a burn, a
scar, or hair loss. In another embodiment, the method and use induces formation
of eccrine glands. In yet another embodiment, the method and use induces
formation of sebaceous glands.
        [072] In one embodiment, the neural crest-derived mesenchymal cells or
hair follicle dermal cells, such as, for example, dermal papilla cells, are
incorporated into a microsphere. In another embodiment, the microsphere further
comprises epithelial cells. In another embodiment, the microspheres are formed
by mixing human dermal papilla cells and keratinocytes (e.g., neonatal foreskin
keratinocytes) in a 1:1 mixture of dermal papilla medium and keratinocyte serum
free medium, and incubating the clusters for about four weeks. In another
embodiment, the neural crest-derived mesenchymal cells or hair follicle dermal
cells cells are provided with a matrix. In yet another embodiment, the matrix is a
collagen matrix or a ground substance matrix. In yet another embodiment, the
matrix is a type I collagen matrix. In yet another embodiment, the matrix is a rat
type I collagen matrix, a bovine type I collagen matrix, or a human type I collagen
matrix.
        [073] In one embodiment, the epithelial cells comprise one or more
epithelial cells from different sources. In another embodiment, the epithelial cells
are keratinocytes or keratinocyte-like cells. In yet another embodiment, the
keratinocytes are neonatal foreskin keratinocytes (NFKs). In another embodiment,
the keratinocytes or keratinocyte-like cells are induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells
differentiated into keratinocytes.
                                          15

        [074] In one embodiment, the mesenchymal cells and/or epithelial cells are
derived from the same donor. In another embodiment, the donor is the patient. In
yet another embodiment, the mesenchymal cells and/or epithelial cells are derived
from different donors. In yet another embodiment, the donor of either the
mesenchymal or epithelial cells is the patient.
            1.     Definitions
        [075] As used herein, the singular forms "a" "an" and "the" are intended to
include the plural forms as well, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
Furthermore, to the extent that the terms "including," "includes," "having," "has,"
"with," or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description and/or the
claims, such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term
"comprising."
        [076] As used herein, the terms "about" and "approximately" mean within an
acceptable error range for the particular value as determined by one of ordinary
skill in the art, which will depend in part on how the value is measured or
determined, i.e., the limitations of the measurement system. For example, "about"
can mean from 1 to 1.5 standard deviation(s) or from I to 2 standard deviations,
per the practice in the art. Alternatively, "about" can mean a range of up to and
including 20%, 10%, 5%, or 1% of a given value. Alternatively, particularly with
respect to biological systems or processes, the term can mean up to and including
an order of magnitude, up to and including 5-fold, and up to and including 2-fold,
of a value. Where particular values are described in the application and claims,
unless otherwise stated the term "about" meaning within an acceptable error
range for the particular value should be assumed.
        [077] As used herein, the term "apocrine gland" refers to glands in the skin
that have a coiled, tubular excretory portion with widely dilated lumen, lined by
cuboidal epithelial cells with eosinophilic cytoplasm and apical snouts, and an
outer discontinuous layer of myoepithelial cells resting on a prominent basement
 membrane.
        [078] As used herein, the term "composition" refers to a mixture that
contains a therapeutically active component(s) and a carrier, such as a
 pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient that is conventional in the art and
which is suitable for administration to a subject for therapeutic purposes. The
                                         16

therapeutically active component may include the mesenchymal cells of the
invention. In other embodiments, term "composition" refers to the skin substitutes
of the invention, which are described in further detail below. The compositions of
the invention may further comprise a matrix, which is defined below.
        [079] As used herein, the term "dermal papilla" refers to the follicular dermal
papilla, i.e., the mesenchymal cell condensation at the base of the hair follicle.
        [080] As used herein, the term "dermal sheath" refers to the region of
connective tissue that envelops the hair follicle.
        [081] As used herein, the term "eccrine glands" refers to sweat glands in
the skin. Eccrine glands consist of two anatomical portions: (1) the secretory coil,
located in the deep dermis at the junction with the subcutaneous tissue and
composed of clear pyramidal cells and dark-stained cells, surrounded by a single
outer discontinuous layer of myoepithelial cells resting on a well-defined basement
membrane; and (2) the excretory part composed of a straight intradermal portion
and an intraepidermal spiral portion (acrosyringium), and a double layer of small
cuboidal cells with no underlying myoepithelial layer.
        [082] As used herein, the term "endothelial cell" refers to the specialized
cells that line the inner walls of blood vessels.
        [083] As used herein, the term "epidermal cell" refers to cells derived from
the epidermis of the skin. Epidermal cells are one type of epithelial cells.
Examples of epidermal cells include, but are not limited to keratinocytes,
melanocytes, Langerhans cells, and Merkel cells.
        [084] As used herein, the term "epithelial cell" refers to cells that line the
outside (skin), mucous membranes, and the inside cavities and lumina of the
body. In particular embodiments, the term "epithelial cell" refers to stratified
squamous epithelial cells. Most epithelial cells exhibit an apical-basal polarization
of cellular components. Epithelial cells are typically classified by shape and by
their specialization. For example, squamous epithelial cells are thin and have an
irregular flattened shape mainly defined by the nucleus. Squamous cells typically
line surfaces of body cavities, such as the esophagus. Specialized squamous
epithelia line blood vessels (endothelial cells) and the heart (mesothelial cells).
Cuboidal epithelial cells are cube-shaped and usually have their nucleus in the
center. Cuboidal epithelial cells are typically found in secretive or absorptive
tissue, e.g., kidney tubules, glandular ducts, and the pancreatic exocrine gland.
                                          17

Columnar epithelial cells are longer than they are wide and the elongated nucleus
is usually near the base of the cell. These cells also have tiny projections, called
microvilli, which increase the surface area of the cells. Columnar epithelial cells
typically form the lining of the stomach and intestines, as well as sensory organs.
        [085] As used herein, the term "hair follicle" or "HF" refers to a tubular
infolding of the epidermis from which a hair may grow. A hair follicle may contain a
hair shaft in the correct anatomical location, exhibit long-term graft survival,
normal hair follicle cycling, and sebaceous glands.
        [086] As used herein,       the term "hair follicle dermal     cell" refers to
mesenchymal cells in the dermis, including dermal papilla cells and dermal sheath
cells.
        [087] As used herein, the term "hair regeneration" refers to the stimulation
of existing quiescent hair follicles to enter the anagen phase of hair growth. The
term also refers to stimulation of hair formation from hair follicle remnants or
components of hair follicles (e.g., implantation of microdissected dermal papilla
with or without follicular epithelium, or hair growth after plucking), rather than
starting with intact quiescent hair follicles.
         [0881 As used herein, the term "hair neogenesis" refers to the stimulation of
de novo hair follicle growth where no hair follicle previously existed in skin with no
preexisting hair follicles, or in skin with fewer than the desired number of hair
follicles.
         [089) As used herein, the term "keratinocyte" refers to epithelial cells in the
epidermis of the skin (including cells in the follicular epithelium) that undergo cell
division and stratification from basal cells in contact with the epidermal basement
 membrane       into squamous     cells. Keratinocytes   express   keratin.  In some
embodiments, keratinocytes can be derived from iPS cells.
         [090] As used herein, the term "keratinocyte-like cell" refers to cells that
express keratin and have the ability to form a stratified squamous epithelium or
follicular epithelium. Keratinocyte-like cells may be derived from skin cells or other
 organs such as bone marrow or trachea, or from cells with stem-cell features
 (including embryonic stem cells) or that induce pluripotent stem cells.       In some
 embodiments, keratinocyte-like cells can be derived from iPS cells.
         [091] As used herein, the terms "matrix" and "ground substance" refer to
 any natural or synthetic extracellular matrix-like composition capable of forming a
                                            18

hydrated gel-like cellular support. Cells may be deposited within or on matrices
and ground substances. Matrices and ground substances may comprise one or
more fibrous proteins having both structural and adhesive functions. Such proteins
include, but are not limited to elastin, fibronectin, laminin, and collagens 1,11,111, IV,
V, VI, Vil, Vill, IX X, XI, and XII. Alternatively, or in addition, matrices and ground
substances may comprise proteoglycan molecules comprising polysaccharide
chains covalently linked to proteins. Such proteoglycans include, but are not
limited to, hyaluronan-, heparin sulfate-, chondroitin-, keratin sulfate-, and
dermatin sulfate-linked proteins.
        [092] As used herein, the term "mesenchymal cell" refers to multipotent
cells with the capacity or potential capacity to induce hair follicle formation similar
to cells of the dermal papilla and connective tissue sheath from hair follicles.
Mesenchymal cells are usually considered mesodermal connective tissue cells
that express vimentin, but cells with the desired attributes may also be neural
crest derived. Mesenchymal cells may be isolated from one or more of the
following sources: patient skin or mucosa for autologous cells; donor skin or
mucosa for allogeneic cells; normal skin or mucosa; skin with an adnexal tumor;
and other tissues (e.g. fat, bone marrow). Mesenchymal cells include, but are not
limited to, fibroblasts, dermal papilla cells, dermal sheath cells, onychofibroblasts
(fibroblasts from nail unit), dental pulp cells, periodontal ligament cells, neural
crest cells, adnexal tumor cells, induced pluripotent stem cells, and mesenchymal
stem cells from bone marrow, umbilical cord blood, umbilical cord, fat, and other
organs.
        [093] As used herein, the terms "morphologically correct" and "fully
developed" refers to hair follicles that have a normal configuration with an
epithelial filament coming out of the distal end of the follicle and dermal papilla
sitting at the base of the follicle. The follicles also have cells proliferating at the
base of the follicle, and have concentric layers of outer and inner root sheath,
cuticle and cortex. The follicles exhibit normal differentiation of the outer root
sheath, and have hair shafts and sebaceous glands. The hairs go through normal
cycles, and contain an epithelial stem cell component.
        [094] As used herein, the term "pharmaceutically acceptable carrier" refers
to a non-toxic solid, semisolid, or liquid filler, diluents, encapsulating material,
formulation auxiliary, or excipient of any conventional type. A pharmaceutically
                                            19

acceptable carrier is non-toxic to recipients at the dosages and concentrations
employed, and is compatible with other ingredients of the formulation.
         [095] As used herein, the term "neural crest-derived mesenchyrnal cells"
refers to cells having origins in the neural crest (i.e., a transient embryonic
structure in vertebrates) that have the capacity to self-renew and display
developmental potential. Neural crest cells originate in the ectoderm at the
margins of the neural tube and, after a phase of epithelial-mesenchymal transition
and extensive migration, settle down in different parts of the body to contribute to
the formation of a variety of different tissues and organs. See Shakhova, "Neural
crest-derived stem cells," http://www.stembook.org/node/696 (incorporated herein
by reference). Neural crest derivatives originate from four major segments of the
neuraxis: cranial, cardiac, vagal, and trunk neural crest. Id. Neural crest cells from
the trunk are able to produce mesenchymal derivatives. Id.
         [096] As used herein, the term "primary cells" refer to cells harvested and
cultured directly from a donor source without further passage.
         [097] As used herein, the term "early-passage cells" refer to cells harvested
and cultured from a donor and passaged fewer than three times (in the case of
epithelial cells), or fewer than five times (in the case of mesenchymal or hair
follicle dermal cells).
         [098] As used herein, the term "sebaceous gland" refers to hair follicle
dependent glands that originate as a budding of sebaceous glands primordium.
Sebaceous glands consist of multiple lobules of rounded cells (sebocytes), filled
with lipid-containing vacuoles, and rimmed by a single layer of small, dark
germinative cells. The lobules converge on a short duct, which empties the lipid
content of degenerated sebocytes into the hair follicle.
         [099] As used herein, the terms "skin substitute," "skin equivalent,"
"dermal-epidermal composite," and "skin graft" refer to any product used for the
purpose     of damaged     skin   replacement, fully or partially, temporarily       or
permanently, and possessing some similarities with human skin, both anatomically
or functionally. Skin substitutes include, but are not limited to, bioengineered skin
equivalents, tissue-engineered skin, tissue-engineered skin constructs, biological
skin substitutes, bioengineered skin substitutes, skin substitute bioconstructs,
living skin     replacements, dermal-epidermal     composites and       bioengineered
alternative tissue.
                                         20

         [0100] As used herein, the term "microsphere" includes but is not limited to
cell    clusters and    cell aggregates    optionally  comprising     a biodegradable
m icrosphere.
         [0101]As used herein, the term "treatment," refers to any administration or
application of remedies for a condition in a mammal, including a human, to obtain
a desired pharmacological and/or physiological effect. Treatments                 include
inhibiting the condition, arresting its development, or relieving the condition, for
example, by restoring or repairing a lost, missing, or defective function, or
stimulating an inefficient process, or improving symptoms of the condition.
         [0102] As used herein, the term "trichogenic" refers to the ability of a cell to
induce a hair follicle and/or to promote           hair follicle morphogenesis, i.e.,
folliculogenesis.
              2.    Skin Substitutes and Microspheres of the invention
         [0103] It  has    been   surprisingly   found   that     neural    crest-derived
mesenchymal cells are trichogenic. Specifically, mesenchymal cells derived from
a region of the face or scalp other than the occipital or nape regions are capable
of inducing hair follicles. Such follicles are complete according to the criteria
proposed by Chuong et al., "Defining hair follicles in the age of stem cell
bioengineering," J. Invest. DermatoL, 127:2098-100 (2007). The follicles have a
normal configuration with an epithelial filament coming out of the distal end of the
follicle and dermal papilla sitting at the base of the follicle. The follicles have cells
proliferating at the base of the follicle, and have concentric layers of outer and
inner root sheath, cuticle and cortex. The follicles exhibit normal differentiation of
the outer root sheath, and have hair shafts and sebaceous glands. The hairs go
through normal cycles, and contain an epithelial stem cell component.
         [0104] Accordingly, the invention provides cellular compositions capable of
hair neogenesis. In one embodiment, the invention provides a skin substitute
comprising epithelial cells and trichogenic cells. Another embodiment of the
invention provides microspheres comprising trichogenic cells.
         [0105] In one embodiment, the trichogenic cells are derived from the neural
crest. In another embodiment, the trichogenic cells are isolated from the scalp or
face. In another embodiment, the trichogenic cells are not derived from an
                                          21

occipital or nape region of the scalp. In another embodiment, the trichogenic cells
are hair follicle dermal cells.
                     a)     General Characteristics of Mammalian Skin
        [0106] Mammalian skin contains two primary layers: an outer layer called
the epidermis and an inner layer called the dermis. The epidermis primarily
contains keratinocytes that are formed in the deeper layers of the epidermis by
mitosis and then migrate up to the surface, where they are eventually shed. The
dermis contains a variety of structures including hair follicles, sebaceous glands,
sweat glands, apocrine glands, nerves, lymphatic vessels, and blood vessels.
        [0107] Hair follicle morphogenesis takes place mostly in utero during
embryogenesis. Hair follicle formation begins with the appearance of epidermal
placodes, which mark the location of the new hair follicle. Mesenchymal cells (i.e,,
inductive multipotent cells) then begin to aggregate in the dermis below the
epidermal placodes. The mesenchymal aggregates signal to the keratinocytes in
the overlaying placodes, which then begin growing downward into the dermis.
When the epidermal keratinocytes reach the mesenchymal aggregates, the cells
undergo a series of differentiation and proliferation processes, eventually forming
a mature hair follicle.
        [0108] Mature hair follicles contain four main parts: the dermal papilla (DP),
dermal sheath (DS), follicular epithelium, and hair shaft (Figure 1D). The DP is
located at the base, or bulb, of the hair follicle adjacent to the hair matrix that
produces the hair shaft. The DS is made up of connective tissue and envelops the
hair follicle. The follicular epithelium includes the outer root sheath and the inner
root sheath. The hair shaft is a proteinaceous structure that extends from the base
of the follicle through the epidermis to the exterior of the skin.
        [0109]The hair follicle is a dynamic miniorgan that repeatedly cycles
through periods of growth (anagen), regression (catagen), and quiescence
(telogen). The lower portion of the hair follicle regresses or regrows, regenerating
in each cycle through complicated interactions between the dermal mesenchymal
cells and epidermal cells. The permanent portion of the lower hair follicle above
the continuously remodeled part is referred to as the "bulge" because it protrudes
slightly from the follicle. The bulge contains multipotent cells capable of forming
the follicle, sebaceous gland, and epidermis. As individuals age, the anagen and
                                           22

catagen phases of the hair follicle cycle become shorter, and hair follicles
experience a more rapid shift to the telogen phase. As a result, normal hairs are
gradually replaced by finer vellus hairs, and in some individuals, the cells may lose
their trichogenic properties entirely.
                    b)      Skin Cells for Use in the Invention
         [0110] The skin substitutes of the invention may comprise either (1)
mesenchymal cells, or (2) mesenchymal cells and epithelial cells. In the
embodiments wherein the skin substitutes comprise mesenchymal cells and no
epithelial cells, the mesenchymal cells interact with the patient's epithelial cells to
produce a hair follicle. In the embodiments wherein the skin substitute comprises
mesenchymal cells and epithelial cells, the mesenchymal and epithelial cells
supplied in the skin substitute interact, with or without the patient's epithelial cells,
to produce a hair follicle.
                            (1)    Mesenchymal Cells
         [0111] Mesenchymal cells are usually considered mesodermal connective
tissue cells that express vimentin, but vimentin-expressing cells with these
attributes may also be neural crest derived. Sources of cells include the inductive
multipotent cells of the dermal papilla and connective tissue sheath from hair
follicles.lt has been surprisingly found that mesenchymal cells (i.e., inductive
multipotent cells) isolated from certain sources are trichogenic. For example, the
inventors have found that neural crest-derived mesenchymal cells are trichogenic.
The inventors have also found that mesenchymal cells, such as hair follicle dermal
cells, harvested from the face or scalp at regions other than the occipital region or
nape region, are trichogenic.
                            (2)    Epithelial Cells
         [0112] Generally, any source of epithelial cells or cell line that can stratify
into squamous epithelia are useful in the present invention. Accordingly, the
present invention is not limited to the use of any particular source of cells that are
capable of differentiating into squamous epithelia. Indeed, the present invention
contemplates the use of a variety of cell lines and sources that can differentiate
into stratified    squamous     epithelia. Sources of cells    include primary and
immortalized keratinocytes, keratinocyte-like cells, and cells with the capacity to
be differentiated into keratinocyte-like cells, obtained from humans and cavaderic
                                           23

donors (Auger et al., In Vitro Cell Dev. Biol.--Animal 36:96-103; and U.S. Pat.
Nos. 5,968,546 and 5,693,332), neonatal foreskin (Asbill et al., Pharm. Research
17(9):1092-97 (2000); Meana et al., Burns 24:621-30 (1998); and U.S. Pat. Nos.
4,485,096; 6,039,760; and 5,536,656), and immortalized keratinocytes cell lines
such as NM1 cells (Baden, In Vitro Cell. Dev. Biol. 23(3):205-213 (1987)), HaCaT
cells (Boucamp et al., J. cell. Boil. 106:761-771 (1988)); and NIKS cells (Cell line
BC-1--Ep/SL; U.S. Pat. No. 5,989,837; ATCC CRL-12191).
        [0113] Epithelial cells may also be obtained from: patient skin or mucosa
(autologous), donor skin or mucosa (allogeneic), epidermal cell lines, epidermal
cells derived from stem cells, primary or passaged epidermal cells, trachea, and
cells   derived   from    blood  mononuclear     cells or  circulating  stem  cells.
Subpopulations of epithelial cells from these sources may also be used, for
example by enriching the number of cells with stem-cell properties. Epithelial cells
express keratin or can be induced to express keratin, and have the capacity of
forming a stratified squamous epithelium and/or follicular epithelium.
        [01141 In some embodiments, the epithelial cells are from two different
sources. For example, the invention may be practiced using immortalized
keratinocytes together with autologous keratinocytes. The relative proportion of
autologous cells to immortalized cells may be 1:99, 5:95, 10:90, 20:80, 30:70,
40:60, 50:50, 60:40, 70:30, 80:20, or 90:10. In this way, the number of autologous
keratinocytes may be reduced. The immortalized keratinocytes may be enhanced
to promote skin healing, for example by genetically modifying the cells to express
growth factors or angiogenic factors. The immortalized keratinocytes may be
modified so that they can be targeted for elimination at any point following
engraftment. Specifically, in one embodiment, so called "suicide genes" may be
used and the cells can be genetically modified so that they die in response to a
drug treatment. (See Vogler et al., An Improved Bicistronic CD20/tCD34 Vector for
Efficient Purification and In Vivo Depletion of Gene-Modified T Cells for Adoptive
Immunotherapy.,      Mol Ther. doi:10.1038 (May 11,       2010) (advanced online
epublication); and Scaife et al., Novel Application of Lentiviral Vectors Towards
Treatment     of   Graft-Versus-Host    Disease,   Expert  Opin    Biol Ther.  2009
Jun;9(6):749-61.)
                                         24

                            (3)   Isolating Cells
        [0115] Mesenchymal and epithelial cells may be isolated using any suitable
techniques. For example, mesenchymal cells may be isolated by migration of cells
from tissue explants. Alternatively, cells may be dissociated from skin or mucosa
samples or skin tumors to isolate mesenchymal and epithelial cells. In addition,
epithelial cells may be isolated by inducing multipotent stem cells to differentiate
into epithelial cells. Exemplary methods for isolating cells are described in the
Examples.
        [0116] Isolated cells may be grown in any suitable medium known to those
skilled in the art. Exemplary media are discussed in the Examples. The samples
may be enriched for hair inductive cells based on any technique known to those
skilled in the art. For example, cells may be selected based on the presence of
suitable cell markers, such as CD133, CD10, or nestin. Alternatively, growth
factors such as BMP2, 4, 5, or 6, Wnt-3a, Wnt-10b, insulin, FGF2, KGF, etc. may
be added to maintain and enrich the hair inductive cells, including dermal papilla
cells. Cells may also be enriched for their ability to differentiate into hair follicles
using the cell adhesion and cell sorting methods.
             3.     Exemplary Methods of Making              Skin  Substitutes      and
                    Microspheres of the Invention
        [0117] The     invention  relates  to  skin  substitutes   and    microsphere
preparations for injection.
                    a)      Skin Substitutes
        [0118] The skin substitutes of the invention contain different cell types than
prior art skin substitutes, yet may be prepared by using similar methods to those
known in the art. For example, Greenberg S et al., "In vivo transplantation of
engineered human skin," Methods Mol Biol., 289:425-30 (2005) discloses
methods for creating in vitro skin substitutes. In addition, Shevchenko RV et al, "A
review of tissue-engineered skin bioconstructs available for skin reconstruction," J
R Soc Interface, 7(43):229-58 (2010) provides a review of various approaches that
may be used for preparing skin substitutes. Exemplary methods are also provided
in the Examples.
        [0119] In one embodiment, the compositions comprising the trichogenic
cells described herein are provided in the form of a skin substitute. In some
                                          25

embodiments, the skin substitutes are formed by combining the trichogenic cells
(or trichogenic cells with fibroblasts, endothelial cells, and/or other supportive
mesenchymal cells) with a ground substance or matrix, and then overlaying the
construct with epithelial cells. Prior to grafting, the epithelial cells may be induced
to partially or fully form a stratified squamous epithelium and cornified layer by
exposing the surface of the substitute to air.
        [0120] In another embodiment, the trichogenic cells may be cultured before
combining with a matrix. In another embodiment, the cell-matrix mixture is cultured
before combining with the epithelial cells. In another embodiment, the trichogenic
cells are grown on or below, rather than being incorporated into, the ground
substance or matrix, and this is overlaid with epithelial cells.
        [0121] In another embodiment, the trichogenic cells are first made into
microspheres before being incorporated or inserted into, or laid on, the ground
substance/matrix/scaffold,      and   this   is overlaid  with    epithelial   cells. The
microspheres may be composed of trichogenic cells with or without epithelial cells
and with or without matrix. If the microsphere has a matrix, it may be the same or
different   in   composition     from     that  of   dermal    scaffold.    The     ground
substance/matrix/scaffold into which the microspheres are placed may be with or
without added fibroblasts, endothelial cells, and/or other supportive mesenchymal
cells. The spacing of the microspheres may be random or at intervals replicating
the spacing of hair follicles in normal human skin.
        [0122] In another embodiment, the trichogenic cells (or trichogenic cells
with fibroblasts or other supportive mesenchymal cells) are used in a dermal
construct that is made separately from the epidermal construct, and the two are
grafted sequentially to the patient. As an alternative to using an epidermal
construct, the epithelial cells may be sprayed onto the grafted dermal construct,
using an aerosol of cells in media or in fibrin glue.
        [0123] Compounds         that      may     be    used       for    the      ground
substance/matrix/scaffold include collagens, elastin, laminin, fibrin, hyaluronan or
 hyaluronic acid, fibronectin, chitosan, cellulose, silk fibroin, and alginates. These
compounds may be human, rat, porcine, or bovine; from crustaceons or fungi
 (chitosan) or plants or algae (cellulose); or proteins expressed as recombinant
forms in bacteria or other organisms. These compounds may also be modified or
 combined, such as hair keratin-collagen sponge, hyaluronan coupled with
                                            26

fibronectin   functional   domains,    poly(lactic-co-glycolic   acid)/chitosan    hybrid
nanofibrous membrane, polycaprolactone (PCL) collagen nanofibrous membrane,
silk fibroin and alginate, polyvinyl alcohol/chitosan/fibroin blended sponge,
tegaderm-nanofibre construct, bacterial cellulose, ICX-SKN skin graft replacement
(InterCytex,      Cambridge,     England),     collagen-glycosaminoglycan-chitosan,
composite nano-titanium oxide-chitosan, Collatamp* (EUSAPharma, Langhorne,
PA), deacetylated chitin or plant cellulose transfer membranes. The scaffold may
also be human, porcine, or bovine acellular dermis, tendon, or submucosa, that
can be lyophilized, cross-linked, meshed, or combined with any of the above
compounds. It may be complex mixtures such as Matrigel TM (BD Biosciences) or
extracellular matrix derived from fibroblasts or other cells. The matrix, ground
substance, or scaffold may also consist of or incorporate synthetic materials,
 including   silicone,  polysiloxane,  polyglycolic   acid,    polylactic   acid,  nylon,
 PolyActive TM matrix (OctoPlus, Cambridge, MA) (polyethylene oxide terephthalate
and polybutylene terephthalate), and biodegradable polyurethane microfibers
        [0124]The skin substitute may be supplied sealed in a heavy gauge
 polyethylene bag with a 10% C0 2/air atmosphere and agarose nutrient medium,
 ready for single use. The skin substitute may be kept in the sealed bag at
68-F-73 0 F (20oC-23oC) until use. The skin substitute may be supplied as a circular
disk, for example, approximately 75 mm in diameter and 0.75 mm thick. The
agarose shipping medium may contain agarose, L-glutamine, hydrocortisone,
 human recombinant insulin, ethanolamine, O-phosphorylethanolamine, adenine,
selenious acid, DMEM powder, HAM's F-12 powder, sodium bicarbonate, calcium
 chloride, and water for injection. The skin substitute may optionally be stored on a
 plastic tray or in a cell culture dish within the bag. The skin substitute may be
 packaged with an epidermal (dull, matte finish) layer facing up and a dermal
 (glossy) layer facing down, resting on a polycarbonate membrane.
                    b)     Microsphere       Preparations        for     Injection     or
                           Implantation
        [0125] The invention includes microsphere preparations for injection or
 implantation. These preparations may be prepared by any methods known to
 those in the art. Exemplary methods are provided in the Examples. In one
 embodiment, the trichogenic cells are presented in a buffer suitable for injection,
 such as a sterile saline solution, phosphate buffered saline, Dulbecco's modified
                                         27

Eagle's medium (DMEM), Hank's balanced salt solution, Plasmalyte A, or RPMI.
In one embodiment, the trichogenic cells are provided with a matrix or ground
substance. The matrix may be natural polymers such as methylcellulose, collagen,
chitosan, hyaluronic acid, gelatin, alginate, fibrin, fibronectin, or agarose. The
matrix may be complex mixtures such as Matrigel T M or synthetic polymers. In
another embodiment, the trichogenic cells are combined with epithelial cells with
or without matrix or ground substance before injection or implantation.
        [0126] In one embodiment, the compositions comprising the trichogenic
cells described herein may be subdermally or intradermally injected or implanted
at a site where hair growth is desired without further culture. Cells prepared by
dissociation methods may be resuspended in buffer and injected directly or first
combined with biodegradable microspheres prior to injection or implantation. The
cells in culture medium can be stored on ice for 24 or more hours or frozen in
liquid nitrogen for long-term storage. For cryopreservation, cells are placed in a
solution of 10% DMSO, 70% DMEM and 20% fetal bovine serum. Cells are placed
in cryovials at a concentration of 0.1-10 million cells per ml and frozen in a
control-rate freezer and stored at -180'C until the day of injection or implantation.
Viability of all thawed cells may be verified to be more than 85% before use.
        [0127] Compositions comprising trichogenic cells may be injected or
implanted into recipient skin or wound. Compositions may also be injected or
implanted into grafts (split-thickness grafts or skin substitutes including dermal
epidermal composites and dermal constructs combined with epidermal constructs
or cell spraying) before application to the patient or following grafting. In another
embodiment, the compositions comprising trichogenic cells may be cultured
before injection or implantation.
             4.      Methods of Administering the           Skin  Substitutes    and
                     Microspheres of the invention
        [0128] The invention provides methods for transplanting cells to a patient
that are capable of inducing human hair follicles in the patient. For example, the
skin substitutes of the invention may be grafted onto a patient, and the
microspheres of the invention may be injected into a patient.
                                         28

                    a)      Patients Benefitting      from    Treatment     with    the
                            Invention
        [0129] The skin substitutes and microspheres of the invention are useful for
treating patients with full-thickness or partial-thickness skin loss, devitalized skin,
wounds, ulcers, chemical or thermal burns, scars, and full or partial losses or
abnormalities of hair, sebaceous glands, or eccrine glands that may be congenital
or acquired. Skin injuries are grouped into three categories: epidermal, partial
thickness, and full-thickness. Epidermal injuries do not require specific surgical
treatment, as only the epidermis is affected and this regenerates rapidly without
scarring. Partial-thickness wounds affect the epidermis and the dermis. Such
wounds generally heal by epithelialization from the margins of the wound, where
basal keratinocytes from the wound edge, hair follicle, or sweat glands migrate to
cover the damaged area. Full-thickness injuries are characterized by the complete
destruction of epithelial-regenerative elements. This type of injury heals by
contraction, with epithelialization from only the edge of the wound. Partial
thickness injuries and full-thickness injuries often require skin grafting.
         [0130] The skin substitutes and microspheres of the invention may also be
used to treat surgical wounds. For example, the removal of large skin lesions,
such as giant nevi (moles), leaves wounds that cannot heal on their own, and are
too large for autologous split-thickness skin grafts. The compositions of the
invention will be useful for treating such lesions.
         [0131]The most common form of hair loss is a progressive hair thinning
condition called androgenic alopecia. Hair loss can occur on any part of the body
and can arise from any number of factors. For example, traction alopecia is most
commonly found in people who pull on their hair with excessive force into
ponytails or cornrows. Alopecia areata is an autoimmune disorder that can result
in hair loss in just one location (alopecia areata monolocularis), or can result in the
loss of every hair on the entire body (alopecia areata universalis). Hypothyroidism,
tumors, and skin outgrowths (such as cysts) also induce localized baldness. Hair
loss can also be caused by chemotherapy, radiation therapy, childbirth, major
surgery, poisoning, mycotic infections, and severe stress. In addition, iron
deficiency is a common cause of hair thinning. In many cases of hair loss, the hair
follicles have stopped cycling and have entered a quiescent stage. In other cases,
the hair follicles are lost completely, or never formed in the first place.
                                           29

        [0132] The compositions and methods of the invention are useful for
treating any condition requiring growth of hair follicles. In one embodiment, the
method also induces eccrine glands. In another embodiment, the method further
induces sebaceous glands.
                    b)     Administration of Skin Substitutes
        [0133] In one embodiment, the method comprises grafting to a patient the
skin substitute of the invention. The skin substitutes of the invention may be
administered by any suitable technique known to those skilled in the art.
                           (1)    Preparation of the Graft Site
        [0134] The graft site may be prepared by any technique known to those
skilled in the art. The graft site may be injured skin (for example, partial- or full
thickness chemical or thermal burns, denuded skin, or devitalized skin), a wound
bed with partial or complete absence of skin (for example, a site where the skin
was avulsed or ulcerated), a surgical wound (for example, following excision of
benign or malignant skin growths), or skin with any congenital (for example,
aplasia cutis congenita) or acquired (for example, skin scarred by any cause)
reduction, abnormality, or absence of hair follicles, sebaceous glands, and/or
eccrine glands. In some embodiments, the graft site is washed with water, an
antibiotic wash, or an alcohol solution (such as an alcohol swab). In another
embodiment, a desired pattern of hair is drawn on the graft site with a surgical
marker. In other embodiments, a local anesthetic is administered to the patient. In
cases requiring further anesthetics, a gaseous, intravenous, or nerve block
anesthetic may be administered to the patient.
        [0135] In yet further embodiments, the existing skin tissue, devitalized
tissue, eschar, wound or ulcer edges, or scar tissue is removed using standard
techniques in the art. When possible, any skin infections or deteriorating
conditions should be resolved prior to application of the graft. Antimicrobial,
antifungal, and antiviral agents, administered topically or systemically, may be
used during a period of time (such as a week) prior to and following administration
of the skin substitute to reduce the risk of infection.
        [0136] Skin substitutes may be applied to a clean, debrided skin surface
after thoroughly irrigating the wound with a non-cytotoxic solution. Debridement
may extend to healthy, viable, bleeding tissue. Prior to application, hemostasis
                                          30

may be achieved. Prior to debridement the wound may be thoroughly cleansed
with sterile saline to remove loose debris and necrotic tissue. Using tissue nippers,
a surgical blade, or curette, hyperkeratotic and/or necrotic tissue and debris may
be removed from the wound surface. Ulcer margins may be debrided to have a
saucer effect. After debridement, the wound may be cleansed thoroughly with
sterile saline solution and gently dried with gauze. Oozing or bleeding resulting
from debridement or revision of wound edges may be stopped through the use of
gentle pressure, or if necessary ligation of vessels, electrocautery, chemical
cautery, or laser. Heavy exudation may displace a skin substitute and reduce
adherence. Exudation may be minimized by appropriate clinical treatment. For
example, sterile air at room temperature or up to 42'C may be blown over the
wound until the wound is sticky. If exudation persists, the skin substitute may be
made permeable to exudate by perforating the skin substitute to allow for
drainage.
                            (2)   Application of the Skin Substitute
        [0137]A variety of clinical techniques may be used for applying the skin
substitute to the patient. Skin substitutes may be applied in the outpatient clinic or
in a surgical suite depending on the size of the defect being repaired, pain level,
and the need for general anesthesia. Before applying the skin substitute, the
practitioner can review the expiration date of the skin substitute, check the pH,
and visually observe and smell the skin substitute to ensure that there are no
contaminants, such as bacterial contaminants or particulate matter, The skin
substitute may be stored in a polyethylene bag at controlled temperature 68 0 F
73 0 F (20*C-23 0 C) until immediately prior to use.
        [0138] The practitioner may cut open the sealed polyethylene bag, and if
the skin substitute is provided in a cell culture dish or plastic tray, it may be
transferred to the sterile field with aseptic technique. If present, a tray or cell
culture dish lid may be lifted off, and the practitioner may note the epidermal and
dermal    layer orientation of the skin substitute. Using a sterile atraumatic
instrument, a practitioner may gently dislodge approximately 0.5 inch of the skin
substitute away from the wall of the tray or cell culture dish. When lifting the skin
substitute, a practitioner may be careful not to perforate or lift any membrane
beneath the skin substitute, which, if present, should remain in the tray.
                                          31

        [0139] With sterile gloved hands, a practitioner may insert one index finger
under the released section of the skin substitute and use the other index finger to
grasp the skin substitute in a second spot along the edge of the device. Holding
the skin substitute in two places, the practitioner may lift the entire skin substitute
out of the tray or cell culture dish using a smooth, even motion. If excessive
folding occurs, the skin substitute can be floated (epidermal surface up) onto
warm sterile saline solution in a sterile tray.
        [0140] The skin substitute may be placed so that the dermal layer (the
glossy layer closest to the medium) is in direct contact with the site for the skin
substitute.
        [0141] Using a saline moistened cotton applicator, the practitioner may
smooth the skin substitute onto the site so there are no air bubbles or wrinkled
edges. If the skin substitute is larger than the site for application, the excess skin
substitute may be trimmed away to prevent it from adhering to the dressing. Ifthe
skin substitute is smaller than the site for application, multiple skin substitutes may
be applied adjacent to each other until the defect is filled.
        [0142] The skin substitute may be secured with any appropriate clinical
dressing. Sutures or samples are not required but may be used in some instances
to anchor the graft to the graft bed. Dressings may be used to assure contact of
the skin substitute to the site for application and to prevent movement.
Therapeutic compression may be applied to the graft site. In some cases it may
be necessary to immobilize the grafted limb to minimize shearing forces between
the skin substitute and the application site. Dressings may be changed once a
week or more frequently if necessary.
        [0143] Additional applications of skin substitutes may be necessary in
certain instances. Prior to additional applications, non-adherent remnants of a
prior skin graft or skin substitute should be gently removed. Healing tissue or
adherent skin substitutes may be left in place. The site may be cleansed with a
non-cytotoxic solution prior to additional applications of skin substitute. In one
embodiment, an additional skin substitute may be applied to the areas where the
prior skin substitute is not adherent.
                                          32

                    c)      Injection of Trichogenic Cells
        [0144] The trichogenic cells of the invention may be injected by any suitable
method known to those skilled in the art. In one embodiment, the method
comprises subdermally or intradermally delivering to a patient trichogenic cells. In
another embodiment, the method further comprises delivering epithelial cells to
the patient. Cells may be delivered as a suspension, cluster, aggregate, or in
combination with biodegradable microspheres. When injecting a suspension, each
injection site may deliver 50-2,000 cells. When injecting cells in combination with
biodegradable microspheres, each injection site may deliver one or more such
combination.
                            (1)     Preparation of the Graft Site
        [0145] The graft site may be washed with water, an antibiotic wash, or an
alcohol solution (such as an alcohol swab). In another embodiment, a desired
pattern of hair may be drawn on the graft site with a surgical marker, either in an
outline fashion or a pixilated fashion showing each injection site. Paper templates
or templates of other material may also be applied to the injection site showing the
pattern for injection, or injections may be delivered at the correct spacing by using
robotics or a device with multiple injection ports in a grid. In other embodiments, a
local anesthetic may be administered to the patient. In cases requiring further
anesthetics, a gaseous,         intravenous, or nerve block anesthetic may be
administered to the patient.
                            (2)     Injection Methods, Dosage, and Frequency of
                                    Administration
        [0146] The injections may be administered according to techniques known
in the art for subdermal or intradermal injections. A concentration of 1,000 to
20,000 cells/ml may be used in the injection. A volume of 0.05 to 0.1 ml may be
 injected at each injection site using a 1-3 ml syringe with a 14-30 gauge needle. In
such embodiments, the skin is pulled taut, and the needle is inserted bevel up at a
50   to 300 angle with the skin. The cells are then injected slowly with gentle
 pressure, the needle is removed, and gentle pressure is applied to prevent
 leakage and promote absorption.
         [0147] Injections may be repeated over a period of time, either for patient
 comfort or because additional hair follicles may be produced after repeated
                                            33

administration. In such a case, the administrations may be spaced a week apart,
two weeks, three weeks, a month, two months, three months, or six months apart.
        [0148] Several of the foregoing embodiments are illustrated in the non
limiting examples set forth below. However, other embodiments of the invention
will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification
and practice of the invention disclosed herein. It is intended that the specification
and examples be considered as exemplary only and are not restrictive of the
invention, as claimed. In addition, all references cited herein are to be considered
incorporated by reference in their entirety.
                                   EXAMPLES
Example 1
        [0149] Human DP cells isolated from temporal scalp dermis (Promocell,
Heidelberg, Germany) from one male and five female donors were propagated in
vitro according to methods described below. Alkaline phosphatase activity, a DP
marker which correlates with hair-inducing capacity (Ohyama et al., 2012), was
measured in vitro using the BCIP/NBT substrate (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO) on
passage 5 DP cells. To screen for trichogenicity, the reconstitution described in
Zheng et al., 2005, and Kang et al., 2012 was used with minor modifications.
        [0150] Human DP cells induced HFs when grown as spheroids, but not as
monolayers, when coinjected with mouse epidermal aggregates in a reconstitution
assay (Table 1), similar to the results of others (Kang et al, 2012). Skin substitutes
(of which DECs are one type) constructed with human DP cells and human
neonatal foreskin keratinocytes (NFKs) were grafted onto female nude mice. Eight
weeks after grafting, HFs were observed in mice grafted with human DP cells that
had high but not low alkaline phosphatase activity (Table 1, Figure 1A). HFs had a
bulb, dermal sheath, hair matrix and cortex (Figure 2). Epithelial compartments of
the HFs were intact with concentric layers of inner and outer root sheaths, hair
shaft and sebaceous glands (Figure 2). Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH)
using a probe for human-specific Alu repetitive sequences (green) hybridized to
the nuclei of both epithelial and dermal components of the HF confirming their
human origin (Figure 3A-3B). An antibody reactive with human but not mouse
COX IV stained follicular epithelium and dermal fibroblasts of grafts (Figure 4).
FISH using a human-specific, pan-centrorneric probe (green) hybridized to the
nuclei of both epithelial and dermal components (Figure 5A), whereas a human
                                         34

 specific Y-chromosome probe (red) hybridized to nuclei in the epidermis and the
 follicular epithelium, consistent with the origin of dermal and epidermal cells from
 female and male donors, respectively (Figure 5B). HFs also stained for markers of
 specific compartments of a fully developed human HF. Cells in the region of the
 DP and lower DS displayed alkaline phosphatase activity (Figure 6A), normal
 reactivity with specific antibodies to human nestin (Figure 6B) and versican
 (Figure 6C). As expected, HFs in anagen phase HFs had more concentrated
 immunoreactivity to Ki-67 in the region of the hair matrix relative to the overlying
 epidermis (Figure 7). The companion layer as identified by keratin 75 staining was
 present between the inner and outer root sheaths (Figure 8B). The basal layer of
 the outer root sheath was immunoreactive for Keratin 15, a marker of HF stem
 cells located in the bulge region (Figure 8A).
          [0151] These experiments show that human mesencymal cells such as DP
 cells can induce complete pilosebaceous units (i.e., complete hair follicle growth
 or complete hair follicle neogenesis) in vivo.
          [0152] Table 1. Evaluation of trichogenicity of human dermal papilla (DP)
 cells
                                   HDP4L7   HDP44   HDI    IHD43      IIDP60~ 11D52
I-lair follicle formation      in 515      2/2      2/       2/2      2/2       2
reconstitution assay------------_____
Number of grafts with hair 9 11             6/6     4/5     0/6        0/4      0/5
follicles / total number of
grafts in dermal-epidermal
composites
Percent cells positive for 7_53            6 73   5214    3511      294        7
alkaline phosphatase activity
S(n6, Mean SD)
          [0153] Preparation of Cells for Grafting
          [0154] Skin    Substitutes:   Three-dimensional in    vitro constructs were
 prepared for grafting using established methods modified as described herein.
  Briefly, human dermal papilla cells were mixed with I mg/ml type I collagen (rat)
 (in other embodiments, the collagen could be bovine) in 10% FBS/DMEM, and
 added to 6 well transwell plates (Corning Incorporated, Corning, NY) at a density
 of 1.5 X 1         cells per cm2 . The dermal equivalents were cultured in 10%
  FBS/DMEM for 4 days before aliquoting 1 X 106 keratinocytes on top. The
                                             35

constructs were cultured submerged for 2 days in a mixture of DMEM and Ham's
F12 (3:1) (GIBCO/Invitrogen, Grand Island, NY) containing 0.1% FBS, after which
the keratinocytes were brought to the air-liquid interface and cultured in a mixture
of DMEM and Ham's F12 (3:1) containing 1% FBS for another 2 days before
grafting.
        [0155] Microspheres:
        [0156] Cell Clusters: Cell aggregates for injection were formed using the
hanging droplet method. (Qiao J. et al., "Hair follicle neogenesis induced by
cultured human scalp dermal papilla cells," Regen Med 4(5): 667-76 (2009).)
Briefly, a mixture of human mesenchymal cells and keratinocytes (10:1, 5:1, 1:1,
1:5 or 1:10) was suspended in Dermal Papilla Medium (Promocell). The cells were
applied in 10-pi droplets (each droplet contains either I  x 104 or 0.5 x 104 cells) in
the lid of a 100-mm petri dish oriented so that droplets were hanging upside down.
10 ml of phosphate buffered saline was placed in the bottom of the petri dish. The
suspended droplets were incubated in a 37'C, 5% CO 2 incubator. Aggregate
formation was completed within 18-20 h, and the reconstitution assay was
performed 48 hours after seeding. An alternative approach is to use Chang
                                                                                 2 0-pl
medium containing 0.24% methylcellulose. The cells were applied in
droplets (each droplet contains 4 x 104 cells) in the bottom of a 100-mm petri dish.
The petri dish was inverted such that the droplets were hanging upside down. The
suspended droplets were incubated in a 37'C, 5% CO 2 incubator. Aggregate
formation was completed within 18-20 h. Upon formation, aggregates were
transferred individually to wells of a 96-well round-bottom assay plate containing
 150 pl Chang medium. The wells were precoated with 0.24% methylcellulose
medium to prevent adherence of proto-hairs. The culture medium was changed
every 2-3 days.
         [0157] Optional Addition of Biodegradable Microspheres: Biodegradable
microspheres for injection may be fabricated from 75:25 PLGA (molecular weight
= 100,000 Da, Birmingham Polymers, Birmingham, AL) using a conventional
oil/water emulsion and solvent evaporation/extraction method. For example, 600
 mg PLGA may be dissolved in 12 ml of methylene chloride, added to 400 ml
 aqueous solution of 0.5% (w/v) polyvinyl alcohol (molecular weight = 30,000
 70,000 Da, Sigma), and stirred vigorously at room temperature overnight. The
 microspheres may be collected by centrifugation, washed three times with distilled
                                        36

water, and strained to a size of 50-200 pm in diameter. The microspheres may be
lyophilized and sterilized with ultraviolet light for 6 hours. Human mesenchymal
cells (2.5 x 107 cells) and keratinocytes (6 x 106 cells) may be placed with PLGA
microspheres (1 pg microspheres/10       5 cells) in a spinner flask (Bellco Glass Inc.,
Vineland, NJ) containing 30 ml of serum-free KGM containing 10 ng/ml of EGF for
keratinocytes, or DMEM/F12 containing 10% (v/v) FBS for mesenchymal cells,
and cultured at 50 rpm for 2 weeks. The medium may be exchanged every other
day. Cell aggregates may be allowed to settle down, 16 ml of the culture
supernatant may be collected and centrifuged, 15 ml of the supernatant may be
removed, and 15 ml of fresh medium may be added to the centrifuged cells in 1 ml
of remaining supernatant. The cells in fresh medium may be transferred to the
spinner flasks. Alternatively, clusters of cells may be formed by suspending the
cells in sodium alginate and then forming spherical droplets using a high-voltage
electric droplet generator as described in Lin C.M. et al., "Microencapsulated
human hair dermal papilla cells: a substitute for dermal papilla?," Arch Dermatol
Res. 300(9):531-5 (2008).
        [0158] Grafting Process
        [0159] Placement of Composite: Mice were grafted in a horizontal laminar
flow hood using 6-8 week old female Cr:NIH(S)-nu/nu mice (FCRDC, Frederick,
MD) anesthetized using inhalant anesthesia with a mixture of 02 and isoflurane (2
4%). The grafting area on back of the mouse was carefully estimated, and skin
was removed using curved scissors after washing with povidine and 70% ethanol.
Skin substitutes were placed on the graft bed in correct anatomical orientation,
covered with sterile petroleum jelly gauze, and secured with bandages. The mice
were transferred back to the sterile cages after reawakening. The bandages were
changed at 2 weeks and removed after 4 weeks. Mice are sacrificed 4-18 weeks
after grafting.
        [0160] Injection of Cells: Cells were directly injected into mouse skin using a
technique similar to that described in Ortiz-Urda et al. For injection of human
mesenchymal cells into mouse skin, 6-8 week old female Cr:NIH(S)-nu/nu mice
(FCRDC, MD) were injected hypodermally with a mixture of DP cells (1 million
cells/patch; either dissociated DP cells from monolayer cultures or DP spheroids),
and 100,000 epidermal aggregates (1 million cells) isolated from 0-2 day old
C5711/6 neonatal mice skin (Charles River, NC), using a 25-gauge needle.
                                           37

Injected cells were in a medium consisting of 1:1 mixture of DMEM and F12. The
injection was performed by first piercing the skin, then directing the needle back
upward toward the surface and injecting the cells as superficially as possible. This
led to the formation of a well-demarcated papule in the center of the injected area.
Positive controls received 1 million dermal cells isolated from the same C57B1/6
mice skin and 50,000 epidermal aggregates. 2 to 4 weeks post implantation HF
formation was analyzed on the injection site by dissecting and viewing ventral side
of the patch skin microscopically.
        [0161] Implantation    of   Cells:   After   anesthetizing,  small    incisions
approximately 0.5-1.0 mm in width and length may be made using a 27-gauge
needle. A single cultured aggregate (proto-hair) may be inserted at a shallow
position within each incision. Following insertion, incisions may be left to heal.
        [0162]After the animal is anesthetized, full-thickness skin wounds (1.5 x
1.5 cm2 rectangular shape) may be created on the transplantation area. To
minimize the migration of host skin cells from the wound margins                    and
spontaneous wound contraction, the skin at the wound margins may be burned
using a cautery and fixed to adjacent muscle layers with nonresorbable 5-0 nylon
sutures (AILEE Co., Pusan, Korea). Mesenchymal cells (approximately 108
cells/wound) and keratinocytes (approximately 7.5 x 10" cells/wound) cultured on
PLGA microspheres may be transplanted to the wounds using a 1-mL syringe
without a needle. After transplantation, the wounds may be dressed with dressing
materials, Tegaderm (3M Health Care, St. Paul, MN) and sterile cotton gauze, and
firmly fixed using Coban, a self-adhesive wrap (3M Health Care). An antibiotic
(Cefazolin,   0.1   mg/mouse,     Yuhan Co.,      Seoul, Korea)    and  an analgesic
(Buprenorphine,      0.1  mg/kg,   Hanlim    Pharm    Co.,  Seoul,   Korea)   may    be
administered intramuscularly and subcutaneously, respectively, for 5 days after
transplantation. The mice may be housed singly after surgery and receive humane
care in compliance with the guidelines for the care and use of laboratory animals
of NIH.
 Example 2
        [0163] Studies were done using human dermal papilla cells grown from the
temporal scalp of 6 individuals (HDP47, HDP44, HDP41, HDP43, HDP60, and
 HDP52) and human dermal papilla cells grown from the occipital scalp from 7
 individuals (1-7). All cells were combined with human foreskin keratinocytes and
                                           38

rat collagen type I as described as in Example 1. The alkaline phosphatase
activity of cells was measured in monolayer cultures before grafting.
        [0164] Table 2 shows the results of the grafting experiments comparing
human dermal papilla cells isolated from the temporal versus occipital scalp.
        [0165] The second column in Table 2 shows the number of grafts in which
the epidermis showed a typical human epidermal morphology by H&E staining.
Dermal papilla cells from the temporal scalp supported the development of the
human keratinocytes into a stratified squamous epithelium much better than those
from the occipital scalp. In many grafts with occipital dermal papilla cells, the
mouse keratinocytes from the borders of the graft migrated in and replaced the
human keratinocytes.
        [01661 The third column in Table 2 indicates the number of grafts with hair
follicles. Human hair follicles formed using dermal papilla cells from 3/6 donors
from the temporal scalp, but none from the occipital scalp. Hair follicles were
observed in at least 80% of grafts using dermal papilla cells from 3 patients,
including 19 out of 22 grafts from the trichogenic samples. No hair follicles were
observed in grafts using dermal papilla cells from the occipital scalp. The data in
parentheses indicates that there was no evidence for the formation of chimeric
hair follicles (no induction of hair follicles by the dermal papilla cells in mouse
keratinocytes overlying the graft).
        [0167] Hair follicle formation was observed in those with higher alkaline
phosphatase activity. This is one potential explanation for the lack of hair follicle
formation in the dermal papilla samples from the occipital scalp. The other
possible explanation is differing embryonic origins of the dermal papilla cells from
temporal scalp (neural crest derived) as compared to occipital scalp (mesoderm
derived).
                                          39

           [0168] Table 2: Evaluation of trichogenicity of human dermal papilla (DP)
   cells from temporal vs. occipital scalp
IHarvecst           Number of grafts with zNumber of grafts with                Percent cells positive
 site for DP        human epidermal                hair follicles / total       for alkaline
 cells              morphology / total             number of grafts with        phosphatase activity
                    number of mice grafted human epidermal                      (Mean+SD n=6)
            ______________morphoiogv____
 . emporalor
 H DP47             9/18                           9/11                         753
 HDP44              6/6
 HDP43              6/12                           0/6                          35-,
 HDP60              4/6                           10/4                          2914
 HDP52              5/6                            0/5                           174
 Occipital
 1                  0/5                            0/5
     21/5                                _     _0    1
 3                  0/6                    __0       6                           428
                    36                             0/3                           34+5
 6                  0/6                            0/6                          21 7
 7                  0/6                            0/6
Example 3
            [0169] Grafted dermal-epidermal                  composites constructed from          human
   dermal and epidermal cells (neural crest-derived human dermal papilla cells from
   temporal scalp dermis and neonatal foreskin epidermal cells) were evaluated 8,
   12, and 15 weeks after grafting into nude mice.                        Fig. 13 provides H&E stain
   showing a hair shaft emerging from the infundibulum of a human hair follicle in a
   construct 8 weeks after grafting.                   Fig. 14 is a dermal-epidermal composite
   photographed under a light microscope after 10 weeks. Hair shafts can be seen
   emerging from the grafted region.                 Fig. 15A provides a representative graft with
   hair shafts visible 12 weeks after grafting, while Fig. 15B provides a magnified
   view showing the presence of pigmented hair shafts.
            [0170] Figs. 16A-C show that different hair follicle stages could be detected
   in grafts after 15 weeks.               The grafts containing dermal papilla cells grown in
   monolayers, and those grown as spheroids, had telogen hair follicles, confirmed
   by club-like appearance and spiky keratin fibers (see Fig. 16A), secondary hair
                                                        40

   germ with adjacent hair papilla (see Fig. 16B, arrow), and a cornified club (see
   Fig. 16C, negative for toluidine blue staining, arrow).           Telogen hair follicles
   showed no Ki-67 positive cells, consistent with telogen stage of hair follicle (Fig.
   17A, arrow). An anagen hair follicle (Fig. 1713, arrow) with dermal papilla from the
   same section as the telogen hair follicle shows dense Ki-67 reactivity in matrix, as
   expected.
           [0171] Other features of normal hair follicles were seen in composite grafts
   following grafting.     For instance, Fig. 18A shows a representative H&E stained
   section of a graft that was harvested after 8 weeks, with hair follicle inner and
   outer root sheath and sebaceous gland visible.             Fig. 18B shows that the
   sebaceous gland was highly immunoreactive to an antibody for cathelicidin, an
   antimicrobial peptide.
           [0172] Graft characteristics were evaluated as a function of the type of
   keratinocytes used in the dermal-epidermal composite, which were constructed
   from neural crest derived human dermal papilla and neonatal foreskin epidermal
   cells, and grafted into nude mice. The effects of primary, first passage, and third
   passage human keratinocyte cultures are shown in Table 3.
Table 3
   Graft characteristics and skin barrier                  Keratinocyte Passage
   functions                                   Prima (PO) Passage I (P)       Passage 3 (P3)
   Graft dimeter in mm, 4 weeks                6.01.4       6.5 1.0          6 411.9
   (haft diameter in Ipm                     1 84+1 2         5 11            4i81.6
   Hair lolfcles/rnmn of epidermis~            0.9-10.5     0.8--0.6         0 0.2
    Ipiderial thickness in                     127-14
                                                    6it      21 83            18' 9
           [I arca/dennal
                7l3ul]a     areain             16 12    tke L 9         si
   percentage
     hair ollile diameter in                lln25038        144are27         10-sna22    r
    Shaft diameter notei        Oe    a3       45.                            241 8
    Iransepidernial water ILss in g/nvi-h.278.....29-i6                     341
   Water Content"..........246                              1
                                                             218             '18+9
    Surface Hlydration                         344
           [0173] All measurements in Table 3 were taken at 8 weeks unless indicated
   otherwise in the table (footnote 1). All results are expressed as mean +/ standard
   deviation (footnote 2).      Other asterisks and notes from the table are explained
   below.
                                              41

      [0174] +Number of grafts evaluated: PO, n=8; P1, n=7; P3, n=8.
      [0175]** Number of grafts evaluated: PO, n=6; P1, n=6; P3, n=7.
      [0176]^ Number of grafts evaluated: PO, n=5; P1, n=5; P3, n=3.
      [0177]^^ Number of grafts evaluated: PO, n=3; P1, n=3 P3, n=2.
      [0178] Number of grafts evaluated: PO, n=6; P1, n=6; P3, n=5.
      [0179]   Number of grafts evaluated: PO, n=3; P1, n=5; P3, n=4.
      [0180]  Significantly less than primary keratinocytes, p<0.05.
      [0181]    Significantly less than primary and passage 1 keratinocytes,
p<0.005.
      [0182]  Significantly greater than passaged keratinocytes, p<0.0 2 .
                                       42

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
         1.     A skin substitute comprising epithelial cells and neural crest-derived
mesenchymal cells.
        2.      The skin substitute of claim 1, wherein the epithelial cells are
keratinocytes.
        3.      The skin substitute of claim I or 2, wherein the mesenchymal cells are
hair follicle dermal cells.
        4.      The skin substitute of claim 3, wherein the hair follicle dermal cells are
dermal papilla cells.
        5.      The skin substitute of claim 3, wherein the hair follicle dermal cells are
dermal sheath cells.
        6.       The skin substitute of claim 3, wherein the hair follicle dermal cells are
derived from scalp or face.
        7.      The skin substitute of claim 6, wherein the hair follicle dermal cells are
derived from a frontal, temporal, mid scalp, top of head, vertex, or parietal region of
the scalp.
        8.      The skin substitute of claim 6, wherein the hair follicle dermal cells are
not derived from an occipital or nape region of the scalp.
        9.      The skin substitute of any of claims 1-8, wherein the epithelial cells and
neural crest-derived mesenchymal cells are human.
         10.    The skin substitute of any of claims 1-9, further comprising collagen,
         11.     A skin substitute comprising epithelial cells and scalp- or face-derived
mesenchymal cells, wherein the mesenchymal cells are not derived from an occipital
or nape region of the scalp.
         12.    The skin substitute of claim 11, wherein the epithelial cells are
keratinocytes.
         13.    The skin substitute of claim 11 or 12, wherein the mesenchymal cells
are hair follicle dermal cells.
         14.    The skin substitute of claim 13, wherein the hair follicle dermal cells are
dermal papilla cells.
         15.    The skin substitute of claim 13, wherein the hair follicle dermal cells are
dermal sheath cells.
         16.    The skin substitute of claim 13, wherein the hair follicle dermal cells are
derived from a frontal, temporal, mid scalp, top of head, vertex, or parietal region of
the scalp.
                                             43

        17.    The skin substitute of any of claims 11-16, wherein the epithelial cells
and mesenchymal cells are human.
        18.    The skin substitute of any of claims 11-17, further comprising collagen.
        19.   A skin substitute comprising epithelial cells and hair follicle dermal
cells, wherein the hair follicle dermal cells are not derived from an occipital or nape
region of the scalp.
        20.    The skin substitute of claim 19, wherein the epithelial cells are
keratinocytes.
        21.    The skin substitute of claim 19 or 20, wherein the hair follicle dermal
cells are dermal papilla cells.
        22.    The skin substitute of claim 19 or 20, wherein the hair follicle dermal
cells are dermal sheath cells.
        23.    The skin substitute of any one of claims 19-22, wherein the hair follicle
dermal cells are derived from scalp or face.
        24.    The skin substitute of claim 23, wherein the hair follicle dermal cells are
derived from a frontal, temporal, mid-scalp, top of head, vertex, or parietal region of
the scalp.
        25.    The skin substitute of any of claims 19-24, wherein the epithelial cells
and dermal papilla cells are human.
        26.    The skin substitute of any of claims 19-25, further comprising collagen.
        27.    The skin substitute of any of claims 1-18, wherein the mesenchymal
cells are provided with a matrix.
        28.    The skin substitute of any of claims 19-26, wherein the hair follicle
dermal cells are provided with a matrix.
        29.    The skin substitute of claim 27 or 28, wherein the matrix is a collagen
matrix or a ground substance matrix.
        30.    The skin substitute of claim 27 or 28, wherein the matrix is a type I
collagen matrix.
        31.    The skin substitute of any of claims 2, 12, or 20, wherein the
keratinocytes are neonatal foreskin keratinocytes, adult keratinocytes, or
keratinocyte-like cells derived from pluripotential stem cells or from epithelial cells.
        32.    The skin substitute of any of claims 1-31, wherein the epithelial cells
are primary cells.
        33.    The skin substitute of any of claims 1-31, wherein the epithelial cells
are early-passage cells.
                                            44

         34.   The skin substitute of claim 33, wherein the epithelial cells are from a
first or second passage.
         35.   The skin substitute of any of claims 1-18, wherein the mesenchymal
cells are primary cells.
         36.   The skin substitute of any of claims 19-26, wherein the hair follicle
dermal cells are primary cells.
         37.   The skin substitute of any of claims 1-18, wherein the mesenchymal
cells are early passage cells.
         38.   The skin substitute of claim 37, wherein the mesenchymal cells are
from a first, second, third, or fourth passage.
         39.   The skin substitute of any of claims 19-26, wherein the hair follicle
dermal cells are early passage cells.
         40.   The skin substitute of claim 39, wherein the hair follicle dermal cells are
from a first, second, third, or fourth passage.
         41.   The skin substitute of any one of claims 33, 37, or 39, wherein the cells
are passaged in keratinocyte-conditioned medium.
         42.   The skin substitute of any of claims 1-18, wherein the epithelial cells
and mesenchymal cells are autologous.
         43.   The skin substitute of any of claims 19-26, wherein the epithelial cells
and hair follicle dermal cells are autologous.
         44.   The skin substitute of any of claims 1-18, wherein the epithelial cells
and mesenchymal cells are allogenic.
         45.    The skin substitute of any of claims 19-26, wherein the epithelial cells
and hair follicle dermal cells are allogenic.
         46.   A method for transplanting cells capable of inducing human hair
follicles, comprising delivering to a human subject the skin substitute of any one of
claims 1-45.
         47.   A method for inducing hair follicle growth or hair follicle neogenesis
comprising delivering to a human subject the skin substitute of any one of claims 1
45.
         48.   A composition for use in inducing hair follicle growth or hair follicle
neogenesis comprising the skin substitute of any one of claims 1-45.
         49.    Use of a skin substitute of any one of claims 1-45 in the manufacture of
a medicament for inducing hair follicle formation or for inducing hair follicle
neogenesis.
                                             45

       50.    The method of claims 46 or 47, wherein the subject has partial
thickness skin loss, full-thickness skin loss, a wound, a burn, a scar, or hair loss.
       51.    The method of claims 46 or 47, wherein the skin substitute induces
eccrine glands.
       52.    The method of claims 46 or 47, wherein the skin substitute induces
sebaceous glands.
       53.    A microsphere comprising neural crest-derived mesenchymal cells.
       54.    The microsphere of claim 53, further comprising epithelial cells.
       55.    The microsphere of claim 54, wherein            the epithelial cells are
keratinocytes.
       56.    The microsphere of any one             of  claims   53-55,   wherein    the
mesenchymal cells are hair follicle dermal cells.
       57.    The microsphere of claim 56, wherein the hair follicle dermal cells are
dermal papilla cells.
       58.    The microsphere of claim 56, wherein the hair follicle dermal cells are
dermal sheath cells.
       59.     The microsphere of claim 56, wherein the hair follicle dermal cells are
derived from scalp or face.
       60.    The microsphere of claim 59, wherein the hair follicle dermal cells are
derived from a frontal, temporal, mid scalp, top of head, vertex, or parietal region of
the scalp.
       61.    The microsphere of claim 59, wherein the hair follicle dermal cells are
not derived from an occipital or nape region of the scalp.
       62.    The microsphere of any of claims 53-61, wherein the epithelial cells
and neural crest-derived mesenchymal cells are human.
       63.    The microsphere of any of claims 53-62, further comprising collagen,
       64.     A microsphere comprising scalp- or face-derived mesenchymal cells,
wherein the mesenchymal cells are not derived from an occipital or nape region of
the scalp.
       65.    The microsphere of claim 64, further comprising epithelial cells.
       66.    The microsphere of claim 65, wherein the epithelial cells are
keratinocytes.
       67.    The microsphere of any one             of claims    64-66,   wherein    the
mesenchymal cells are hair follicle dermal cells.
                                            46

         68.   The microsphere of claim 67, wherein the hair follicle dermal cells are
dermal papilla cells.
         69.   The microsphere of claim 67, wherein the hair follicle dermal cells are
dermal sheath cells.
         70.   The microsphere of claim 67, wherein the hair follicle dermal cells are
derived from a frontal, temporal, mid scalp, top of head, vertex, or parietal region of
the scalp.
         71.   The microsphere of any of claims 64-70, wherein the epithelial cells
and mesenchymal cells are human.
         72.   The microsphere of any of claims 64-71, further comprising collagen.
         73.   A microsphere comprising hair follicle dermal cells, wherein the hair
follicle dermal cells are not derived from an occipital or nape region of the scalp.
         74.   The microsphere of claim 73, further comprising epithelial cells,
         75.   The    microsphere    of claim  74, wherein the epithelial cells are
keratinocytes.
         76.   The microsphere of any one of claims 73-75, wherein the hair follicle
dermal cells are dermal papilla cells.
         77.   The microsphere of any one of claims 73-75, wherein the hair follicle
dermal cells are dermal sheath cells.
         78.    The microsphere of any one of claims 73-77, wherein the hair follicle
dermal cells are derived from scalp or face.
         79.   The microsphere of claim 78, wherein the hair follicle dermal cells are
derived from a frontal, temporal, mid-scalp, top of head, vertex, or parietal region of
the scalp.
         80.   The microsphere of any of claims 73-79, wherein the epithelial cells
and dermal papilla cells are human.
         81.   The microsphere of any of claims 73-80, further comprising collagen
         82.   The microsphere of any of claims 53-81, wherein the microsphere
further comprises a matrix.
         83.   The microsphere of claim 82, wherein the matrix is a collagen matrix or
a ground substance matrix.
         84.   The microsphere of claim 82, wherein the matrix is a type I collagen
matrix.
         85.   The microsphere of any of claims 55, 66, or 75, wherein the
keratinocytes are neonatal foreskin keratinocytes.
                                            47

         86.   The microsphere of any of claims 54, 65, or 74, wherein the epithelial
cells are primary cells.
         87.    The microsphere of any of claims 54, 65, or 74, wherein the epithelial
cells are early-passage cells.
         88.    The microsphere of claim 87, wherein the epithelial cells are from a first
or second passage.
         89.    The microsphere of any of claims 53-72, wherein the mesenchymal
cells are primary cells.
         90.    The microsphere of any of claims 73-81, wherein the hair follicle
dermal cells are primary cells.
         91.    The microsphere of any of claims 53-72, wherein the mesenchymal
cells are early passage cells.
         92.    The microsphere of claim 91, wherein the mesenchymal cells are from
a first, second, third, or fourth passage.
         93.    The microsphere of any of claims 73-81, wherein the hair follicle
dermal cells are early passage cells.
         94.    The microsphere of claim 93, wherein the hair follicle dermal cells are
from a first, second, third, or fourth passage.
         95.    The microsphere of any one of claims 87, 91, or 93, wherein the cells
are passaged in keratinocyte-conditioned medium.
         96.    The microsphere of claim 54 or 65, wherein the epithelial cells and
mesenchymal cells are autologous.
         97.    The skin substitute of claim 74, wherein the epithelial cells and hair
follicle dermal cells are autologous.
         98.    The skin substitute of any of claim 54 or 65, wherein the epithelial cells
and mesenchymal cells are allogenic.
         99.    The skin substitute of claim 74, wherein the epithelial cells and hair
follicle dermal cells are allogenic.
         100. A method for transplanting cells capable of inducing human hair
follicles, comprising delivering to a human subject the microsphere of any one of
claims 53-99.
         101. The method of claim 100, wherein said microsphere is subdermally or
intradermally transplanted to said subject.
         102. A method for inducing hair follicle growth or hair follicle neogenesis
comprising delivering to a human subject the microsphere of any one of claims 53
99.
                                            48

        103. The method of claim 102, wherein said microsphere is subdermally or
intradermally transplanted to said subject.
        104. A composition for use in inducing hair follicle growth or hair follicle
neogenesis comprising the microsphere of any one of claims 53-99.
        105. Use of a microsphere of any one of claims 53-99 in the manufacture of
a medicament for inducing hair follicle formation or for inducing hair follicle
neogenesis.
        106. The method of any one of claims 100-104, wherein the subject has
partial-thickness skin loss, full-thickness skin loss, a wound, a burn, a scar, or hair
loss.
        107. The method of any one of claims 100-104, wherein the skin substitute
induces eccrine glands.
        108. The method of any one of claims 100-104, wherein the skin substitute
induces sebaceous glands.
        109. A method of making a skin substitute, comprising (a) mixing a culture
of primary or early-passage neural crest-derived mesenchymal cells with a matrix;
and (b) overlaying a culture of primary or early-passage epithelial cells onto the
mixture of (a).
        110. A method of making a skin substitute, comprising (a) mixing a culture
of scalp- or face-derived mesenchymal cells with a matrix; and (b) overlaying a
culture of primary or early-passage epithelial cells onto the mixture of (a), wherein
the mesenchymal cells are not derived from an occipital region of the scalp.
        111. A method of making a skin substitute, comprising (a) mixing a culture
of hair follicle dermal cells with a matrix; and (b) overlaying a culture of primary or
early-passage epithelial cells onto the mixture of (a), wherein the hair follicle dermal
cells are not derived from an occipital region of the scalp.
        112. The method of any one of claims 109-111, wherein the matrix is a
collagen matrix.
        113. The method of any one of claims 109-111, wherein the cells are
cultured in keratinocyte-conditioned medium.
                                            49

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
