                                        ABSTRACT
       This invention generally relates to a method for efficiently disinfecting, sterilizing,
and packaging produce so that it is Ready-To-Eat by a consumer. The claimed method
removes dirt, soil, pathogens, and renders produce with a longer shelf life. The claimed
method is a multi-step sanitizing process that is designed to not cause bruising or other
physical harm to produce. Ultimately, this method yields produce disinfected, packaged, and
ready-for-sale on the market shelf.

                        1/7
 PRODUCE IS RECEIVED AT THE PROCESSING FACILITY
PRODUCE IS CHILLED, SORTED, AND SEPARATED FROM.
               EXTRANEOUS MATERIAL
      FIRST WASH - PRODUCE IS WASHED WITH AN
                 OXIDIZING SANITIZER
     SECOND WASH - PRODUCE IS WASHED WITH A
                SUR.FACANT SANITIZER
   THIRD/FINAL WASII - PRODUCE IS SPRAYED WITH A
  SANITIZER RINSE COMBINED WITH POTfABLE WATER
 DRYING PROCESS - PRODUCE IS DRIED IN A TWO STEP
 PROCESS: FIRST, AIR CURTAINS AND VACUUM DRIERS
     REMOVE THE BULK OF THE WATER FROM THE
  PRODUCE; SECOND., ADDITIONAL MECHANICAL AND
 EVAPORATIVE DRYING OCCURS USING AIR CURTAINS
                AND VACUUM DRIERS.
 PACKAGING - FINALLY, PRODUCE IS PACKAGED INTO
  ONE OF MANY TYPES OF CONTAINERS, PREFERABLY
                   USING OTR FILM.
                      FIG. 1

       DISINFECTING, STERILIZING, AND PACKAGING READY-TO-EAT PRODUCE
                                      FIELD OF INVENTION
[0001] This invention generally relates to a method using a produce preparation device for
efficiently disinfecting, sterilizing, and packaging a quantity of produce, such as fruits and
vegetables, intended for consumption by humans. Particularly, the present invention concerns a
three-step method of sanitizing produce, followed by a drying and packaging procedure that
yields packaged, ready-to-eat produce. This entire process is achieved with minimal physical
harm or bruising to the produce.
[0001A] This application is a divisional application divided out of Australian patent application
no 2013316001, the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
                                          BACKGROUND
[0002] Fresh produce is an essential part of the human diet. It provides many nutrients necessary
to ideal health. However, the modern fast-paced lifestyle of many people has decreased
consumption of such fresh produce, in favor of unhealthy, processed foods. This has created a
need for fresh, safe, and readily available produce.
[0003] In recent years, there has been an increasing global trend towards the production of
produce that is packaged and "Ready-to-Eat ' ("RTE") without requiring further preparation by
the consumer. Prior to being displayed at market, produce must be washed, and sanitized. Dust,
pesticides, and biological contamination must be removed or the produce will spoil or not be of
market quality. Further, if certain biological contaminants remain on the produce - serious illness
or death might result from consuming the contaminated produce.
[0004] Scientists have attempted to improve the chemicals and methods used to minimize the
harmful impact on the produce and to extend the shelf life of fresh-cut or fresh-picked produce.
One such scientist, Dr. John Lopes, conducted extensive research on extending the shelf life of
RTE produce. Dr. Lopes revolutionized the food disinfecting and sterilizing industry in the 1990s
by inventing PRO-SAN@. The PRO-SAN@ formula is disclosed in U.S. Patent Nos. 5,143,720
and 5,280,042 (collectively "the PRO-SAN® Patents"). Specifically, PRO-SAN@ is an anionic
surfactant and acid anionic sanitizer in one. PRO-SAN@ is also an effective sanitizing agent.
PRO-SAN@ is an FDA-approved composition made from Generally Recognized as Safe
("GRAS") ingredients that have excellent antimicrobial activity against gram positive and gram
negative bacteria, including the common-on-food pathogens E. Coli, Staph. aureus, and
salmonella. For example, research conducted on Tomatoes and Serrano Peppers,
                                                   1

applying PRO-SAN@ resulted in there being up to a 3 Log reduction in salmonella on tomatoes,
and up to a 4.1 Log reduction in salmonella on Serrano Peppers. PRO-SAN@ was so effective
that it was used by NASA's Food Technology Commercial Space Center so that astronauts
would not get food poisoning in space.
[0005] Dr. John Lopes has conducted extensive research and has several patents on produce
washes including PRO-SAN@, but the PRO-SAN@ patents have not disclosed or claimed a
process or method that uses PRO-SAN@ to maximize efficiency of disinfecting and sanitizing
produce.
[0006] For years, the produce industry has been using some form of oxidizer sanitizer, such as
chlorine dioxide, to kill bacteria, viruses, fungi, and other microbes without affecting taste, odor,
or appearance of food. This minimal impact makes it an ideal disinfectant for RTE produce. By
killing such microbes, the fresh-cut or fresh-picked produce spoils less quickly, appears fresher
on the market shelf, and has a longer shelf life. Research has shown that chlorine alone can
produce 1- to 2-log reduction in Microbial counts, which translates to about a one week shelf life
for the fresh-cut or fresh-picked produce. A one-week shelf life is shorter than ideal and recent
advances, including the present invention, extend this time-period.
[0007] The use of PRO-SAN@ and an oxidizer sanitizer together has a synergistic effect not
previously known in the art. Together, they increase the shelf life of produce up to 3 times that
of either chemical alone.
[0008] Regarding methods to pass a product through sanitation and ultimately dry and package
the product, U.S. Patent No. 5,809,739, issued to Eno ("Eno"), discloses a system for sterilizing
cartons where each carton is sprayed with a sterilization formula of hydrogen peroxide, dried,
and then packaged. The Eno reference discloses an extremely limited method, wherein a series
of cartons traveling along a conveyor belt are irradiated in order to sterilize the carton's surfaces.
Importantly, Eno fails to disclose or suggest a method for sterilizing produce that requires special
handling and care so that the produce does not bruise, puncture, or spoil during the process.
[0009] Regarding a conveyor system that also helps to dry produce, by removing moisture from
produce using suction dryers, U.S. Patent No. 5,924, 217, issued to Peeters ("Peeters"), discloses
a water permeable conveyer belt for such a purpose. Peeters' water permeable converyor belt,
however, requires shaking the produce, and in some embodiments, rotating the produce to
complete the drying process effectively. Movements like those disclosed in Peeters are likely to
                                                    2

cause bruising or other mechanical harm to the produce, thereby decreasing the shelf life
and salability of the produce.
[0010] Additionally, a limited number of methods of sanitizing produce using PRO-SAN®
are currently available, however they are very limited in scope. For example, U.S. Patent
Nos. 6,557,568, issued to Murch ("Murch"), 5,932,527, issued to Roselle ("Roselle"), and
5,639,466, issued to Ford ("Ford"), each disclose such a method. Murch merely discloses a
method of sanitizing the food by keeping the PRO-SAN® solution on the produce for at
least about five minutes. Roselle discloses a method wherein the solution that sanitizes the
food, also removes a waxy buildup and maintains a basic pH level that is greater than 9.5.
Ford discloses a method to sanitize and package moisture-rich foods, like meats, wherein
the main concern is controlling the food's natural lactic acid. The PRO-SAN® sprayed on
the packaged food slows spoiling, while leaving a layer of water on the food. However,
none of these methods disclose a stepwise sanitizing process involving a plurality of
sanitizing agents. Further, these patents fail to disclose a method that prevents mechanical
damage to produce, which increases the food safety and effectiveness of the sanitizing
agents. Additionally, each of these references fails to disclose a proper sanitization of RTE
produce and leaves a distinct opening in the art for such an invention.
[0011] Thus, there is a long felt need in the art for a method of disinfecting and sanitizing
produce that does not cause mechanical harm to the produce, which yields packaged,
Ready-To-Eat, fresh looking, and safe-to-eat produce.
[001 1A] Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles and the like in this
specification is included solely for the purpose of providing a context for the present
invention. It is not suggested or represented that any of these matters formed part of the
prior art base or were common general knowledge in the field relevant to the present
invention as it existed in Australia or elsewhere before the priority date of each claim of
this application.
                              SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0012] To minimize the limitations in the cited references, and to minimize other
limitations that will become apparent upon reading and understanding the present
specification, the present invention discloses a three-step produce washing, sanitizing, and
disinfecting method, achieved by a produce preparation device, followed by a drying and
packaging wherein the produce is disinfected, sterilized, dried and packaged. This entire
method is achieved with minimal to no mechanical damage to the produce, which prevents
premature degradation of the produce. The method involves the produce being chilled and
sorted upon arrival at the processing facility, going through specific washes for specific
periods of time, and, finally, being dried and packaged.
 -kk AnV 00aCCCOC-I ,,1 AOaat

[0012A] More specifically, the present invention provides a produce washing method
comprising the following steps:
        providing a plurality of produce;
        providing a product preparation device;
        loading said plurality of produce into said produce preparation devide;
        wherein said produce preparation device is comprised of a first washing portion, a
second washing portion, a third washing portion, and a drying portion;
        washing said produce in a first wash by said first washing portion of said produce
preparation device;
        washing said produce in a second wash by said second washing portion of said
produce preparation device;
        washing said produce in a third wash by said third washing portion of said produce
preparation device;
        drying said produce by said drying portion of said preparation device;
        packaging said produce; and
        wherein said washed, dried, and packaged produce is ready to eat.
[0013] The present invention therefore concerns a method for disinfecting, sterilizing,
drying and packaging produce. In broad terms, this method comprises the following steps:
first wash, second
-kk   A        Z,, OnCZZ AOat                 'I A

wash, third and final rinse, drying, and packaging. Importantly this method is achieved with
little bruising or scarring to the produce.
[0014] A number of optional configurations can be made of the presently claimed method. For
example, the number of washes need not be fixed at three. For further example, the first wash
can be one of many oxidizer sanitizers available on the market. Additionally, the chemical used
in the first wash may, in certain embodiments, be exchanged with the chemical solution in the
second wash.
[0015] In the preferred embodiment, the produce is blueberries. The produce can be another
similar produce that needs disinfecting and sterilizing before being consumed by the public.
[0016] The process begins when the produce is received at the processing facility and
immediately cooled. The produce is sorted by color and quality and all extraneous materials are
removed.      There are two ideal temperature ranges at which the entire process should occur.
There is the "cool" temperature range of approximately 50-55 degrees Fahrenheit (10-12.78
degrees Celsius).      The preferred process temperature, however, is the "colder" range of
approximately 34 to 40 degrees Fahrenheit (1.1-4.4 degrees Celsius). To maintain freshness of
the produce, it is important that the temperatures in the processing facility do not deviate below
freezing (0.0 degrees Celsius) or above 40 degrees Fahrenheit (4.4 degrees Celsius) for any
substantial period of time.
[0017] To have the greatest efficacy and quality of sanitizing, the present invention preferably
includes a three-step sanitizing and disinfecting wash process. Each sanitizing and disinfecting
wash step may be followed by a chilled, filtered-water rinse, but preferably the rinse step is the
third step is a final rinse which includes chilled potable water.        After the sanitizing and
disinfecting is complete, the produce will be dried using air curtains, vacuums, and other drying
devices known in the art to effectively dry produce. Importantly, none of the driers increases the
temperature of the produce, which prevents or greatly limits damage to the internal flesh of the
fruit or vegetable being dried. Subsequently, the produce will be packaged in containers and be
sold as RTE.
[0018] Each wash may be applied using a washing process with jetted Jacuzzi action,
continuously sprayed by a plurality of jets.      This is the ideal method of applying the final
sanitizer and chilled potable water rinse to the produce. Each wash is, preferentially, a sanitizing
agent selected from classes of substances generally regarded as safe ("GRAS") or which have
                                                  4

been ascribed secondary food additive status as those terms are defined by the United States
Food and Drug Administration in 21 C.F.R. §§ 178, 182, and 184. The selected washes should,
and preferably do, have properties similar to chlorine dioxide or PRO-SAN@.
[0019] Subsequent to all of the washes and water rinse, the produce is dried.             The drying
procedure should be one that maintains the quality and integrity of the produce.
[0020] In one embodiment, the produce is dried using air curtains, vacuum dryers, air knives, or
other similar drying methods that quickly and effectively dry large amounts of produce without
bruising, scratching, or otherwise harming the produce and without contaminating the produce
with pathogens.    Controlling the humidity during the drying process is an additional way to
encourage evaporative drying.
[0021] Subsequently, the produce is packaged in a protective tray, box, bowl, cup, gel package,
bag, clamshell, or any other type of packaging known in the art to provide physical protection to
the produce to limit or prevent damage while shipping. In a preferred embodiment, the packaging
is sealed with Oxygen Transmission Rate ("OTR") film or similar covering that will keep the
produce contained within the packaging means.            OTR film is used to achieve the target
concentration of oxygen inside of the package to promote shelf-life and shelf-appearance. The
preferred in-package concentrations of oxygen and carbon dioxide are 4% and 14% respectively.
[0022] In a preferred embodiment, after packaging, the produce is shipped and sold at or below
40 degrees Fahrenheit (4.4 degrees Celsius), but above freezing. This temperature maintains a
fresh appearance, inhibits microbial growth, and maximizes the shelf-life of the produce.
[0023] In one embodiment, the produce passes through the process via one or more conveyor
belts or other similar moving platform that will efficiently move the produce through the
washing, drying and packaging phases. Alternatively, other mechanical or human means can be
used to move the produce through the process without deviating from the scope of the invention.
[0024] It is an object of the present invention is to overcome limitations in the prior art.
[0025] It is another object of the invention to increase the shelf-life of produce, improve the
presence of produce on the market shelf, protect consumers from foodborne pathogens, and
provide an environmentally friendly method of sanitizing and disinfecting farm fresh produce.
[0026] The present invention improves the shelf life and chemical stability of fresh, packaged
produce, such as blueberries, by sanitizing and packaging the blueberries safely and efficiently.
In some instances, the shelf life of these, for example, fresh blueberries, has lasted at least 40
                                                   5

days based on microbial, physical, and sensory analysis. Under similar testing conditions, when
input berries were of a lower initial quality, that is, soft with lots of scarring, the shelf life of
these blueberries has been at least 21 days, which is still 3 times longer than if they had been
cleaned with Chlorine Dioxide alone. As discussed above, the research conducted on tomatoes
and Serrano peppers concluded that PRO-SAN@ had up to 3 Log reduction in tomatoes for
Salmonella and up to 4.1 Log reduction in Serrano peppers for Salmonella. The present method
greatly increases the shelf life of produce and improves the marketability of produce.
[0027] One embodiment of the invention is a produce washing method comprising the following
steps: providing a plurality of produce; providing a produce preparation device; loading the
plurality of produce into the produce preparation device; wherein the produce preparation device
is comprised of a first wash portion, a second wash portion, a third wash portion, and a drying
portion; washing the produce in a first wash by the first washing portion of the produce
preparation device; washing the produce in a second wash by the second washing portion of the
produce preparation device; washing the produce in a third wash/rinse by the third washing
portion of the produce preparation device; drying the produce by the drying portion of the
preparation device;    packaging the produce; and wherein the washed, dried, and packaged
produce is ready to eat.
[0028] Preferably, the produce is moved within the produce preparation device via one or more
conveyor belts. Preferably, the conveyor belts are water-permeable and do not cause mechanical
damage to the produce.        The first wash, preferably, comprises an oxidizer sanitizer wash.
Preferably, the oxidizer sanitizer is chlorine dioxide. Preferably, the second wash comprises a
surfactant sanitizer wash. Preferably, the surfactant sanitizer wash is comprised of PRO-SAN@.
[0029] Alternatively, the first wash may comprise a surfactant sanitizer wash. Preferably, the
surfactant sanitizer wash is comprised of PRO-SAN@. Preferably, the second wash comprises
and oxidizer sanitizer wash. Typically, the oxidizer sanitizer is chlorine dioxide.
[0030] For both of the above alternatives, the third wash preferably comprises a PRO-SAN@
Final Rinse wash combined with a potable water rinse.            Preferably, the drying portion is
comprised of one or more vacuums and one or more air-curtain driers. Preferably, the packaging
is comprised of a protective container made of polypropylene and the polypropylene packaging
is preferably covered with an Oxygen Transmission Rate film.
                                                  6

[0031] Another embodiment is a method of washing produce comprising the steps: providing a
plurality of produce; providing a produce preparation device; sorting the produce by color and
quality; lowering a temperature of the plurality of produce to 1.1-4.4 degrees Celsius; loading the
plurality of produce into the produce preparation device; wherein the produce preparation device
is comprised of a first wash portion, a second wash portion, a third wash portion, and a drying
portion; washing the produce in a first wash by the first washing portion of the produce
preparation device; washing the produce in a second wash by the second washing portion of the
produce preparation device; washing the produce in a third wash/rinse by the third washing
portion of the produce preparation device; drying the produce by the drying portion of the
preparation device; wherein the drying portion is comprised of one or more vacuums and one or
more air-curtain driers; packaging the produce; wherein the packaging is comprised of a
protective container made of polypropylene; wherein the polypropylene packaging is covered
with an Oxygen Transmission Rate film; and wherein the washed, dried, and packaged produce
is ready to eat. Preferably, the produce is moved within the produce preparation device via
conveyor belts, which are preferably water-permeable and do not cause mechanical damage to
the produce. Preferably, the first wash comprises an oxidizer sanitizer wash, the second wash
comprises a surfactant sanitizer wash, and the third wash comprises a PRO-SAN@ Final Rinse
wash combined with a potable water rinse. Preferably, the oxidizer sanitizer is chlorine dioxide,
and the surfactant sanitizer wash is comprised of PRO-SAN@. Preferably, the PRO-SAN@ is at
0.78% (1 oz./gal), the PRO-SAN@ bathes the produce for 2.0 to 3.5 minutes, the PRO-SAN@
Final Rinse is 0.2% (0.25 oz/gal), and the potable water from the potable water rinse of the third
wash is 1.1-4.4 degrees Celsius.
[0032] These and other features, aspects, and advantages of the present invention will become
better understood with regard to the following description, appended claims, and accompanying
drawings.
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0033] Fig. 1 is an illustration of a functional flow block diagram that shows one embodiment of
the method of disinfecting, sanitizing, and packaging produce.
[0034] Fig. 2 is a perspective view of one embodiment of the device used in the first wash.
[0035] Fig. 3 is a perspective view of one embodiment of the device used in the second wash.
                                                   7

[0036] Fig. 4 is a perspective view of one embodiment of the device used in the third and final
wash.
[0037] Fig. 5 is a perspective view of one embodiment of the device used in the first part of the
produce drying step and shows the use of air curtains and vacuum dryers.
[0038] Fig. 6 is a perspective view of one embodiment of the device used in the second stage of
the produce drying.
[0039] Fig. 7 is a perspective view of one embodiment of the device used in the packaging of the
produce.
                      DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0040] In the following detailed description of various embodiments of the invention, numerous
specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of various aspects of
one or more embodiments of the invention.           However, one or more embodiments of the
invention may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances, well
known methods, procedures, and/or components have not been described in detail so as not to
unnecessarily obscure aspects of embodiments of the invention.
[0041] While multiple embodiments are disclosed, still other embodiments of the present
invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description,
which shows and describes illustrative embodiments of the invention. As will be realized, the
invention is capable of modifications in various obvious aspects, all without departing from the
spirit and scope of the present invention. Accordingly, the screen shot figures, and the detailed
descriptions thereof, are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not restrictive.  Also, the
reference or non-reference to a particular embodiment of the invention shall not be interpreted to
limit the scope of the invention.
[0042] In the following description, certain terminology is used to describe certain features of
one or more embodiments of the invention. For instance, the term "wash" refers to applying
water or some other liquid, often a cleaner, sanitizer, or disinfectant, to a product. Washing can
occur through spraying, soaking, dipping, rubbing, bathing, or scrubbing the product in the
liquid. "Wash" may also mean a jetted-Jacuzzi action wherein sprinklers spray a quantity of
liquid on the produce.     The term "bath" involves completely or substantially submerging the
produce in the liquid in which the produce is taking a "bath." The period of contact time for a
bath varies, and the preferred timings are provided when relevant. The term "produce" refers to
                                                  8

fruits and vegetables, including, but not limited to: blueberries; blackberries; raspberries;
strawberries; grapes; cranberries; tomatoes; plums; apples; or other similar produce that can
benefit from being disinfected and sanitized before it is sold to a consumer. The produce that
would go through this process and machine can be classified in the RTE category of produce.
The term "extraneous materials" refers to dirt, rocks, leaves, stems, pesticides, chemicals or other
similar materials such that its nature is apparent in farming produce, but its presence in a RTE
product is undesirable and deleterious. The term "mechanical harm" refers to bruising, scarring,
discoloration, or any other physical damage caused to produce as a result of the bumping or
moving related to the sanitizing, washing, drying, packaging, or shipping processes
[0043] Fig. 1 is an illustration of a functional flow block diagram that shows one embodiment of
the method of disinfecting, sanitizing, and packaging produce.           Fig. 1 shows a flow chart
describing each of the preferred steps of one embodiment of the present invention. In the first
step 10 the produce is received at the packing facility. After it is received, the produce is chilled,
sorted, and separated from extraneous materials 11.       Produce is sorted based on features that,
depending on the type of produce, increase the likelihood that the produce will remain of the
highest quality.   For example, in one embodiment, blueberries are sorted by color, size, and
physical qualities such as external damage and overall appearance. This initial sorting involves
choosing produce that is will be sanitized and packed with the highest quality results.        In the
preferred embodiment, the produce is initially chilled to 34 to 40 degrees Fahrenheit (1.1-4.4
degrees Celsius). The packing facility is chilled to either the "cool" range of 50-55 degrees
Fahrenheit (10-12.78 degrees Celsius) or the "cold" range of 34-40 degrees Fahrenheit (1.1-4.4
degrees Celsius). After this initial sorting and chilling, the produce goes through its first wash
12. In one embodiment, an oxidizer sanitizer is used at the first wash.. The produce next goes
through a second wash 13, this time, for example, the produce is cleaned with a surfactant
sanitizer. Continuing through the process, the produce is subjected to its final wash 14, which in
one embodiment is a spray applied sanitizer rinse. The produce is then subjected to a two stage
drying, 15 and 16, using a variety of mechanical and evaporative drying techniques designed to
prevent harm to the produce. Finally, the produce is packaged, 17, in an appropriate container
for RTE produce.
[0044] Fig. 2 is a perspective view of one embodiment of the device used in the first wash. Fig.
2 shows a perspective view of one possible embodiment of a device to achieve the first wash as
                                                   9

shown in 12 in Fig. 1. The produce enters the first cleaning trough 200, at intake incline 205.
High quality pipes 210 and 215 provide the first wash cleaning solution. In one embodiment this
may be an oxidizer sanitizer. In the preferred embodiment, chlorine dioxide is used for the first
wash. This wash should have 1.2 to 2.2 minutes of contact time with the produce. The preferred
concentration of Chlorine Dioxide is 0.8 to 3.0 parts per million (PPM). The substrate for the
Chlorine Dioxide is filtered water.      Next, the produce travels along the trough from intake
position 205 to a completed first wash position at 225. Ventilation pipe 220 provides another
access point and prevents blockages from occurring under the shower hood 230.              Legs 235
provide stability to the entire first wash process and control access to the produce and keep it is
above ground level. Drain 240 provides for easy cleaning of the process room if an overflow or
spill occurs.
[0045] Fig. 3 is a perspective view of one embodiment of the device used in the second wash.
Fig. 3 shows a perspective view of one possible embodiment of a process to complete the second
wash 13. In one embodiment, the produce is received from 225 to second wash intake 305. In
the preferred embodiment (as pictured in Figs. 4 and 5), produce is moved from step to step on a
special water permeable conveyor belt that prevents damage to delicate produce. High quality
pipes 310 and 315 provide several possibilities for supplying the second wash to the produce in
trough 300. The preferred sanitizing agent used in the second wash step is a surfactant sanitizer.
In the preferred embodiment, PRO-SAN@ at 0.78% (1 oz./gal) is used to bathe the produce.
Concentration is monitored by measuring of the pH of the PRO-SAN@ solution and should
remain between 2.4 and 2.8. The contact time of this second wash with the produce should be
2.0 to 3.5 minutes, in order to maximize the sanitization effect. Overflow prevention gap 330
drains second wash cleaner and soap bubbles into trough 320 to prevent overflow. Legs 335
provide stability to the entire second was process and control access to the produce and keep it
above ground level. Drain 340 provides for easy and sanitary cleaning of the process room if an
overflow or spill occurs.
[0046] Fig. 4 shows a perspective view of one embodiment of a process to complete the third
wash 14. Produce is, by either a washing or a conveyor belt, moved to intake location 405 from
the preceding wash stage. Here produce travels from intake location 405 to pre-drying location
425. In Fig. 4, the produce is shown traveling from right to left, this is not intended to effect the
scope of the disclosed subject matter. In the illustrated embodiment, produce moves on a slow
                                                  10

moving water permeable conveyor belt 430. An alternate embodiment would permit the
conveyor belt to be a plurality of belts working in line with transitions between each unique belt.
The benefit of both of these embodiments is that they prevent mechanical harm from damaging
the skin, peal, or external layer of the produce. The processing table 400 and conveyor belt 430
are preferably wide enough so that produce can rest at a single layer and still be effectively
processed. Next, produce passes under the washing of a plurality of sprinklers 410 and 415
attached to spray bar 409.     In one embodiment, sprinklers 410 spray PRO-SAN@ Final Rinse.
The preferred concentration of PRO-SAN@ Final Rinse is 0.2% (0.25 oz/gal). Concentration is
monitored by observing a pH between 2.4-2.8. In one embodiment, sprinklers 415 spray potable
water chilled at the preferred temperature of 34 to 40 degrees Fahrenheit (1.1-4.4 degrees
Celsius). While the number of sprinklers can vary, the preferred number is 10 sprinklers to make
certain that the entire produce line has contact with the final sanitizing solution.    Finally the
produce passes to the pre-drying location 425 in preparation for passing under air curtain 520
and vacuum driers 530.       At this stage, produce has been thoroughly sanitized without any
mechanical harm, discoloration, or other negative effects on the produce.
[0047] Fig. 5 shows a perspective view of one possible embodiment of a process to complete the
first stage of produce drying. Produce is moved to the drying intake location 505. Here produce
travels from intake location 505 to second-drying location 525. In the illustrated embodiment,
produce moves on water permeable conveyor belt 530. The processing table 500 and conveyor
belt 530 are to be wide enough so that a single layer of produce can effectively be processed.
This helps guarantee that each piece of produce will have proper contact with the washes and
drying units. Next, produce passes through a plurality of a variety of driers 520 and 535. In the
illustrated embodiment, an air-curtain 520 is depicted.       Air-curtain 520 can be replaced or
augmented with an air knife or an air-blade drier. These driers function to remove the excess of
water by blowing air over the quantity of produce and driving the excess water through the water
permeable conveyor belt 530.       They function at the processing room temperature (which as
discussed above is very cool) to prevent raising the temperature of the produce, which might
cause harm to the flesh of the produce. Additionally, produce is dried by a plurality of vacuum
driers 535. In a preferred embodiment, there is a plurality of produce driers. The air curtain 520
and vacuum driers 535 function to remove all or substantially all of the water from the berries.
                                                 11

At this stage, produce has been thoroughly sanitized and dried without harm to the color or
quality of the produce and is mostly dry.
[0048] Fig. 6 is a perspective view of one embodiment of the device used in the second stage of
the produce drying. Fig. 6 shows a perspective view of one possible embodiment of a process to
complete the drying and transport the produce to the packaging area of the process floor. Produce
first passes through a passage way in the wall and into the packaging room where it completes its
drying. The packaging room is in a separate temperature controlled room. Next produce passes
a plurality of secondary air-curtains 620, vacuum driers 635, and/or other drying devices known
in the art. These driers provide the final mechanical and evaporative drying of the produce. The
completely dry produce continues on the conveyor belt 530. At end of the conveyor belt 530, the
produce is automatically transitioned to a completely dry conveyor belt 605. Here the produce
travels from the automatic loading position 610 of dry conveyor belt 605 to the packaging
machine end 625 of the dry conveyor belt 605.
[0049] Fig. 7 is a perspective view of one embodiment of the device used in the packaging of the
produce. Fig. 7 shows a perspective view of one possible embodiment of a process to complete
the drying, package the produce, and transport the produce to the boxing area of the process
floor. Produce enters the sorting and packaging machine 700 from conveyor belt 630.           The
packaging machine fills the containers with the sanitized, washed, and dried produce, and
hermetically seals the containers using, preferably, Oxygen Transmission Rate film. Completed
packages 720. The packages may be made of any food quality plastic and in any size made. For
example, the packaging can be a protective tray, box, bowl, cup, gel package, bag, clamshell, or
any other type of packaging known in the art to provide protection to the produce from damage.
The preferred packaging sizing is 1 ounce to 2 pound portions, food-grade polypropylene. The
preferred OTR film permits concentrations of 4% 02 and 14% CO 2. A human technician 710
preferably observes the packaging machine for quality and accuracy in packaging. After passing
the quality technician 710, the produce is sent down shoot 735 and goes to boxing for shipping to
market 725.
[0050] Throughout the entire processing, the produce should be stored at or below 40 degrees
Fahrenheit. After processing, the produce should remain at or below 40 degrees Fahrenheit (4.4
degrees Celsius) until it is delivered to the end user.
                                                   12

[0051] Each washing liquid is, preferentially, a sanitizing agent selected from classes of
substances generally regarded as safe (GRAS) or which have been ascribed secondary food
additive status as those terms are defined by the United States Food and Drug Administration in
21 C.F.R. §§ 178, 182, and 184. The selected washes should have properties similar to chlorine
dioxide or PRO-SAN@.
[0052] An important quality of the present invention is the prevention of mechanical harm to the
produce. Preventing the produce from harsh treatment and chemicals prevents damage to the
skin of the produce and other harm that might cause premature degradation.
[0053] The driers, disclosed above, all use mechanical and evaporative means to remove the
rinse water from the produce. Importantly, the driers do not significantly heat the produce to
increase the evaporative effect.
[0054] In the preferred embodiment, the entire processing facility is chilled to between 34 and
40 degrees Fahrenheit (1.1-4.4 degrees Celsius). This decreases microbial growth and is the
ideal temperature range for disinfectants to function.        In an alternative embodiment, the
processing room is "cool," chilled to less than 50 degrees Fahrenheit (10-12.78 degrees Celsius).
Additionally, the full process, including initial sorting, may be automated to require little to no
human contact with the produce, except in final packaging and shipping.
[0055] Other features and advantages are inherent in the produce washing method claimed and
disclosed will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description
and its accompanying drawings.
[0056] Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference
to certain preferred embodiments thereof, other embodiments or versions are possible.
Therefore, the spirit and scope of the appended claims should not be limited to the description of
the preferred embodiments contained herein.
[0057] The foregoing description of the preferred embodiment of the invention has been
presented for the purposes of illustration and description.      While multiple embodiments are
disclosed, still other embodiments of the present invention will become apparent to those skilled
in the art from the above detailed description, which shows and describes illustrative
embodiments of the invention. As will be realized, the invention is capable of modifications in
various obvious aspects, all without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention.
Accordingly, the detailed description is to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not restrictive.
                                                  13

Also, although not explicitly recited, one or more embodiments of the invention may be
practiced in combination or conjunction with one another. Furthermore, the reference or
non-reference to a particular embodiment of the invention shall not be interpreted to limit
the scope the invention. It is intended that the scope of the invention not be limited by this
detailed description, but by the claims and the equivalents to the claims that are appended
hereto.
[00581              It is to be understood that, throughout the description and claims of the
specification, the word "comprise" and variations of the word, such as "comprising" and
"comprises", is not intended to exclude other additives, components, integers or steps.
 -kk AnV O aCCCOC-I  ,,1      AOaat                 1A

The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.     A produce washing method comprising the following steps:
               providing a plurality of produce;
               providing a produce preparation device;
               loading said plurality of produce into said produce preparation device;
               wherein said produce preparation device is comprised of a first washing
       portion, a second washing portion, a third washing portion, and a drying portion;
               washing said produce in a first wash by said first washing portion of said
       produce preparation device;
               washing said produce in a second wash by said second washing portion of
       said produce preparation device;
               washing said produce in a third wash by said third washing portion of said
       produce preparation device;
               drying said produce by said drying portion of said preparation device;
               packaging said produce; and
               wherein said washed, dried, and packaged produce is ready to eat.
2.     A produce washing method of Claim 1, wherein said first wash comprises an
       oxidizer sanitizer wash or a surfactant sanitizer wash.
3.     A produce washing method of Claim 2, wherein when said first wash comprises an
       oxidizer sanitizer wash said second wash comprises a surfactant sanitizer wash.
4.     A produce washing method of Claim 2 or Claim 3, wherein said oxidizer sanitizer
       comprises chlorine dioxide.
5.     A produce washing method of any one of Claims 2 to 4, wherein said surfactant
       sanitizer wash is comprised of an anionic surfactant and an acid anionic sanitizer,
       such as PRO-SAN®.
6.     A produce washing method of any preceding claim, wherein said third wash
       comprises a sanitizer, such as PRO-SAN® Final Rinse, combined with a potable
       water rinse.
7.     A produce washing method of Claim 6, wherein the first wash comprises chlorine
       dioxide, the second wash comprises PRO-SAN® and the third wash comprises
       PRO-SAN® Final Rinse, combined with a potable water rinse.

8.  A produce washing method of Claim 7,
             wherein said PRO-SAN® is essentially 0.78% (1 oz./gal);
             wherein said PRO-SAN® bathes said produce in the range of 2.0 to 3.5
    minutes;
             wherein said PRO-SAN® Final Rinse is essentially 0.2% (0.25 oz/gal);
             wherein a potable water from said potable water rinse of said third wash is
    in the range of 1.1-4.4 'C.
9.  A produce washing method of any one of Claims 1-7, wherein the produce is
    chilled, such as 50-55'F (10-12.78'C), preferably 34-40'F (1.1-4.4'C).
10. A produce washing method of any preceding claim, wherein said drying portion is
    comprised of one or more vacuums and one or more air-curtain driers.
11. A produce washing method of any preceding claim, wherein said packaging is
    comprised of a protective container made of polypropylene; and
             wherein said polypropylene packaging      is covered with an Oxygen
    Transmission Rate film.
12. A produce washing method of any preceding claim, wherein said produce is moved
    within said produce preparation device via one or more conveyor belts;
             wherein said one or more conveyor belts are water-permeable and do not
    cause mechanical damage to said produce.
13. A produce washing method of any preceding claim, wherein the produce comprises
    berries.
14. A produce washing method of Claim 13, wherein the berries are blueberries.
15. A produce washing method of Claim 13, wherein the blueberries shelf life is at
    least 21 days.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
