   27489
                                            22
                                         Abstract
   The invention relates to a cover plate for installing a handle in a door having
   opposing faces, an aperture communicating from one face to the other and first and
   second flanges adapted to lie on the opposing faces. Each flange has an aperture,
 5 corresponding at least in part with the aperture in the faces, and first cut-outs and
   optionally second cut-outs. The aperture and the cut-outs enable at least one
   different handle to be installed. The handle may have a backset distance of 60mm,
   70mm, 90mm, 95mm or 127mm, for example.
   The invention also relates to an adaptor for installing a handle in a door having an
io aperture communicating from one face of the door to another and cut-outs at the
   aperture.   The adaptor is capable of changing the aperture in the door from one
   suitable for installing one type of handle to one suitable for installation of a
   different type of handle.
   The invention also further relates to use of the cover plate with one or more
15 adaptors.

      27489
                                                 1
                               COVER PLATE AND ADAPTOR
     This invention relates to a cover plate for use for installing a handle in a door, an
     adaptor for use for installing a handle in a door and to using an adaptor and a cover
     plate for replacing a handle in a door with a different handle.
  5  In the present specification the term "door" is intended to include doors for use
     indoors and outdoors, gates, cupboard doors, drawers and any other kind of door or
     closure into which a handle may be installed.
     In the present specification the term "handle" is intended to mean a handle and
     turning mechanism which may include a locking mechanism.
io   For clarity, throughout the specification the term "backset" is used to describe the
     distance from the central point of an aperture, through which the handle will be
     fitted, to the edge of the door, where a latch mechanism will operate to open the
     door or keep it closed.
    In modern times there are many different types and kinds of doors on the market
1s  having different styles and varying dimensions. Similarly, there are many different
    decorative styles and forms of door handle which can be chosen to be installed in a
    door. It is often desired to change the handle applied to a particular door. A person
    may wish to install a handle with a different turning mechanism, perhaps with an
    improved opening and closing action. It may be that a person wishes to install a
20  handle having a locking mechanism or to replace an existing locking mechanism
    that is faulty or where the keys have been lost. Locking mechanism technology is
    advancing all the time and it may be that it is desired to install a new handle with
    an improved type of locking mechanism. A person may wish to update the look of
    a door and so wish to change the style of the handle installed. Or a person may
25  wish to change the shape of the handle to one that is easier to use.

    27489
                                               2
    Different types, forms and models of handles are available having different types,
    forms and models of turning mechanism. Generally, most handles have two or
    more parts, one of which is fed through an aperture in a door, while the other part
    is then screwed, or otherwise fixed, to the first part from the other side of the
 5  aperture in the door. Different handle-turning mechanisms require a particular
    configuration of the aperture through the door in order that the handle can be
   properly installed. Parts of the handle and turning mechanism need to be secured
   together, and to the door itself so as to be seated properly and secured in the door.
   It is important that the handle is secure in the door and does not work loose through
10 use or over time. It is also important that the installed handle fits into the door in a
   visually pleasing manner.
   A cover plate may be used to surround the area of a door into which a handle is to
   be installed. A cover plate may be used if the door becomes damaged, such as by
   being broken down to gain unauthorised access. It may be the case that when the
15 lock was being broken or forced that the area into which the handle is installed
   becomes too damaged to receive a new handle. If a handle has been installed
   incorrectly damage may occur to the door in the area where the handle is to be
   installed. In these situations the cover plate can act to reinforce the area for receipt
   of the handle and provide means for the handle to be secured in the door, which
20 otherwise would not be possible. The cover plate may also function to aid
   installation of the handle into the door and to improve the look of the door once the
   handle is installed.
   Known cover plates have a preformed aperture of a particular size, backset
   distance, and configuration, suitable for installation of one particular model of
25 handle or handle turning mechanism, only. The shape of the aperture is generally
   circular with cut-outs into which fit parts of the handle-turning mechanism to be
   installed. These parts of the handle-turning mechanism may be protrusions for
   screws to secure the parts of the handle together, and into a door, and/or further

    27489
                                               3
    protrusions to aid the seating of the handle within the aperture in the door. The
    aperture needs to be suitable to receive the mechanism of the handle, so as to
    operate a latch to open and close the door. The latch extends out from the handle
    turning mechanism towards the edge of the door and protrudes through an opening
 5  in the cover plate.
    There are several very common layouts of these protrusions, used by the major
   handle manufacturers. Usually the protrusions are arranged north, south, east, and
   west of the circular aperture. These common layouts are available in various
   backset distances, including 60mm, 70mm and 127mm, and less commonly
10  90 mm and 95mm. The backset distance is determined by the particular handle and
   turning mechanism to be installed. The backset distance must be such that the
   handle can be installed and the latch part fit to properly enable the door to be
   opened and closed.
   An advantage of using a cover plate is that it has an aperture of the particular size
1s and configuration as required for installation of a handle and turning mechanism,
   through a door. Therefore, provided there is an aperture in the door at least as big
   as the aperture in the cover plate, the handle will fit snugly and can be secured
   firmly into the door for use. Also, use of a cover plate may be the only option,
   other than replacing the whole door, if the area of the door where a handle is to be
20 installed has been seriously damaged (perhaps through criminal damage, an
   accident or through incorrect installation of a handle or other door furniture), the
   door being otherwise still serviceable.
   Doors are expensive and laborious to install and it is undesirable to replace an
   entire door when it is only the handle, turning mechanism or locking mechanism
25 that a person wishes to replace, for practical or aesthetic reasons. In order that a
   handle be replaced a person can be limited to choosing a handle or handle-turning
   mechanism requiring the same size aperture, cut-out layout and backset as

    27489
                                                4
    previously installed. Clearly this is undesirable, as the person may be limited to
    choosing a handle from the same manufacturer as the handle previously installed.
    Since the size, shape and backset of an aperture for installing a handle is particular
    to one type of handle and turning mechanism, it is likely that a person choosing a
 5 new handle may find that the new different handle or turning mechanism requires a
    different aperture configuration. The backset may be different, the aperture may be
    a different size and or the cut-outs for the protrusions may be in the wrong
   positions to allow the new handle to be installed. Therefore, the existing aperture
   would need to be changed to suit the new requirements, if that particular handle is
io to be installed.
   If a smaller aperture is required than for the previously installed handle a suitable
   filler material will need to be used to reduce the size of the aperture to the correct
   size for the new handle and turning mechanism. In this case, it is likely that the
   finished look of the installed handle will not be aesthetically pleasing, and the
15 handle may not be fixed securely in the door. A better approach would be to use a
   cover plate, which enables the larger footprint of the aperture to be covered and the
   new handle to be securely installed.
   If a different backset is required, even if that difference is only 10mm, then a new
   aperture in the door will need to be made, or the existing aperture extended or
20 moved in order that the handle mechanism can be installed in the door.
   Clearly, all these changes to a door are undesirable. Making an aperture, or
   adapting an existing aperture in the door is time consuming and costly and may
   lead to unsightly damage to the door.
   A cover plate may already be installed on a door if the door has been damaged
25 through an accident, criminal damage or through the incorrect installation of a
   handle. If it is desired to change the handle, handle-turning mechanism or locking
   mechanism a new handle will need to be chosen requiring the same size, shape and

   27489
                                                5
   backset of the aperture as the cover plate, or the cover plate will need to be
   removed and replaced.
   It is an object of the present invention to provide an improved cover plate which
   enables at least one different handle to be installed. It is another object of the
 5 invention to provide an adaptor which enables at least one different handle to be
   installed.
   Accordingly, the present invention provides a cover plate for installing a handle in
   a door having first and second opposing faces and having an aperture
   communicating from one face to the other, the cover plate including first and
10 second flanges adapted to lie on the first and second opposing faces respectively so
   as to cover the aperture, each flange having an aperture corresponding at least in
   part with the aperture in the faces, wherein the aperture in each flange includes a
   plurality of first cut-outs and optionally a plurality of second cut-outs, the aperture
   and the cut-outs being configured so as to enable at least one different handle to be
1s installed in the door.
   Preferably, the cover plate is manufactured from stainless steel or brass, but may be
   made of any suitable material. A finish may be applied to the cover plate to
   improve the appearance. Any suitable finish including polished or antiqued brass,
   satin bronze or oil rubbed bronze may be applied.
20 The cover plate may include one or more holes for receiving one or more screw(s)
   or other suitable fixing means to secure the cover plate to the door. The holes may
   be one or more pairs of opposed holes, one on each flange. These pairs of holes
   may be configured for receipt of screw(s), or other suitable fixing means,
   therethrough to secure the cover plate to the door. Preferably, there are two pairs of
25 opposed holes lying at either end of edges of the flanges, furthest from the edge of
   the door.

    27489
                                               6
    The flanges may be substantially rectangular in shape but any suitable shape may
   be used.
   Preferably, a spine or an edge member lies between the first and second flanges.
   The width of the edge member may substantially correspond to the thickness of the
 5 door to which the cover plate is to be installed. Suitable widths of the edge member
   include 32mm, 35mm, 40mm and 45mm but any suitable width may be used. The
   edge member may have an opening for receipt of a latch adapted to protrude
   beyond the edge member when the door is closed, or locked. The edge member
   may include means for securing the latching mechanism of the handle to the cover
1o plate and or the cover plate to the door. Suitable means for attaching the cover
   plate to the door or the latch means to the cover plate may include use of screws
   and screw holes. One or more projections may be present in the opening in the
   edge member, having holes for receipt of screws.
   The aperture in the flange may be substantially circular although the aperture may
15 take any suitable shape. Preferably, the aperture in the flange is positioned so as to
   be suitable for a handle of one or more of the following backset distances to be
   installed: 60mm, 70mm, 90mm, 95mm or 127mm. Any suitable backset distance
   may be used.
   Preferably there are two first cut-outs, positioned on the circumference of the
20 aperture, preferably at the north/south position. The first cut-outs may be any
   suitable shape including square or rectangular. Preferably the first cut-outs are
   substantially rectangular, open on one of the longer sides. The first cut-outs may be
   mirror images of one another. Alternatively, the first cut-outs may have a narrow
   opening leading to a broader part, such as an inverted triangle shape or an irregular
25 shape.
   Preferably, the first cut-outs are configured to enable protrusions of the handle to
   lie in the first cut-outs in one or more positions. Preferably, the protrusions can lie

    27489
                                                 7
    in the first cut-outs at more than one backset distance. Most preferably, the first
    cut-outs have a broad part that enables protrusions of the handle to be seated in one
    of two positions, one suitable for a first type or group of types of handle, and a
    second position suitable for a second type or group of types of handle.
 5 There are preferably two second cut-outs, positioned on the circumference of the
   aperture, preferably positioned east/west. In an alternate form of the invention, the
   positions of the first and second cut-outs may be reversed. The second cut-outs
   may be smaller than the first cut-outs or may be the same size. The second cut-outs
   may be elongate notches. Preferably, the second cut-outs are configured so as to
io receive protrusions of the handle in order to secure and or seat the handle in the
   door.
   Preferably, one or more pairs of third cut-outs is included in the aperture. If two
   pairs of third cut-outs are included, these are preferably positioned on the
   circumference of the aperture, on either side of the first cut-outs. The one or more
15 pairs of third cut-outs may be used for securing an adaptor to the cover plate. The
   adaptor may be secured to the cover plate by an interference fit between one or
   more pairs of tab members on the adaptor and the one or more pairs of third cut
   outs in the cover plate. Alternatively, any suitable means of securing the adaptor to
   the cover plate may be used. The third cut-outs are preferably substantially square
20 shaped cut-outs.
   In a most preferred form of the invention a pair of first cut-outs are included
   positioned north/south, a pair of second cut-outs are included positioned east/west
   and two pairs of third cut/outs are included, one pair on either side of the first cut
   outs.
25 Preferably, the apertures in each flange are substantially identical.
   The present invention also provides an adaptor for installing a handle in a door
   having opposing faces and having an aperture communicating from one face to the

    27489
                                               8
    other, the adaptor having an aperture corresponding at least in part to the aperture
    in the face and having a plurality of cut-outs, wherein in use the adaptor is capable
    of changing the configuration of the aperture in the door from one suitable for
   installing one type or group of types of handle to one suitable for installation of a
 5 different type or group of types of handle.
   Preferably, the adaptor is manufactured from stainless steel or brass, but may be
   made of any suitable material.
   Preferably, the adaptor is substantially circular, but any suitable shape may be used.
   The aperture in the adaptor may be substantially circular. The aperture may have
10 one or more first cut-outs. The first cut-outs may be positioned north/south. The
   first cut-outs may be notches or may take any other suitable shape. Preferably, the
   first cut-outs are a shallow notch shape.
   The adaptor may have one or more second cut-outs. The second cut-outs may take
   any suitable shape. The second cut-outs may be positioned east/west.
15 Alternatively, the position of the first and second cut-outs may be reversed or may
   lie in a different configuration altogether. Preferably, the second cut-outs are an
   elongate notch shape.
   Preferably, the first and second cut-outs are configured so as to be suitable for
   installation of one or more kinds of handle. The first and second cut-outs may be
20 configured to receive protrusions of the handle in order that the handle be installed.
   The first and second cut-outs may assist to seat the handle in the door.
   The aperture may include one or more tab members. There may be one or more
   pairs of tab members. The tab members may be positioned north/west and
   south/west or north/east and south/east. Alternatively, the tab members may be
25 arranged in any other suitable configuration. The tab members may correspond to
   third cut-outs of a cover plate according to the invention.

   27489
                                               9
   The invention also provides a combination of a cover plate and an adaptor.
   The one or more tab members of the adapter may correspond to one or more third
   cut-out members on the cover plate. The tab members may correspond to the third
   cut-outs in the cover plate in order that the adaptor may be secured to the cover
 5 plate by an interference fit. Other forms of tab members and third cut-outs in the
   cover plate may be used in order that the adaptor can be secured to the cover plate.
   For example, screws and screw holes may be used, or any other suitable fixing
   means.
   Two pairs of third cut-outs may be present in the aperture of the cover plate
1o configured so that the adaptor can be secured to the cover plate by a pair of tab
   means in a plurality of orientations. Preferably, the configuration of the two pairs
   of third cut-outs in the cover plate enable the adaptor to be secured to the cover
   plate by any of the following pairs of third cut-outs, north west and north east,
   north east and south east, south east and south west and south west and north west.
15 In a most preferred form of the invention the adaptor may be adapted to be secured
   to the cover plate in one position using one set of third cut-outs in the cover plate
   and the adaptor may be adapted to be secured to the cover plate in a second
   position using a different pair of the third cut-outs, to secure the adaptor to the
   cover plate. The two positions may have different backset distance. Use of the
20 adaptor in one position may enable protrusions of a handle to be seated in one
   position. Use of the adaptor in another position may enable protrusions of the
   handle to be seated in a second position. Preferably, use of the adaptor decreases
   the size of the aperture in the door and the cover plate. The adaptor may also
   change the configuration of the cut-outs.
25 Optionally, the adaptor may include one or more adhesive means for securing the
   adaptor to the cover plate. The adhesive means may be double-sided tape or any
   other suitable means.

   27489
                                               10
   The handle may be any suitable handle including knob set and lever type handles.
   The handle may include a locking mechanism.
   The invention will now be described in connection with a non-limiting preferred
   embodiment with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
 5 Figure 1 is a perspective view of an embodiment of a cover plate of the present
   invention;
   Figure 2 is a perspective view of the cover plate of Figure 1, from the other side;
   Figure 3 is a detailed view of the area indicated by B of Figure 2;
   Figure 4 is a plan view of the cover plate of Figure 2;
10 Figure 5 is a perspective view of an embodiment of an adaptor of the present
   invention;
   Figure 6 is a detailed view of the area indicated by A of Figure 5;
   Figure 7 is a plan view of the adaptor of Figure 5;
   Figure 8 is an end view of the adaptor of Figure 5;
15 Figure 9 is an exploded perspective view of the cover plate of Figure 1 installed on
   a door, with screws used to secure the cover plate to the door, and with two
   adaptors of Figure 5;
   Figure 10 is a perspective view corresponding to Figure 9 with the two adaptors
   and the screws installed;
20 Figure 11 is a plan view of the cover plate of Figure 1 and the adaptor of Figure 5
   secured in a first position with the profile of the aperture in the cover plate shown
   in dotted lines;

    27489
                                               11
    Figure 12 is a plan view of the cover plate of Figure 1 and the adaptor of Figure 5
    secured in a second position with the profile of the aperture in the cover plate
    shown in dotted lines;
   Figure 13 is a perspective view of another embodiment of the cover plate of the
 5 invention having a backset of 127 mm, with the adaptor of Figure 5 installed and
    showing the position of screws used for installation in the door.
   Referring to Figures 1 to 4, cover plate 10 has a pair of opposed flanges 12 joined,
   one to the other, by spine 14. Spine 14 is configured to maintain flanges 12 in a
   spaced apart configuration suitable for installation around the edge of door 16
io (refer Figure 9). The width of spine 14 may be any suitable width corresponding to
   the thickness of door 16 (refer Figure 9) to which cover plate 10 is to be installed.
   Typical widths of spine 14 include, but are not limited to, 32mm, 35mm, 40mm,
   and 45mm. Although flanges 12 are illustrated as rectangular shapes, any suitable
   shape may be used. Similarly, spine 14 is illustrated as an elongate rectangular
15 shape but any suitable shape can be used. Spine 14 need not be a solid piece and
   may contain numerous apertures formed of strips, or otherwise.
   Apertures 18 are formed one in each flange of pair of opposed flanges 12, lying
   parallel to one another so that there can be communication from one aperture 18 to
   the other. Two pairs of opposed holes 22 lie on flanges 12 along an edge furthest
20 from spine 14. Holes 22 are suitable for receipt of screws 24 (refer Figure 9) for
   installation of cover plate 10 to door 16 (refer Figure 9). The number and position
   of holes 22 can be any suitable configuration in order that cover plate 10 can be
   secured to door 16 (refer Figure 9). In the illustrated embodiment, holes 22 are
   square as that is a particularly suitable shape for ease of manufacture and alignment
25 of cover plate 10 but any suitable shape of holes 22 may be used.
   Spine 14 has opening 26 for receipt of a latch of a handle (not shown) in order that,
   in a conventional manner, door 16 (refer Figure 9) may be maintained in an open or

   27489
                                               12
    closed position. Opening 26 can take any suitable form. Opening 26, as illustrated,
   has two projections 28 extending inwards, having holes 30 for screws 32 (refer
   Figure 9). Screws 32 (refer Figure 9) are used to secure latch (not shown) to cover
   plate 10 and may also secure cover plate 10 to door 16 (refer Figure 9) .
 5 Apertures 18 in flanges 12 are illustrated as circular but any suitable shape may be
   used. Apertures 18 have first cut-outs 34, second cut-outs 36 and third cut-outs 38
   (only some in Figure 1 are labelled).
   First cut-outs 34 are shown lying north and south, second cut-outs 36 east and west
   and third cut-outs 38 lying close to, and on either side of, first cut-outs 34. The
10 position of first cut-outs 34 and second cut-outs 36 may be reversed. The position
   of the third cut-outs 38 may be any suitable configuration, see below.
   With reference to Figure 4 in particular, first cut-outs 34 have flat base 40. The
   shape of first cut-outs 34 may be any suitable shape. Preferably first cut-outs 34 are
   broad at some point so that a plurality of kinds of handles with different handle
15 turning mechanisms can be installed, utilising different parts of first cut-outs 34.
   In a preferred embodiment of the invention the shape of first cut-out 34 is suitable
   to enable handles having turning mechanisms requiring different protrusion
   positions and/or backsets to be installed by using different parts of flat base 40 of
   first cut-out 34 for seating these protrusions.
20 Second cut-outs 36, as illustrated, are an elongate notch shape suitable for seating
   "pips" on the side of handle mechanisms (not shown). The particular configuration
   of second cut-outs 36 can be varied in accordance with the requirements of the
   handles (not shown) to be installed.
   Figure 3 illustrates a detailed view of area B of Figure 2 showing third cut-outs 38
25 in detail. The particular shape of third cut-outs 38 as illustrated is substantially
   square but may be any suitable shape (see below).

   27489
                                               13
   Cover plate 10 is preferably made of stainless steel or brass but any suitable
   material may be used.
   Referring to Figures 5 to 8, adaptor 42 is shown having aperture 44, with first
   notches 46 and second notches 48. The shape of notches 46 and 48 as illustrated is
 5 different, first notches 46 being broad and second notches 48 being elongate. The
   shape of first and second notches 46 and 48 may be any suitable shape and they
   may both have the same shape. First notches 46 are shown in the north/south
   position and second notches 48 in the east/west position. The position of the first
   and second notches (46, 48) may be reversed or the position may be varied. To one
10 side of first notches 46 is a pair of tabs 50. Tabs 50 are shown in particular in
   Figure 6 which is a detailed view of area A of Figure 5. The position of tabs 50
   may be any suitable position, for example to the left (as illustrated) or to the right
   of notches 46 or above or below notches 48. Tabs 50 are shown as square tabs but
   any suitable shape may be used.
15 Referring to Figure 9 and 10, cover plate 10 is shown in position on door 16 having
   aperture 52. Apertures 18 in flanges 12 (refer Figure 1) can be seen overlaying
   aperture 52 in door 16 allowing communication therethrough. Screws 24 are
   aligned with holes 22 and used to secure cover plate 10 to door 16. Other screws 32
   are secured through holes 30 in projections 28 to secure spine 14 to the latch
20 mechanism of the handle (not shown). Adaptors 42 are secured to cover plate 10 by
   aligning a pair of tabs 50 with third cut-outs 38 on cover plate 10 and securing
   using an interference fit or any other suitable means. In the illustrated
   embodiment, fixing tape 54 is used to aid securing of adaptor 42 to cover plate 10.
   Use of fixing tape 54 is optional and alternate forms of adhesion may be used or
25 fixing tape 54 may be omitted entirely if tabs 50 are used. It can be seen that use of
   adaptors 42 decreases the size of apertures 18 and 52, in addition to changing the
   configuration of the cut-outs from the those of cover plate 10 to those of adaptors
   42.

    27489
                                              14
    Use of cover plate 10 and adaptor 42 is particularly beneficial when a handle (not
    shown) is to be replaced in door 16 requiring a smaller aperture 52. Use of cover
   plate 10 and adaptors 42 having smaller apertures 18 and 44 (in cover plate 10 and
    adaptors 42 respectively), covers the existing aperture 52 in door 16 and enables
 5  sturdy, convenient and aesthetically pleasing installation of the handle (not shown).
   Although the invention is described with use of cover plate 10 and adaptor 42, each
    component may be used individually. For example, adaptor 42 may be used to
   adapt aperture 52 in a door without the use of cover plate 10. Adaptor 42 could be
   secured to door 16 directly by use of fixing tape 54 and/or tabs 50 as described
10 above. Similarly, cover plate 10 may be used on door 16 without adaptor 42 where
   apertures 18 and 52 are suitable for installation of a handle (not shown) without
   adaptation. It may be that cover plate 10 is used to reinforce the area of door 16
   where a handle (not shown) is to be installed following damage to door 16 in that
   area. Use of cover plate 10 in this way enables a handle (not shown) to be securely
15 installed rather than door 16 requiring replacement.
   Referring to Figures 11 and 12, two alternative positions for installing adaptor 42
   on cover plate 10 are illustrated. In Figure 11, adaptor 42 is secured using tabs 50
   in third cuts-outs 38 (hidden behind adaptor 42) on the left hand side, furthest from
   the edge of door 16 (refer Figure 9). By using adaptor 42 in this way, a backset
20 greater than the backset from the centre of aperture 18 in cover plate 10 may be
   achieved. Also, aperture 18 is reduced in size by utilisation of adaptor 42 and first
   notches 46 and second notches 48 are available for installation of a handle-turning
   mechanism (not shown) rather than first cut-outs 34 and second cut-outs 36, as
   previously. Therefore, a handle requiring a greater backset, smaller aperture, and
25 different cut-out configuration can now be installed in door 16.
   In Figure 12, adaptor 42 has been rotated 180 degrees so that tabs 50 can be
   secured into third cut-outs 38 on the right hand side. By doing so, a backset less
   than the backset from the centre of apertures 18 in flanges 12 (refer Figure 1) is

    27489
                                                 15
    achieved and the size of aperture 18 is reduced. Also, again the configuration of
    first notches 46 and second notches 48 is available for installation of a handle
    turning mechanism (not shown) rather than first cut-outs 34 and second cut-outs
    36. Again, a different backset and cut-out arrangement, with a smaller aperture
 5  enables a different handle with a different turning mechanism to be installed than
   previously. It is most advantageous to be able to change the backset distance by use
    of the adaptor 42 to enable installation of different kinds of handle (not shown).
   Previously, a fresh or extended aperture in door 16 (refer Figure 9) would need to
   be made and a new cover plate 10 installed in order that the new handle be
10 installed. Clearly, this is difficult, costly and unsatisfactory. Also, reducing the size
   of aperture 52 and adapting first and second (34, 36) cut-outs to first and second
   notches of a different configuration (46, 48) enables a large variety of different
   kinds and models of handles and turning mechanisms to be installed. Therefore, by
   using cover plate 10 and, if required, adaptor 42, a person has a huge choice of
1s handles that can readily be installed into door 16 (refer Figure 9) without the need
   to make a fresh aperture 52.
   Figure 13 shows another embodiment of the cover plate of the invention, labelled
   200. Cover plate 200 is identical to cover plate 10 except it has a backset of 127
    mn. Cover plate 200 is illustrated with adaptor 42 installed. Figure 13 also
20 illustrates how screws 24 pass through door 16 (refer Figure 9).
   It will be apparent to a person skilled in the art that changes may be made to the
   embodiment disclosed herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the
   invention in its various aspects.

     27489
                                               16
     The claims defining the invention are as follows:
      1. A cover plate for installing a handle in a door having first and second
     opposing faces and having an aperture communicating from one face to the other,
     the cover plate including first and second flanges adapted to lie on the first and
  5  second opposing faces respectively so as to cover the aperture, each flange having
     an aperture corresponding at least in part with the aperture in the faces, wherein the
     aperture in each flange includes a plurality of first cut-outs and optionally a
    plurality of second cut-outs, the aperture and the cut-outs being configured so as to
    enable at least one different handle to be installed in the door.
 10 2.     The cover plate according to claim 1, wherein the cover plate is manufactured
    from stainless steel or brass.
    3.     The cover plate according to claim 1 or 2, wherein one or more hole(s) are
    included for receipt of one or more screw(s) to secure the cover plate to the door.
    4.     The cover plate according to claim 3, wherein the hole(s) are one or more pairs
1s  of opposed holes, one on each flange and there are two pairs of opposed holes
    lying at either end of edges of the flanges, furthest from the edge of the door.
    5.     The cover plate according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the flanges are
    substantially rectangular.
    6.     The cover plate according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein an edge
20  member lies between the first and second flanges.
    7.     The cover plate according to claim 6, wherein the width of the edge member
    substantially corresponds to the thickness of the door to which the cover plate is to
    be installed.

    27489
                                               17
    8.    The cover plate according to claim 6 or 7, wherein the edge member has an
    opening for receipt of a latch adapted to protrude beyond the edge member when
   the door is closed or locked.
   9.     The cover plate according to claim 8, wherein the edge member includes
 5 means for securing the latching mechanism to the cover plate and/or the cover plate
   to the door.
    10.    The cover plate according to any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the apertures
   in the flanges are substantially circular.
    11.    The cover plate according to any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein the apertures
10 in the flanges are positioned so as to be suitable for a handle having one or more of
   the following backset distances to be installed: 60mm, 70mm, 90mm, 95mm or
    127mm.
    12.    The cover plate according to any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein there are two
   first cut-outs, positioned on the circumference of the aperture.
15  13.    The cover plate according to any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein the first cut
   outs are substantially rectangular, open on one of the longer sides.
    14.    The cover plate according to any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein the first cut
   outs have a narrow opening leading to a broader part.
   15.     The cover plate according to any one of claims 1 to 14, wherein the first cut
20 outs are configured to enable protrusions of the handle to lie in the first cut-outs in
   one or more positions.
   16.     The cover plate according to any one of claims 1 to 15, wherein the
   protrusion of the handle can lie in the first cut-outs at more than one backset
   distance.

    27489
                                               18
    17.   The cover plate according to any one of claims 1 to 16, wherein the first cut
    outs have a broad part that enables protrusions of the handle to be seated in one of
   two positions, one suitable for a first type or group of types of handle, and a second
   position suitable for a second type or group of types of handle.
 5  18.   The cover plate according to any one of claims 1 to 17, wherein there are two
   second cut-outs, positioned on the circumference of the aperture.
    19.   The cover plate according to claim 18, wherein the first cut-outs are
   positioned substantially north/south and the second cut-outs are positioned
   substantially east/west on the circumference of the aperture or the position of the
10 first cut-outs and the second cut-outs are reversed.
   20.    The cover plate according to any one of claims 18 or 19, wherein the second
   cut-outs are smaller than the first cut-outs.
   21.    The cover plate according to any one of claims 18 to 20, wherein the second
   cut-outs are elongate notches.
1s 22.    The cover plate according to any one of claims 18 to 21, wherein the second
   cut-outs are configured so as to receive protrusions of the handle in order to secure
   and/or seat the handle in the door.
   23.    The cover plate according to any one of claims 18 to 22, wherein there are
   included one or more pairs of third cut-outs.
20 24.    The cover plate according to claim 23, wherein two pairs of third cut-outs are
   included, positioned on the circumference of the aperture on either side of the first
   cut-outs.
   25.    The cover plate according to claim 23 or 24, wherein one or more pairs of
   third cut-outs are used for securing an adaptor to the cover plate.

   27489
                                              19
   26.    The cover plate according to claim 25, wherein the adaptor is secured to the
   cover plate by an interference fit between one or more pairs of tab members on the
   adaptor and one or more pairs of third cut-outs in the cover plate.
   27.    The cover plate according to any one of claims 23 to 26, wherein the third
 5 cut-outs are substantially square shaped.
   28.    The cover plate according to any one of claims 1 to 27, wherein a pair of first
   cut-outs are included positioned substantially north/south, a pair of second cut-outs
   are included positioned substantially east/west and two pairs of third cut/outs are
   included, one pair on either side of the first cut-outs.
10 29.    An adaptor for installing a handle in a door having opposing faces and
   having an aperture communicating from one face to the other, the adaptor having
   an aperture corresponding at least in part to the aperture in the face and having a
   plurality of cut-outs, wherein in use the adaptor is capable of changing the
   configuration of the aperture in the door from one suitable for installing one type or
15 group of types of handle to one suitable for installation of a different type or group
   of types of handle.
   30.    The adaptor according to claim 29, wherein the adaptor is manufactured from
   stainless steel or brass.
   31.    The adaptor according to claim 29 or 30, wherein the adaptor is substantially
20 circular.
   32.    The adaptor according to any one of claims 29 to 31, wherein the aperture
   has one or more first cut-out(s).
   33.    The adaptor according to claim 32, wherein the first cut-out(s) are a shallow
   notch shape.

   27489
                                              20
   34.    The adaptor according to claim 32 or 33, wherein the adaptor has one or
   more second cut-out(s).
   35.    The adaptor according to claim 34, wherein the first cut-out(s) are positioned
   substantially north/south and the second cut-out(s) are positioned substantially
 5 east/west or the positions of the first and second cut-outs are reversed.
   36.    The adaptor according to claim 34 or 35, wherein the second cut-out(s) are an
   elongate notch shape.
   37.    The adaptor according to any one of claims 34 to 36, wherein the first and
   second cut-out(s) are configured to receive protrusions of more than one type of
10 handle in order that the handle be installed, and/or to seat the handle in the door.
   38.    The adaptor according to any one of claims 29 to 37, wherein there are
   included one or more tab member(s).
   39.    The adaptor according to claim 38, wherein there are one or more pairs of tab
   members positioned north/west and south/west or north/east and south/east.
15 40.    The adaptor of any one of claims 29 to 39 when used in combination with the
   cover plate of any one of claims I to 28.
   41.    The combination of claim 40, wherein the adaptor has one or more tab
   member(s), the cover plate has one or more third cut-out(s), and the tab member(s)
   correspond to the cut-out(s) to secure the adaptor to the cover plate.
20 42.    The combination of claim 41, wherein there are two pairs of third cut-outs in
   the cover plate, configured so that the adaptor can be secured to the cover plate by
   a pair of tab means of the adaptor in a plurality of orientations including any of
   north west and north east, north east and south east, south east and south west, and
   south west and north west.

     27489
                                                 21
     43.    The combination of claim 41 or claim 42, wherein the adaptor is secured to
     the cover plate by an interference fit.
     44.    The combination of any one of claims 41 to 43, wherein the adaptor is
     adapted to be secured to the cover plate in one position using one pair of third cut
  5  outs in the cover plate and adapted to be secured to the cover plate in a second
     position using a different pair of the third cut-outs.
     45.   The combination of claim 44, wherein use of the adaptor in one position
     enables protrusions of the handle to be seated in one position and use of the
     adaptor in another position enables protrusions of the handle to be seated in a
 10  second position.
     46.   The combination of claim 45, wherein the two positions have a different
    backset distance.
    47.    The combination according to any one of claims 40 to 46, wherein use of the
    adaptor decreases the size of the aperture in the door and the cover plate, and or the
1s  configuration of the cut-outs in the cover plate.
    48.    The combination according to any one of claims 40 to 47, wherein the
    adaptor includes one or more adhesive means for securing the adaptor to the cover
    plate.
    49.    The adaptor, cover plate or combination thereof according to any one of
20  claims 1 to 48, wherein the handle is a knob set or lever type handle and or
    includes a locking mechanism.
    50.    A cover plate substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to any
    one of Figures 1 to 4 and 9 to 12, or Figure 13 of the accompanying drawings.
    51.    An adaptor substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to Figures
25  5 to 13 of the accompanying drawings.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
