                                               12
                                         ABSTRACT
   Components for a visual safety warning barrier or for a guide barrier to identify
   allowable and/or prohibited traffic areas are described. A clip (1) is attached
   to a tubular member (2). The clip (1) has a body member (3) with spaced first
 5 (4) and second (5) ends to define an open segment (6). The diameter of the
   body member (3) is substantially identical to the diameter of the tubular
   member (2). An open hook (8) extends from the outer surface (9) of the body
   member (3) to accommodate the link (10) of a chain. The tubular member (2)
   is urged through the open segment (6) causing the first (4) and second (5)
10 ends to flex outwards sufficient for the interior surface (7) of the body member
   (3) to mate with the exterior surface (11) of the tubular member (2) as the ends
   (4,5) return to their initial positions, retaining the clip (1) on the tubular member
   (2). By applying sufficient pressure either to the tubular member (2) or to the
   clip (1), the ends (4,5) again flex enabling release of the clip (1). When used
15 in a barrier system, the chain (25) can readily be detached from the hook (8)
   creating a passageway. Where there is an immediate and urgent requirement
   to pass through the barrier, pressure applied to the chain (25) releases the clip
   (1) from its stanchion (23), allowing the clip (1) and chain (25) to drop to the
   floor and creating the necessary passageway.

                                           I
   TITLE:         PORTABLE BARRIER CLIP
   THIS INVENTION relates to a clip for a barrier. The invention has particular,
   but non-limiting, use as a component in a visual safety warning barrier or in a
   guide barrier to identify allowable and/or prohibited traffic areas.
 5 Throughout this specification, unless the contrary is expressly stated, where
   a document, act or item of knowledge is referred to or discussed, this reference
   or discussion is not an admission that the document, act or item of knowledge
   or any combination thereof was, at the priority date, publicly available, known
   to the public, part of the common general knowledge, or known to be relevant
10 to an attempt to solve any problem with which this specification is concerned.
   In the construction, manufacturing and exploration industries, there are many
   situations where it is necessary to provide a warning that a danger exits. For
   example, in the construction industry, when tradesmen are constructing ortiling
   the roof of a building, falling from the roof of that building is potentially
15 dangerous; constructing new or repairing existing balconies and stairways with
   the consequent lack of or temporary removal of permanent balustrades again
   is potentially dangerous if a person falls from the edge of the balcony or
   stairway. In the manufacturing and exploration industries, coming too close to
   operating machinery is potentially hazardous as a person could be seriously
20 injured by exposed operating parts of that machinery.
   Existing solutions to these problems, often mandated by Government
   legislation, is to provide some form of barrier close to the danger area which,
   although not necessarily restraining or preventing a person from being injured,
   at least provides a visual warning to that person to exercise caution while in
25 close proximity to that area.

                                             2
   Prior art solutions to provide this warning include scaffold-type constructions
   around the exterior of the building or a "post and rail" or mesh-type barrier
   secured between the extremities of the relevant area. These solutions are
   usually constructed of metal piping or similar and secured together by various
 5 means including nuts and bolts, saddle clamps, clevis pins and pivot pins
   retained with cotter pins. Disadvantages of these prior art solutions are that
   they are heavy, relatively expensive to manufacture, are actually semi
   permanent in their application and thus relatively time-consuming in their
   erection and dismantling and, despite their bulk, rarely are infallible in
10 preventing injury to a person working at or near the relevant area and
   therefore, at best, remain simply a warning barrier. It would therefore be
   advantageous to provide a warning barrier which is at least lighter in weight,
   less costly to manufacture and easier to deploy.
   In other constructions such as airports, theatres, museums, homes and other
15 premises open to visitors or tourists, and roadways, it can be necessary to
   restrict persons to a particular area, route or queue, or to delineate a restricted
   area that is only open to authorised personnel.
   Existing solutions to provide this type of crowd or queue control include a
   flexible rope strung between two spaced stanchions, or an extendible flexible
20 band-like barrier extending from one permanently fixed end to engage in a slot
   or recess at the other end of the area to be cordoned off. A main disadvantage
   of these prior art solutions is that disengagement of the barrier is not that quick
   and, if there is a need to pass through that barrier, a person usually ducks
   under or steps over the rope or band, but a limb or neck can accidently be
25 caught by the rope or band risking injury to that person; this is especially of
   concern should a rapid passage through the barrier be required, for example,
   by persons exiting a building because of a fire or the like. It would therefore be

                                            3
   advantageous to provide a barrier which can be readily disengaged in an
   emergency.
   It is thus a general object of the present invention to overcome, or at least
   ameliorate, one or more of the above-mentioned disadvantages.
 5 According to a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided a portable
   barrier clip for removable attachment to an elongated member, said clip
   comprising:
                 a retaining collar having a first end, a body member depending
                 from said first end and terminating in a second end, said second
10               end being spaced from said first end to define an open segment
                 of said retaining collar, said body member having an interior
                 surface substantially complementary in configuration to the
                 exterior surface of said elongated member; and
                 a securing means fixed to said body memberfor securing a chain,
15               tape, rope, wire or band;
                 characterised in that:
                 for operative connection and disengagement of said clip to said
                 elongated member, said body member can readily flex to expand
                 said open section sufficient to enable said body member to be
20               placed over or removed from said elongated member, said body
                 memberfor said operative connection being adapted to retract so
                 that substantially the entire length of said interior surface of said
                 body member mates with said exterior surface of said elongated
                 member sufficient to retain said clip on said elongated member.

                                             4
   In a first embodiment of the present invention, said securing means is an open
   hook or similar.
   In a second embodiment of the present invention, said securing means is a
   closed eyelet or similar.
 5 According to a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided a set
   of components for a barrier, said components comprising at least two of said
   clips as hereinbefore described.
   In a third embodiment of the present invention, said set of components for a
   barrier includes at least one said clip with a said securing means being said
10 open hook or similar, and at least one second said clip with a said securing
   means being said closed eyelet or similar.
   In a fourth embodiment of the present invention, said set of components for a
   barrier includes a multiple of said clips of various dimensions to accommodate
   operative connection to said elongated members of various configurations.
15 As a third aspect of the present invention, there is provided a portable barrier
   comprising:
           two said elongated members such as stanchions or similar to be used
           to define the extremities of said barrier;
           two of said clips for connection to respective said elongated members;
20         and
           a length of chain, tape, rope, wire, band or similarthat can be connected
            between said two clips.

                                            5
   In a fifth embodiment of the present invention, said barrier is a visual safety
   warning barrier.
   In a sixth embodiment of the present invention, said barrier is a guide barrier
   to identify allowable and/or prohibited traffic areas.
 5 In all embodiments of the present invention, preferably, said chain is a metal
   or plastic chain.
   Preferably, said chain is a plastic chain.
   More preferably, said plastic chain is coloured, the colour selected being
   indicative of the purpose of said barrier.
10 Preferred embodiments of the present invention will now be described with
   reference to the accompanying drawings, wherein:
           FIG. 1 is a schematic transverse cross-sectional view of a first
           embodiment of the clip of the invention attached to a tubular member of
           circular cross-section;
15         FIG. 2 is a schematic transverse cross-sectional view of a second
           embodiment of the clip of the invention attached to a tubular member of
           square cross-section; and
           FIG. 3 is a schematic representation of the clips illustrated in FIGS. 1 &
           2 used as components in a guide barrier to identify allowable and/or
20         prohibited traffic areas.

                                               6
   With reference to the embodiment depicted in FIG. 1, a clip (1) is attached to
   a round pipe-like tubular member (2) of diameter D. The clip (1) has a curved
   body member (3) with spaced first (4) and second (5) ends to define an open
   segment (6).       The diameter of the body member (3) as determined with
 5 reference to its interior surface (7) is substantially identical to the diameter D
   of the tubular member (2). An open hook (8) extends from the outer surface
   (9) of the body member (3) to accommodate the link (10) of a chain (FIG. 3).
   The clip (1) is conveniently manufactured from a plastics material.
   In use, to affix the clip (1), the tubular member (2) is urged through the open
10 segment (6) causing the first (4) and second (5) ends to flex outwards in
   respective directions U and V. The interior surface (7) of the body member (3)
   mates with the exterior surface (11) of the tubular member (2) as the ends (4,5)
   return to their initial positions, thus retaining the clip (1) on the tubular member
   (2). By applying sufficient pressure to the tubular member (2) in direction A or
15 sufficient pressure to the clip (1) in direction B, the ends (4,5) again flex in their
   respective directions U and V enabling release of the clip (1).
   Turning to the embodiment depicted in FIG. 2, a clip (11) is attached to a
   pipe-like tubular member (12) of square cross-section of diameter E. The clip
   (11) has a body member (13) of square cross-section with spaced first (14) and
20 second (15) ends to define an open segment (16). The diameter of the body
   member (13) as determined with reference to its interior surface (17) is
   substantially identical to the diameter E of the tubular member (12). A closed
   eyelet (18) extends from the outer surface (19) of the body member (13) to
   accommodate the link (20) of a chain (FIG. 3). The clip (11) is conveniently
25 manufactured from a plastics material.
   In use, to affix the clip (11), the tubular member (12) is urged through the open
   segment (16) causing the first (14) and second (15) ends to flex outwards in

                                             7
   respective directions S and T. The interior surface (17) of the body member
   (13) mates with the exterior surface (21) of the tubular member (12) as the
   ends (14,15) return to their initial positions, thus retaining the clip (11) on the
   tubular member (12). By applying sufficient pressure to the tubular member
 5 (12) in direction H or sufficient pressure to the clip (11) in direction Z, the ends
   (14,15) again flex in their respective directions S and T enabling release of the
   clip (11).
   The barrier (22) illustrated in FIG. 3 comprises: a first stanchion (23) of circular
   cross-section to which the clip (1) of FIG. 1 is attached; a second section (24)
10 of square cross-section to which the clip (11) of FIG. 2 is attached; and a
   plastic chain (25), having one link (20) at one end permanently fixed to the
   eyelet (18) of the clip (11) on stanchion (24), and another link (10) at its other
   end removably fixed to the hook (8) of the clip (1) on stanchion (23).
   In use, the barrier (22) can function as a guide barrier to identify allowable
15 and/or prohibited traffic areas, such uses being well known in theatres, airports
   and the like. Should a person require to pass through the barrier (22) in
   normal circumstances, the chain (25) can readily be detached from the hook
   (8), and the chain (25) dropped, thus creating a passageway between the
   stanchions (23,24). However, in circumstances where there is an immediate
20 and urgent requirement to pass through the barrier to escape, for example, a
   fire in a building, where there is likely to be a significant number of panicked
   people seeking passage through the barrier simultaneously, the pressure
   applied to the chain (25) as such people push against the chain (25) is
   sufficient for the clips (1,11) to be easily disengaged from their respective
25 stanchions (23,24), allowing the clips (1,11) and chain (25) to drop to the floor
   and creating the necessary passageway between the stanchions (23,24).

                                           8
   The present invention thus offers a number of advantages over the prior art
   which include:
          has multiple uses, including: as a component in a visual safety warning
          barrier; and as a component in a guide barrier to identify allowable
 5        and/or prohibited traffic areas;
          light weight in construction;
          less costly to manufacture;
          easier to deploy; and
          can provide a barrierwhich may be readily disengaged in an emergency.
10 The terms "comprising" or "comprises" as used throughout the specification
   and claims are taken to specify the presence of the stated features, integers
   and components referred to but not preclude the presence or addition of one
   or more other feature/s, integer/s, component/s or group thereof.
   It will be appreciated that the above described embodiments are only
15 exemplification of the various aspects of the present invention and that
   modifications and alterations can be made thereto without departing from the
   inventive concept as defined in the following claims.

                                        9
                                    CLAIMS
   1. A portable barrier clip for removable attachment to an elongated
      member, said clip comprising:
             a retaining collar having a first end, a body member depending
 5           from said first end and terminating in a second end, said second
             end being spaced from said first end to define an open segment
             of said retaining collar, said body member having an interior
             surface substantially complementary in configuration to the
             exterior surface of said elongated member; and
10           a securing means fixed to said body member for securing a chain,
             tape, rope, wire or band;
             characterised in that:
             for operative connection and disengagement of said clip to said
             elongated member, said body member can readily flex to expand
15           said open section sufficient to enable said body member to be
             placed over or removed from said elongated member, said body
             memberfor said operative connection being adapted to retract so
             that substantially the entire length of said interior surface of said
             body member mates with said exterior surface of said elongated
20           member sufficient to retain said clip on said elongated member.
   2. A clip as defined in Claim 1 wherein said securing means is an open
      hook.

                                        10
   3. A clip as defined in Claim 1 wherein said securing means is a closed
      eyelet.
   4. A set of components for a barrier, said components comprising at least
      two of said clips as defined in any one of Claims 1 to 3.
 5 5. A set of components as defined in Claim 4 which includes at least one
      said clip with a said securing means being said open hook, and at least
      one second said clip with a said securing means being said closed
      eyelet.
   6. A set of components as defined in Claim 4 includes a multiple of said
10    clips of various dimensions to accommodate operative connection to
      said elongated members of various configurations.
   7. A portable barrier comprising:
             two elongated member supports such as stanchions to be used
             to define the extremities of said barrier;
15           two of said clips as defined in any one of Claims 1 to 3 for
             connection to respective said elongated member supports; and
             a length of chain, tape, rope, wire or band that can be connected
             between said two clips.
   8. A portable barrier as defined in Claim 7 which is a visual safety warning
20    barrier.

                                         11
   9.  A portable barrier as defined in Claim 7 which is a guide barrier to
       identify allowable and/or prohibited traffic areas.
   10. A clip as defined in any one of Claims 1 to 3, or a set of components as
       defined in any one of Claims 4 to 6, or a portable barrier as defined in
 5     any one of Claims 7 to 9, wherein said chain is a metal or plastic chain.
   11. A clip as defined in Claim 10, or a set of components as defined in Claim
       10, or a portable barrier as defined in Claim 10, wherein said chain is a
       plastic chain.
   12. A clip as defined in Claim 11, ora set of components as defined in Claim
10     11, or a portable barrier as defined in Claim 11, wherein said chain is a
       coloured plastic chain, the colour selected being indicative of the
       purpose of said barrier.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
