                             ABSTRACT
   A cashless gaming method comprising:
        receiving payment for a selected gaming ticket having
 5 a predefined fixed value, the gaming ticket being
   redeemable at a cashless-enabled gaming machine for an
   associated amount of wagerable  credits; and
        issuing the fixed value gaming ticket to the player
   responsive to receiving the payment.
10

                                  1
              A  SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CASHLESS GAMING
   Field of the Invention
 5 The invention relates generally to a system and method for
   cashless gaming and more particularly, but   not
   exclusively, to harm minimisation techniques utilising
   cashless-enabled gaming machines.
10 Background
   Traditionally, gaming machines have been fitted with coin
   and/or note acceptors which allow players to exchange
   monies for credits wagerable on the gaming machine.     As
15 will  readily be appreciated, it  is difficult to control
   player spend on such gaming machines since there is no way
   of tracking an amount of monies wagered by any particular
   player on the gaming machine.
20 An increasing number of gaming venues now implement    so
   called "cashless"   systems whereby credit can be stored
   against a player's account   for subsequent redemption.    One
   such cashless system is referred to as the   ticket-in
   ticket-out   (TITO) system whereby a ticket issued at  one
25 gaming machine can be redeemed at   another gaming machine
   or at a cashier station.
   While  such cashless gaming systems allow a player's
   wagering habits to be better tracked, current techniques
30 for subsequently controlling player spend based on the
   monitored wagering habits have proved ineffective.
   Summary of the   Invention
35 In a first aspect, the   invention provides a cashless
   gaming method comprising:
         determining, using a player identification module,

                                 2
    the identity of a player, wherein a maximum spend value is
    associated with the player;
         determining, using an evaluation module, from a
    plurality of physical media, each physical medium having a
  5 predefined fixed value, which of the plurality of physical
    media are available for selection by the player in
    accordance with the maximum spend value associated with
    the player;
         receiving at an input module a selection from the
10  player for at least one of the plurality of physical media
    available for selection;
         receiving at a payment module payment for the
    selected physical medium, the physical medium being
    redeemable at a cashless-enabled gaming machine for an
15  associated amount of wagerable credits; and
         issuing, using a ticket dispenser, the selected
    physical medium to the player responsive to receiving the
    payment.
    In an embodiment, the method comprises the further step of
20  evaluating an amount of credits wagered by the player over
    a predefined period of time, such that the physical media
    available for selection must not have a value which, when
    combined with the evaluated wager amount, exceeds the
    maximum spend value.
25
    In an embodiment, the method comprises the further step of
    evaluating a cashless credit balance associated with the
    player, such that the physical media available for
    selection must not have a value which, when combined with
30  the cashless credit balance, exceeds the maximum spend
    value.
    In an embodiment, the method comprises the further step of
    allowing at least one of the player and game venue to set
35  the maximum spend value.
    In accordance with a second aspect of the present

                                3
   invention, there is provided a cashless gaming method
   comprising:
        determining, using a player identification module,
   the identity of a player, wherein a dispensing criteria is
 5 associated with the player;
        determining, using an evaluation module, from a
   plurality of physical media, each physical medium having a
   predefined fixed value, which of the plurality of physical
   media are available for selection by the player in
10 accordance with the dispensing criteria associated with
   the player;
        receiving at an input module a selection from the
   player for at least one of the plurality of physical media
   available for selection;
15      issuing at a ticket dispenser the selected physical
   medium to a player responsive to confirming receipt of
   payment for the physical medium; and
        authorising the physical medium to be redeemed for a
   corresponding amount of credits at a cashless-enabled
20 gaming machine.
   In an embodiment, the dispensing criteria is that a
   particular amount of credits wagered by the player over a
   specified time period has not been exceeded.
25
   In accordance with a third aspect, the present invention
   provides a ticketing system for a gaming venue comprising
   at least one cashless-enabled gaming machine, the system
   comprising:
30      a player identification module arranged to determine
   the identity of a player, wherein a maximum spend value is
   associated with the player;
        an evaluation module arranged to determine, from a
   plurality of physical media, each physical medium having a
35 predefined fixed value, which of the plurality of physical
   media are available for selection by the player in
   accordance with the maximum spend value associated with

                                 4
   the player;
        an input module allowing the player to  select at
   least one of the plurality of physical media available for
   selection, the physical media being redeemable at the
 5 least one cashless-enabled gaming machine  for an
   associated amount of wagerable  credits;
        a payment module arranged to receive payment for the
   selected physical medium; and
        a ticket dispenser arranged to dispense the selected
10 physical medium.
   In an embodiment, the ticketing system further comprises  a
   communications module arranged to receive the maximum
   spend value from a player tracking system.
15
   In an embodiment, the maximum spend value is associated
   with the player and recorded against a player record
   maintained by the player tracking system.
20 In an embodiment, the evaluation module  is further
   arranged to evaluate an amount of credits wagered by the
   player over a predefined period of time,  such that the
   physical media available for selection must not have a
   value, when combined with the accumulated wager amount,
25 exceeds the maximum spend value.
   In an embodiment, the evaluation module  is further
   arranged to evaluate a number of credits associated with
   the player that are yet to be redeemed, such that the
30 physical media available for selection must not have a
   value which, when combined with at  least one of the
   accumulated wager and yet to be redeemed credit value,
   exceeds the maximum spend value.
35 A gaming system comprising a ticketing system in
   accordance with the third aspect and at  least one
   cashless-enabled gaming machine on which the dispensed

                                 5
   physical medium can be redeemed.
   In accordance with a fourth aspect of the present
   invention, there is provided a computer program comprising
 5 at least one instruction which when implemented by a
   computer system is arranged to cause the system to
   implement the method according to the first and/or second
   aspects.
10 In accordance with a fifth aspect, the present invention
   comprising a computer readable medium storing a computer
   program product in accordance with the fourth aspect.
   Brief Description of Drawings
15
   An exemplary embodiment of the invention will now be
   described with reference to the accompanying drawings in
   which:
20 Figure 1 is a perspective view of a gaming machine of the
   embodiment;
   Figure 2 is a block diagram of a gaming machine of the
   embodiment;
25
   Figure 3 is a block diagram of the memory of a gaming
   machine;
   Figure 4 is a block diagram of a player marketing module;
30
   Figure 5 is a block diagram showing how a plurality of
   gaming machines are connected to a player tracking system
   and ticketing system;
35 Figure 6 is a block diagram of the ticketing system
   illustrated in Figure 5; and

                                   6
   Figure 7 is a flow chart of an embodiment.
   Detailed Description
 5 Embodiments relate to a ticketing system for a gaming
   venue comprising at least one cashless-enabled gaming
   machine.   The ticketing system comprises an input module
   allowing a player to select a gaming ticket having a
   predefined fixed value, the gaming ticket being redeemable
10 at the at least one cashless-enabled gaming machine for an
   associated amount of wagerable credits.     A ticket
   dispenser is provided for dispesing the predefined fixed
   value gaming ticket to the player, responsive to receiving
   payment for the ticket    (by way of a payment module).   It
15 will be understood that a number of tickets having
   distinct predefined fixed values may be available for
   selection.   For example, the ticketing system may be
   configured to dispense $5, $10,    $20 and $50 tickets.   It
   will be understood that the number of selectable tickets
20 may vary for different venues as may the actual predefined
   fixed ticket values.
   It will also be understood that the input module, payment
   module and ticket dispenser may be incorporated into a
25 standalone ticketing device which is separate of the
   cashless-enabled gaming machines, or alternatively may be
   incorporated into the cashless-enabled gaming machines
   themselves.   Alternatively the modules may be incorporated
   individually or collectively into other elements of the
30 gaming network   (e.g. into a cashier station, etc).    In an
   embodiment, the ticketing system interfaces with a player
   tracking system for retrieving player related data which
   may be evaluated for determining which tickets are
   available for selection by a player    (e.g. dependent on
35 maximum spend limits set for/by the player, etc.).
   An exemplary cashless-enabled gaming machine 10 is

                                  7
   illustrated in Figure 1.  The gaming machine 10 includes a
   console 12 having a display 14 on which is displayed
   representations of a game that   can be played by a player.
   A mid-trim 20 of the gaming machine 10 houses a bank of
 5 buttons 22  for enabling a player to interact with the
   gaming machine, in particular during game play.     The mid
   trim 20 also houses a credit input mechanism in the     form
   of a ticket reader for reading the tickets.     Depending on
   the desired implementation, other credit input mechanisms
10 may also be included, for example, coin input chute and/or
   a bill collector for receiving monies in a conventional
   manner.
   Artwork and/or information,   for example pay tables and
15 details of bonus awards and other information or images
   relating to the game may be provided on a    front panel 29
   of the console  12.  A coin tray 30 is mounted beneath the
   front panel 29  for dispensing cash payouts from the    gaming
   machine 10.
20
   The display 14  shown in Figure 1 is  in the  form of a video
   display unit, particularly a cathode ray tube screen
   device.  Alternatively, the display 14 may be a liquid
   crystal display, plasma  screen, any other   suitable video
25 display unit, or the visible portion of an
   electromechanical device.    The top box 26 also includes a
   display which may be of the   same type as the display 14,
   or of a different type.
30 A player marketing module   (PMM) 50 having a display 52 is
   connected to the cashless-enabled gaming machine    10.  PMMs
   are also know as player tracking models    (PTMs) or by their
   trade names -  e.g. sentinel. The PMM 50 allows   the player
   to interact with a player tracking system.     As will be
35 described in more detail in   subsequent paragraphs, the PMM
   50, among other things, advantageously allows for tracking
   and communication of player   spend data to a ticketing

                                  8
   system which can in turn be evaluated for determining
   which tickets  (used for cashless gaming) are available for
   selection by a particular player.
 5 The PMM 50 has a magnetic card reader for the purpose of
   reading a player tracking device in the form of a magnetic
   swipe card. However other reading devices may be employed
   and the player tracking device may be in the form of a
   card, flash drive or any other portable storage medium
10 capable of being read by a reading device.
   Figure 2 shows a block diagram of operative components of
   a typical gaming machine which may be the same as or
   different to the gaming machine of Figure 1.
15
   The gaming machine 100 includes a game controller 101
   having a processor 102.    Instructions and data to control
   operation of the processor 102 are stored in a memory 103,
   which is in data communication with the processor 102.
20 Herein the term "processor" is used to refer generically
   to any device that can process game play instructions in
   accordance with game play rules and may include: a
   microprocessor, microcontroller, programmable logic device
   or other computational device, a general purpose computer
25 (e.g. a PC) or a server.
   Typically, the gaming machine 100 will include both
   volatile and non-volatile memory and more than one of each
   type of memory, with such memories being collectively
30 represented by the memory 103.
   The gaming machine has hardware meters 104 for purposes
   including ensuring regulatory compliance and monitoring
   player credit and spend   (as previously described), an
35 input/output  (I/O) interface 105  for communicating with
   peripheral devices of the gaming machine 100.    The
   input/output interface 105 and/or the peripheral devices

                                 9
   may be intelligent devices with their own memory for
   storing associated instructions and data for use with the
   input/output interface or the peripheral devices.   A
   random number generator module 113 generates random
 5 numbers for use by the processor 102.   Persons skilled in
   the art will appreciate that the reference to random
   numbers includes pseudo-random numbers.
   In the example shown in Figure 2, a player interface 120
10 includes peripheral devices that communicate with the game
   controller 101 has one or more displays 106, a touch
   screen and/or buttons 107, a card and/or ticket reader 108
   (as previously mentioned capable of reading the fixed
   price tickets),  a printer 109, a bill acceptor and/or coin
15 input mechanism 110 and a coin output mechanism 111.
   Additional hardware may be included as part of the gaming
   machine 100,  or hardware may be omitted as required for
   the specific implementation.
20 In addition, the gaming machine 100 may include a
   communications interface, for example a network card or
   serial communications port(s) 112.
   Figure 3 shows a block diagram of the main components of
25 an exemplary memory 103.   The memory 103 includes RAM
   103A, EPROM 103B and a mass storage device 103C.   The RAM
   103A typically temporarily holds program files for
   execution by the processor 102 and related data.   The
   EPROM 103B may be a boot ROM device and/or may contain
30 some system or game related code.   The mass storage device
   103C is typically used to store game programs, the
   integrity of which may be verified and/or authenticated by
   the processor 102 using protected code from the EPROM 103B
   or elsewhere.
35
   It is also possible for the operative components of the
   gaming machine 100 to be distributed, for example

                                  10
   input/output devices 106,107,108,109,110,111 to be
   provided remotely from the game    controller 101.
   In an embodiment, the game   controller 101 may be arranged
   to control play of a spinning reel-type game on the     gaming
 5 devices 10.   Gaming systems  for implementing games that
   involve a display of spinning reels that is part of the
   display of the outcome of a game have either a video
   display or a mechanical display, these latter machines
   most usually being "stepper" machines which have a
10 separate motor for each reel. However,    a person skilled in
   the  art will appreciate that the invention can be
   implemented in respect of other forms of games,     including
   card games, board draw games    (e.g. Bingo or Keno),  dice
   games, pinball games, and the like.
15
   Figure 4 is a block diagram of an exemplary player
   marketing module 50.    The PMM 50 is  connected via
   input/output port   57 to a serial input  output port  of the
   input/output section 105 of the electronic gaming machine.
20 The player marketing module has a card reader 54 and a
   display 52 which may be a touch screen display.      The PMM
   50 may also have buttons 53   for receiving a player input
   (at least  in embodiments where there is no touch screen
   display) and a speaker 51.    Input received from the   card
25 reader 54  is processed by processor 55 based on the    data
   stored in memory 56.    The PMM 50 is  connected to the
   player tracking system by a network card 58.
   Processor  55 is also arranged to communicate with gaming
30 machine 10 via input   output port 57 to cause locking of
   the  gaming machine  in response to an instruction received
   via the network card 58.
   Figure 5 shows a series of electronic gaming machines 10
35 connected via respective player marketing modules 50 over
   a communications network 510,    to a player tracking system
   540.   A player database 541  is coupled to the player

                                  11
   tracking system 540  which provides a data   structure for
   storing player records   including accumulated player spend
   values for  specified time periods, which has been
   communicated by the individual PMMs and which may be
 5 evaluated by the ticketing system 580    for determining
   tickets  available for selection by a particular player.
   The communications network 510 may be any    suitable
   communications network,   for example an Ethernet network.
10 When a player  registers  for the player tracking system 540
   they provide details such as their name, age, address and
   phone number. In an embodiment, the player may also
   specify dispensing criteria such as maximum spend limits
   for particular time periods.     For example, the player may
15 set themselves  a daily $50  maximum spend limit which is
   recorded by the player tracking system 540    and stored in
   the database 541.  It will be understood that in     some
   embodiments, the venue may be allowed to set maximum spend
   limits for particular players and this data may also be
20 provided to the player tracking system 540.
   The player tracking system 540 uses the above details to
   create a player record for the player which is stored in
   the player database 541.   The content of the player record
25 may vary from implementation for implementation, but can
   include by way of example, the following fields: player
   identifier;  dispensing criteria;   accumulated player spend
   for a plurality of predefined time periods     (e.g. daily,
   weekly, monthly etc.);   checked in/checked out;   current
30 tracking system identifier    (when checked out);  points
   balance;  cashless balance;  name;  age; address;  phone
   number;  e-mail address;  reward entitlements;   and
   transaction history.
35 The player is  issued a player tracking device such as a
   magnetic stripe card, thermal card, smart card, or the
   like on which  is recorded the player identifier. After

                                 12
   being issued the card, the player uses the card and the
   player's record is periodically updated based on the
   player's activity. The activities which are monitored by
   the tracking system 540 will vary depending on
 5 implementation but in the illustrated embodiment include,
   for example, number of games played, amount wagered,
   amount won, amount spent at venue restaurant, points
   transactions, cashless transactions, a reward entitlement
   etc. After a period of time, the points balance and
10 cashless balance will have current values. For example,
   when the player enters their card at PMM 50, the player's
   record could be updated to indicate the machine they have
   played, the amount they wagered for a particular period of
   time, the number of points awarded for their play, and an
15 amount added to the cashless balance by the player when
   cashing out of the machine.    The updated data is then
   stored in the database 541 in association with the player
   identifier.
20 The ticketing system 580 and operation thereof will be
   described in more detail with reference to Figure 6.    As
   previously mentioned, the ticketing system 580 is operable
   to dispense tickets having predefined fixed values
   (hereafter "fixed price tickets") to players.    An
25 advantage of such a fixed price ticketing system is that
   players are provided with a limited number of options for
   purchasing credits  (e.g. the player may only be allowed to
   select one of a $5,  $10 or $20 ticket, rather than the
   player being allowed to purchase any number of credits as
30 afforded by conventional cashless gaming systems).
   Further, since there is no credit or overdraft facility
   associated with the fixed price ticket, the player is
   unable to continue wagering without returning to purchase
   a further fixed price ticket which may or may not be
35 allowed, as further described below.
   In order to achieve the aforementioned functionality, the

                                 13
   ticketing system 580 includes a processor 581 arranged to
   implement a player input module 582 for allowing a player
   to select and purchase a particular fixed price ticket,
   and a ticket dispenser 584 which dispenses the selected
 5 ticket.   In the presently described embodiment, the ticket
   dispenser 584 is arranged to dispense $5,  $10, $20  and $50
   fixed price tickets.   It will be understood by persons
   skilled in the art, however, that a greater or fewer
   number of fixed price tickets may be held and dispensed by
10 the ticket dispenser 584 and that the value of the fixed
   price tickets may be other than described above.    For
   example, in an embodiment, only one fixed price ticket
   (e.g. a $25 ticket) may be dispensed.
15 In an embodiment, not all tickets dispensable by the
   ticket dispenser 584 may be available for selection by a
   player.   According to such an embodiment the ticketing
   system 580 may further implement an evaluation module 586
   arranged to evaluate spend data in accordance with
20 dispensing criteria stored against the player record in
   the database 541, for determining selectable tickets.
   In the presently described embodiment, the dispensing
   criteria requires that the player can only select a ticket
25 which has a fixed value that does not exceed a maximum
   spend limit imposed by either the player or gaming venue.
   The spend limit may, for example, be for a particular time
   period  (e.g. a $50 limit maximum spend per day) and may
   take into consideration an amount already wagered or
30 otherwise gambled/spent by the player for that period.    An
   amount of credits stored against the player account but
   yet to be redeemed (commonly referred to as a cashless
   balance) may also be taken into consideration when
   determining which fixed price tickets are available for
35 selection.
   Other dispensing criteria are envisaged.   For example, the

                                   14
   criteria may be that the player      is only able to purchase
   tickets   of a particular value    (e.g. a player may only ever
   be allowed to purchase $10    tickets,   irrespective of
   whether the ticket dispenser is arranged to dispense
 5 greater or lesser value fixed price tickets).        Again, the
   associated spend data required for evaluation may be
   stored in the player tracking database 541,       for subsequent
   retrieval by the ticketing system 580.
10 In order to obtain the dispensing criteria related to the
   player purchasing the ticket     (and any relevant player
   data),   the ticketing system 580    implements a player
   identification module    590 in the   form of a card reader.
15 The card reader 590    (which may be in the    same form as the
   card reader implemented by the PMMs) is arranged to read a
   player's tracking device for determining a player
   identifier.    Once determined, the player identifier is
   communicated to the player tracking system 540        (utilising
20 network card 592) with a request to receive the        dispensing
   criteria for the identified player and any relevant spend
   data   (e.g. spend limit, accumulated wager for associated
   time period, cashless balance, etc).        Once received, the
   data is communicated to the evaluation module 586 which
25 evaluates the data to determine which, if any, of the
   fixed value tickets are available for selection by the
   identified player.
   The method of an embodiment is summarised in Figure 7.         The
30 method 700   involves a player inserting     (step 705) a
   tracking card in a card reader 590 of the ticketing system
   580.  The ticketing system 580 issues      (710) a request to
   the player tracking system 540 including the player
   identifier. The player tracking system 540 processes the
35 request and accesses the associated player record        (715)
   stored in database   541.   The related details are then
   communicated back to the ticketing system 580       for

                                  15
   evaluation by the evaluation module 586    (720).  At 725,
   the evaluation module establishes which, if any, of the
   fixed price tickets dispensable by the ticket dispenser
   584 are able to be selected by the player.     This is
 5 subsequently displayed (730) on the video display 588.      At
   step 735, the player selects one of the selectable tickets
   and deposits the necessary funds via the player input
   module 582 to purchase the ticket.    The ticket is then
   dispensed  (step 740)  and is ready to be redeemed for a
10 corresponding amount of credits in any of the cashless
   enabled gaming machines 10.
   In an alternative embodiment to that described above, the
   ticketing system may not evaluate player related data and
15 instead allow any player to select any of the dispensable
   tickets.   According to such an embodiment, steps 705 to
   730 may be omitted.
   In a further embodiment the ticketing system may maintain
20 a database storing validation numbers assigned to each
   dispensable ticket which may be read by the ticket readers
   108  (i.e. when a player is attempting to redeem the
   credits on the gaming machine).    The validation numbers
   may be communicated to the ticketing system 580, once
25 read, for confirmation that the ticket is valid (e.g. by
   checking the number read by the ticket reader against the
   numbers stored in the database) prior to adding the
   associated credits to the credit meter 104.
30 In a further embodiment, rather than using a player
   tracking device a biometric system may be implemented
   whereby a player provides biometric information to the
   system to thereby identify themselves to the player
   tracking system   (e.g. using a fingerprint  scanner, etc.).
35
   Further aspects of the method will be apparent from the
   above description of the gaming system. Persons skilled in

                                 16
   the art will also appreciate that the method could be
   embodied in program code. The program code could be
   supplied in a number of ways, for example on a computer
   readable medium, such as a disc or a memory    (for example,
 5 that could replace part of memory 103)   or as a data signal
   (for example, by downloading it from a server).
   It will be understood that in an embodiment, physical
   media other than tickets may be dispensed from the
10 ticketing system.   For example, the ticketing system may
   issue cards, tokens or other suitable media that are
   readable by the cashless enabled gaming machines, or the
   PMM coupled thereto.   For example, in an embodiment, the
   player tracking device may also be operable to store the
15 credits such that a player may insert the player tracking
   device into the card reader of the ticketing system and
   the selected fixed price ticket value is subsequently
   credited to the player account accessible using the player
   tracking device.  Suitable databases maintaining credit
20 values for individual players may be required to be
   implemented via either the ticketing system or player
   tracking system, as will be appreciated by a person
   skilled in the art.
25 In a further embodiment, the dispensing criteria may be
   established by the gaming venue   (i.e. independently of the
   player).  For example, at selected times, or in response
   to certain events, the gaming venue may impose
   restrictions on the tickets available for selection by all
30 or some of the players.   Such alternative embodiments are
   within the purview of the skilled person.
   It is to be understood that, if any prior art is referred
   to herein, such reference does not constitute an admission
35 that the prior art forms a part of the common general
   knowledge in the art in any country.

                                17
  In the claims which  follow and in the preceding
  description of the  invention, except where the context
  requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
  implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as
5 "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive  sense,
  i.e. to specify the presence of the  stated features but
  not to preclude the presence or addition of further
  features in various embodiments of the invention.

                                18
   CLAIMS:
   1.   A cashless gaming method comprising:
        determining, using a player identification module,
 5 the identity of a player, wherein a maximum spend value is
   associated with the player;
        determining, using an evaluation module, from a
   plurality of physical media, each physical medium having a
   predefined fixed value, which of the plurality of physical
10 media are available for selection by the player in
   accordance with the maximum spend value associated with
   the player;
        receiving at an input module a selection from the
   player for at least one of the plurality of physical media
15 available for selection;
        receiving at a payment module payment for the
   selected physical medium, the physical medium being
   redeemable at a cashless-enabled gaming machine for an
   associated amount of wagerable credits; and
20      issuing, using a ticket dispenser, the selected
   physical medium to the player responsive to receiving the
   payment.
   2.   A cashless gaming method as claimed in claim 1,
25 further comprising the step of evaluating an amount of
   credits wagered by the player over a predefined period of
   time, such that the physical media available for selection
   must not have a value which, when combined with the
   evaluated wager amount, exceeds the maximum spend value.
30
   3.   A cashless gaming method as claimed in claim 2,
   further comprising the step of evaluating a cashless
   credit balance associated with the player, such that the
   physical media available for selection must not have a
35 value which, when combined with the cashless credit
   balance, exceeds the maximum spend value.

                                19
   4.   A cashless gaming method as claimed in any one of the
   preceding claims, further comprising the step of allowing
   at least one of the player and gaming venue to set the
   maximum spend value.
 5
   5.   A cashless gaming method comprising:
        determining, using a player identification module,
   the identity of a player, wherein a dispensing criteria is
   associated with the player;
10      determining, using an evaluation module, from a
   plurality of physical media, each physical medium having a
   predefined fixed value, which of the plurality of physical
   media are available for selection by the player in
   accordance with the dispensing criteria associated with
15 the player;
        receiving at an input module a selection from the
   player for at least one of the plurality of physical media
   available for selection;
        issuing at a ticket dispenser the selected physical
20 medium to a player responsive to confirming receipt of
   payment for the physical medium; and
        authorising the physical medium to be redeemed for a
   corresponding amount of credits at a cashless-enabled
   gaming machine.
25
   6.   A cashless gaming method as claimed in claim 5,
   wherein the dispensing criteria is that a particular
   amount of credits wagered by the player over a specified
   time period has not been exceeded.
30
   7.   A ticketing system for a gaming venue comprising at
   least one cashless-enabled gaming machine, the system
   comprising:
        a player identification module arranged to determine
35 the identity of a player, wherein a maximum spend value is
   associated with the player;
        an evaluation module arranged to determine, from a

                                20
   plurality of physical media, each physical medium having a
   predefined fixed value, which of the plurality of physical
   media are available for selection by the player in
   accordance with the maximum spend value associated with
 5 the player;
        an input module allowing a player to select at least
   one of the plurality of physical media available for
   selection, the physical media being redeemable at the at
   least one cashless-enabled gaming machine for an
10 associated amount of wagerable credits;
        a payment module arranged to receive payment for the
   selected physical medium; and
        a ticket dispenser arranged to dispense the selected
   physical medium.
15
   8.   A ticketing system as claimed in claim 7, further
   comprising a communications module arranged to receive the
   maximum spend value from a player tracking system.
20 9.   A ticketing system as claimed in claim 7 or claim 8,
   wherein the maximum spend value associated with the player
   is recorded against a player record maintained by the
   player tracking system.
25 10. A ticketing system as claimed in any one of claims 7
   to 9, wherein the evaluation module is further arranged to
   evaluate an amount of credits wagered by the player over a
   predefined period of time, such that the physical media
   available for selection must not have a value which, when
30 combined with the accumulated wager amount, exceeds the
   maximum spend value.
   11.  A ticketing system as claimed in claim 10, wherein
   the evaluation module is further arranged to evaluate a
35 number of credits associated with the player that are yet
   to be redeemed, such that the physical media available for
   selection must not have a value which, when combined with

                                21
   at least one of the accumulated wager and yet to be
   redeemed credit value, exceeds the maximum spend value.
   12.  A gaming system comprising a ticketing system as
 5 claimed in any one of claims 7 to 11;  and at least one
   cashless-enabled gaming machine on which the dispensed
   physical medium can be redeemed.
   13.  A computer program comprising at least one
10 instruction which when implemented by a computer system is
   arranged to cause the system to implement the method
   according to any one of claims 1 to 6.
   14.  A computer readable medium storing a computer program
15 product as claimed in claim 13.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
