                                               ABSTRACT
The present invention is related to a device and method for disinfecting a medical instrument with
ozone, in particular the invention relates to a device and method for disinfecting a continuous
positive airway pressure (CPAP) device.

                          1/11
        113
                                         130
          111118                     122
11510
      110         112 116
              100                124
                          FIG. 1

     SYSTEMS, METHODS AND DEVICES FOR OZONE SANITIZATION OF
             CONTINUOUS POSITIVE AIRWAY PRESSURE DEVICES
                CROSS-REFERENCE to RELATED APPLICATIONS
        This application claims priority to U.S. provisional application No. 61/508,341,
filed July 15, 2011, Apparatus, Systems and Methods for Ozone Sanitization of Medical
Instruments, and incorporates the entire contents thereof herein by reference.
                               FIELD OF THE INVENTION
        The present invention is generally related to a device and method for disinfecting
a medical instrument with ozone, in particular the invention relates to a device and
method for disinfecting a continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) device.
                         BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
        Sleep apnea is a common sleep disorder characterized by abnormal breathing
during sleep. Pauses in breathing for people with sleep apnea can last from a few
seconds to minutes during sleep, often resulting in significant levels of sleep disturbance,
which may result in daytime fatigue, impaired reaction time, vision problems, and
impaired daytime cognition.
         Sleep apnea is often treated with a continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP)
device. CPAP devices prevent reduction of oxygen levels in the blood and sleep loss by
delivering a stream of pressured air through a hose to a nasal pillow or full facemask
surrounding a patient's nose. The CPAP devices work by blowing air at a prescribed
pressure for each patient, and keeping the air passage open to maintain unobstructed
breathing throughout a sleep period.
                                               1

        While CPAP treatment can be a highly effective treatment for sleep apnea, a
major downside with CPAP treatment is non-compliance by users. Users are often
reluctant to continuously use CPAP devices because the nose and face masks may be
uncomfortable. In addition, maintenance of many CPAP devices has proved to be tiring
and difficult for users, as water vapor running through the hoses and masks of a device
may cause bacterial build-up and require continuous cleaning and prevention as
necessary steps to safely use a device, which may result in further non-compliance by
users. Most manufacturers of CPAP devices recommend that users perform daily and
weekly maintenance on their machines to prevent bacteria and mold buildup. In this
instance, each part of the CPAP device needs to be cleaned individually, including the
mask, the hoses and the humidification portion, which is difficult and time consuming for
users on a daily or weekly basis. Other CPAP device cleaning methods include soaking
the component parts of a CPAP device in a mixture of vinegar and water to disinfect the
component parts. Because of the inherent nature for CPAP devices to collect bacteria
and mold, a number of other products are available to consumers to make CPAP
machines safer, including but not limited to:
Citrus II Cleaning Spray for masks and tubing, available at www.cpapxchange.com
Contour CPAP cleaning wipes
CPAP tube cleaning brushes, available at www.cpapxchange.com
CPAP Guardian, available at www.cpapguardian.com
        Further, several patents and patent applications have been filed on CPAP devices,
improvements and the like. The patents in the field of CPAP devices include US Patent
Numbers, 8146946, 8051853, 7794522, 7845350, 7676276, 6276304, 7527603, 7767168,
                                              2

6752151, 6280633, 7022225, 4787980 and US application numbers: 20100111792,
20060130834,20040251125,20050186108.
         While some of the existing products, patents and applications described above
refer to CPAP systems, methods and devices, there is no system, method or device shown
that describes an automated disinfecting system or method for a CPAP device, for ease of
use of users and to improve user compliance. In addition, the use of ozone to sanitize,
disinfect and clean CPAP devices is a long felt need in the art as a safe and easy
disinfectant system for improved compliance of a user, as described in accordance with
the present invention.
         Other systems, methods, device features, and advantages of the present invention
will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following
drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems,
 methods, device features, and advantages be included within this description, be within
the scope of the present invention, and be protected by the accompanying claims.
                      BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
         Many aspects of the invention can be better understood with reference to the
 following drawings. The components in the drawings are not necessarily to scale,
 emphasis instead being placed upon clearly illustrating the principles of the present
 invention. Moreover, in the drawings, like reference numerals designate corresponding
 parts throughout the several views.
         FIG. 1 is a perspective view of an ozone device connected to a CPAP device, in
 accordance with one embodiment of the invention.
                                              3

         FIG. 2 is a side-view of a CPAP connector unit and a hose connecting to a water
 reservoir, in accordance with one embodiment of the invention.
         FIG. 3 is a perspective view of an ozone device connected to a CPAP device, in
 accordance with one embodiment of the invention.
         FIG. 4 is a top view of a water reservoir and hose with free ozone, in accordance
 with one embodiment of the present invention.
         FIG. 5 is a side view of a CPAP connector unit and a heater adapter unit
 connecting a hose to a CPAP device in accordance with one embodiment of the present
 invention.
         FIG. 5A is a side view of a CPAP connector unit and a heater adapter unit
 connecting a hose to a CPAP device in accordance with one embodiment of the present
invention.
         FIG. 6 is a side view of a CPAP device with a heating element, connected to the
CPAP device with a continuous positive airway connector unit in accordance with one
embodiment of the present invention.
        FIG. 7 is a side view of a CPAP device with a heating element, connected with a
heater adapter unit in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention.
        FIG. 8 is a perspective view of a CPAP device with a heating element connected
to the CPAP device with a heater adapter unit.
        FIG. 9 is a front view of a CPAP mask, in accordance with a one embodiment of
the present invention.
        FIG. 10 is a side view of a CPAP mask and straps, in accordance with another
embodiment of the present invention.
                                               4

                               DETAILED DESCRIPTION
        FIG. 1 shows a perspective view of an ozone device 100 connected to a CPAP
device 105. In this embodiment an ozone compartment 110 for housing an ozone
operating system 115 is shown in the ozone device 100. In accordance with this
embodiment, the ozone operating system 115 produces and transfers ozone to the CPAP
device 105 to disinfect the CPAP device 105 before or after use by a user.
        In accordance with this embodiment, the ozone operating system 115 pulls in
ambient air into an air pump to create ozone.     The air pump may transfer the ambient air
to a corona discharge ozone generator, which may create about 400mg/hr of ozone gas,
which may be used to disinfect a CPAP device 105. In accordance with this
embodiment, the ozone may be pumped directly into the CPAP device 105 and/or a water
reservoir tank 122 from the ozone compartment 110 through an ozone distribution line
118 that connects to the CPAP connector unit 130, for providing ozone to disinfect the
CPAP device 105. In accordance with the device shown in FIG. I the ozone may enter
the ozone distribution line 118 when powered by a small air pump, such as an aquarium
pump, and then migrate through the distribution line 118, through a CPAP connector unit
130, and into the water reservoir 122. The ozone distribution line 118 traverses into the
hose 124 and the CPAP connector unit 130 and ends with a free end immersed in the
CPAP water reservoir 122. The ozone may then be released into water in the water
reservoir 122, acting to disinfect and sanitize the water reservoir 122, and may then
release as free ozone from the water in the water reservoir 122. The free ozone may then
traverse into the hose 124, which then carries the ozone into a mask compartment 116 to
                                               5

sanitize a mask 112. Within about 20-30 minutes from the start of the ozone sanitizing
process described, the ozone will naturally breakdown into oxygen 02, resulting in a
CPAP device 100 with an automated disinfecting process with ozone passing through and
disinfecting the CPAP water reservoir 122, the water in the reservoir, the hose 124, the
mask compartment 116 and the mask 112. As an additional safety precaution to make
sure all ozone is released from the CPAP device 105 before a user utilizes the CPAP
device 105, an oxidizing catalyst, such as an MgO filter, may be on the ozone device 100,
such as on the back side of the mask compartment 116 to collect, breakdown and release
remaining ozone as oxygen 02.
          The ozone compartment 110, in accordance with the present embodiment of the
present invention may be any available ozonator or a like device for creating ozone gas.
Ozonators create ozone from oxygen molecules, often by applying ultraviolet light to the
oxygen. Ozone gas is made of oxygen molecules that have been ionized by radiation to
form groups of three oxygen atoms, O3 The ozone gas is powerful and effective for
removal of odors, impurities and dangerous pathogens, working by exchanging electron
charge with particles that ozone comes into contact with to form oxygen, 02, from the
unstable ozone 03, a process particularly useful for purifying air and water and for killing
bacteria and microorganisms. Typically, ozone, O3, will convert back to oxygen, 02,
within two hours of the start of a cycle.
           In accordance with the embodiment shown in FIG. 1, a small air pump is provided
 in the ozone compartment 110 to push ozone into the water reservoir 122. An exhaust
port is further provided in the mask compartment 116 and has two main functions; the
 first is to draw the free ozone up into the hose 124 from the water reservoir 122 and into
                                                6

the mask 112 from the water reservoir 122. The free ozone will work to disinfect the
water reservoir 122, the hose 124, and the mask 112. After exiting the mask 112 the free
ozone then will be drawn out of the mask compartment 116 through the exhaust port into
the free atmosphere as oxygen 02 . Further shown in this embodiment is a user interface
 111 for a user to set a sanitizing schedule on the ozone device 100 and a top cover 113 to
close the ozone device 100.
         FIG. 2 is a side view of a CPAP connector unit 230 attaching the ozone
distribution line 218 from an ozone device to the water reservoir 222 of a CPAP device in
accordance with another embodiment of the present invention. In accordance with this
embodiment the ozone distribution line 218 is shown connected through the CPAP
connector unit 230, at a ninety degree angle, and into the water reservoir 222. The ozone
may be distributed from the ozone distribution line 218 into the water 219. The ozone
221 may effectively sanitize the water and kill bacteria and microorganisms in the water
219 by oxidizing organics in the water 219. Free ozone 221 that is left after removing
organics from the water 219 in the water reservoir 222 may then release from the water
and pass into the hose 224 to sanitize the hose and then enter a mask compartment for
 sanitizing a mask. By sanitizing the ozone water reservoir 222, the water 219, the hose
224 and the mask after each use, a user may effectively clean and sanitize their CPAP
machines on a daily basis and use the machine with a decreased risk of discomfort,
 infection or bacteria growth in their CPAP device. While the CPAP device may still need
to be cleaned in accordance with a manufacturer's requirements, the present invention
will assist a user to maintain a safe to use device on a regular basis and improve
 compliance and use of the CPAP device to treat sleep apnea. The inventors expect that
                                               7

the current invention will assist people with sleep apnea to easily disinfect their CPAP
device and use their machines safely in accordance with personal preferences and routine
schedules.
         FIG. 3 shows a front view of an ozone device 300 and a CPAP device 305 in
accordance with another embodiment of the present invention. In accordance with this
embodiment, an ozone operating system 315 may make ozone, which may enter the
water 319 in the water reservoir 322 through the distribution line 318 and the CPAP
connector unit 330. In accordance with this embodiment ozone enters the hose 324 as
free ozone from the water reservoir 322, and the hose 324 carries the ozone gas to
sanitize the mask 312 in the mask compartment 316. In accordance with this
embodiment the ozone disinfects and sanitizes the entire CPAP device 305 for a user
prior to use, including the water reservoir 322, the water 319, the hose 324, the mask 312
 and the mask compartment 316. In accordance with this embodiment, the ozone may
 convert back to a stable form of oxygen after entering the mask compartment 316,
 making a user's CPAP device 305 easily disinfected and ready to use. In accordance
 with this embodiment an MgO exhaust port may be provided in the mask compartment
 316 to collect, breakdown and release remaining ozone to the atmosphere, as an
 additional safety measure to make sure all ozone and free ozone is removed from the
 ozone device 300 prior to use. Further shown in this embodiment is a user interface 311
 for a user to set a sanitizing schedule on the ozone device 300 and a top cover 313to
 close the ozone device 300.
         FIG. 4 shows a top view an ozone device 400 and a CPAP device 405 with the top
 covers removed for viewing the inner parts of the ozone device 400 and the CPAP device
                                                8

405. In this embodiment, free ozone 421 is released from the water 419 and traverses into
the hose 424. In accordance with the embodiment shown, the free ozone 421 will
disinfect the water 419 and the hose 424. The free ozone 421 may continue to traverse
from the hose 424 to the mask compartment 416 to further sanitize a mask 412, before
exiting the ozone device 400 through an exhaust port. Further shown in this embodiment
is a control panel 411 for a user to set ozone sanitizing schedules in accordance with a
user's preferences.
        In another embodiment of the present invention, shown in FIG 5, a heater adapter
unit 552 is connected to a CPAP connector unit 530 to connect a heating element 550 on
a hose 524 to a heating element receptors 554 on a CPAP device 505. The heating
element 550 may be used to heat a hose 524, to prevent condensation of water vapor as it
passes through the hose 524. While heating elements 550 are commonly used on CPAP
devices 505, in order to practice the present invention of providing ozone to the CPAP
device 505 through an ozone distribution line 518 for sanitizing a CPAP device 505, a
heating adapter unit 552 may be required to attach the CPAP connector unit 530 to a
CPAP device 505 with heating systems. One method of heating the hose 524 includes
but is not limited to passing a low voltage electric current through a resistive conductor
such as copper or aluminum conductor wires 556, which may be woven along the length
of a hose 524 and effectively heat the hose 524, as shown in FIG. 5. Another method of
heating the hose 524 may include using a hose sleeve of Neoprene or fleece to cover the
exterior of the hose 524, which may insulate the hose from external cold air. FIG. 5
shows an embodiment with copper conductor wires 556 woven around the hose 524 for
heating the hose 524. In this embodiment the heating element 550 contains copper
                                               9

conductor wires which connects to copper receptors in the heating element receptor 554,
generating electric heat to copper conductor wires 556 when the CPAP device 505 is in
an on position. In this embodiment a CPAP connector unit 530 is shown for connecting
an ozone device in accordance with the present invention to a CPAP device 505 to
disinfect the CPAP device between uses. The heater adapter unit 552 is connected to the
CPAP connector unit 530 for attaching the heating element 550 to the heating element
receptor 554, as shown. In accordance with this embodiment of the present invention,
systems, methods and devices to provide ozone to sanitize a CPAP device 505, hose 524
and water reservoir may be used in conjunction with heating elements for heating the
hose 524. In this embodiment, the CPAP connector unit 530 provides for the flow of
ozone into an ozone distribution line 518 into a water reservoir, and then into the hose
524 from the water reservoir, while the heater adapter unit 552 connects the copper wires
in the heating element 550 to the corresponding contacts in the heating element receptors
554 of the CPAP device 505,,
        FIG 5A shows in detail the connection of the copper wires in the heating elements
550 through the heating adapter unit 552 to the heater element receptors 554 on the
CPAP device 505 in accordance with the embodiment described with reference to FIG. 5.
In accordance with the embodiment shown, the heating adapter unit 552 is attached
below the CPAP connector unit 530 and copper wires 556 are shown woven around the
hose 524.
        FIG. 6 shows a side view of yet another embodiment of the present invention
 shown in FIG 6 a CPAP connector unit 630 for connecting a heating element 650 heating
 system for heating a hose 624 of a CPAP device with a heating element 650 is shown. In
                                             10

this embodiment, cold air in a room may cause condensation of water vapor in the hose
624 of the CPAP device and results in bacterial growth in the hose and in a facial mask.
Heating the hose 624 helps prevent condensation of water vapor in the hose 624. In
accordance with this embodiment, a heating element 650 is formed at the end of the hose
624, where the hose 624 connects to a CPAP device. In this embodiment, a CPAP
connector unit 630 is shown connecting the heating element 650 to the CPAP device 605
so that ozone may be further added to the CPAP device through the ozone distribution
line in accordance with the present invention. In this embodiment the heating element
650 may work by passing a low voltage electric current through a resistive conductor
which may be woven along the length of the hose effectively heating the hose.
         FIG. 7 shows a side view of yet another embodiment of the present invention
 shown in FIG 7 a heating system for heating a hose 724 with a heating adapter unit 752
connected to a CPAP connector unit 730 to provide ozone to a CPAP device 705 with
 heating systems embedded therein is shown, In this embodiment, the heating receptors
 754 are located adjacent to a hose on a CPAP device 705 and may contain copper wires
 to transfer electric power from the heating element 750, attached to the hose 724. In
 accordance with this embodiment, the heating adapter unit 752 fits over the CPAP hose
 entry 758 and the heating receptors 754 on the CPAP device 705 so that the ozone
 technology in accordance with the present invention may be connected through the ozone
 distribution line 718 to the CPAP device 705, while the heating elements 750 already in
 place on the CPAP device 705 may still be connected through the heating adapter unit
 752 to heat the hose 724. In accordance with this embodiment, cold air in a room may
 cause condensation of water vapor in the hose 724 of the CPAP device and result in
                                              11

bacterial growth in the hose and a facial mask. Heating the hose 724 helps prevent
condensation of water vapor in the hose 724, while administering ozone to the CPAP
reservoir and hose in accordance with the present embodiment automatically disinfects
the CPAP machine and prevents bacterial and mold build-up.
         FIG. 8 shows a perspective view of the present invention with the ozone device
800 connected to a CPAP device 805 with heating systems embedded in the CPAP device
805. In accordance with this embodiment, ozone is pumped from the ozone device 800
through an ozone distribution line 818 to the CPAP connector unit 830 to be released into
the water reservoir 822. In this embodiment, a heating element 850 is provided on the
hose 824 to connect to heating element receptors 854 on the CPAP device 805. In
accordance with the embodiment shown, a heater adapter unit 852 is connected to the
CPAP connector unit 830 to attach the heating element 850 to the heating element
receptors 854. In accordance with this embodiment, the heating system may work to heat
the hose 824 to prevent condensation of water during operation by heating copper wires
 856 surrounding the hose. In addition, the ozone operating system in accordance with the
present embodiment may sanitize the water reservoir 822, the hose 824, the mask 812 and
the mask chamber 816 as shown.
         In accordance with the embodiments shown, the ozone device will have a built-in
timer so that a user can set the time to start the ozone disinfecting process at fixed time
intervals. Typically, an ozone cycle is recommended at the end of each CPAP device use
 for best results for a consumer. The ozone device in accordance with one or more
 embodiments of the present invention will have a delayed start button, so that the CPAP
 device will not start until a fixed time has passed since the last ozone disinfecting
                                                12

process, In accordance with one or more embodiments, a one hour time period is
implemented to prevent start of a CPAP device until one hour has passed from an ozone
disinfecting process in accordance with one or more of the embodiments shown. In
accordance with other embodiments a two-hour time period is implemented before the
CPAP device can be used after an ozone disinfecting process in accordance with one or
more embodiments of the present invention.
        With reference to one or more embodiments shown, an ozone device is described
including an ozone compartment, an ozone operating system, and one or more ozone
distribution lines to distribute ozone through a CPAP device. A CPAP ozone air pump
distributes ozone to the ozone distribution lines in one or more embodiments of the
present invention. The ozone will migrate from the ozone distribution lines into the
water reservoir of the CPAP device. The ozone will oxidize organic material in the
water, thereby disinfecting water in the water reservoir. Remaining ozone will release as
free ozone from the water reservoir and migrate as a gas into the attached hose, mask and
mask compartment. An exhaust port in the mask compartment helps migrate free ozone
into the hose, mask and mask compartment, and releases remaining ozone into the
atmosphere as 02 oxygen from the mask compartment. The ozone 0 3 will disinfect the
water reservoir, the hose, the mask and the mask compartment while the ozone migrates
through the CPAP device in accordance with the embodiments of the present invention.
        In addition to the device described and shown in the embodiments of the present
invention, methods of disinfecting a CPAP device are further disclosed. In accordance
with one embodiment, a method for disinfecting a continuous positive airway pressure
                                              13

may include the steps of producing ozone in an ozone device with an ozone operating
system, releasing ozone into a continuous positive airway pressure device; and,
migrating ozone through a continuous positive airway pressure device. In yet another
embodiment, a method of disinfecting a CPAP device with an ozone device by releasing
ozone into a CPAP connector unit, distributing ozone into a water reservoir, migrating
free ozone from the water reservoir to a hose, migrating the free ozone into a mask in a
mask compartment; and, removing the ozone from the CPAP device through an exhaust
port, is described. The method disclosed further includes a step of delaying the start of a
CPAP treatment for a fixed period of time from the last ozone disinfecting process for the
safety of the consumers. The step of delaying the start time may range from about 30
minutes to 5 hours, depending on the embodiment implemented. In yet other
embodiments the step of delaying the start time may range from about 5 hours to 10
hours. In addition the step of sensing remaining ozone in a CPAP device is an added step
in one or more embodiments of the present invention for a consumer's safety prior to use.
In addition, in one or more embodiments of the present invention, adding a safety switch
in the mask compartment prevents starts of an ozone sanitizing process until the mask is
returned by a user to the mask compartment. The safety switch is an additional
precaution to prevent use of a CPAP device during an ozone disinfecting process.
         In yet another embodiment of the present invention, as shown in FIG. 9, an
improved CPAP face mask 960 and straps 962 are provided to maximize comfort of a
patient during a CPAP procedure. In accordance with the embodiment, the straps 962 are
cut on a bias to maintain elasticity and fluidity of the straps 962 as the strap rests along a
user's head and face during a CPAP procedure.
                                              14

        FIG. 10 shows another embodiment of the present invention, where a side view of
a facemask straps 1062 are provided. In accordance with this embodiment, the straps
1062 are cut on a bias cut, to maximize the elastic comfort of the straps 1062 for a
patient. In accordance with this embodiment, the straps 1062 is made of one or more
material(s) that are lightweight, breathable, washable and disposable, for ease of use by a
user.
        It should be emphasized that the above-described embodiments of the present
invention, particularly, any "preferred" embodiments, are merely possible examples of
implementations, merely set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the
invention. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above-described
embodiments of the invention without departing substantially from the spirit and
principles of the invention. All such modifications and variations are intended to be
included herein within the scope of this disclosure and the present invention and
protected by the following claims.
                                              15

Claims:
1.      An ozone treatment system comprising:
        an ozone operating system;
        a first receptacle fluidly coupled to the ozone operating system, the first receptacle
configured to receive ozone gas from the ozone operating system and to fluidly couple to a
proximal end of an ozone conveyance line, said ozone conveyance line further comprising a
distal end; and
        a gas tight compartment comprising:
                 a lid and base comprising a plurality of walls, wherein said lid is movable
between an open and a closed position, said lid and said plurality of walls define a cavity when
said lid is in a closed position; and
                 a second receptacle configured to receive and engage with an intermediate portion
of said ozone conveyance line so as to form a gas tight seal with the distal end of said ozone
conveyance line disposed within said cavity, wherein said intermediate portion is between said
proximal end and said distal end of said ozone conveyance line;
        wherein:
        said second receptacle is at least partially defined by at least one of said plurality of walls
and said lid; and
        said ozone operating system is configured to generate ozone gas for conveyance to said
cavity of said gas tight compartment by said ozone conveyance line.
                                                   16

2.      The ozone treatment system of claim 1, wherein said second receptacle is at least
partially defined by said lid and one of said plurality of walls.
4.      The ozone treatment system of claim 1, wherein:
        said lid is coupled to said base and is movable between an open and said closed position;
        at least one of said plurality of walls comprises both a lid sealing surface and a
conveyance line sealing surface; and
        said second receptacle is defined at least in part by said conveyance line sealing surface.
5.      The ozone treatment system of claim 4, wherein when said lid is in said closed position:
        a first portion of said lid engages said lid sealing surface; and
        a second portion of said lid defines at least a portion of said second receptacle.
6.      The ozone treatment system of claim 5, wherein said second portion of said lid and said
lid sealing surface form said gas tight seal with said intermediate portion of said ozone
conveyance line.
7.      The ozone treatment system of claim 4, wherein:
        said lid further comprises a sealing element; and
        when said lid is in said closed position:
                 a first portion of said lid engages said lid sealing surface; and
                                                    17

                said sealing element engages at least a portion of said intermediate portion of said
ozone conveyance line, such that said second receptacle is at least partially defined by said
conveyance line sealing surface and said sealing element.
8.      The ozone treatment system of claim 7, wherein said sealing element extends from a
downward facing side of said lid when said lid is in said closed position.
9.      The ozone treatment system of claim 1, wherein:
        said second receptacle defines a passageway           into the cavity of said gas tight
compartment;
        the distal end of said ozone conveyance line is larger than said passageway.
10.     The ozone treatment system of claim 1, wherein said ozone conveyance line is a hose of a
medical instrument.
11.     The ozone treatment system of claim 10, wherein said hose is a hose of a continuous
positive airway pressure device.
12.     The ozone treatment system of claim 10, further comprising a mask coupled to the distal
end of said hose.
                                                 18

13.     The ozone treatment system of claim 1, further comprising an exhaust port fluidly
coupled to said gas tight compartment, wherein the exhaust port is to exhaust ozone gas from
said cavity.
14.     The ozone treatment system of claim 11, further comprising an oxidizing catalyst
downstream of said exhaust port, wherein said oxidizing catalyst is configured to break down
ozone gas exhausted by said exhaust port.
15.     The ozone treatment system of claim 14, wherein said oxidizing catalyst comprises
magnesium oxide.
16.     The ozone treatment system of claim 1, further comprising an ozone sensor within said
cavity.
17.     The ozone treatment system of claim 1, wherein gas tight compartment is integral with
said ozone operating system.
18.     The ozone treatment system of claim 1, wherein said ozone operating system and said gas
tight compartment are coupled to said base such that a position of the ozone operating system is
fixed relative to a position of the gas tight compartment.
19.     The ozone treatment system of claim 1, further comprising an air pump fluidly coupled to
the ozone operating system.
                                                  19

20.     An ozone treatment system comprising:
        an ozone operating system configured to fluidly couple to a proximal end of a hose of a
medical device, said hose further comprising a distal end; and
        a gas tight compartment defined at least in part by a base comprising a plurality of walls
and a lid, wherein:
        said lid is movable between an open and a closed position; and
        said plurality of walls comprises a first wall;
        wherein said first wall and said lid are configured to define a receptacle configured to
receive and form a gas tight seal with an intermediate portion of said hose, said intermediate
portion being between said proximate and distal ends; and
        said ozone operating system is configured to generate ozone gas for conveyance to said
gas tight compartment by said hose.
21.     The ozone treatment system of claim 20, wherein:
        said first wall comprises an upward facing surface and a first portion of said receptacle;
        said lid defines a second portion of said receptacle; and
        when said lid is in said closed position and said intermediate portion is disposed within
said receptacle:
                 a first portion of said lid engages said upward facing surface;
                 the first and second portions of said receptacle-engage said intermediate portion of
        said hose to form said gas tight seal.
                                                    20

22.    The ozone treatment system of claim 21, wherein when said intermediate portion of said
hose is disposed within said receptacle, at least part of said intermediate portion is below said
second portion of said receptacle.
                                               21

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
