                                             -8
                                         Abstract
In an aspect, there is disclosed, a joist arrangement (10) including a U-plate (26) and
substantially horizontal elongate upper and lower members (12, 14) supported and
spaced apart by an intermediate member arrangement (16). The intermediate member
arrangement (16) includes two spaced apart substantially vertical members (24)
defining a void (23). The U-plate (26) is arranged to at least partially receive and
extend along a portion of the upper member (12) so as to at least span over the void
(23). An associated method is also disclosed.

C*
       F-4
      co
   CN
           CN

                                             -1
                                    Joist Arrangement
 Technical Field
 [001]   The invention relates to a joist arrangement, in particular, a joist arrangement
 including a void for accommodating plumbing, air-conditioning ducts and other
 services.
Background
 [002]   Joist arrangements are used to support building structures such as floors. Such
joist arrangements typically include elongate upper and lower members that are
 supported and spaced apart by intermediate members some of which are triangulated.
 [003]   Some uses may require one or more of the intermediate members to be
removed such as when a member is replaced or is removed to accommodate a services
 such as plumbing or air-conditioning ducts. The removal of intermediate members
places stress on the elongate upper and lower members and may damage these
members or may require a full redesign and replacement of the elongate upper and
 lower members.
 [004]   The invention disclosed herein seeks to overcome one or more of the above
 identified problems or at least provide a useful alternative.
 Summary
 [005]   In accordance with a first broad aspect there is provided, a joist arrangement
 including a U-plate and substantially horizontal elongate upper and lower members
 supported and spaced apart by an intermediate member arrangement, wherein the
 intermediate member arrangement includes two spaced apart substantially vertical
members defining a void therebetween; and wherein the U-plate is arranged to at least
partially receive and extend along a portion of the upper member so as to at least span
 over the void.

                                             -2
 [006]   In an aspect, the U-plate has a length that is longer than a horizontal length of
the void.
 [007]   In another aspect, the U-plate has a length that is about three times longer than
 a horizontal length of the void.
 [008]   In yet another aspect, the U-plate is centred relative to the void.
 [009]   In yet another aspect, the U-plate includes a central portion and opposing
 sides, and wherein the centre portion abuts with a top of the upper member with the
 opposing sides extending downwardly along sides of the upper member so as to be
 securable thereto with fasteners.
 [0010] In accordance with a second broad aspect there is provided, a U-plate for a
joist arrangement as defined above and herein.
 [0011] In accordance with a third broad aspect there is provided, a method of
 strengthening a joist arrangement having substantially horizontal elongate upper and
 lower members supported and spaced apart by an intermediate member arrangement,
the method including: coupling an elongate U-plate to the substantially horizontal
 elongate upper member so as to nest therewith, with the U-plate spanning a void
 defined between two spaced apart substantially vertical members of the intermediate
member arrangement.
 [0012] In accordance with a fourth broad aspect there is provided, a joist arrangement
 including a U-plate and substantially horizontal elongate upper and lower members
 supported and spaced apart by an intermediate member arrangement, wherein the
 intermediate member arrangement includes a weakened zone; and wherein the U-plate
 is arranged to at least partially receive and extend along a portion of the upper
member so as to at least span over the weakened zone.
Brief Description of the Figures

                                           -3
[0013] The invention is described, by way of non-limiting example only, by reference
to the accompanying figures, in which;
[0014] Figure 1 is a side view illustrating a joist arrangement having a void and a U
plate coupled thereto; and
[0015] Figure 2 is a sectional view illustrating the joist arrangement and the U- plate
coupled thereto.
Detailed Description
[0016] Referring to Figures 1 and 2, there is shown a joist arrangement 10 including
elongate, typically horizontal, upper and lower members 12, 14, that are supported
and spaced apart by an intermediate member arrangement 16. The intermediate
member arrangement 16 includes vertical members 18 and diagonal triangulated
members 20.
[0017] In this example, the joist arrangement 10 includes a weakened zone 21 in the
formed of a void 23 flanked by flanking members 24 of the vertical members 18. The
length of the void 23 is defined by "Lv" and the height "Hv" of the void 23 is defined
by the distance between the upper and lower members 12, 14. The void 23 may be
used to provide space for services such as plumbing or air-conditioning ducts. In other
examples, the void 23 may be absent and the weakened zone 21 may include, for
example, a broken or missing intermediate member arrangement 16.
[0018] As best shown in Figure 2, the joist arrangement 10 further includes a U-plate
26 that is arranged to receive and extend along the upper member 12 immediately
above and on opposing sides of the void 23. The U-plate 26 is nested on the upper
member 12.
[0019] The U-plate 26 includes a centre portion 28 and opposing sides 30 that extend
perpendicularly from the centre portion 28. It is noted that the U-plate 26 is unlipped

                                           -4
allowing it to fit efficiently over a manufactured joist. In this example, the opposing
sides 30 are the same length so that the U-plate is symmetrical.
[0020] The centre portion 28 abuts with a top 29 upper member 12 with the opposing
sides 30 extending downwardly along sides 34 of the upper member 12. The opposing
sides 30 may be slightly longer than the upper member 12 so as to not obstruct or only
slightly obstruct the void 21. The opposing sides 30 include spaced apart apertures 31
that are formed in use by the passage of fasteners 32. In this example, the U-plate 26
is secured by fastening both of the opposing sides 30 along opposing sides 34 of the
upper member 12 with fasteners 32 in the form of self-tapping screws or nails.
[0021] The upper and lower members 12, 14, the intermediate member arrangement
16 and the U-plate 26 may be each formed from steel sections or other suitable
materials commonly used in joists and trusses. Variations in plate thickness may be
used e.g. 0.95mm, 1.2mm etc.
[0022] The length of the U-plate "Lu," is typically longer than the length of the void
"Lv". More specifically, the U-plate "Lu," may be about three times of the length of the
void "Lv ", in that "Lu =~ 3xLv ". The U-plate is typically centred over the void 21.
[0023] Advantageously, the U-plate strengthens and stiffens the upper member
improving the shear capacity of the joist and reduces its deflection and allowing for
greater span lengths. The U plate assists to distribute loads through the joist system.
This enables plumbing, air-conditioning ducts and other services to be passed through
steel joists of any size especially small sizes within flooring systems and allows
lighter shallower members to be used when required rather than bulkier members.
Further more, the U-plate allows for repairs of damaged joist to be undertaken without
them failing.
[0024] Further advantages include the U-plate providing increased stiffness and
capacity due to increases in the effective steel area at critical locations of the
composite member i.e. the compression flange, thus: it leaves more space for services
due to the use of the effective area at an optimal location;;- it can be retro fitted to a

                                            -5
joist if required; it may nest onto a joist without causing it to be bulky or interfering
with the screws.
 [0025] Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
 "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or
 group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of
 integers or steps.
 [0026] The reference in this specification to any known matter or any prior
publication is not, and should not be taken to be, an acknowledgment or admission or
 suggestion that the known matter or prior art publication forms part of the common
 general knowledge in the field to which this specification relates.
 [0027] While specific examples of the invention have been described, it will be
understood that the invention extends to alternative combinations of the features
 disclosed or evident from the disclosure provided herein.
 [0028] Many and various modifications will be apparent to those skilled in the art
without departing from the scope of the invention disclosed or evident from the
 disclosure provided herein.

                                           -6
The claims defining the Invention are as follows:
 1.      A joist arrangement including a U-plate and substantially horizontal elongate
upper and lower members supported and spaced apart by an intermediate member
arrangement,
         wherein the intermediate member arrangement includes two spaced apart
substantially vertical members defining a void therebetween; and
         wherein the U-plate is arranged to at least partially receive and extend along a
portion of the upper member so as to at least span over the void.
2.       The joist arrangement according to claim 1, wherein the U-plate has a length
which is longer than a horizontal length of the void.
3.       The joist arrangement according to claim 1, wherein the U-plate has a length
that is about three times longer than a horizontal length of the void.
4.       The joist arrangement according to claim 1, wherein the U-plate is centred
relative to the void.
5.       The joist arrangement according to claim 1, wherein the U-plate includes a
central portion and opposing sides, and wherein the centre portion abuts with a top of
the upper member with the opposing sides extending downwardly along sides the
upper member so as to be securable thereto with fasteners.
6.       A U-plate for a joist arrangement as defined in any one of claims 1 to 5.
7.       A method of strengthening a joist arrangement having substantially horizontal
elongate upper and lower members supported and spaced apart by an intermediate
member arrangement, the method including: coupling an elongate U-plate to the
substantially horizontal elongate upper member so as to nest therewith with the U
plate spanning a void defined between two spaced apart substantially vertical
members of the intermediate member arrangement.

                                          -7
8.      A joist arrangement including a U-plate and substantially horizontal elongate
upper and lower members supported and spaced apart by an intermediate member
arrangement,
        wherein the intermediate member arrangement includes a weakened zone; and
        wherein the U-plate is arranged to at least partially receive and extend along a
portion of the upper member so as to at least span over the weakened zone.
9.      A method of strengthening a joist arrangement having substantially horizontal
elongate upper and lower members supported and spaced apart by an intermediate
member arrangement, the method including: coupling an elongate U-plate to the
substantially horizontal elongate upper member so as to nest therewith with the U
plate spanning a weakened zone defined by the intermediate member arrangement.

                                                          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                             10
                            31                          23 21
          12                                  A    24           26
16
                       Lj
                                                                             HV   HJ
     18                                 20        24
          14                                  A
                                                  LV
                                                  Lu
                                                                                  1/2
               <U+274B>
                   <U+2701>    <U+2702>
                            <U+2704>   <U+260E>
                                    <U+2706>

<removed-date>
                         2/2
<removed-apn>
                         29   26
                    12              28
               31                        31
              32                              32
                                                   34
              30
                                          30
                                                    HV   HJ
              16
                    14
                         <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706>

