                                        ABSTRACT
      A folding box includes a polygonal bottom panel. A front panel and a rear panel
extend from a front edge and a rear edge of the polygonal bottom panel, respectively. At
least one side panel extends from each of side edges of the polygonal bottom panel. A
foldable positioning piece extends from an outer edge of each of the front and rear panels.
A first reinforcement sheet is attached and connected to the positioning piece. A foldable
piece extends from an outer edge of the side panel. The foldable piece is folded and
adhered to an inner side surface of the side panel. A second reinforcement sheet is
provided between the foldable piece and the side panel. The reinforcement sheets are
respectively connected to the positioning piece and the foldable piece to reinforce the
strength of the front and rear panels and the side panels of the folding box. By the
extension of the reinforcement sheets, the structural stability of the folding box can be
maintained when the folding box is produced with the thin cardboard and the area required
for the preparation of the cardboard is reduced.
                                              12

                                             40
                           2
                             321
                   13 311         3210 2
         30                                     23
     31
 311                                              22
                                                      32
321                                       -           2
  32                                                311
                                                   50
            11                              13
      40         2
               20     32        311 30 31
                23        321
                      FIG.3

                                       FOLDING BOX
      [0001]    This application claims priority from Taiwan patent application 106208392,
filed 9 June 2017, the entire content of which is incorporated by reference.
                                FIELD OF THE INVENTION
      [0002]    The present invention relates to a folding box, and more particularly to a
folding box having a plurality of reinforcement sheets to reinforce the strength of front and
rear panels and side panels of the folding box. The structural stability of the folding box
can be maintained when the folding box is produced with thin cardboard under
environmental considerations and the area required for the preparation of the cardboard is
reduced.
                          BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
      [0003]    In addition to the functions for protecting products and facilitating the
transportation and storage of products, the quality of the products may be set off by a box
made of cardboard, such as a hardcover stationary box. Most boxes are made of cardboard
having a certain thickness. The overall appearance is exquisite and pleasing to the eyes
and the structure is stable.
      [0004]    FIG. 1 illustrates a conventional folding box. A piece of thick cardboard is
preset with a plurality of fold lines. The cardboard is folded to be a flat half-folded box
100 to facilitate transportation and storage. When in use, as shown in FIG. 2, the
half-folded    box   100   is  unfolded  and   fixed  with the   viscose   101   to form    a
three-dimensional shape, that is, the assembly of the folding box is completed.
      [0005]    The folding box has the same quality as a stationary box, and has the
advantage of saving transportation and storage space. However, the folding box still uses
cardboard having a certain thickness, so the material cost is high. Although the box is
fixed by means of viscose, the cardboard may rebound after folded, resulting in a collapse
of the folding box.
      [0006]    The inventor of this application develops a polygonal folding box with thin
cardboard    to save materials     and reduce production costs and take        into account
environmental protection. This folding box is easily distorted and deformed to affect the
                                               1

overall structural strength of the folding box. Accordingly, the inventor of the present
invention has devoted himself based on his many years of practical experiences to solve
these problems.
                                 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
       [0007]   An embodiment of the present invention seeks to provide a folding box.
The folding box may be produced with thin cardboard, and the area required for the
preparation of the cardboard is reduced. Each of front and rear panels and a plurality of
side panels of the folding box is provided with a reinforcement sheet, so that the folding
box is able to save the material cost and is environment-friendly and has a stable structure.
       [0008]    Alternatively or additionally, an embodiment of the present invention seeks
to at least provide the public with a useful choice.
       [0009]   A folding box according to an embodiment of the present invention is
formed by folding a piece of cardboard having preset indented fold lines and comprises a
polygonal bottom panel. A front panel and a rear panel extend from a front edge and a rear
edge of the polygonal bottom panel, respectively. The polygonal bottom panel has at least
two side edges. At least one side panel extends from each of the side edges. A foldable
positioning piece extends from an outer edge of each of the front and rear panels. A first
reinforcement sheet is attached and fixed to the positioning piece. Auxiliary retaining
pieces are each disposed at a position adjacent to the side panel and each of the front and
rear panels and adhered to inner side surfaces of the front and rear panels respectively. A
foldable piece extends from an outer edge of the side panel. The foldable piece is folded
and adhered to an inner side surface of the side panel. A second reinforcement sheet is
provided between the inner side surfaces of the foldable piece and the side panel. The front
and rear panels and the side panels at the two side edges of the polygonal bottom panel are
respectively erected on the polygonal bottom panel to jointly define an accommodation
space therein. The positioning pieces and the first reinforcement sheets of the front and
rear panels are folded inwardly to overlap inner side surfaces of the corresponding
auxiliary retaining pieces to retain a three-dimensional shape of the folding box.
       [0010]    Preferably, the first reinforcement sheet is preset and fixed to the
positioning piece. The second reinforcement sheet is preset and fixed to the side panel or
the foldable piece. The second reinforcement sheet and the foldable piece are folded and
                                                2

adhered to the inner side surface of the side panel, and the auxiliary retaining pieces are
adhered to the inner side surfaces of the front and rear panels respectively so that the
folding box is in a flat half-folded state.
      [0011]    Preferably, each of the auxiliary retaining pieces is provided with a
diagonal indented fold line. The diagonal indented fold line extends from a lower edge of
each of the front and rear panels to a center of an upper edge of each of the front and rear
panels. The side panel is folded and erected upward to bring the front and rear panels to be
simultaneously erected through the respective auxiliary retaining pieces. Each of the
auxiliary retaining pieces is diagonally folded along the diagonal indented fold line.
      [0012]    With the aforesaid structure,. when the side panels are respectively erected
on the polygonal bottom panel, the front and rear panels are interlinked to be erected by
the respective auxiliary retaining pieces because the auxiliary retaining pieces are adhered
to the inner side surfaces of the front and rear panels. The positioning pieces and the first
reinforcement sheets of the front and rear panels are folded inwardly to overlap the inner
side surfaces of the corresponding auxiliary retaining pieces, so that the three-dimensional
shape of the folding box is retained.
      [0013]    The structural design that the positioning pieces and the first reinforcement
sheets of the front and rear panels are folded inwardly to overlap the inner side surfaces of
the corresponding auxiliary retaining pieces is able to reinforce the strength of the front
and rear panels and the side panels of the folding box made of the thin cardboard. When
the side panels of the folding box are pressed, it is possible to prevent a collapse through
two sides of the first reinforcement sheet to hold against the side panels. An embodiment
of the present invention has the advantages of reducing the material cost, environmental
protection and structural stability.
      [0014]    Preferably, a plurality of connected side panels are provided at the same
side edge of the polygonal bottom panel. A bottom edge of the side panel adjacent to each
of the front and rear panels is provided with a connecting piece extending to a brim of the
polygonal bottom panel.
      [0015]    Preferably, an edge of the foldable piece of the side panel adjacent to each
of the front and rear panels is provided with a flap that can be fixed to the inner side
surface of the corresponding auxiliary retaining piece.
                                               3

       [0016]   Preferably, the polygonal bottom panel has a plurality of side edges
arranged in pairs so that the polygonal bottom panel is formed with even-numbered edges.
       [0017]   Compared to the prior art, the folding box made of the thin cardboard
according to an embodiment of the present invention is provided with the reinforcement
sheets on the front and rear panels and the side panels of the folding box to reinforce the
strength of the folding box. An embodiment of the present invention has the advantages of
reducing the material cost and structural stability.
                      BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
       [0018]   FIG. I is a schematic view of a conventional folding box in a flat
half-folded state;
       [0019]   FIG. 2 is a schematic view of the conventional folding box in an unfolded
state;
       [0020]   FIG. 3 is an exploded view of the folding box in accordance with a first
embodiment of the present invention;
       [0021]   FIG. 4 is a schematic view of the folding box in accordance with the first
embodiment of the present invention, showing that the foldable pieces are folded and
adhered to the inner side surfaces of the side panels;
       [0022]   FIG. 5 is a schematic view of the folding box in accordance with the first
embodiment of the present invention, showing that the side panels and the second
reinforcement sheets are folded and stacked on the polygonal bottom panel;
       [0023]   FIG. 6 is a schematic view of the folding box in accordance with the first
embodiment of the present invention, showing that the front and rear panels and the side
panels are respectively erected on the polygonal bottom panel;
       [0024]   FIG. 7 is a perspective view of the folding box in accordance with the first
embodiment of the present invention;
       [0025]   FIG. 8 is a schematic view of the folding box in an unfolded state in
accordance with a second embodiment of the present invention;
                                               4

       [0026]   FIG. 9 is a schematic view of the folding box in an unfolded state in
accordance with a third embodiment of the present invention;
       [0027]   FIG. 10 is an exploded view of the folding box in accordance with a fourth
embodiment of the present invention;
       [0028]   FIG. 11 is a schematic view of the folding box in a folded state in
accordance with the fourth embodiment of the present invention; and
       [0029]   FIG. 12 is a schematic view of the folding box after folded in accordance
with the fourth embodiment of the present invention.
         DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
       [0030]   Embodiments of the present invention will now be described, by way of
example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings.
       [0031]   The present invention discloses a folding box. The folding box uses
reinforcement sheets to reinforce the strength of front and rear panels and side panels of
the folding box. By the extension of the reinforcement sheets, the structural stability of the
folding box can be maintained when the folding box is produced with thin cardboard and
the area required for the preparation of the cardboard is reduced. The folding box is
formed by folding the cardboard having preset indented fold lines, and comprises a
polygonal bottom panel 10. Referring to FIG. 3 to FIG. 9, a quadrilateral bottom panel is
illustrated as an example. Referring to FIG. 10 to FIG. 12, an octagonal bottom panel is
illustrated as an example.
       [0032]   As shown in FIG. 3 to FIG. 7, a front panel 21 and a rear panel 22 extend
from a front edge 11 and a rear edge 12 of the polygonal bottom panel 10, respectively.
The polygonal bottom panel 10 has two side edges 13. At least one side panel 30 extends
from each of the side edges 13. A foldable positioning piece 23 extends from an outer edge
of each of the front and rear panels 21, 22. A first reinforcement sheet 40 is attached and
connected to the positioning piece 23.
       [0033]   A foldable piece 31 extends from an outer edge of each of the two side
panels 30. A second reinforcement sheet 50 is attached and connected to the foldable piece
31. As shown in FIG 4, the foldable piece 31 and the second reinforcement sheet 50 may
                                              5

be folded and adhered to the inner side surface of the side panel 30. Preferably, a flap 311
extends from an edge of the foldable piece 31.
       [0034]    The folding box further includes auxiliary retaining pieces 32 located at a
position adjacent to the two side panels 30 and the front and rear panels 21, 22,
respectively. The flap 311 may be retained at an inner side surface of the corresponding
auxiliary retaining piece 32. As shown in FIG. 5, when the two side panels 30 and the two
second reinforcement sheets 50 are respectively folded on top of the polygonal bottom
panel 10, the auxiliary retaining pieces 32 are adhered to the inner side surfaces of the
front and rear panels 21, 22, respectively, so that the folding box is in a flat half-folded
state to save transportation and storage space.
       [0035]    In this embodiment, each of the auxiliary retaining pieces 32 is provided
with a diagonal indented fold line 321. The diagonal indented fold line 321 extends from a
lower edge of each of the front and rear panels 21, 22 to the center of an upper edge of
each of the front and rear panels 21, 22. The front and rear panels 21 and 22 are
simultaneously erected by the respective auxiliary retaining pieces 32, as shown in FIG. 6,
when the user folds the two side panels 30 upward. Each of the auxiliary retaining pieces
32 is diagonally folded along the diagonal indented fold line 321.
       [0036]    The front and rear panels 21, 22 and the two side panels 30 are respectively
erected on the polygonal bottom panel 10 to jointly define an accommodation space
therein. The positioning pieces 23 and the first reinforcement sheets 40 of the front and
rear panels 21, 22 are folded inwardly to overlap the inner side surfaces of the
corresponding auxiliary retaining pieces 32, so that the three-dimensional shape of the
folding box is retained as shown in FIG. 7 to complete the assembly of the folding box.
       [0037]    The structural design that the positioning pieces and the first reinforcement
sheets of the front and rear panels are folded inwardly to overlap the inner side surfaces of
the corresponding auxiliary retaining pieces is able to reinforce the strength of the front
and rear panels and the side panels when the folding box is made of the thin cardboard
under enviromnental considerations. When the side panels of the folding box are pressed,
it is possible to prevent a collapse through two sides of the first reinforcement sheets to
hold against the side panels. The present invention has the advantages of reducing the
material cost, environmental protection and structural stability.
                                                6

      [0038]    FIG. 8 illustrates a second embodiment of the folding box. The difference
between the first embodiment and the second embodiment is the preset position of the
second reinforcement sheet 50. In the first embodiment, the second reinforcement sheet 50
is disposed on the foldable piece 31. In the second embodiment, the second reinforcement
sheet 50 is disposed on the side panel 30.
      [0039]    Furthermore, as shown in FIG. 3, the area of each positioning piece 23 may
be less than the area of each of the front and rear panels 21, 22. The positioning piece 23 is
connected with the first reinforcement sheet 40 to extend outwardly and to have an area
about equal to the area of each of the front and rear panels 21, 22. Such a structure may be
applied to the foldable piece 3 1 and the side panel 30, and the area required for the
preparation of the cardboard may be reduced. Thus, the folding box of the first
embodiment may be made with the thin cardboard, and the area required for the
preparation of the cardboard may be reduced to save the material cost.
      [0040]    FIG. 9 illustrates a third embodiment of the folding box. The difference
between the second embodiment and the third embodiment is that the area of the first
reinforcement sheet 40 is less than the area of each of the front and rear panels 21, 22 or
the area of the positioning piece 23; and that the area of the second reinforcement sheet 50
is less than the area of each of the side panels 23 or the area of the foldable piece 31.
Similarly, the folding box can be assembled firm, and the area required for the preparation
of the reinforcement sheet may be reduced. The folding box of the present invention saves
the material cost and is an environment-friendly product.
      [0041]    Referring to FIG. 10 to FIG. 12, an octagonal bottom panel 10 is illustrated.
The arrangement and structure of the front and rear panels 21, 22, the side panels 30, the
positioning pieces 23, the foldable pieces 31, the first reinforcement pieces 40, and the
second reinforcement pieces 50 are substantially similar to the aforesaid embodiments.
The following only shows the difference:
      [0042]    As shown in the drawings, a plurality of connected side panels 30 are
provided at the same side edge 13 of the polygonal bottom panel 10. The bottom edge of
the side panel 30A adjacent to each of the front and rear panels 21, 22 is provided with a
connecting piece 33 extending to the brim of the polygonal bottom panel 10. The
connecting piece 33 is provided with an indented fold line 331 and can be folded up along
                                               7

the indented fold line 331, such that each side panel 30 can be erected upwardly on the
polygonal bottom panel 10.
      [0043]     After the front and rear panels 21, 22 and the plurality of side panels 30 are
respectively erected on the polygonal bottom panel 10, the auxiliary retaining pieces 32
are adhered to the inner side surfaces of the front and rear panels 21, 22. After that, the
positioning pieces 23 and the first reinforcement sheets 40 of the front and rear panels 21,
22 are folded inwardly to overlap the inner side surfaces of the corresponding auxiliary
retaining pieces 32, so that the three-dimensional shape of the folding box is retained to
complete the assembly of the octagonal folding box.
      [0044]     The present invention is suitable for a folding box having a polygonal
bottom panel 10 with even-numbered edges, but does not exclude a folding box having a
polygonal bottom panel 10 with odd-numbered edges.
      [0045]     Although particular embodiments of the present invention have been
described in detail for purposes of illustration, various modifications and enhancements
may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention.
Accordingly, the present invention is not to be limited except as by the appended claims.
      [0046]     The term 'comprising' as used in this specification and claims means
'consisting at least in part of'.     When interpreting statements in this specification and
claims which include the term 'comprising', other features besides the features prefaced
by this term in each statement can also be present.     Related terms such as 'comprise' and
'comprised' are to be interpreted in similar manner.
      [0047]     In this specification where reference has been made to patent specifications,
other external documents, or other sources of information, this is generally for the purpose
of providing a context for discussing the features of the invention.       Unless specifically
stated otherwise, reference to such external documents is not to be construed as an
admission that such documents, or such sources of infonnation, in any jurisdiction, are
prior art, or form part of the common general knowledge in the art.
                                                8

[list of reference numbers]
      10          polygonal bottom panel
      11          front edge
      12          rear edge
      13          side edge
      21          front panel
      2 17        rear panel
      23          positioning piece
      30,   30A side panel
      31          foldable piece
      311         flap
      32          auxiliary retaining piece
      321         diagonal indented fold line
      33          connecting piece
      331         indented fold line
      40          first reinforcement piece
      50          second reinforcement piece
                                         9

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
      1. A folding box, formed by folding a piece of cardboard having preset indented fold
lines and comprising a polygonal bottom panel, a front panel and a rear panel extending
from a front edge and a rear edge of the polygonal bottom panel respectively, the
polygonal bottom panel having at least two side edges, at least one side panel extending
from each of the side edges:
      a foldable positioning piece extending from an outer edge of each of the front and
rear panels, a first reinforcement sheet being attached and fixed to the positioning piece;
      auxiliary retaining pieces each disposed at a position adjacent to the side panel and
each of the front and rear panels and adhered to inner side surfaces of the front and rear
panels respectively, a foldable piece extending from an outer edge of the side panel, the
foldable piece being folded and adhered to an inner side surface of the side panel, a second
reinforcement sheet being provided between the inner side surfaces of the foldable piece
and the side panel;
     the front and rear panels and the side panels at the two side edges of the polygonal
bottom panel being respectively erected on the polygonal bottom panel to jointly define an
accommodation space therein, the positioning pieces and the first reinforcement sheets of
the front and rear panels being folded inwardly to overlap inner side surfaces of the
corresponding auxiliary retaining pieces to retain a three-dimensional shape of the folding
box.
      2. The folding box as claimed in claim 1. wherein the first reinforcement sheet is
preset and fixed to the positioning piece, the second reinforcement sheet is preset and
fixed to the side panel or the foldable piece, the second reinforcement sheet and the
foldable piece are folded and adhered to the inner side surface of the side panel, and the
auxiliary retaining pieces are adhered to the inner side surfaces of the front and rear panels
respectively so that the folding box is in a flat half-folded state.
      3. The folding box as claimed in claim 2, wherein each of the auxiliary retaining
pieces is provided with a diagonal indented fold line, the diagonal indented fold line
extends from a lower edge of each of the front and rear panels to a center of an upper edge
of each of the front and rear panels, the side panel is folded and erected upward to bring
the front and rear panels to be simultaneously erected through the respective auxiliary
                                                10

retaining pieces, and each of the auxiliary retaining pieces is diagonally folded along the
diagonal indented fold line.
      4. The folding box as claimed in claim 1, wherein a plurality of connected side panels
are provided at the same side edge of the polygonal bottom panel, a bottom edge of the
side panel adjacent to each of the front and rear panels is provided with a connecting piece
extending to a brim of the polygonal bottom panel.
      5. The folding box as claimed in any one of claims 1-4, wherein an edge of the
foldable piece of the side panel adjacent to each of the front and rear panels is provided
with a flap that can be fixed to the inner side surface of the corresponding auxiliary
retaining piece.
                                              11

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
