                             ABSTRACT
        An assembly for generating electricity from flowing
   water includes a chamber having a base, a side wall
 5 extending from the base, a water inlet, and a water outlet,
   a rotor unit having a shaft and a rotor mounted to the
   shaft located in and rotatable in the chamber in response
   to water flow through the chamber, and an electrical
   generator coupled to the rotor unit for generating
10 electricity in response to rotation of the rotor.   The
   dimensions of the inlet, the outlet and the chamber and the
   positions of the inlet, the outlet and the rotor are
   selected to promote the formation of a vortex within the
   chamber when in use the assembly is located in a body of
15 water or beside a body of water, in a waterway or beside a
   waterway, within an enclosed water conduit or beside an
   enclosed water conduit, and there is a flow of water
   through the chamber from the inlet to the outlet.

                       -1/7
                25
 Figure 1
             11
           5
                                                  A--     15
                                              3--        3
                                              13
           7
                                  A.-----    17
                            41
                   25
Figure 2                                  15
                                                      37
        13
                41             39
                      1-7

                               - 1
              AN ASSEMBLY FOR GENERATING ELECTRICITY
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
 5      The present invention relates to an assembly for
   generating electricity.
   DESCRIPTION OF THE PRIOR ART
10      International publication WOOO/23708 in the name of
   the applicant discloses an invention of a water-driven
   assembly for generating electricity.  The assembly takes
   advantage of energy of water flowing in a vortex, with the
   energy being the result of a combination of factors
15 including the Coriolis force from the rotation of the
   Earth.  This energy, which can be described as rotational
   kinetic energy, is different to energy generated by the
   fall of water.
20      The applicant has carried out substantial research and
   development work in relation to the invention and part of
   this work has focused on developing an assembly that can be
   manufactured and transported and installed effectively and
   efficiently in or beside a wide range of bodies of water
25 and can operate for long periods of time with minimal
   maintenance.
   SUMMARY OF INVENTION
30      The present invention, which is described by the
   applicant as the KCT Mark 2 invention, provides an assembly
   for generating electricity that is adapted to be positioned
   in a body of water or beside a body of water and includes a
   chamber having a base, a side wall extending from the base,
35 a water inlet, and a water outlet, a rotor unit having a

                              - 2
   shaft and a rotor mounted to the shaft located in and
   rotatable in the chamber in response to water flow through
   the chamber, and an electrical generator coupled to the
   rotor unit for generating electricity in response to
 5 rotation of the rotor.  The dimensions of the inlet, the
   outlet and the chamber and the positions of the inlet, the
   outlet and the rotor are selected to promote the formation
   of a vortex within the chamber when in use the assembly is
   located in a body of water or beside a body of water and
10 there is a flow of water through the chamber from the inlet
   to the outlet.
        The body of water may be any one or more than one of a
   lake, dam, river, stream, creek, canal, and any other water
15 way.
        The assembly is straightforward to manufacture,
   transport and install.  The chamber and the other
   components of the assembly can be made from any suitable
20 materials.  The assembly is an uncomplicated design that is
   robust and reliable and requires low maintenance.  The
   assembly is adapted to be a free-standing unit within a
   body of water or beside a body of water, in a waterway or
   beside a waterway, within an enclosed water conduit or
25 beside an enclosed water conduit.  The assembly may be any
   suitable size depending on a range of factors including but
   not limited to the body of water in which the assembly is
   to be located or placed beside and the electrical power
   requirements for the assembly.  One, although not the only
30 feature of the assembly, which is linked in part to the way
   in which the assembly is powered by water flow, is that a
   number of the assemblies can be positioned in a waterway or
   beside a waterway, such as a river or a canal, along the
   length of a section of the waterway and/or across a width
35 of the waterway with minimum impact on the flow of water

                               - 3
   along the waterway.   Therefore, a single relatively small
   unit that can be manufactured at a manufacturing site and
   then transported without significant issues from the
   manufacturing site to an end use location can be used in
 5 small scale operations, and a plurality of the same size
   assemblies can be used for larger-scale operations without
   creating issues for water flow in the waterway.
        The dimensions of the inlet, the outlet and the
10 chamber and the positions of the inlet, the outlet and the
   rotor may be selected to promote the formation of a vortex
   within the chamber that is in the form of multiple spirals
   of water down the height of the chamber between the inlet
   and the outlet.
15
        There does not need to be a substantial flow rate of
   water in the body of water for the assembly to be able to
   generate electricity.   The invention relies on the
   formation of a vortex within the chamber.   Vortex formation
20 requires water flow through the chamber and a chamber
   structure that promotes the formation of the vortex.   When
   the vortex is formed, the energy that can be extracted from
   the vortex movement is related to the mass of water moving
   in the vortex in the chamber and not simply to the flow
25 rate of water into and from the chamber.
        The assembly can operate effectively across the
   spectrum of flow rates of water in the body of water from
   substantially no flow to high flow rates.
30
        In a start-up phase of the assembly, with the chamber
   initially empty and control valves for the inlet and the
   outlet selectively opened so that the water level in the
   chamber builds up to a point where a vortex forms in the
35 chamber.  The vortex is indicated by a conical air space

                              - 4
   within the chamber that extends downwardly to the outlet,
   with the water in the chamber flowing in one or multiple
   spirals of water down the height of the chamber between the
   inlet and the outlet.  Once there is a stable vortex in the
 5 chamber, the control valves are adjusted as required.
        The side wall may have a cylindrical internal surface
   to promote the formation of the vortex in the chamber.
10      The chamber may include formations, such as vanes
   and/or baffles, to promote the formation of the vortex in
   the chamber.  The formations may be supported by or be part
   of the side wall and/or the base.
15      The assembly may include a structure that is adapted
   to support and locate the assembly in the body of water or
   on the ground or in the ground beside the body of water.
        The support structure may include a plurality of
20 members such as legs that, in use of the assembly, extend
   downwardly from the base and are adapted to locate the
   assembly on the bed of the body of water or on the ground
   or in the ground beside the body of water.
25      The support structure may include a framework that is
   adapted to support other components of the assembly.
        The framework may be formed to cradle the base and the
   side wall of the chamber.
30
        The framework may include a plurality of members
   beneath the base of the chamber to support the chamber.
        The rotor unit may be positioned so that the shaft is
35 located centrally in the chamber.

                               - 5
        The rotor may include a plurality of vanes extending
   radially outwardly from the shaft towards the side wall.
 5      The vanes may be curved vanes. The vanes may be any
   other suitable profile.
        Each vane may sweep rearwardly from an inner edge that
   is connected to the shaft and an outer edge.
10
        The vanes may be concave when viewed in a direction of
   water flow within the chamber.
        The inlet may include a flow control valve to control
15 the flow of water into the chamber via the inlet.
        The inlet may be in the side wall.
        The inlet may be in an upper section of the side wall.
20
        The inlet and the vanes may be positioned relative to
   each other so that, in use, at least a part of the water
   flowing into the chamber from the inlet flows directly
   towards the vanes.
25
        The inlet may be formed to promote the formation of
   the vortex in  the chamber when water flows into the chamber
   via the inlet.
30      The inlet may be formed to supply water into the
   chamber so that the water flows in a spiral pathway within
   the chamber around the central shaft and downwardly to the
   outlet in the base of the chamber
35      The inlet may be formed to supply water into the

                               - 6
   chamber at an inward angle of 5-10.
         The inlet may be formed to supply water into the
   chamber at an inward angle of 70.
 5
         The inlet may include an inlet pipe for supplying
   water into the chamber.
         The inlet pipe may have a straight section.
10
         The inlet may include an inlet funnel to maximise the
   flow of water into the chamber from the waterway or body of
   water and the flow of water drawn into the chamber by the
   vortex.
15
         The assembly may include a plurality of inlets.
         The plurality of inlets may be at the same height of
   the chamber and spaced around the perimeter of the chamber.
20
         The plurality of inlets may be at a number of
   different heights of the chamber.
         The outlet may include a flow control valve to control
25 the flow of water from the outlet.
         The outlet may be in the base.
         The outlet may be positioned in a central part of the
30 base.
         The outlet may include an outlet funnel positioned
   within the chamber.
35       The shape and size of the outlet funnel may be

   selected to promote the formation of the vortex within the
   chamber.   In particular, the outlet funnel may be a shallow
   funnel, typically having an angle of less than 200,
   typically 5-150, to a horizontal axis when the assembly is
 5 in an upright position in order to form the vortex as a
   stable vortex that does not move around within the chamber
   after it has been established.
        The outlet may include an outlet pipe that extends
10 from the chamber.
        The outlet pipe may include a first section that
   extends downwardly from the base and a second section that
   extends perpendicular to the first section.
15
        The inlet and the outlet may describe an angle of 135
   1800 when viewed from above the assembly.
        The outlet pipe may be formed so that water flow
20 through the outlet and the outlet pipe minimises disruption
   to the vortex in the chamber.
        By way of example, the outlet pipe may include a
   rifled internal surface, i.e. a surface with a series of
25 spiral ridges in the internal surface.
        The transverse cross-sectional area of the outlet may
   be greater than the transverse cross-sectional area of the
   inlet.   This is an important feature when the assembly is
30 used in waterways having sufficiently high flow rates that
   in effect contribute a load to the system that results in a
   pumping action of water from the chamber via the outlet.
   In a pilot plant operation of the applicant located in a
   waterway that was a fast flowing waterway at different
35 times, the pilot plant assembly had a 300mm diameter inlet

                              - 8
   and a 400mm diameter outlet to avoid overflow situations in
   the chamber at high water flow rate times.  In addition,
   the pilot plant operation found that when the assembly was
   placed under electrical load, this also results in a
 5 pumping action of water from the chamber via the outlet,
   thereby increasing the outflow.
        The chamber may have a maximum width of less than 30
   meters.  In a situation in which the side wall has a
10 cylindrical inner surface, the maximum width is the
   diameter of the chamber.
        The maximum width of the chamber may be 25 meters.
15      The maximum width of the chamber may be 20 meters.
        The maximum width of the chamber may be 15 meters.
        The maximum width of the chamber may be 10 meters.
20
        The maximum width of the chamber may be 5 meters.
        The maximum width of the chamber may be greater than
   0.5 meters.
25
        The maximum width of the chamber may be greater than
   0.1 meters.
        The maximum width of the chamber may be greater than
30 0.01 meters.
        The chamber may have a maximum height of 10 meters.
        The chamber may have a maximum height of 5 meters.
35

                               - 9
        The chamber may have a maximum height of 1 meter.
        The assembly may include a gear box coupled to the
   rotor unit and the electrical generator to tune the output
 5 of the rotor unit to requirements of the electrical
   generator.   The purpose of the gearbox is to make it
   possible to maximise the output of the rotor unit to the
   electrical generator.
10      The assembly may include a control system to take into
   account variations of flow conditions within the chamber.
        The control system may be operatively connected to the
   inlet and/or the outlet flow control valves to control the
15 valve or valves.
        The present invention also provides an electricity
   generation system that includes the above-described
   assembly located in a body of water, with the assembly
20 partially or completely submerged in water, and with water
   flowing through the chamber and forming a vortex that
   drives the rotor and the generator and produces
   electricity.
25      The inlet and the outlet may be submerged in water,
   with water flowing through the chamber from the inlet  to
   the outlet and forming the vortex that drives the rotor and
   the generator and produces electricity.
30      The assembly may be located in the body of water with
   the side wall of the chamber extending above the level of
   water in the waterway.
        The assembly may be located in the body of water as a
35 free-standing unit.

                              - 10
        The assembly may be located in the body of water
   supported on the support structure of the assembly.
 5      The present invention also provides an electricity
   generation system that includes the above-described
   assembly located on the ground or in the ground beside a
   body of water, with the inlet and the outlet in fluid
   communication with the body of water, and with water
10 flowing through the chamber from the inlet to the outlet
   and forming a vortex that drives the rotor and the
   generator and produces electricity.
        The electricity generation system may be adapted to
15 generate 1-300 kW of electricity from the assembly.
        The electricity generation system may be adapted to
   generate 0.1-100 kW of electricity from the assembly.
20      The electricity generation system may be adapted to
   generate 0.1-30 kW of electricity from the assembly.
        The electricity generation system may be adapted to
   generate 0.001-0.1 kW of electricity from the assembly.
25
        The electricity generation system may include a
   plurality of the assemblies located in the body of water as
   separate assemblies or coupled together, with each assembly
   generating electricity.
30
        In a situation where the body of water is a waterway,
   such as a river or a stream or a creek, the assemblies may
   be located along the length of a section of the waterway or
   across the width of the waterway.
35

                              - 11
        The electrical generation system may be may be adapted
   to be coupled to a local or wider electricity supply
   network.
 5      The present invention also provides a method of
   generating electricity that includes locating the above
   described assembly in a body of water with the assembly
   partially or completely submerged in water so that water
   flows through the chamber forms a vortex that drives the
10 rotor and the generator and produces electricity.
        The inlet and the outlet may be submerged in water,
   with water flowing through the chamber from the inlet to
   the outlet and forming the vortex that drives the rotor and
15 the generator and produces electricity.
        The present invention also provides a method of
   generating electricity that includes locating the above
   described assembly on the ground or in the ground beside a
20 body of water with the inlet and the outlet in fluid
   communication with the body of water so that water flows
   through the chamber from the inlet to the outlet and forms
   a vortex that drives the rotor and the generator and
   produces electricity.
25
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        The invention is described further by way of example
   only with reference to the accompany drawings, of which:
30
        Figure 1 is a perspective view of one, although not
   the only, embodiment of an electricity generation assembly
   in accordance with the present invention;
35      Figure 2 is a side view of the assembly;

                              - 12
        Figure 3 is a side view of the assembly from a
   different direction to that of Figure 2;
 5      Figure 4 is a top view of the assembly;
        Figure 5 is a cross section along the line A-A in
   Figure 4;
10      Figure 6 is a perspective view of the chamber and
   inlet of the assembly;
        Figure 7 is a top view of the chamber/inlet shown in
   Figure 6;
15
        Figure 8 is a side view of the chamber/inlet shown in
   Figure 6;
        Figure 9 is a perspective view of the rotor of the
20 assembly;
        Figure 10 is a top view of the rotor shown in Figure
   9;
25      Figure 11 is a side view of the rotor shown in Figure
   9;
        Figure 12 is a perspective view of a section of the
   outlet of the assembly;
30
        Figure 13 is a cross section through the outlet
   section shown in Figure 12; and
        Figure 14 is a perspective view of the support
35 structure of the assembly.

                              - 13
   DESCRIPTION OF AN EMBODIMENT
        The embodiment of the electricity generation assembly
 5 3 shown in the Figures is one of a number of possible
   embodiments of the invention.   This particular embodiment
   is adapted to be positioned in a body of water or beside a
   body of water as a free-standing unit.   The following
   description of the embodiment focuses on positioning the
10 assembly in a body of water.   Other embodiments of the
   invention are also adapted to be positioned in a body of
   water as a free-standing unit and further embodiments of
   the invention are adapted to be positioned beside a body of
   water.
15
        With reference to the Figures, the assembly 3 includes
   a chamber 5 having a base 7, a cylindrical side wall 13
   (having a cylindrical internal surface) extending upwardly
   from the base 7, an inlet 15 in the side wall 13, an outlet
20 17 in the base 7, a rotor unit having a shaft 19 and a
   rotor 21 mounted to the shaft 19 and located in and
   rotatable within the chamber 5 in response to water flow
   through the chamber 5, and an electrical generator 25
   coupled to the rotor unit for generating electricity in
25 response to rotation of the rotor unit.
        The assembly 3 is open to the atmosphere.
        The assembly 3 may also include a gear box  (not shown)
30 coupled to the rotor unit and the electrical generator 25
   to tune the output of the rotor unit to requirements of the
   electrical generator.  The gear box may be any suitable
   gear box.
35      The assembly 3 also includes a structure that supports

                              - 14
   the components of the assembly and is adapted to locate the
   assembly in a body of water.   The support structure is
   formed to define a cradle for the chamber 5 that supports
   the chamber 5 and the other assembly components in   a stable
 5 way.  With reference to Figure 14, the support structure is
   a steel framework that includes a plurality of upright
   posts 27 arranged in a circle and interconnected by upper
   and lower steel rings 31.   The support structure also
   includes a series of brackets 29 that extend inwardly from
10 the posts 27 and define a series of supports for the base 7
   of the chamber 5.  The lower sections of the posts 27
   define support members in the form of legs for locating the
   assembly on the bed of a body of water.
15      The support structure also includes a platform 11 that
   supports the generator 25 and the rotor unit.   The platform
   11 is a steel framework that is supported by opposed pairs
   of posts 27 and extends across the chamber 5.   More
   particularly, the rotor unit is suspended from the platform
20 11 with the rotor shaft 19 in the centre of the chamber 5
   and the rotor 21 in a lower section of the chamber 5 and
   clear of the base 7 of the chamber 5.
        The chamber 5 is formed from a plastics material.    The
25 chamber may be formed from any other suitable material.
        The rotor 21 includes a plurality of vanes 33 that
   extend radially outwardly from the shaft 19 towards the
   side wall 13.  The vanes 33 are curved vanes that sweep
30 rearwardly from an inner edge that is connected to the
   shaft 19 and an outer edge.   The vanes 33 are concave when
   viewed in a direction of water flow within the chamber 5 (a
   clockwise direction as viewed in Figure 1).
35      The inlet 15 is in an upper section of the side wall

                                -  15
   13.  The inlet 15 is formed to promote the formation of a
   vortex in  the chamber 5 when water flows into the chamber 5
   via the inlet  15.  In  particular,  the inlet 15 is   formed to
   supply water into the chamber 5 to promote water flow in a
 5 vortex, i.e. a spiral pathway within the chamber 5 around
   the rotor shaft 19 and downwardly to the outlet 17 in the
   base 7 of the chamber 5.    Movement of water in this
   pathway, preferably with multiple spirals of water down the
   height of the chamber 5 between the inlet 15 and the outlet
10 17, results in the water contacting and moving the rotors
   21 and therefore powers the generator 25 and produces
   electricity. Vortex formation makes it possible to extract
   rotational kinetic energy that is the result of a
   combination of factors including the Coriolis force from
15 the rotation of the Earth.     As noted above, the energy that
   can be extracted from the vortex movement is related to the
   mass of water moving in the vortex in the chamber 5 and not
   simply to the flow rate of water into and from the chamber
   5.
20
        The inlet 15 includes a flow control valve      (not shown)
   to control the flow of water into the chamber 5 via the
   inlet 15.
25      The inlet 15 includes a pipe that has a straight
   section 35 and a funnel section 37.     The purpose of the
   funnel section 37 is to draw as much water as possible
   (within the overall assembly design) into the chamber 5.        A
   high water flow rate within the chamber 5 is one factor in
30 moving from essentially linear flow within the chamber 5
   (such as in a water-wheel) to the formation of a vortex
   with the chamber 5.    The straight section 35 facilitates
   directing the flow of water into the chamber as described
   above, i.e. to promote water flow in a spiral pathway,
35 preferably with multiple spirals of water down the height

                               - 16
   of the chamber 5 between the inlet 15 and the outlet 17.
   In order to further facilitate achieving a desired flow of
   water within the chamber 5, the pipe 35 is positioned at an
   inward angle of 70,  as can be seen in Figure 7.
 5
        The outlet 17 is positioned in a central part of the
   base 7 of the chamber 5.   The outlet 17 includes a flow
   control valve (not shown) to control the flow of water from
   the outlet 17.   The inlet 15 and the outlet 17 are
10 positioned with respect to each other to describe an angle
   of approximately 1450 when viewed from above the assembly.
   The outlet includes an outlet funnel section 47 located in
   the chamber 5 (see Figure 5).   The rotor shaft 19 and the
   outlet funnel section 47 are located to be co-axial.    The
15 outlet funnel section 47 is formed as a shallow funnel,
   typically having an angle of less than 200, typically 5
   150, to a horizontal axis to promote the formation of a
   vortex within the chamber 5 as a stable vortex that does
   not move around within the chamber 5 after it has been
20 established.   The outlet 17 includes an outlet pipe that
   includes a first section 39 that extends downwardly from
   the base 7 and a second section 41 that extends
   perpendicular to the first section 39.    As can best be seen
   in Figures 12 and 13, the outlet 17 includes a rifled
25 internal surface, i.e. a surface with a series of spiral
   ridges 43 in the internal surface, to improve water flow
   through the outlet 17.   The rifled internal surface is one
   example of a number of options for ensuring that water flow
   through the outlet 17 and the outlet pipe 39, 41 minimises
30 disruption to the vortex in the chamber 5.
        The dimensions of the inlet 15, the outlet 17 and the
   chamber 5 and the positions of the inlet 15 and the outlet
   17 and the rotor 21 are selected to promote the formation
35 of a vortex, i.e. a downwardly spiralling flow of water,

                               - 17
   within the chamber, preferably with multiple spirals of
   water down the height of the chamber 5 between the inlet 15
   and the outlet 17, when in use the assembly is located in a
   body of water and there is a flow of water through the
 5 chamber from the inlet 15 to the outlet 17.   In this
   regard, relevant factors include but are not limited to   (a)
   providing the side wall 13 with a cylindrical internal
   surface, (b) the direction of water flow from the inlet 15
   into the chamber 5 to promote rotational movement of water
10 within the chamber, (c) positioning the inlet 15 in an
   upper section of the chamber 5 at a height just above the
   rotor 21,  (d) providing the inlet 15 with a funnel section
   37 that maximises water flow into the chamber 5, (e) the
   shape and location of the vanes 33 of the rotor 21, and (f)
15 providing the outlet 17 with a funnel section 47 that
   promotes the formation of the vortex as a stable vortex
   that does not move around within the chamber 5.
        The assembly 3 is straightforward to manufacture,
20 transport and install.   The chamber and the other
   components of the assembly can be made from any suitable
   materials.   The assembly is an uncomplicated design that is
   robust and reliable and requires low maintenance.   The
   assembly 3 is a free-standing unit within a body of water.
25
        In use, the assembly 3 is located in a body of water
   with the inlet 15 and the outlet 17 submerged in the water
   and the side wall 13 extending above the water level.
   Water flows through the chamber 5 from the inlet 15 to the
30 outlet 17 and forms a vortex, preferably with multiple
   spirals of water down the height of the chamber 5 between
   the inlet 15 and the outlet 17 that drives the rotor unit
   and the generator 25 and produces electricity.   In a start
   up phase of the assembly, with the chamber initially empty
35 and control valves for the inlet and the outlet selectively

                               - 18
   opened so that the flow of water into the chamber builds up
   to a point where a vortex forms in   the chamber.  The vortex
   is indicated by a conical air   space within the chamber that
   extends downwardly to the outlet, with the water in   the
 5 chamber flowing in one or multiple spirals of water down
   the height of the chamber between the inlet and the outlet.
   Once there is a stable vortex in the chamber, the control
   valves are adjusted so that the flow rate of water into and
   out of the chamber is the same.
10
         Many modifications may be made to the embodiment of
   the invention described above without departing from the
   spirit and scope of the invention.
15       By way of example, whilst the embodiment is shown as
   having particular relative dimensions of the height and the
   width of the chamber 5, a particular configuration of the
   rotor 21, and particular configurations of the inlet 15 and
   the outlet 17 and the other components of the assembly, the
20 present invention is not so limited and extends to any
   suitable arrangements.
         By way of example, whilst the side wall 13 has a
   cylindrical internal surface to promote the formation of
25 the vortex in the chamber 5, the invention is not limited
   to this arrangement and the chamber 5 may include
   formations, such as vanes and/or baffles, to promote the
   formation of the vortex in the chamber.    The formations may
   be supported by or be part of the side wall and/or the
30 base.
         By way of example, whilst the embodiment includes a
   particular structure that supports the components of the
   assembly and is adapted to locate the assembly in a body of
35 water, the present invention is not limited to this

                              - 19
   arrangement.  By way of particular example, the series of
   brackets 29 that extend inwardly from the posts 27 and
   define a series of supports for the base 7 of the chamber 5
   is one of a number of suitable options.  Another option is
 5 to provide a series of cross-members extending between
   spaced apart posts 27.
        By way of example, whilst the embodiment includes one
   rotor unit only, the present invention is not limited to
10 this arrangement and may include a plurality of rotor units
   within one chamber or a plurality of generator units within
   one chamber, with the assembly being formed to promote the
   formation of a separate vortex formation associated with
   each rotor unit.
15
        By way of example, whilst the embodiment is described
   as being adapted to be located on the bed of a body of
   water, the present invention is not so limited and extends
   to embodiments that are adapted to be located on the ground
20 or in the ground beside the body of water.  These
   embodiments include pipe work connecting the body of water
   to the inlet 15 and the outlet 17 of the assembly 3.
        By way of example, whilst the embodiment is described
25 as a stand-alone unit, the present invention is not so
   limited and extends to arrangements in which the assembly 3
   is used in conjunction with other hydro-powered electricity
   generation systems.

                              - 20
   CLAIMS
   1.   An assembly for generating electricity that is
   transportable as a unit from a manufacturing site to an
 5 end-use location in which the assembly is positioned in or
   beside a body of water as a free-standing unit and includes
   (a) a chamber having a base, a cylindrical side wall
   extending from the base, a water inlet, and a water outlet,
   with the side wall having a cylindrical internal surface,
10 and with the inlet being at an inward angle to the
   cylindrical internal surface of the side wall so that water
   that in use water flows into the chamber flows in a spiral
   pathway within the chamber around the shaft and downwardly
   to the outlet, (b) a rotor unit having a shaft and a rotor
15 mounted to the shaft located in and rotatable in the
   chamber in response to water in use flowing through the
   chamber, with the rotor including a plurality of vanes
   extending radially outwardly from the shaft towards the
   side wall, with the inlet and the vanes being positioned
20 relative to each other so that in use at least a part of
   water flowing into the chamber from the inlet flows
   directly towards the vanes,  (c) an electrical generator or
   more than one electrical generator coupled to the rotor
   unit for generating electricity in response to rotation of
25 the rotor, and (d) a structure that in use supports and
   locates the assembly in or beside the body of water as a
   free-standing unit,
        wherein the (i) the inlet angle (ii) the dimensions of
   the inlet, the outlet and the chamber, (iii) the positions
30 of the inlet and the outlet, and (iv) the positions of the
   inlet and the vanes relative to each other are selected so
   that a vortex forms within the chamber when in use the
   assembly is in or beside the body of water as a free
   standing unit and there is a flow of water through the
35 chamber from the inlet to the outlet.

                              - 21
   2.   The assembly defined in claim 1 wherein the support
   structure includes a framework that is formed to cradle the
   base and the side wall of the chamber and includes a
 5 plurality of support members in the form of legs that, in
   use of the assembly, extend downwardly from the base and
   are adapted to locate the assembly in ore beside the body
   of water.
10 3.   The assembly defined in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the
   inlet includes a flow control valve to control the flow of
   water into the chamber via the inlet and/or the outlet
   includes a flow control valve to control the flow of water
   from the outlet.
15
   4.   The assembly defined in any one of the preceding
   claims wherein the inlet angle is 5-10'.
   5.   An electricity generation system that includes the
20 assembly defined in any one of the preceding claims located
   in or beside a body of water as a free-standing unit, with
   the inlet and the outlet in fluid communication with the
   body of water, and with water flowing through the chamber
   from the inlet to the outlet and forming a vortex that
25 drives the rotor and the generator and produces electricity

                                             -1/7-
<removed-date>
                                   25
              Figure 1
                                                                      37
                              11
                          5
<removed-apn>
                                                                                          15
                                                                                      3
                                                                 35
                                                                            13
                          7
                                                                           17
                                                  41
                                        25
              Figure 2                                                15
                                                                                 37
                                                            35
                     13
                                   41                  39
                                             17

                                             -2/7-
<removed-date>
                                                          25
              Figure 3
                              11
<removed-apn>
                     37                                                  13
                                             39      17
                                                               41
                                   37
               Figure 4                                             35
                                   15
                         25                                              7    17
                                        13
                                                               11

                               -3/7-
<removed-date>
                                            25
               Figure 5
                          19
<removed-apn>
                                                      13
                    21
                                                 15
                                            47
                               39      41
                                                 5
              Figure 6                                          15
                     13
                                                           35

                               -4/7-
<removed-date>
                                       15
               Figure 7
                  13
<removed-apn>
                                            35
                          13
                                       35
              Figure 8

                               -5/7-
<removed-date>
                                  19
                                       21
              Figure 9
<removed-apn>
                                       33
              Figure 10
                                            21
               19
                          33

                               -6/7-
<removed-date>
                                            32
                               19
                          33
              Figure 11
<removed-apn>
                                       41
              Figure 12
                                                 43

                                     -7/7-
<removed-date>
                                             43
              Figure 13
                               41
<removed-apn>
                                31
              Figure 14
                          27
                                     29

