                                          ABSTRACT
  A method for detecting a carboxyl-containing compound in a first sample. The method
  comprises a step of adding a first derivatizing agent to the first sample to form a first
  mixture, wherein the first derivatizing agent comprises a compound of Formula (1). A kit
5 for determining the amount of a carboxyl-containing compound in a sample. The kit
  comprises the first derivatizing agent.

 18000000
 15000000
S12000000
                                                                   --   hr
  9000000
                                                                      Phe
  6000000 -                                                           His
  3000000            -      -   -
        0
              1  5    10    30     60   90   120   240   600
                         Reaction Tmie (min)
 30000000
                                                                   -- Sue
 20000000 -                                                           Sue
                   - ---    -a--                              ----    Lac
 10000000
              1  5    10    30     60   90   120   240   600
                         Reaction Time (min)
   750000
                                                          ----     BA
  S300000
   150000 ---                                                     VAP
   150000
        0
              1 5    10    30     60  90   120   240  600
                        Reaction Time (min)
                              Fig. 1a

       METHOD AND KIT FOR DETECTING CARBOXYL-CONTAINING COMPOUND
                                        TECHNICAL FIELD
   The present invention relates to a method for detecting a carboxyl-containing
 5 compound in a sample in particular a biological sample. The present invention also
   pertains to a kit for carrying out the method.
                              BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   Various carboxyl-containing compounds are present in a living organism as essential
10 components involved in growth, development and reproduction of the living organism,
   whereas some carboxyl-containing compounds may not be involved in normal growth
   process, but for survival under specific environment. These compounds may be called
   carboxyl-containing metabolites (CCMs). Generally, CCMs widely exist in an
   organism. CCMs contain, but not limiting to, amino acids (AAs), tricarboxylic acid
15 cycle intermediates (TCAs), short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs), long-chain fatty acids
   (LCFAs), bile acids and so on. These CCMs can be biomarkers for disease diagnosis,
   study of a pathogenic process, metabolism investigation, synthesis of protein, cell
   growth, or the like. For instance, AAs and TCAs are used in cancer studies. Short
   chain fatty acids such as butyric acid (BA) and propionic acid (PA) can be used to
20 evaluate the effects of a drug or potential compound on anti-inflammation. Long-chain
   fatty acids such as hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acids (HETEs, w-6), prostaglandins (PGs,
   w-6), thromboxanes (TXs, w-6), and hydroperoxyeicosapentaenoic acids (HEPEs, w
   3), play vital roles in disorders such as cancer, inflammation, diabetes, immune cell
   behavior and other biological activities and therefore can act as a biomarker.
25 Therefore, the detection of CCMs is important in the development of methods for
   diagnosis of diseases and clinical studies.
   Gas chromatography (GC) and liquid chromatography (LC) coupled with mass
   spectrometry (MS) have been used for CCMs analysis. However, the thermal
30 instability of some CCMs hinders the use of GC-MS. Also, the significant polarity
   differences between hydrophilic CCMs such as AAs, TCAs and SCFAs and
   hydrophobic CCMs such as LCFAs and bile acids affect the separation of these two
   groups of CCMs on LC column. Recently, a reversed-phase liquid chromatography
   (RPLC) column combined with hydrophilic interaction liquid chromatography (HILIC)
35 column or the use of ion pairing agents with reverse-phase column was developed to
   overcome the significantly polarity difference between hydrophilic and hydrophobic
                                                1

   CCMs. However, each of these approaches has drawbacks for processing global
   metabolites. The combination of RPLC and HILIC column are generally associated
   with broader peak shapes, which will result in the decrease of separation efficiency.
   The use of ion pairing agents is general incompatibility with mass spectrometry and
 5 causes contamination affecting MS analysis.
   Accordingly, there remains a strong need for developing improved method to detect
   carboxyl-containing compounds for simultaneous analysis and identification of CCMs,
   and for differentiating hydrophilic and hydrophobic CCMs.
10
                                SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   The first aspect of the present invention relates to a method for detecting a carboxyl
   containing compound in a first sample comprising a step of adding a first derivatizing
   agent to the first sample to form a first mixture, wherein the first derivatizing agent
15 comprises a compound of Formula (1):
                                        H2 N-R-NR
                                            Formula (I),
   wherein RI is an unsubstituted or substituted straight or branched alkyl chain having 1
   to 6 carbon atoms, and R2 and R3 are each independently unsubstituted or
20 substituted methyl, ethyl, propyl or isopropyl group.
   Preferably, the first derivatizing agent comprises a compound of Formula (11):
                                                            CX 3
                            H2N                          N  CX
                                                             ;ACX3
                                                  X3C    CXCX3
                                            Formula (II)
25 wherein X is hydrogen or deuterium.
   In an embodiment, the method comprises a step of preparing a second mixture
   comprising a second derivatizing agent and a second sample, wherein the second
   derivatizing agent is different from the first derivatizing agent and comprises a
30 compound of Formula (1)as described.
                                                2

   In the second aspect, there is provided a kit for detecting a carboxyl-containing
   compound, i.e. determining the amount of a carboxyl-containing compound in a
   sample, comprising a first derivatizing agent comprising a compound of Formula (1):
                                           H2 N-R-N        R2
 5
                                              Formula (I),
   wherein R1 is an unsubstituted or substituted straight or branched alkyl chain having 1
   to 6 carbon atoms, and R2 and R3 are each independently unsubstituted or
   substituted methyl, ethyl, propyl or isopropyl group.
10
   Preferably, the kit further comprises a second derivatizing agent. In an embodiment,
   the first derivatizing agent comprises a compound of Formula (Ila) and the second
   derivatizing agent comprises a compound of Formula (Ilb):
                                                            CH3
                            H2N                          N       CH 3
                                                  H3 C      CH 3
15                                        Formula (Ila)
                                                            CD3
                            H2N                          N       CD 3
                                                  D3 C      CD 3
                                          Formula (Ilb).
   Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention described herein is
20 susceptible to variations and modifications other than those specifically described.
   The invention includes all such variations and modifications. The invention also
   includes all steps and features referred to or indicated in the specification, individually
   or collectively, and any and all combinations of the steps or features.
25 Other features and aspects of the invention will become apparent by consideration of
   the following detailed description and accompanying drawings.
                                               3

                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   Fig. 1 refers to plots of peak area against reaction time or reaction temperature of
   Compound la-derivatized carboxyl-containing standards. Fig. la shows the influence
 5 of reaction time on Compound la-derivatized carboxyl-containing standards of
   phenylalanine (Phe), threonine (Thr), histidine (His), propionic acid (PA), butyric acid
   (BA), valeric acid (VA), fumaric acid (Fum), succinic acid (Suc) and lactic acid (Lac).
   Fig. lb shows the influence of reaction time on Compound la-derivatized carboxyl
   containing standards of 11-dehydro TXB2, 15(S)-HETE, PGE2, 13(S)-HOTrE, 15(S)
10 HEPE, 5(S)-HEPE, cholic acid (CA), chenodeoxycholic acid (CDCA) and glycocholic
   acid (GCA). Fig. 1c shows the influence of reaction temperature on Compound la
   derivatized carboxyl-containing standards of Phe, Thr, His, PA, BA, VA, Fum, Suc
   and Lac. Fig. 1d shows the influence of reaction temperature on Compound la
   derivatized carboxyl-containing standards of 11-dehydro TXB2, 15(S)-HETE, PGE2,
15 13(S)-HOTrE, 15(S)-HEPE, 5(S)-HEPE, CA, CDCA and GCA.
   Fig. 2 refers to LC-MS chromatograms of carboxyl-containing standards and their
   Compound la-derivatives. Fig. 2a shows the LC-MS chromatograms of carboxyl
   containing standards prior to Compound la-derivatization. Fig. 2b shows the LC-MS
20 chromatograms of carboxyl-containing standards after Compound la-derivatization.
   After derivatization, the carboxyl-containing standards in region Al and A2 appeared
   in region B1 and B2, respectively.
   Fig. 3 refers to extracted ion chromatograms (EIC) obtained after derivatization of ten
25 carboxyl-containing standards or carboxyl-containing metabolites in a serum sample
   obtained from healthy or CRC patient. Fig. 3a shows an EIC of Compound la
   derivatized standards. Fig. 3b shows an EIC of Compound lb-derivatized standards.
   The CCM standards include Trp, Fum, 15(S)-HETE (1), 9(S)-HPODE (2), 11(S)
   HETE (3), 12(S)-HETE (4), 8(S)-HETE (5), 5(S)-HETE and 14(15)-EET (6), and
30 11(12)-EET (7). Fig. 3c shows an EIC of Compound la-derivatized healthy human
   serum. Fig. 3d shows an EIC of Compound 1b-derivatized CRC patient serum.
   Fig. 4 refers to LC-MS chromatograms of CCMs in different samples determined with
   non-derivatization and Compound la-derivatization approaches. Fig. 4a shows the
35 LC-MS     chromatograms      of CCMs     of cell  line. Fig.  4b shows     the  LC-MS
   chromatograms of CCMs of human serum. Fig. 4c shows the LC-MS chromatograms
                                               4

   of CCMs of rat serum. Fig. 4d shows the LC-MS chromatograms of CCMs of rat feces.
   Fig. 4e shows the LC-MS chromatograms of CCMs of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Fig.
   4f shows the LC-MS chromatograms of CCMs of tea.
 5
                       DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
   Unless otherwise defined, all technical terms used herein have the same meaning as
   commonly understood by one skilled in the art to which the invention belongs.
10 As used herein, "comprising" means including the following elements but not
   excluding others. "Essentially consisting of' means that the material consists of the
   respective element along with usually and unavoidable impurities such as side
   products and components usually resulting from the respective preparation or method
   for obtaining the material such as traces of further components or solvents. The
15 expression that a material is certain element is to be understood for meaning
   "essentially consists of' said element. As used herein, the forms "a," "an," and "the,"
   are intended to include the singular and plural forms unless the context clearly
   indicates otherwise.
20 In the first aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method for detecting a
   carboxyl-containing compound in a sample in particular a biological sample. The
   method can be applied to detect the presence or absence and/or the amount of one
   or more target carboxyl-containing compounds in a sample.
25 The term "carboxyl-containing compound" refers to any compounds having one or
   more carboxyl groups. In one embodiment, the carboxyl-containing compound is
   selected from the group consisting of an amino acid, a saturated or unsaturated fatty
   acid, a dicarboxylic acid, a tricarboxylic acid, and a steroid acid such as a bile acid.
30 The phrase "target carboxyl-containing compound" refers to a particular carboxyl
   containing compound of interest. The carboxyl-containing compound of interest may
   be a metabolite produced by a human, an animal, an alga, a fungus, a yeast, a
   bacterium or a plant, and the metabolite may be primary or secondary metabolite.
35 The sample is preferably a biological sample obtained or derived from an animal, a
   plant, an alga, a fungus, an insect, a yeast, a bacterium or the like. Preferably, the
                                                 5

   sample is obtained or derived from a mammal such as a human, or a plant. In an
   embodiment where the sample is obtained from a human, the sample may comprise
   blood, a portion of a tissue, an extract, cells, serum, body fluid such as saliva, urea
   and cerebrospinal fluid, feces or the like. In an embodiment where the sample is
 5 obtained or derived from a plant, the sample may comprise a portion of a processed
   or non-processed tissue, an extract, cells, a secretion or the like. The sample may be
   in solid form such as dried or lyophilized form before applying the method of the
   invention.
10 Turning to the method, the method comprises a step of adding one or more
   derivatizing agent to one or more samples to form one or more mixtures for detection
   of a carboxyl-containing compound          in the one or more samples. The term
   "derivatizing agent" used herein refers to an agent that can alter a functional group of
   a compound to form a corresponding derivative. In particular, the derivatizing agent
15 may alter the carboxyl group of the carboxyl-containing compound to form a
   corresponding derivative for detection. Preferably, the derivatizing agent comprises a
   compound of Formula (1):
                                           H2 N-R-N         R2
                                               Formula (1),
20 wherein R1 is an unsubstituted or substituted straight or branched alkyl chain having 1
   to 6 carbon atoms, and R2 and R3 are each independently unsubstituted or
   substituted methyl, ethyl, propyl or isopropyl group.
   In an embodiment, R1 may be unsubstituted straight C1-C6 alkyl chain such as
25 methyl, ethyl, propyl, butyl, pentyl or hexyl, or branched C1-C6 alkyl chain, or C1-C6
   alkyl chain substituted by a substituent selected from a halo, an alkoxyl or a phenyl
   group. Preferably, R1 is an unsubstituted straight alkyl chain having 1 to 6 carbon
   atoms, in particular R1 is a pentyl group.
30 R2 and R3 are each independently unsubstituted or substituted methyl, ethyl, propyl or
   isopropyl group. R2 and R3 may be each independently methyl, ethyl, propyl or
   isopropyl group with one or more hydrogen atoms substituted by deuterium. In one
   embodiment, R2 and R3 are each independently unsubstituted or substituted isopropyl
                                                6

   group, where one or more hydrogen atoms of the isopropyl group may be substituted
   by deuterium.
   In a particular embodiment, the derivatizing agent comprises a compound of Formula
 5 (II):
                                                           CX3
                                                           I
                          H2 N                          N  CX CX 3
                                                X3C 111,CX CX3
                                        Formula (II)
   wherein X is hydrogen or deuterium, i.e. the derivatizing agent may comprise a
   compound of Formula (Ila) or Formula (Ilb):
                                                           CH3
                          H2N                           N      CH 3
10                                              H3 C   CCH   3
                                        Formula (Ila)
                                                           CD3
                          H2N                           N  CD CD3
                                                D3 C   CD CD 3
                                       Formula (Ilb).
   Each of the compounds of Formula (Ila) and Formula (ib) can alter the functional
15 group of a carboxyl-containing compound to form the corresponding derivative. Due
   to the difference between hydrogen and deuterium, the derivatives produced from the
   two compounds can be separately identified for example by a mass spectrometer.
   After adding the derivatizing agent to the sample to form a mixture, the mixture is
20 subject to conditions where a reaction in particular condensation occurs between the
   derivatizing agent and the carboxyl-containing compound in the sample. In an
   embodiment where condensation is required to convert the carboxyl-containing
   compound, a condensating agent is added into the sample.
                                              7

   The term "condensating agent" refers to any agents that can facilitate or involve in a
   condensation reaction between two molecules. Preferably, the condensating agent as
   used     herein  comprises    1-hydroxybenzotriazole    (abbreviated    as  HOBt),     1
   [bis(dimethylamino)methylene]-1 H-1,2,3-triazolo[4,5-b]pyridinium                3-oxide
 5 hexafluorophosphate (abbreviated as HATU), or a combination thereof. In an
   embodiment, both HOBt and HATU are added to the sample, preferably HOBt and
   HATU are separately provided in a solvent such as dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) before
   addition to the sample. A person having the ordinary skills in the art would appreciate
   that other suitable condensating agents may also be applied in accordance with the
10 present disclosure.
   In an embodiment, the mixture is prepared by mixing the sample, a derivatizing agent
   as described above and a condensating agent as described above before subjecting
   the mixture to conditions where condensation occurs. The derivatizing agent may be
15 provided with a base such as triethylamine (TEA) for addition to the sample.
   Preferably, the sample is first mixed with HOBt, then the derivatizing agent, followed
   by HATU at room temperature. The mixture is then incubated at room temperature for
   about 30 seconds, 1 minute, 2 minutes or more before conducting mass spectrum
   analysis to detect the presence, absence and/or the amount of the derivative of the
20 carboxyl-containing compound in the sample, i.e. corresponding to the presence,
   absence and/or the amount of the carboxyl-containing compound in the sample.
   The method comprises a step of conducting mass spectrum analysis preferably liquid
   chromatography-mass spectrum (LC-MS) analysis of the mixture. The LC-MS
25 analysis includes, but not limiting to, high-performance liquid chromatography-mass
   spectrum (HPLC)      analysis, ultra-high performance liquid chromatography-mass
   spectrum (UHPLC-MS) analysis, and ultra-high performance liquid chromatography
   quadrupole rod time-of-flight mass spectrum (UHPLC-Q-TOF/MS)             analysis. In a
   preferred embodiment, a UHPLC-Q-TOF/MS is conducted to obtain a mass spectrum
30 of the mixture. It would be appreciated that an internal standard may be added to the
   mixture before derivatization and conducting the MS analysis.
   The inventors unexpectedly found that the derivatizing agent of the present invention
   can successfully convert one or more carboxyl-containing compounds in the sample,
35 i.e. forming derivatives to be detected by the mass spectrometer. In particular, the
   derivatization enhances the separation efficiency and sensitivity for the detection of
                                               8

   the carboxyl-containing compounds.        It also allows effective identification and
   differentiation between hydrophilic carboxyl-containing compounds and hydrophobic
   carboxyl-containing compounds. The detection can be completed within 1 hour in
   particular within 44 min with improved performance compared to the existing direct
 5 detection of carboxyl-containing compounds.
   In an embodiment where more than one derivatizing agent in particular two
   derivatizing agents are applied, there are provided a first derivatizing agent
   comprising a compound of Formula (1) as described above, and a second derivatizing
10 agent comprising a compound of Formula (1) which is different from that in the first
   derivatizing agent. Preferably, the first derivatizing agent comprises a compound of
   Formula (Ila) and the second derivatizing agent comprises a compound of Formula
   (IIb):
                                                             CH3
                             H2N                         NC HCHCH3
                                                 H3 C        CH 3
15                                        Formula (Ila)
                                                             CD3
                             H2N                         N   CD CD3
                                                 D3 C   CD CD 3
                                         Formula (Ilb).
   The first sample and the second sample are different from each other. In one
20 embodiment, the first sample may be derived from an individual suffering from a
   disorder and the second sample may be derived from a healthy individual, or vice
   versa. The individual is preferably a mammal such as a human. The disorder includes,
   but not limiting to, an inflammatory disease, an autoimmune disease, a cardiovascular
   disease, a gastrointestinal disease, and a cancer. Preferably, the individual may be a
25 human suffering from cancer such as colon cancer, lung cancer, liver cancer, breast
   cancer, prostate cancer, skin cancer or the like. In an embodiment, the first sample
   may be obtained from a human suffering from colon cancer, whereas the second
   sample may be obtained from a healthy human. Alternatively, the first sample may be
                                               9

   obtained from a human suffering from a disorder, and the second sample may
   comprise a pre-determined        amount of one or more target carboxyl-containing
   compounds.
 5 Preferably, the method comprises steps of:
       -   adding the first derivatizing agent as described above to the first sample to
           form a first mixture, and
       -   preparing a second mixture comprising the second derivatizing agent as
           described above and the second sample, in particular the second derivatizing
10         agent is different from the first derivatizing agent;
   wherein each of the first and second mixture comprises a condensating agent as
   described above to facilitate the reaction between the derivatizing agent and the
   carboxyl-containing compound. In an embodiment, the first and second samples are
   obtained from humans.
15
   Next, after subjecting the first and second mixtures to conditions where condensation
   occurs, the first mixture and the second mixture are combined to form a third mixture,
   preferably the first mixture and the second mixture are combined at a volume ratio of
   about 1:1. Subsequently, the third mixture is subject to mass spectrum analysis as
20 described above, i.e. the method further comprises a step of conducting liquid
   chromatography-mass spectrum analysis of the third mixture.
   The application of a second derivatizing agent allows simultaneous identification and
   comparison of the level of one or more carboxyl-containing compounds between two
25 samples. This is particularly useful in investigation of the health condition of an
   individual, diagnosis of a disease in an individual, quality or quantitative assessment
   of a product, and the like. In other words, the method of the present invention is
   suitable for various medical applications, and quality control/assurance of a product.
30 In the second aspect of the invention, there is provided a kit for determining the
   amount of a carboxyl-containing compound in a sample. The kit comprises one or
   more derivatizing agents as described above, in particular the kit comprises a first
   derivatizing agent. The first derivatizing agent comprises a compound of Formula (1)
                                            H2 N-R-N         R2
                                                 10

                                              Formula (I),
   wherein R1 is an unsubstituted or substituted straight or branched alkyl chain having 1
   to 6 carbon atoms, and R2 and R3 are each independently unsubstituted or
   substituted methyl, ethyl, propyl or isopropyl group. In an embodiment, R1 may be
 5 unsubstituted straight C1-C6 alkyl chain, or C1-C6 alkyl chain substituted by a
   substituent selected from a halo, an alkoxyl or a phenyl group. Preferably, R1 is an
   unsubstituted straight alkyl chain having 1 to 6 carbon atoms, in particular R1 is a
   pentyl group. R2 and R3 may be each independently methyl, ethyl, propyl or isopropyl
   group with one or more hydrogen atoms substituted by deuterium. In one embodiment,
10 R2 and R3 are each independently unsubstituted or substituted isopropyl group, where
   one or more hydrogen atoms of the isopropyl group may be substituted by deuterium.
   Preferably, the first derivatizing agent comprises a compound of Formula (II):
                                                             CX 3
                            H2 N                        N "CXCX   3
                                                  X3C   CX 1 CX3
15                                         Formula (II)
   wherein X is hydrogen or deuterium.
   More preferably, the kit further comprises a second derivatizing agent comprising a
   compound of Formula (1) which is different from that of the first derivatizing agent. In
20 an embodiment, the first derivatizing agent comprises a compound of Formula (Ila)
   and the second derivatizing agent comprises a compound of Formula (Ilb):
                                                             CH3
                            H2N                         N    CH CH3
                                                  H3 C  CH CH 3
                                          Formula (Ila)
                                                             CD3
                            H2N                         N CIDCDCD3
                                                  D3 C       CD 3
                                               11

                                        Formula (Ilb).
   The two derivatizing agents can be applied separately to react with one or more
   carboxyl-containing compounds in different samples.
 5
   In an advanced embodiment, the derivatizing agent is provided in a base solution.
   In addition, the kit further comprises a condensating agent as described above. In
   particular, the condensating agent comprises HOBt, HATU, or a combination thereof.
10 Preferably, the kit comprises HOBt and HATU provided in a solvent such as DMSO.
   It would be appreciated that suitable solvents for the derivatizing agent, and the
   condensating agent may also be included in the kit.
15                                       EXAMPLES
                                   Chemicals and reagents
   All long-chain carboxylic metabolites standards mixtures were purchased from
   Cayman Chemical (Ann Arbor, MI). They are (S)-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid (HETE)
   HPLC mixture containing 5(S)-, 8(S)-, 11(S)-, 12(S)-, and 15(S)-HETE; hydroperoxy
20 HPLC mixture containing 5(S)-, 12(S)-, and 15(S)-hydroperoxyeicosatetraenoic acid
   (HPETE), 9(S)- and 13(S)-hydroperoxyoctadecadienoic acid (HPODE); w-3 hydroxy
   acid HPLC mixture containing 5(S)-, 12(S)-, and 15(S)-hydroxyeicosapentaenoic acid
   (HEPE),        13(S)-hydroxyoctadecatrienoic      acid     (HOTrE),       and       15(S)
   Hydroxyeicosatrienoic acid (HETrE);      cyclopentenone prostaglandin (PG)           HPLC
25 mixture containing PGA2, PGB2, PGD2, PGE2 and PGJ2; prostaglandin HPLC
   mixture containing PGE1, PGE2, PGF1a, 6-keto PGF1a and PGF2a; vasoactive
   eicosanoid HPLC mixture containing thromboxane B2 (TXB2), 11-dehydro TXB2, 6
   keto PGF1a, 2,3-dinor-6-keto PGF1a and 12(S)-hydroxyheptadecatrienoic acid
   (HHTrE); prostaglandin metabolite HPLC mixture containing 13,14-dihydro-15-keto
30 PGD2 (DK-PGD2), 13,14-dihydro-15-keto PGE2 (DK-PGE2), 11p-PGF2a, 13,14
   dihydro-15-keto PGF2a (DK-PGF2a) and PGF2a; Leukotriene B4 (LTB4); 11(12)
   epoxyeicosatrienoic acid (11(12)-EET).      Bile acids containing cholic acid (CA),
   chenodeoxycholic acid (CDCA), deoxycholic acid (DCA), lithocholic acid (LCA),
   glycocholic acid (GCA), ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA), glycochenodeoxycholic acid
35 (GCDCA); amino acids mixtures containing L-alanine (Ala), arginine (Arg), aspartic
   acid (Asp), glutamic acid (Glu), glycine (Gly), histidine (His), isoleucine (lie), leucine
                                              12

   (Leu), lysine (Lys), methionine (Met), phenylalanine (Phe), proline (Pro), serine (Ser),
   threonine (Thr), tyrosine (Tyr), tryptophan (Trp), glutamine (Gin) and valine (Val); TCA
   cycle intermediates containing aconitic acid, malic acid (Mal), fumaric acid (Fum), a
   ketoglutaratic acid (a-KG), lactic acid (Lac) and succinic acid (Suc); short-chain fatty
 5 acids containing butyric acid (BA), isobutyric acid (IBA), propionic acid (PA), valeric
   acid (VA) and isovaleric acid (IVA) were purchased from Sigma-Aldrich Laboratories,
   Inc. (St. Louis, MO). The internal standard LTB4-d 4 were obtained from Cayman
   Chemical (Ann Arbor, MI) and 4-chloro-DL-phenylalanine were obtained from Sigma
   Aldrich (St. Louis, MO).
10
   5-(Diisopropylamino)amylamine (abbreviated as DIAAA, denoted as Compound 1a)
   was     synthesized      and   purified     by   prepared     HPLC    before  derivatization.   1
   Hydroxybenzotriazole             hydrate           (abbreviated         as        HOBt),        1
   [bis(dimethylamino)methylene]-1 H-1,2,3-triazolo[4,5-b]pyridinium                          3-oxid
15 hexafluorophosphate (abbreviated             as HATU),        2-iodopropane, 2-iodopropane-d7 ,
   triethylamine (abbreviated as TEA) and DMSO were also purchased from Sigma
   Aldrich Laboratories, Inc. (St. Louis, MO). N-Z-1,5-pentanediamine hydrochloride was
   purchased from Technology Consulting, Inc. Acetonitrile of LC/MS grade were
   purchased from Anaqua Chemicals Supply Inc., Ltd. (Houston, TA, USA). Deionized
20 water was prepared using a Millipore water purification system (Millipore Corp, USA).
   MS grade formic acid and other chemical reagents were purchased from Sigma
   Aldrich Laboratories, Inc. (St. Louis, MO).
                                                EXAMPLE 1
25                     Synthesis and characterization of Compound la and 1b
   Compound 1a and 1b of the present invention were prepared according to Reaction
   Scheme 1:
               OH+                              X      DMF, K2 CO 3         O   NxN
             0-ON-             NH 2 +____                              N          '_            CX
                   H                      X 3C  CX                              H                CX 3
                                                  OCX
                                                    3    50 *C                                Cx
                                                                                         X3 C
                                                                                               CX3
                                               cx 3
          TFA, CH 2 C2     H2N      W        N' C
           Room Temp.                        I    OX3
                                      x 3 cx
30                                         Reaction Scheme 1
   wherein X is hydrogen or deuterium.
                                                      13

   N-Z-1,5-pentanediamine hydrochloride (170 mg) was added to a stirring solution of
   DMF (1.5 mL) containing 1 g of K2 C0    3 at 500C, followed by the addition of 1 mL of 2
   iodopropane or 2-iodopropane-d. The mixture was allowed to react for 46 h and then
 5 concentrated. The carboxybenzyl (Cbz) protected Compound 1a or 1b was purified by
   HPLC using ACN:H 20 (20:60) as eluent. TFA:CH 2CI 2 (in a volume ratio of 9:1) was
   added dropwise to a CH 2 CI 2 solution of the Cbz protected compound 1a or 1b. The
   mixture was stirred for 1 h at room temperature, and then concentrated in vacuo, the
   residue was washed with 5% Na 2 CO 3 until the pH of the residue turns to pH 8-9. The
10 supernatant was dried under rotary evaporation to afford Compound 1a or 1b.
                                         EXAMPLE 2
                                     Sample Preparation
   Cold methanol was added to each serum sample at a volume ratio of 4:1 (methanol:
15 serum sample) for protein precipitation. The mixtures were subject to centrifugation at
   13000 rpm for 5 min at 40 C prior to derivatization. These steps were repeated for 3
   times and the supernatants were dried under a nitrogen stream. The residue was
   stored at -20 *C before derivatization.
20                                       Derivatization
   Derivatization of a carboxyl-containing compound is carried out according to Reaction
   Scheme 2:
                --    N
                                    cx3           HOBt, HATU      R
                                                                    o             cx3
                                                                                    CX
      R  OH                      c x            I min, Room Temp.            x-I  CX3
                              XNX3c                                          X3C'
   wherein X = H or D.
25
   In the process, HATU and HOBt are used as the condensating reagent due to their
   high condensation efficiency and quick coupling times. Stock solutions of HOBt (20
   mM) and HATU (20 mM) were prepared by dissolving the same in DMSO respectively.
30 A stock solution of Compound 1a was prepared by dissolving 100 pmol of Compound
   la and 200 pmol of TEA in 1 mL of DMSO. Similarly, a stock solution of Compound
   1b was prepared by dissolving 100 pmol of Compound 1b and 200 pmol of TEA in 1
   mL of DMSO.
                                                14

   Representative    carboxyl-containing    compounds      such    as phenylalanine     (Phe),
   threonine (Thr), histidine (His), propionic acid (PA), butyric acid (BA), valeric acid (VA),
   fumaric aicd (Fum), succinic acid (Suc), lactic acid (Lac), 11-dehydro TXB2, 15(S)
 5 HETE,     PGE2,     13(S)-HOTrE,      15(S)-HEPE,     5(S)-HEPE,      cholic  acid    (CA),
   chenodeoxycholic acid (CDCA), and glycocholic acid (GCA) were used as standard
   compounds.
   5 pL of HOBt, 5 pL of Compound 1a solution or Compound lb solution, and 5 pL of
10 HATU were sequentially added to the dried residue of standards or real samples
   having carboxyl-containing metabolites, and mixed. The mixture was incubated at
   room temperature for 1 min for derivatization. Subsequently, 35 pL of acetonitrile was
   added to make up to the mark. Aliquot (1 pL) of the resultant solution was directly
   injected into UHPLC-Q-TOF/MS for analysis.
15
                                  UHPL C-Q- TOF/MS Analysis
   An Agilent 1290 Infinity LC system (UHPLC, Santa Clara, CA) and binary pump with
   Waters ACQUITY UPLC HSS T3 column (2.1 x 100 mm, 1.8 pm, Waters Corp., MA,
   USA) was employed for the separation of components. The column temperature was
20 maintained at 40'C and the autosampler was set at 4'C. The injection volume was 1
   pL and the flow rate was 0.3 mL min-'. Mobile phase A and B were 0.1% formic acid
   containing water and 0.1% formic acid-containing acetonitrile, respectively, and the
   gradient was set as follows: 0-0.5 min, 2% to 5% B; 0.5-2.5 min, 5%-6% B; 2.5-4.5
   min, 6%-7% B; 4.5-5.5 min, 7%-7.3% B; 5.5-7.5 min, 7.3%-7.8% B; 7.5-11 min, 7.8%
25 9% B; 11-13 min, 9%-14% B; 13-18 min, 14%-23% B; 18-19 min,; 23%-25% B; 19-26
   min, 25%-33% B; 26-26.5 min, 33%-35%; 26.5-34.5 min, 35%-47% B; 34.5-38 min,
   47%-60% B; 38-40 min, 60%-95% B; 39-43.9 min, 95%; 44 min, 2% B.
   The mass spectrometry was conducted on an Agilent 6550 UHD accurate-mass Q
30 TOF/MS system with a dual Jet stream electrospray ion source (dual AJS ESI). The
   instrument was operated in positive and negative mode. The MS parameters were set
   as: dry gas temperature at 250'C, dry gas flow at 15 L min-', sheath gas temperature
   at 300'C, sheath gas flow at 11 L min-', nebulizer pressure at 20 psig, capillary
   voltage at 5000 V, and nozzle voltage at 500 V for positive ion mode and 1500 V for
35 negative ion mode. The mass spectra were recorded across the range of 100-1000
   m/z for derivatized samples and 50-1000 m/z for non-derivatized samples. Accurate
                                                15

   mass measurements were obtained by using a low flow of TOF reference mixture,
   containing the internal reference masses at m/z 922.0098 (C18H18F 2 4 N3 0eP 3 ) for
   positive ion mode and 966.0007 (HP-921) for negative ion mode. For MS/MS
   acquisition, automated and target MS/MS were applied and the collision cell energy
 5 was set at 30 eV.
   With reference to Fig. la to 1d, the results obtained from the standard compounds
   show that the derivatization almost finished within 1 min at room temperature and the
   derivatization did not exhibit obvious time-dependent or temperature-dependent
10 changes along with the reaction times (1, 5, 10, 30, 60, 90, 120, 240 and 600 min)
   and temperatures (20, 30, 40, 50 and 60         0C).  Accordingly, the derivatization is
   preferably conducted for at least 1 min and may be conducted at room temperature.
   Referring to Figs. 2a and 2b, after derivatization, the sensitivity for standard
15 hydrophilic and hydrophobic carboxyl-containing compounds enhanced using LC-MS
   approach. More importantly, the inventors unexpectedly found that the retention times
   of hydrophilic carboxyl-containing compounds prolonged from 0.5-3 min to 0.5-16.5
   min (region Al to B1) after derivatization, while conversely the retention times of
   hydrophobic carboxyl-containing compounds shortened from 27-41 min to 21.5-39
20 min (region A2 to B2). Particularly, the isomers of HETEs and epoxyeicosatrienoic
   acids (EETs)      could achieve baseline separation, which         is essential for the
   identification and quantification. That is to say the derivatization of the present
   invention does not only achieve the simultaneous determination of hydrophilic and
   hydrophobic carboxyl-containing compounds but also improved the separation
25 efficiency and sensitivity of different hydrophilic or hydrophobic carboxyl-containing
   compounds. As a result, 68 fatty acid standards could be well separated and
   determined within 40 min, while only 45 could be detected with very weak MS signals
   and    heavy   peak    overlap   using  non-derivatization   method    even   in  higher
   concentrations.
30
                                          EXAMPLE 3
            Derivatization of carboxyl-containing metabolites in biological samples
   The derivatization method was applied to determine the change of carboxyl
   containing metabolites (CCMs) in human colorectal cancer (CRC) patients.
35
                                               16

   First, a derivatizing agent - Compound lb was prepared and added to the biological
   sample obtained from the patients. A comparison sample was set by using compound
   1a with tryptophan (Trp), Fum, 5(S)-, 8(S)-, 11(S)-, 12(S)-, and 15(S)-HETE, 11(12)
   EET, and 9(S)-HPODE as standards. Second, a mixture containing the standards
 5 was equally divided into two vials and dried. One residue was reacted with Compound
   1a, while another was incubated with Compound 1b under the same condition.
   With reference to Figs. 3a and 3b, UHPLC-Q-TOF/MS              analysis indicated that
   Compound la-derivatives (derivatives formed by reacting with Compound 1a) and
10 Compound 1b-derivatives (derivatives formed by reacting with Compound 1b) had the
   same retention times. Moreover, the MS responses of these derivatives had no
   significant difference. That is, the reaction efficacy of Compound 1b with CCMs had
   no significant difference with that of Compound 1a. Accordingly both Compound 1a
   and 1b are suitable for labeling derivatization method and can be constructed as an
15 isotope labeling pair.
   Compound la and Compound lb were separately reacted with healthy and CRC
   human serum samples. Then, the two resultant mixtures were mixed in equal volume
   followed by LC-MS analysis in a single run. Referring to the results in Figs. 3c and 3d,
20 the relative abundance of almost all CCMs in CRC patient serum decreased
   compared to that of healthy human. Using this method, the analysis time was reduced
   to half, which can increase the throughput. In addition, since the two samples were
   simultaneously determined in the same run, the error was decreased to a large extent,
   i.e. the accuracy and reliability of this endogenous CCMs analysis can be improved.
25
   Still further, the present method can be applied to analyze the metabolites in other
   biological samples such as in vitro cells, serum, feces, cerebrospinal fluid and plant
   tissues or product such as tea. Figs. 4a to 4f are LC-MS chromatograms of CCMs in
   different samples determined with or without derivatization of the present invention.
30 All results show that much more metabolites can be sensitively detected after
   derivatization.
                                                 17

                                            CLAIMS
   1.      A method for detecting a carboxyl-containing compound in a first sample
   comprising a step of adding a first derivatizing agent to the first sample to form a first
   mixture, wherein the first derivatizing agent comprises a compound of Formula (1):
                                           H2 N-R-N         R2
 5
                                              Formula (I),
   wherein R1 is an unsubstituted or substituted straight or branched alkyl chain having 1
   to 6 carbon atoms, and R2 and R3 are each independently unsubstituted or
   substituted methyl, ethyl, propyl or isopropyl group.
10
   2.      The method of claim 1, wherein the first derivatizing agent comprises the
   compound of Formula (1)with R1 being an unsubstituted straight alkyl chain having 1
   to 6 carbon atoms, and wherein R2 and R3 are each independently unsubstituted or
   substituted isopropyl group.
15
   3.      The method of claim 1, wherein the first derivatizing agent comprises the
   compound of Formula (1) with R1 being a pentyl group, and wherein R2 and R3 are
   each independently unsubstituted or substituted isopropyl groups.
20 4.      The method of claim 1, wherein the first derivatizing agent comprises a
   compound of Formula (II):
                                                             CX 3
                           H2 N                          N "CXCX    3
                                                  X3C .,CX 1 CX3
                                           Formula (II)
   wherein X is hydrogen or deuterium.
25
   5.      The method of claim 1, further comprising a step of subjecting the first mixture
   to conditions where condensation occurs between the first derivatizing agent and the
   carboxyl-containing compound in the first sample, wherein the first mixture further
   comprises a condensating agent.
30
                                               18

   6.      The method of claim 5, further comprising a step of conducting liquid
   chromatography-mass spectrum analysis of the first mixture.
   7.      The method of claim 5, wherein the condensating agent comprises 1
 5 hydroxybenzotriazole,             1-[bis(dimethylamino)methylene]-1 H-1,2,3-triazolo[4,5
   b]pyridinium 3-oxide hexafluorophosphate, or a combination thereof.
   8.      The method of claim 1, wherein the carboxyl-containing compound is selected
   from the group consisting of an amino acid, a saturated or unsaturated fatty acid, a
10 dicarboxylic acid, a tricarboxylic acid, and a steroid acid.
   9.      The method of claim 1, wherein the first sample is a biological sample.
   10.     The method of claim 1 further comprises a step of preparing a second mixture
15 comprising a second derivatizing agent and a second sample, wherein the second
   derivatizing agent is different from the first derivatizing agent and comprises a
   compound of Formula (1):
                                            H2 N-R-N        R2
                                            Formula (1),
20 wherein R1 is an unsubstituted or substituted straight or branched alkyl chain having 1
   to 6 carbon atoms, and R2 and R3 are each independently unsubstituted or
   substituted methyl, ethyl, propyl or isopropyl group.
   11.     The method of claim 10, further comprises a step of combining the first
25 mixture and the second mixture to form a third mixture.
   12.     The method of claim 11, wherein the first mixture and the second mixture are
   combined at a volume ratio of 1:1.
30 13.     The method of claim 10, wherein the first derivatizing agent comprises a
   compound of Formula (Ila) and the second derivatizing agent comprises a compound
   of Formula (Ilb):
                                                19

                                                            CH 3
                          H2N                            N       CH 3
                                                  H3 C   CH CH 3
                                         Formula (Ila)
                                                            CD 3
                          H2N                            N CDCD3
                                                  D3 C   CD CD 3
                                         Formula (Ilb).
 5
   14.     The method of claim 10, wherein the second sample comprises a carboxyl
   containing compound.
   15.     The method of claim 10, wherein the first sample is derived from an individual
10 suffering from a disorder and the second sample is derived from a healthy individual.
   16.     The method of claim 14, wherein the second sample comprises a pre
   determined amount of carboxyl-containing compound.
15 17.     The method of claim 15, wherein the disorder is cancer or inflammatory
   disease.
   18.     The method of claim 15, wherein the first and second samples are obtained
   from humans.
20
   19.     The method of claim 11, further comprises a step of conducting liquid
   chromatography-mass spectrum analysis of the third mixture.
   20.     A kit for determining the amount of a carboxyl-containing compound in a
25 sample, comprising a first derivatizing agent comprising a compound of Formula (1):
                                          H2 N-R-N         R2
                                                        R3
                                               20

                                               Formula (I),
   wherein R1 is an unsubstituted or substituted straight or branched alkyl chain having 1
   to 6 carbon atoms, and R2 and R3 are each independently unsubstituted or
   substituted methyl, ethyl, propyl or isopropyl group.
 5
   21.     The kit of claim 20, wherein the first derivatizing agent comprises the
   compound of Formula (1)with R1 being an unsubstituted straight alkyl chain having 1
   to 6 carbon atoms, and wherein R2 and R3 are each independently unsubstituted or
   substituted isopropyl group.
10
   22.     The kit of claim 20, wherein the first derivatizing agent comprises the
   compound of Formula (1) with R1 being a pentyl group, and wherein R2 and R3 are
   each independently unsubstituted or substituted isopropyl group.
15 23.     The kit of claim 20, wherein the first derivatizing agent comprises a compound
   of Formula (II):
                                                              CX 3
                                                               I
                           H2 N                            N  CX CX 3
                                                   X3C 111,CX CX3
                                           Formula (II)
   wherein X is hydrogen or deuterium.
20
   24.     The kit of claim 20, further comprises a second derivatizing agent being
   different from the first derivatizing agent, wherein the second derivatizing agent
   comprises a compound of Formula (1):
                                           H2 N-R-N
                                                         R3
25                                             Formula (I),
   wherein R1 is an unsubstituted or substituted straight or branched alkyl chain having 1
   to 6 carbon atoms, and R2 and R3 are each independently unsubstituted or
   substituted methyl, ethyl, propyl or isopropyl group.
                                                21

   25.     The kit of claim 24, wherein the first derivatizing agent comprises a compound
   of Formula (Ila) and the second derivatizing agent comprises a compound of Formula
   (lib):
                                                              CH3
                            H2N                           N   CH CH3
                                                   H3 C       CH 3
 5                                         Formula (Ila)
                                                              CD3
                            H2 N                          N' CDCD
                                                   D3 C   CD CD 3
                                           Formula (Ilb).
   26.     The kit of claim 20, further comprises a condensating agent.
10
   27.     The kit of      claim 26, wherein the condensating agent comprises 1
   hydroxybenzotriazole,             1-[bis(dimethylamino)methylene]-1 H-1,2,3-triazolo[4,5
   b]pyridinium 3-oxide hexafluorophosphate, or a combination thereof.
15
                                                22

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 1b

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 1c

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 1d

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
        <removed-apn> <removed-date>
Fig. 3c
Fig. 3d

                    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 4b   Fig. 4a

                    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 4d   Fig. 4c

                    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 4f   Fig. 4e

