                                 ABSTRACT
The invention relates to a weld cleaning fluid, and method of cleaning weld
or discolouration especially on stainless steel. Stainless steel welds, such as
those done by TIG welding, require cleaning to remove the resulting surface
discolouration and also to passivate the steel. This is often done using an
electro-cleaning apparatus with the assistance of electrolyte cleaning fluids.
A new cleaning fluid has been developed that has a generally neutral pH,
instead of the highly acidic nature of previously used fluids, which avoids
environmental and safety issues. The cleaning fluid composition preferably
 has potassium     or sodium   orthophosphate     salts as the main       active
ingredient, or similar such salts, and has a pH of around 7. It may also
include a sequestering or chelating agent such as a sodium and/or
 potassium salt of EDTA, and colouring and fragrance.

                                             1
                                    Weld Cleaning Fluid
    TECHNICAL FIELD
    The present invention relates to a weld cleaning fluid. Stainless steel welds,
    such as those done by TIG welding, require cleaning to remove the resulting
 5  surface discolouration and also to passivate the steel. This is commonly
    carried out using an electro-cleaning apparatus with the assistance of
    electrolyte   cleaning     fluids. Typically,  these   cleaning   fluids contain
    phosphoric acid as their primary active ingredient, and as a consequence
    have a low (acidic)    lH. After use, these fluids pose a problem of disposal in
io  an environmentally acceptable way, and being acidic require greater care in
    order to be used safely. A new cleaning fluid has been developed that has a
    generally neutral pH, avoiding these environmental and safety issues. This
    fluid has also been found to give an improved result over existing cleaning
    fluids. The cleaning fluid composition of the present invention preferably has
is  sodium and/or potassium orthophosphate as the main active ingredient, or
    similar such salts, and has a pH of around 7.
     BACKGROUND ART
    When stainless steel is welded, the resulting join and its surrounding area
     are often discoloured PRd this area. (if untreated) then becomes susceptible
20  to corrosion. This weld burn that appears, after welding with a TIG (ie,
    "Tungsten Inert Gas" arc welding) welder for instance, therefore normally
     has to be cleaned, and this is often carried out using an electro-chemical
     cleaning system in recent times. That cleaning system involves using an
     electro-cleaning unit that applies a low voltage, high current, flow in a
25   circuit with the metal connected as the anode. A tool, providing the
     cathode, is rubbed over the heat tinted sections of the weld and its
     surrounding metal, with the aid of an electrolytic weld cleaning fluid, to
     complete the circuit. The tool heats and passivates the metal surface, and
     removes the unwanted discolouration. The passivation treatment restores
 30  its natural protection against corrosion to the stainless steel.

                                           2
   In addition, when there is a need to provide a bright mirror finish to the
   stainless steel, which is particularly important when the steel article is used
   in the food industry, or when a decorative appearance is needed, for
   example, then a similar system for electro-polishing is also utilised using
 s the same type of electrolytic polishing fluid.
   Traditionally in the past, weld discolouration was removed using a pickling
   paste that usually consisted of a composition of nitric acid and hydrofluoric
   acid. This paste was manually wiped on to the stains on the welds and the
   surrounding area, left in place until the stain had been removed, and then
10 washed off. These acids are dangerous and difficult to apply and remove.
   The waste and fumes that result have to be handled carefully, being
   dangerous to breathe in or have skin contact with, and the waste liquid
   generated is environmentally hazardous to dispose of.
   More recently, electro-chemical cleaning or polishing has been utilised to
15 achieve this same purpose, and this has been found to often give a better
   result. Electro-chemical cleaning (or "electro-cleaning") also produces a
   better finish to the metal, since pickling will roughen the surface while
   electro-cleaning smooths it.
    Electro-cleaning (or polishing) basically involves using an electrical power
20 source that is connected in a circuit to the steel surface which becomes the
    anode, and with an electrically conductive "wand"        tool comprising the
    cathode. The wand can be in the form of a copper electrode, surrounded by
    a nylon sponge or felt pad which is soaked with an electrolyte solution. Until
   the current invention, this electrolyte solution was normally an aqueous
25  solution of phosphoric acid (ie, orthophosphoric acid H3 PO4). This wand is
    used to rub and corrode away the top surface layers removing the
    discolouration and iron oxide surface imperfections left from the welding. A
    worker holds the wand by an insulated handle and presses it over the tinted
    area   until  the  normal   stainless   steel sheen   is   returned  and    the
30  discolouration removed.

                                          3
   More recently, the applicants for the present invention (Ensitech), have
   developed an improved electro-cleaning system that utilises a conductive
   carbon bristled brush (the "TIG Brush m"") that is used in place of the felt or
   nylon pad type of wand. There is a power source that produces a low
 s voltage, high current, output that is used to remove the discolouration from
   stainless steel TIG welds when the electrical current is flowing in the circuit.
   The brush is dipped in the electrolytic cleaning solution and then the tips of
   the conductive bristles are dragged across the tinted surface area. The
   bristles allow the brush to penetrate into constricted areas, and any crevices
10 or pits in the metal, giving an excellent result. The electrical current passing
   via the brush is thought to create a high temperature area on the surface of
   the steel that hastens the deoxidising action of the cleaning fluid. The iron
   oxides on the surface are dissolved to release free ferric and ferrous ions
   and oxygen gas.
15 In addition, the welds in the stainless steel and the surrounding area then
   require passivation to restore its resistance to corrosion. Stainless steel is
   an alloy of iron that contains a significant amount (more than 10% and
   commonly 13% to      2 7 %) of chromium. The "stainless" quality of this steel is
   caused by a thin durable film of chromium oxide that forms on its surface,
20 which will be naturally formed by the oxidation of the stainless steel alloy
   with air or water. Welding disrupts this protective coating, and the iron
   oxides that instead form on the surface cause the unwanted heat tint
   staining, as well as allowing corrosion and pitting to occur subsequently.
    Passivation restores the protective chromium oxide surface layer by
25 stripping away any iron oxides on the surface and simultaneously oxidising
   the chromium atoms present to form the new surface layer.
    Passivation generally is the process of removing the unwanted iron particles
    on the surface and oxidising the chromium atoms that replace them, using
    an oxidising agent like an acid, or by contact with air or water. The
30  Standard    "ASTM   A380", defines    passivation to    be    "the removal    of
    exogenous iron or iron compounds from the surface of stainless steel by
    means of a chemical dissolution, most typically by a treatment with an acid

                                           4
   solution that will remove the surface contamination, but will not significantly
   affect the stainless steel itself." It also describes passivation as "the
   chemical treatment of stainless steel with a mild oxidant, such as a nitric
   acid solution, for the purpose of enhancing the spontaneous formation of
 s the protective passive film."
   For a long time, pickling and passivation of stainless steel involved using
   acids, especially nitric acid, or a mixture or nitric and hydrofluoric acids, or
   citric acid for stainless steel to be used in the food industry. More recently
   with    both types of the electro-cleaning       units  mentioned    above,   an
10 electrolytic and oxidising cleaning fluid has been used that consists of a
   solution of phosphoric acid in water, together with a small quantity of
   fragrance     and  colouring. This solution    is acidic, with a low     pH   of
   approximately pH 1 to 3. Probably because of the historic use of acids, and
   their effectiveness with pickling and passivation, welding cleaning solutions
is  have all been acidic in nature.
    Some passivation and cleaning procedures used in the past have also used
    strongly basic or alkaline solutions with a high pH, for example using
    aqueous solutions of sodium hydroxide, often in sequence with the acid
   treatments.
20 These acidic (or basic) welding fluids create environmental problems with
    their disposal after use, and have to be used with great care by the workers
    carrying out the cleaning process to avoid splashing the fluid on to skin or
    into eyes.
    It has now been found that using a weld cleaning fluid that has a close to
25  neutral pH of around 7, can avoid at least some of the problems arising
    from the acidic or alkaline fluids used in the past. Surprisingly, it has been
    found that neutral pH weld cleaning and passivation fluids can give superior
    results over the low (or high) pH fluids. Additionally the cleaning and
    passivating treatment can proceed more quickly than with the prior known
30  fluids, giving an economic benefit as well as exposing workers to less of the
    fumes that are given off during the cleaning process.

                                            5
   DISCLOSURE OF THE INVENTION
   According to a first aspect of the invention there is provided a metal
   cleaning composition comprising an aqueous solution having a pH that is
   approximately     neutral.   Preferably, the   metal cleaning      composition   is
 s adapted to clean the weld tint from stainless steel. The solution contains a
   salt of an acid selected from any one or more of a phosphoric acid, nitric
   acid, sulfuric acid, hydrochloric acid or citric acid, and most preferably the
   acid is orthophosphoric acid, and a salt of a polyaminocarboxylic acid as a
   sequestering or chelating agent. It is preferred that the salt of the acid is
10 selected from any one or more of potassium, sodium, ammonium,
   manganese or magnesium salts, and most preferably the salt is potassium
   and/or sodium. The salt of the acid may be one or more of the oxo anions
   of potassium phosphate, selected from K3 PO4 , K2HPO 4, and KH2 P04 , and is
   most preferably mostly tripotassium phosphate (K3 PO4 ). Sodium salt may
15 be used in place of some or all of the potassium salt.
   When present, the K3 PO4 (and its sodium and oxo anion equivalents, for
   example) may be present in an amount of from 10% to 50% by weight, and
   most preferably they may be present in an amount of about          35%  by weight.
   It is preferred that the sequestering or cheating agent is tetrasodium EDTA
20 (Na 4EDTA), or dipotassium EDTA dihydrate (K2H2EDTA). Another preferred
   feature is that the composition may include at least one fragrance and/or
   colouring agent.
   Another aspect of the invention is a method of cleaning or passivating a
   metal surface comprising the steps of: applying a low voltage high ampage
25 electrical current to the metal being the anode, and wiping the surface with
   a conductive wand or brush being the cathode, forming an electrical circuit,
   whereby an electrolytic fluid is applied to the surface in contact with the
   wand or brush; characterised in that the electrolytic fluid comprising an
   aqueous solution with a pH that is approximately neutral, comprising a
30 solution of a salt of an acid selected from any one or more of a phosphoric
   acid, nitric acid, sulfuric acid, hydrochloric acid or citric acid, and a salt of a
   polyaminocarboxylic acid as a sequestering or chelating agent. It is

                                           6
     preferred that the metal surface is cleaned to remove weld tint from
    stainless steel.
    Ideally, the electrolytic fluid may comprise a major part of the salt of the
    acid comprising one or more of the oxo anions of potassium phosphate,
  s selected from K3PO4, K2HPO 4, and KH2 PO4 . More preferably, the electrolytic
    fluid may comprise a major part of an aqueous solution of tripotassium
    phosphate (K3 PO4 ) and its sodium and     oxo anion equivalents. The salt of
    the polyaminocarboxylic acid is preferably tetrasodium EDTA or dipotassium
    EDTA dihydrate. The electrolytic fluid may contain at least one colouring
10  agent and/or a fragrance.
    In   this specification,   reference is made     to  cleaning   and    polishing
    discolouration arising from the welding of stainless steel. This is a preferred
    use for the present invention. However, the invention can also be utilised in
    connection with other types of steel and iron alloys, and for other metals
is  and alloys, such as with copper or bronze for example. It can also be used
    when cleaning any discolouration or tarnish from metals or alloys that result
    from causes apart from welding.
    The invention can also be applied to general cleaning of tarnish and
    oxidation from metal surfaces that have been discoloured through natural
20  processes and general use. For instance, in the food industry there is a
    need to keep stainless steel or other metal surfaces, containers, conduits
    and the like spotless and with a mirror finish. The present invention can be
    used for this purpose, either with or without the electro-cleaning apparatus
    which is a preferred method of utilisation and application.
25  BEST MODES FOR CARRYING OUT THE INVENTION
    The composition of the invention is preferably in the form of a neutralised
    aqueous solution of an acid, where the acid is preferably an phosphorous
    oxo acid, preferably orthophosphoric acid, or a combination of these. Of the
    anions of orthophosphoric acid, the P043- salt is preferred, but the HPO4
30  and the H2 PO4- are also preferred, and all three anions will generally exist in
    equilibrium. Additionally, other phosphoric acids, including the various
    polyphosphoric acids may be used. However, other acids, such as nitric

                                             7
   acid, sulfuric acid, hydrochloric acid, citric acid or the like may be used.
   Preferably the solution has a pH of from 6 to 8, and most preferably it has a
   pH of around 7, and ideally in the range of from 6.8 to 7.2.
   Preferably, the neutral      solution is a salt of the acid, especially the
 5 potassium, sodium, ammonium, magnesium, manganese or the like salts,
   and most preferably is the potassium salt, or a mixture of potassium and
   sodium. These salts may be introduced to the composition as a hydroxide,
   which will react with the acids present. Other bases may be used, including
   those that react with the acid and leave no anion component behind, such
10 as carbonates which produce carbon dioxide gas and water after reacting
   with the acid, for example. Alternatively, the salt may be added as is to the
   water present and dissolved. The components may be added both as a salt
   and as an acid or base, especially if there is a need to fine tune the pH of
   the resulting composition.
IS The amount of acid salt present in the cleaning solution is preferably from
    10% to 60% by weight, and more preferably in the range from 30% to 40%
    by weight. When the acid salt is potassium phosphate, preferably it is
    present in an amount of 30% to 40% and most preferably as about 35% by
   weight.    If  other acid    salts   are   used,  then  amounts  are    adjusted
20  proportionally to the reference of K3 PO4 . More than one acid salt may be
    present. Additionally, the cleaning solutions of the invention may also be
    provided in more concentrated forms, to be further diluted by the user
    before actual use.
    It is preferred that the weld cleaning fluid composition should contain a
25  chelating agent or a sequestering agent. One example of a preferred such
    agent is EDTA (ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid) and especially its sodium or
    potassium salts. Other suitable sequestering agents include other members
    of the     polyaminocarboxylic     acid   family  of agents,  particularly  the
    alkylenepolyaminepolycarboxylic acids and their salts. Other example
30  include,   EGTA    (ethylene   glycol   tetraacetic acid),  BAPTA   (1,2-bis(o
    aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid),        and DTPA (diethylene
    triamine pentaacetic acid).

                                          8
   When a sequestering agent is present, it is preferably in the aqueous
   composition in an amount of from 0% to       2 0%, and most preferably from
   about 4% to 10%. When the tetra-sodium salt of EDTA (Na4 EDTA) is used
   as a sequestering agent, it is present as an amount preferably from 4% to
 5 10% and most preferably in an amount of about 6-7 0%, by weight. When
   the di-potassium salt of EDTA (K2 H2EDTA) is used as a sequestering agent,
   it is present as an amount preferably from   4%  to 10% and most preferably
   in an amount of about 5-6%, by weight. If other sequestering agents are
   used, the quantities are adjusted generally accordingly with reference to the
10 preferred amount of Na4 EDTA. Combinations of more than one sequestering
   or chelating agent may be used. If the sequestering agent(s) chosen for
   inclusion should themselves be acidic or basic (ie, alkaline) in nature, then
   the pH of the resulting solution can be adjusted by altering the amount of
   phosphoric (or other) acid, or of the potassium hydroxide (or other) base or
is of any of the pH altering components present, so that the overall pH of the
   composition is around 7.
   When a sequestering agent is present it functions to mop up the metal
   atoms liberated from the cleaning process, to stop them recombining with
   the surface of the stainless steel, and so as to remove the impurities that
20 cause the unwanted discolouration.
   The cleaning     liquid of the invention may optionally include dyes or
    perfumes. Dyes are desirable to help distinguish the cleaning liquid from
   other similar liquids, and to prevent users from confusing the cleaning liquid
   from beverages, for example.        Perfumes are helpful in disguising the
25 sometimes unpleasant fumes that are given off from the electro-cleaning
    process, and also assist in preventing confusion with other liquid products.
    One example of a suitable perfume is a "cherry blossom" fragrance that is
    available from Risdon International Pty Ltd, of Yennora NSW Australia. One
    example of a suitable colouring dye is the Ensitech dye #3,       prepared by
30  Ensitech Pty Ltd, which is based on red dye. Any other suitable known dyes
    or colouring agents, or perfumes may be used, especially those that are
    generally known for use in cleaning products. Those dyes and perfumes that

                                            9
   do not chemically react with the other components are especially desirable
   for use in the cleaning liquids. Also, dyes (or perfumes) that do not react
   with stainless steel, or bond to the metals present, especially at high
   temperatures, are strongly desirable. Also, dyes that do not stain clothing
 s or skin are preferred, as well as those which are easily washed away with
   water. Combinations of more than one of the suitable dyes and/or perfumes
   may also be employed.
   When a dye is present, it generally should be present in an amount of from
   0.0001% to 1%, and more preferably from about 0.005% to 0.02%, and
10 most preferably about 0.01%. The amount of dye should be selected to give
   a reasonably visible tint to the cleaning liquid. When perfume is present, it
   generally should be present in an amount of from 0.0001% to 2%, and
    more preferably from about 0.01% to 0.04%, and most preferably about
   0.025%. The amount of perfume to be added is selected to provide a
15  noticeable odour when used, especially one that will function to disguise or
   ameliorate the fumes generated in the cleaning process.
   The amount of dye should be selected to give a visible tint to the cleaning
    liquid. Different tints or intensities of tinting may be used to distinguish
    different formulations or concentrations of components. The amount of
20  perfume present will depend on the actual fragrance used, and its intensity.
    Scents that can help disguise the fumes from the cleaning process, or that
    do not interact disagreeably with such fumes are desirable. Perfumes that
    are easily washed away, and that quickly dissipate are also advantageously
    chosen for use in the invention.
25 The composition may preferably be in the form of a dilute solution of the
    acid salt in water. However, it may be provided in a concentrated form
    which is diluted further before use. Alternatively, the composition may be
    provided to users as dry components that will be mixed with water and
    dissolved prior to use. But it is preferred to provide the cleaning solution in
30  bottles already mixed         with water, in the preferred    concentration of
    components for actual use. The liquid may be conveniently provided in 1
    litre or 5 litre bottles, for example.

                                          10
   Alternatively the composition of the invention may be in the form of a paste
   or gel, which may or may not be further diluted or dissolved before use. A
   gel or paste form of the cleaning fluid may be used advantageously in
   situations where the steel surfaces that need cleaning are oriented so that
 5 the fluid would otherwise run off, or where unwanted drips or spillage would
   present a problem.
   The solvent used in the cleaning solution of the invention is water. However
   other solvents may optionally also be present, especially those that readily
   dissolve in water, and which permit the solution to act as an electrolyte.
10 Normal tap water is generally suitable for use. Alcohols may be utilised as
   additional solvents, such as ethanol, methanol or propanol, for example.
   Additional solvents may be utilised so as to improve the ability of the other
   components to remain dissolved in the water, or to improve the washing
   and drying steps after their use on the metal. The solvent system utilised
is would permit the cleaning liquid to function as an electrolyte. Gelling agents
   may be present in order to provide the formulation as a gel or paste.
   Other optional components may be present, including surfactants, or pH
   adjusting agents. Additionally, corrosion inhibitors may be included in the
   composition, especially those based on ethylenediamine or imidazoline
20 derivatives.
   The compositions of the present invention are generally prepared            by
    dissolving the components into the water, and adjusting the quantity of
   water to bring the liquid to the preferred concentration for use.
    One preferred approach is to dissolve the acid in a large quantity of water
25 first. Then a neutralising base is added, until the pH is about 7, with this
    also preferably dissolved in water. The chemical reaction of neutalising an
    acid with an alkali is often an exothermic reaction, and can be violently
    exothermic, and so care must be taken, and normally the combination is
    carried out slowly with     mechanical agitation of the mixture. Cooling
30  measures can be applied as well. Then the other components may be added
    to the liquid. Once the liquid is cooled, it is then bottled or otherwise

                                                 11
   packaged. Another approach that can be used is to start from the acid salt,
   such as with tripotassiumphosphate, and dissolve that directly into water,
   and then add the other components.
   Another alternative is to manufacture a composition by dissolving KH2PO4 ,
 5 K 2 HPO 4 and Na2HPO 4 or NaH 2 PO       4 and KH 2 PO4 in water.
   When EDTA is present, this also affect the pH and the anions present. When
   the components are dissolved and mixed together various reactions will
   occur. There is likely to be some neutralisation of the EDTA with KOH to
   form K2EDTA as well as neutralisation of H3 PO4 with KOH which follows a
10 neutralisation sequence as the KOH is consumed. The more KOH that is
    present, the more dissolved K3 PO4 there will be present. Ideally there
   should be three mole of KOH for every mole of H3 P04 , in order to have
    K3 PO4 . But there will also be some OH- consumed in the reaction with the
    EDTA. The neutralisation sequence will operate as follows:
15 Sequential neutralisation steps for reacting H3 PO4 with KOH.
    H3 P0 4 + KOH - KH 2 PO4 + H20
    KH 2 PO4 + KOH      -+  K2 HPO 4 + H2 0
    K2 HPO 4 +KOH     -    K 3 PO4 + H2 0
    Sodium EDTA neutralisation with H3 PO4
20  4 H3 PO 4 + Na4 EDTA - 4 NaH 2PO4 + EDTA
    As KOH is added the following reactions occur:
    H3 PO 4 + KOH   -      KH2PO4 + H20. (Approx pH 4.3)
    EDTA + 2KOH       -    K2EDTA (5% solution gives a pH of 4-5)
    At this point we would have: 0.19 moles K2EDTA (70g/l as anhydrous)
25  0.78 mole NaH 2 PO4 (93.6g/I as anhydrous)

                                         12
   2.17 mole KH2 PO4 (295.3g/I as anhydrous)
   2 mole KOH (112.22g/)
   The KOH will react with the KH2PO4 to form K2HPO 4 and probably some
   Na 2 HPO 4.
 s The reaction may run out of OH         ions and stops before reaching the
   equivalent of 100% of K3PO4 being present, because of the consumption of
   OH- ions by the EDTA. Therefore the composition will have a variety of salts
   in equilibrium in addition to the K3PO4. These include NaH 2PO4, KH2 PO4 ,
   K2HPO 4 , K3 PO4 , and K2EDTA, for example. There preferably will be no free
10 KOH remaining, or if there is then any KOH left over can make some K3P04 .
   It will be appreciated that these anions and cations will be in solution in the
   water, and so the salts are only identifiable as such if it is desired to
   prepare the compositions from       the salts themselves, rather than by
   neutralisation of the acid and base moieties.
15 Example 1
   A composition for use as a weld cleaning liquid was prepared as follows.
          Component                     % by weight (Total = 100%)
          Phosphoric acid (H3PO4)                     25 %
          Water                                     ~ 58.7 %
20        Potassium hydroxide (KOH)                   10 %
          Sequestering agent (Na4,EDTA)                6.3 %
          Fragrance (Risden Cherry Blossom)            0.025 %
          Colouring (Ensitech Dye 3)                   0.01 %
   This formulation was prepared by dissolving the required amount of
25  phosphoric acid in water;     tap water was used. Then the potassium
    hydroxide was added gradually with stirring; this reaction is exothermic,

                                         13
   and care must be taken to not allow the solution to heat up too vigorously
   or quickly. The sodium EDTA was then added, along with the colouring and
   fragrance components. The pH of the resulting solution was tested to be a
   pH of 7. The resulting liquid composition is bottled in 1 litre and 5 litre
 5 bottles for eventual use.
   The amount of potassium hydroxide may be varied, to ensure that the pH of
   the final product is 7.
   Example 2
   A composition for use as a weld cleaning liquid was prepared as follows.
10       Component                      /b by weight (Total = 100%)
         Phosphoric acid (H3 PO4 ) (75% w/w)          28.3 /b
         Sequestering agent (Na4.EDTA 4.H 20)          6.3 /o
         Potassium hydroxide (KOH) (50 0/ w/w)        37.6 /o
         Water                                      ~ 28.3 /o
15       Fragrance (Risden Cherry Blossom)             0.025 /b
         Colouring (Ensitech Dye 3)                    0.01 /0
   This formulation was prepared by dissolving the required amount of
    phosphoric acid in tap water. The Na4 EDTA and then the KOH components
    were added gradually with stirring. The reaction is exothermic, and care
20  must be taken to not allow the solution to heat up too vigorously or quickly.
   The pH of the resulting solution was adjusted to have a pH of between 6.8
    to 7. The colouring and fragrance components were then added. The
    resulting liquid composition is bottled in 1 litre and 5 litre bottles for
    eventual use.

                                           14
   The amount of potassium hydroxide may be varied, to ensure that the pH of
   the final product is 6.8 to 7. This depends on the concentration of actual
   KOH in the KOH flake or liquid which varies between manufacturers.
   Example 3
 s Another composition for use as a weld cleaning liquid was prepared as
   follows.
         Component                        /o by weight (Total = 100%)
         Sodium diHydrogen Orthophosphate (NaH 2 PO4 )            6.8 o
          Potassium diHydrogen Orthophosphate (KH2 PO4 )          21.7 /b
10        Sequestering agent (K2 H2 .EDTA 4.H 20)                 5.6 o
          Potassium hydroxide (KOH) (70 % w/w)                    16.5 %
          Water                                                    ~49.4 %
          Fragrance (Risden Cherry Blossom)                       0.002 %
          Colouring & Fragrance                                   0.01 %
15 This formulation was prepared by dissolving the required amount of the
    orthophosphate salts in tap water. Into this the sequestering agent and
   then the KOH components were added gradually with stirring. The pH of the
    resulting solution was adjusted to have a pH of 7. The colouring, red and
    yellow dye, and fragrance components were then added. The resulting liquid
20  composition is bottled in 1 litre and 5 litre bottles for eventual use.
   The amount of potassium hydroxide may be varied, to ensure that the pH of
    the final product is 6.8 to 7. The actual amount required depends on the
    concentration of actual KOH in the KOH flake or liquid used, which can vary
    between manufacturers.

                                         15
   Example 4
   The compositions of the invention were tested to determine their efficacy in
   cleaning and passivating stainless steel welds in accordance with suitable
   Standards. The weld cleaning composition was used with Ensitech's TIG
 5 Brush to clean samples of 316 and 445 stainless steel.
   The formulation of Example 2 was used, and tested in accordance with
   ASTM Standard A967-05 "Chemical Passivation Treatments for Stainless
   Steel Parts". Practice 14, 17 and 18 were used as the most appropriate
   guide for determining the performance of the weld cleaning fluid of the
10 invention. Additionally, the fluid was tested in accordance with ATSM
   Standard B912-02 "Passivation of Stainless Steels using Electopolishing",
   because its Section 6 test procedures call for the same tests as in ATSM
   A967-05.
   Multiple samples were tested according to the Standard, and all treatments
is were performed in triplicate. Both welded (TIG welded) and unwelded
   samples were treated and tested for both 316 and 445 stainless steel. Both
   the 316 and 445 stainless steel were tested for passivation according to
   ASTM A967-05 Practice A - Water Immersion Test. The 316 samples were
   tested   for passivation as    per ASTM A967-05        Practice E, Potassium
20 ferricyanide - nitric acid test and a ferrous sulfate spike was added to a
   blank piece of 316 stainless steel acting as a positive control. The 445
   samples were tested for passivation as per ASTM A967-06 Practice D
   Copper    Sulfate Test.   A conventional    weld   cleaning fluid, consisting
   essentially of a 5 0% solution of phosphoric acid in water was also tested as
25 a positive control.
   The formulation according to the present invention performed exceptionally
   well, and passed all the ATSM tests for passivation. All the welded 316
   samples cleaned according to the present invention showed no signs of
    corrosion in the water immersion test, and negative results for free iron in
30 the potassium ferricyanide - nitric acid test. All the welded 445 samples
    cleaned according to the invention showed no signs of corrosion in the

                                         16
   water immersion test, and negative results for free iron in the copper
   sulfate test.
   The term "comprises/comprising" when used in this specification is taken to
   specify the presence of stated features, integers, steps or components.
 5 However, the term does not preclude the presence or addition of one or
   more additional features, integers, steps or components or groups thereof.
   It will be apparent that obvious variations or modifications may be made
   which are in accordance with the spirit of the invention and which are
   intended to be part of the invention, and any such obvious variations or
10 modifications are therefore within the scope of the invention. Although the
   invention is described above with reference to specific embodiments and
   examples, it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that it is not to be
   limited to just those embodiments.
   INDUSTRIAL APPLICABILITY
is The invention can be utilised in the welding industry to clean weld tinting
   from stainless steel, and to polish stainless steel welds and surfaces. It is
   also useable for cleaning metal surfaces in other situations.

                                        17
CLAI MS:
  1. A metal cleaning composition comprising an aqueous solution having
      a pH that is approximately neutral, said aqueous solution comprising:
             from 30% to 60% by weight of a phosphoric acid salt ; and
             up to 20% by weight of a salt of a polyaminocarboxylic acid as
      a sequestering or chelating agent;
             wherein the composition is adapted to inhibit deposition onto
      metal during a cleaning process.
  2.  The composition of claim        1 wherein the phosphoric acid salt is
      selected from any one or more of potassium, sodium, ammonium,
      manganese or magnesium salts.
  3. The composition of claim 2 wherein the phosphoric acid salt is the
      potassium salt and/or sodium salt.
  4. The composition of claim 1 wherein the phosphoric acid salt is one or
      more of K3PO4, K2HPO4, KH2PO4, and NaH2PO4.
  5. The composition of claim         1 wherein the phosphoric acid salt is
      substantially tripotassium phosphate (K 3 PO 4 ).
  6. The composition of claim 4 wherein the phosphoric acid salt is
      present in an amount of from 30% to 50% by weight of the aqueous
      solution.
  7. The composition       of claim 4 wherein the phosphoric acid salt is
      present in an amount of about 35% by weight.
  8. The composition of claim 1, wherein the polyaminocarboxylic acid is
      selected from an alkylenepolyamine polycarboxylic acid, EDTA, EGTA,
      BAPTA, or DTPA.
  9. The      composition     of   claim   8   wherein  the   salt of    the
      polyaminocarboxylic acid is a sodium and/or potassium salt of EDTA
      (ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid).

                                   18
1O.The    composition     of  claim    9    wherein    the    salt   of    the
   polyaminocarboxylic acid is tetrasodium EDTA (Na 4 EDTA).
11.The    composition     of  claim     1   wherein    the    salt   of    the
   polyaminocarboxylic acid is present in an amount of from 4% to 10%
   by weight of the aqueous solution.
12.The composition of claim 1 wherein the composition includes at least
   one fragrance and/or colouring agent.
13.The composition of claim 1 wherein the pH is between 6 and 8.
14.The composition of claim 13 wherein the pH is between 6.8 and 7.2.
15.A method of cleaning or passivating a metal surface comprising the
   steps of:
          applying a low voltage high ampage electrical current to the
   metal being the anode, and
          wiping the surface with a conductive wand or brush being the
   cathode, in a circuit,
          whereby an electrolytic fluid is applied to the surface in contact
   with the wand or brush;
          characterised   in that   the   electrolytic fluid  comprises     an
   aqueous solution with     a pH    that   is approximately    neutral,   the
   aqueous solution having from 30% to 60% by weight of a phosphoric
   acid  salt,  and  having   up to    20%    by   weight   of a   salt  of a
   polyaminocarboxylic acid as a sequestering or chelating agent.
16.The method of claim 15 wherein the metal surface is cleaned to
   remove weld tint from stainless steel.
17.The method of claim 15 wherein the metal surface is electropolished.
18.The method of claim 15 wherein the phosphoric acid salt is selected
   from any one or more of K3 PO 4 , K2HPO4, KH2PO4, and NaH2PO4.

                                    19
19.The    method  of claim   15   wherein  the phosphoric   acid  salt  is
   tripotassium phosphate (K 3 PO 4 ).
20.The method of claim     15 wherein the polyaminocarboxylic acid is
   selected from an alkylenepolyamine polycarboxylic acid, EDTA, EGTA,
   BAPTA, or DTPA.
21.The method of claim 20 wherein the salt of the polyaminocarboxylic
   acid is a sodium and/or potassium salt of EDTA.
22.The method of claim 15 wherein the electrolytic fluid contains at least
   one colouring agent and/or a fragrance.
23.The method of claim 15 wherein the pH is between 6 and 8.
24.The method of claim 15 wherein the pH is between 6.8 and 7.2.
                                * *    * *

