                                                 Abstract
The invention provides methods of treating or preventing malaria comprising administering to an
animal an effective amount of a compound of formula (1): Q-Y-R1-R2 (1),wherein Q, Y, RI, and R2 are
as described herein. Methods of inhibiting a plasmodial surface anion channel of a parasite in an
animal are also provided. The invention also provides pharmaceutical compositions comprising a
compound represented by formula (1)in combination with any one or more compounds represented
by formulas 11,V, and VI. Use of the pharmaceutical compositions for treating or preventing malaria
or for inhibiting a plasmodial surface anion channel in animals including humans are also provided.
Also provided by the invention are clag3 amino acid sequences and related nucleic acids, vectors,
host cells, populations of cells, antibodies, and pharmaceutical compositions.
2917353v1

                                                 I
  PLASMODIAL SURFACE ANION CHANNEL INHIBITORS FOR THE TREATMENT
                               OR PREVENTION OF MALARIA
                     CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
[00011       This patent application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application
No. 61/474,583, filed April 12, 2011, which is incorporated by reference in its entirety herein.
            INCORPORATION-BY-REFERENCE OF MATERIAL SUBMITTED
                                      ELECTRONICALLY
10002]       Incorporated by reference in its entirety herein is a computer-readable
nueleotide/amino acid sequence listing submitted concurrently herewith and identified as
follows: One 84,990 Byte ASCII (Text) file named "709937ST25.txt," dated March 6, 2012.
                            BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0t03]       Malaria, one of the world's most important infectious diseases, is transmitted by
mosquitoes and is caused by four species of Plasmodiun parasites(P. falciparum, P. vivax,
P. ovate, P. malariae). Symptoms include fever, chills, headache, muscle aches, tiredness,
nausea and vomiting, diarrhea, anemia, and jaundice. Convulsions, coma, severe anemia and
kidney failure can also occur. It remains a leading cause of death globally, especially
amongst African children under 5 years of age. While repeated infections over many years
leads to partial immunity in endemic areas, these adults still suffer significant morbidity and
loss of productivity. The annual economic loss in Africa due to malaria is estimated at US
$12 billion.
 [0004]      There is no effective vaccine currently available for malaria. Treatment has
therefore relied primarily on antimalarial drugs such as chloroquine. Because some malaria
parasites have acquired resistance to each available antimalarial drug, there is a desire to
discover and develop new antimalarials.
                           BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
 [00051      The invention provides methods of treating or preventing malaria comprising
 administering an effective amount of a compound of formula I to an animal. Methods of
 inhibiting a plasmodial surface anion channel of a parasite in an animal are also provided.

                                                  2
The invention also provides pharmaceutical compositions comprising a compound
represented by formula I in combination with one or more antimalarial compounds, e.g.,
those represented by formulas 11, V, and VI. Use of the pharmaceutical compositions for
treating or preventing malaria or for inhibiting a plasmodial surface anion channel in animals
including humans are also provided. It is contemplated that the inventive compounds and/or
pharmaceutical compositions inhibit a plasmodial surface anion channel and/or treat or
prevent malaria by any number of mechanisms, for example, by inhibiting one or members of
the parasite clag3 gene family. Embodiments of the inventive compounds have one or more
advantages including, but not limited to: high affinity for the ion channel, high specificity for
the ion channel, no or low cytoxicity, a chemical structure that is different from existing anti
malarials, and drug-like features.
[00061       Also provided by the invention are clag3 amino acid sequences and related nucleic
acids, vectors, host cells, populations of cells, antibodies, and pharmaceutical compositions.
The invention also provides methods of treating or preventing malaria in an animal and
methods of stimulating an immune response against a plasmodial surface anion channel of a
parasite in an animal comprising administering to the animal an effective amount of the
inventive clag3 amino acid sequences and related nucleic acids, vectors, host cells,
populations of cells, antibodies, and pharmaceutical compositions.
         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWING(S)
100071       Figure 1 is a graph showing sorbitol-induced osmotic lysis kinetics (% lysis) for
the allelic exchange clone H33'**with indicated concentration of ISPA-28 (PM), a
compound in accordance with an embodiment of the invention (see Formula A, paragraph
[0033] below), over time (minutes).
[00081       Figure 2 is a graph showing mean + SE.M. ISPA-28 dose (gM)-response
(normalized P) for HB3"C (circles). This dose response is intermediate between those of
HB3 and Dd2 (top and bottom solid lines, respectively).
[00091       Figure 3A is a graph showing % survival of Dd2 (open triangles) or HB3 (filled
circles) in PLM medium as a function of ISPA-28 concentration (sM). Solid lines represent
the best fits to a two-component exponential decay.
10010]       Figure 3B is a graph showing mean ± SEM %parasite growth inhibition by 3 gM
ISPA-28 for indicated parental lines and progeny clones.

                                                 3
 [00111      Figure 4A is a graph showing mean ± SEM ISPA-28 dose responses for PSAC
inhibition before (B) and after transport selection of the 7C20 line (C) followed by PLM
 growth selection (A).
 [00121       Figure 4B is a graph showing expression ratio for the two clag3 alleles clog3. I
 and clag3.2 before (unselected) and after (transport) selection of the 7C20 line followed by
PLM growth selection (growth). Bars represent mean ± SEM of replicates from 2-4 separate
trials each.
 [00131       Figure 5A is a graph showing ISPA-28 dose response for PSAC inhibition in the
 Dd2-PLM28 line (black circles, mean t SEM of up to 5 measurements each). Solid lines
 reflect the dose responses for clag3.1 and clag3.2 expression in 7C20 (bottom and top lines,
 respectively).
 [0014]       Figure 5B is a graph showing the ratio quantifying relative expression of clag3
 and the chimeric gene in Dd2-PLM28 before and after transport-based selection for clag3.1
 using ISPA-28 (PLM28-rev) presented on a log scale.
                       DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
 [0015J       During its approximately 48 h cycle within the human red blood cell (RBC), P.
falciparum must increase the red blood cell's (RBC's) permeability to a broad range of
 solutes. Electrophysiological studies identified the plasmodial surface anion channel (PSAC)
 as the molecular mechanism of these changes. PSAC's functional properties differ from
 those of known human ion channels. These properties include atypical gating, unique
 pharmacology, and an unmatched selectivity profile. An unusual property is PSAC's ability
 to exclude Na* by more than 100,000-fold relative to Cl despite the channel's broad
 permeability to anions and bulky nutrients. This level of exclusion of a single small solute
 has not been reported in other broadly selective channels; it is essential for parasite survival
 because a higher Na* permeability would produce osmotic lysis of infected RBCs in the high
 Na* serum.
  100161      PSAC plays a central role in parasite nutrient acquisition. Sugars, amino acids,
 purines, vitamins, and precursors for phospholipid biosynthesis have markedly increased
  uptake into infected RBCs via PSAC. Many of these solutes have negligible permeability in
 uninfected RBCs and must be provided exogenously to sustain in vitro parasite growth.
 PSAC is conserved on divergent plasmodial species, as determined through studies of
  erythrocytes infected with rodent, avian, and primate malaria parasites. The channel's gating,

                                               4
 voltage dependence, selectivity, and pharmacology are all conserved, suggesting that PSAC
is a highly constrained integral membrane protein. Its surface location on the erythrocyte
membrane offers conceptual advantages over parasite targets buried inside the infected RBC.
PSAC's exposed location on infected RBCs forces direct access to antagonists in serum and
excludes resistance via drug extrusion. In contrast, drugs acting within the parasite
compartment must cross at least three membranous barriers to reach their target; clinical
resistance to chloroquine and mefloquine appear to be linked to extrusion from their sites of
action. Nearly all available PSAC antagonists inhibit in vitro parasite growth at
concentrations modestly higher than those required for channel inhibition.
100171       PSAC-inhibitor interactions may be determined by members of the clag3
plasmodia gene family. Clag3.I (also known as RhopHi (3.1) and PFC0120w)and clag3.2
(also known as RhopH1(3.2) and PFC01I Ow) are members of the clag multigene family
conserved in P.falciparumand P. vivax. Clag3.1 and clag3.2 are located on P.falciparum
chromosome 3. The clag 3.1 gene sequence is referenced by Genbank Accession Nos.
 124504714 and XM_001351064 (SEQ ID NO: 1). SEQ ID NO: 1 sets forth the mRNA
sequence of the clag3. I gene without the untranslated regions. The sequence of the protein
product of the clag 3.1 gene (known as cytoadherence linked asexual protein 3.1) is
referenced by Genbank Accession Nos. XP._001351100 and CAB 10572.2 (SEQ ID NO: 2).
The clag 3.2 gene sequence is referenced by Genbank Accession Nos. 124504712 and
XM_001351063 (SEQ ID NO: 3). SEQ ID NO: 3 sets forth the mRNA sequence of the
clag3.2 gene without the untranslated regions. The sequence of the protein product of the
clag 3.2 gene (known as cytoadherence linked asexual protein 3.2) is referenced by Genbank
Accession Nos. XP_001351099 and 124504713 (SEQ ID NO: 4). Based on available
evidence, clag3.1 and clag3.2 encode the parasite PSAC.
[0018]       The invention also provides a chimeric clag3.1/clag3.2 gene. SEQ ID NO: 79
sets forth the mRNA sequence of the chimeric clag3.1/clag3.2 gene without the untranslated
regions, and SEQ ID NO: 78 sets forth the protein product of the chimeric clag3.1/clag3.2
gene. Amino acid residues 1-1011 of SEQ ID NO: 78 correspond to amino acid residues 1
 1011 of the clag3.1 protein SEQ ID NO: 2. Amino acid residues 1012-1417 of SEQ ID NO:
78 correspond to amino acid residues 1014-1416 of the clag3.2 protein SEQ ID NO: 4.
Based on available evidence, the chimeric clag3.J/clag3.2 gene encodes a parasite PSAC.

                                                5
[0019f       Accordingly, the invention provides, in an embodiment, a method of treating or
preventing malaria in an animal comprising administering an effective amount of a
compound of formula (1) to the animal, preferably a human:
                                                   2
                                          Q-Y-R-R     (1),
         wherein:
         Q is selected from the group consisting of a dioxo heterocyclyl ring fused to an aryl
group, a heterocyclic amido group linked to a heterocyclic group, alkyl, a heterocyclic group
fused to a heterocyclic amido group, arylamino carbonyl, amino, heterocyclic amido, and
heterocyclic amino group, each of which, other than amino, is optionally substituted with one
or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halo, hydroxy, mercapto, alkoxy,
alkylthio, nitro, cyano, amino, alkyl, aryl, hydroxyalkyl, haloalkyl, cyanoalkyl, aminoalkyl,
alkylamino, dialkylamino, carboxy, carboxyalkyl, alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl,
aminocarbonyl, ureido, and formyl;
         Y is a bond, S, SO 2 , or amido;
         R' is divalent group selected from the group consisting of a heterocyclic ring having
at least one nitrogen atom, piperidinyl, piperazinyl, aryl, a heterocyclic ring having at least
one nitrogen atom linked to an alkylamino group, benzo fused heterocyclyl, heterocyclyl
fused to an iminotetrahydropyrimidino group, and heterocyclyl fused to a heterocyclic amido
group, each of which is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the
group consisting of halo, hydroxy, mercapto, alkoxy, alkylthio, nitro, cyano, amino, alkyl,
hydroxyalkyl, haloalkyl, cyanoalkyl, aminoaLkyl, alkylamino, dialkylamino, carboxy,
carboxyalkyl, alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, ureido, and formyl;
         R2 is selected from the group consisting of arylalkenyl, heterocyclyl carbonylamino,
heterocyclyl alkylamino, tetrahydroquinolinyl alkenyl, tetrahydroisoquinolinyl alkyl,
indolylalkenyl, dihydroindolylalkenyl, aryl, aryloxyalkyl, arylalkyl, diazolyl, and
quinolinylalkenyl, each of which is optionally substituted with one or more substituents
selected from the group consisting of halo, hydroxy, mercapto, alkoxy, alkylthio, nitro,
cyano, amino, alkyl, hydroxyalkyl, haloalkyl, cyanoalkyl, aminoalkyl, alkylamino,
dialkylamino, carboxy, carboxyalkyl, alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, ureido,
 and formyl;
         or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

                                                   6
  [0020j       Another embodiment of the invention provides a method of inhibiting a
 plasmodial surface anion channel of a parasite in an animal comprising administering an
  effective amount of a compound of formula (1) to the animal, preferably a human:
                                           Q-Y-R'-R 2    (1),
           or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein  Q, Y, R', and R2 are as defined
 above.
  [0021]       Still another embodiment of the invention provides a compound of formula (I):
                                           Q-Y-R'-R 2 (1,
           or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein  Q, Y, R', and R2 are as defined
 above;
          for use in treating or preventing malaria in an animal, preferably a human.
 100221        Yet another embodiment of the invention provides a compound of formula (1):
                                           Q-Y-R-R   2  (1),
          or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein   Q, Y, R', and R 2 are as defined
 above;
          for use in inhibiting a plasmodial surface anion channel of a parasite in an animal,
 preferably a human.
 [00231        Still another embodiment of the invention provides a use of a compound of
formula (I):
                                           Q-Y-R'-R 2 (1),
          or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein  Q, Y, R', and R2 are   as defined
above;
          in the manufacture of a medicament for treating or preventing malaria in an animal,
preferably a human.
[0024]         Yet another embodiment of the invention provides a use of a compound of
formula (1):
                                           Q-Y-R'-R 2 (1),
          or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein  Q, Y, R', and R2 are as defined
above;
          in the manufacture of a medicament for inhibiting a plasmodial surface anion channel
of a parasite in an animal, preferably a human.
10025]        In accordance with an embodiment of the invention,    Q in formula I is selected
from the group consisting of dioxotetrahydroquinoxalinyl, pyridazinyl heterocyclyl, alkyl,

                                                  7
heterocyclyl pyridazinyl, and arylaminocarbonylalkyl, each of which is optionally substituted
with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halo, hydroxy, mercapto,
alkoxy, alkylthio, nitro, cyano, amino, alkyl, hydroxyalkyl, haloalkyl, cyanoalkyl,
aminoalkyl, alkylamino, dialkylamino, carboxyalkyl, alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl,
aminocarbonyl, ureido, and formyl.
 100261     In accordance with an embodiment of the invention, R' in formula I is selected
from the group consisting of piperidinyl, piperazinyl, piperidinylalkylamino, benzothiazolyl,
thiozolyl fused to an imino tetrahydropyrimidino group, and tliazolyl fused to a pyridazone,
each of which is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group
consisting of halo, hydroxy, mercapto, alkoxy, alkylthio, nitro, cyano, amino, alkyl,
hydroxyalkyl, haloalkyl, cyanoalkyl, aminoalkyl, alkylamino, dialkylamino, carboxyalkyl,
alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, ureido, and formyl.
[00271      In accordance with an embodiment of the invention, R2 in formula I is selected
from the group consisting of alkyl arylalkenyl, thiopheneylcarbonylamino, tetrahydro
quinolinyl alkenyl, tetrahydro isoquinolinylalkyl, alkoxyaryl, aryl, aryloxyalkyl, and
arylalkyl, each of which is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from
the group consisting of halo, hydroxy, mercapto, alkoxy, alkylthio, nitro, cyano, amino, alkyl,
hydroxyalkyl, haloalkyl, cyanoalkyl, aminoalkyl, alkylamino, dialkylamino, carboxyalkyl,
alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, ureido, and formyl.
[00281      In accordance with an embodiment of the invention, Y in formula I is SO2 . For
example,   Q in formula  I is selected from the group consisting of (point of attachment is
represented by a wiggly line here and elsewhere in the application):
            0
 O              NH
     HN
                                                        methyl, and isobutyl. In accordance
with an embodiment of the invention, R in formula [is selected from the group consisting
of:

                                               8
                                            NH
                    N                N
    N
                         ,and                      o . In accordance with an embodiment of
the invention, R2 is selected from the group consisting of:
                            O-Cci9
                       and
[0029]      In accordance with any of the embodiments above, the compound of formula I is:

     0
0       NH
  HN
                 10 N
                           N
                               IS -2
              ISO-I
         N
                      ISI-2       -2o
         HNNJ
       N               HNI
                       HN
     0                       0

             10
                            F
                          N
N-N      0            ISG
                   N
                   ISG-35
    HN N
           IS0-21,

                                              N1
                     CD00
                          NH/
                    NHN
                     NHNN                                         N
               3O IoCD-007               ,or                                        Cpd 50.
[0030]     In accordance with an embodiment of the invention, Y in formula I is S. For
example, in accordance with an embodiment of the invention, Q in formula I is selected from
                                      NH
                                                        N N        N
                              F/
the group consisting of:                         and                       . In accordance
with an embodiment of the invention, R' in formula I is selected from the group consisting
            N\    -     0
                       NN
of:              N-N          and           S                  In accordance with an
embodiment of the invention, R2 in formula I is selected from the group consisting of:
                                     17S
                              and
[0031]     In accordance with an embodiment of the invention, the compound of formula I is:

                                               12
                         NH0
                                                         N-N                     or
                                        S                       NaS
                                                                          .0
                        N,
                                     /           ISG-28         H
[0032]     In accordance with an embodiment of the invention, Y of formula I is a bond. For
example, in an embodiment of the invention, the compound of formula I is:
   \N         N                                  CN
                             NN
            NN
                  NK
                           0                       Cpd 80.
[0033]      In accordance with an embodiment of the invention, Y of formula (1) is amido. In
accordance with an embodiment of the invention,    Q is heterocyclic  amido, R, is a
heterocyclic ring having at least one nitrogen atom, and R2~ is diazolyl. For example, in an
embodiment of the invention, the compound of formula!I is:

                                                 13
                               N             NH
                                NN
                                              ISPA-28,
 [0034]        In an embodiment of the invention, the compound inhibits growth of R
falciparum Dd2,
 [00351        Another embodiment of the invention provides a pharmaceutical composition
 comprising:
          i) a compound of formula (1):
                                          Q-Y-R'-R2 (),
          wherein:
          Q is selected from the group consisting of a dioxo heterocyclyl ring fused to an aryl
 group, a heterocyclic amido group linked to a heterocyclic group, alkyl, a heterocyclic group
 fused to a heterocyclic amido group, arylamino carbonyl, amino, heteroyclic amido, and
 heterocyclic amino group, each of which, other than amino, is optionally substituted with one
 or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halo, hydroxy, mercapto, alkoxy,
 alkylthio, nitro, cyano, amino, alkyl, aryl, hydroxyalkyl, haloalkyl, cyanoalkyl, aminoalkyl,
 alkylamino, dialkylamino, carboxy, carboxyalkyl, alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl,
 aminocarbonyl, ureido, and fornyl;
          Y is a bond, S, SO2 , or amido;
          R' is divalent group selected from the group consisting of a heterocyclic ring having
 at least one nitrogen atom, piperidinyl, piperazinyl, aryl, a heterocyclic ring having at least
 one nitrogen atom linked to an alkylamino group, benzo fused heterocyclyl, heterocyclyl
 fused to an iminotetrahydropyrimidino group, and heterocyclyl fused to a heterocyclic amido
 group, each of which is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the
 group consisting of halo, hydroxy, mercapto, alkoxy, alkylthio, nitro, cyano, amino, alkyl,
 hydroxyalkyl, haloalkyl, cyanoalkyl, aminoalkyl, alkylamino, dialkylamino, carboxy,
 carboxyalkyl, alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, ureido, and formyl;

                                                 14
        R2 is selected from the group consisting of arylalkenyl, heterocyclyl carbonylamino,
heterocyclyl alkylamino, tetrahydroquinotinyl alkenyl, tetrahydroisoquinolinyl alkyl,
indolylalkenyt, dihydroindolylalkenyl, aryl, aryloxyalkyl, arylalkyl, diazolyl, and
quinolinylalkenyl, each of which is optionally substituted with one or more substituents
selected from the group consisting of halo, hydroxy, mercapto, alkoxy, alkylthio, nitro,
cyano, amino, alkyl, hydroxyalkyl, haloalkyl, cyanoalkyl, aminoalkyl, alkylamino,
dialkylamino, carboxy, carboxyalkyl, alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl, aninocarbonyl, ureido,
and formyl;
        or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof; and
        ii) at least one other antimalarial compound.
[00361       The antimalarial compound may be any suitable antimalarial compound and may
act by any mechanism and may, for example, inhibit a PSAC at any site. In an embodiment
of the invention, the antimalarial compound is artemisinin, mefloquine, chloroquine, or
derivatives thereof
[0037]       In an embodiment of the invention, the at least one other antimalarial compound is
one or more compounds selected from the group consisting of:
                 a) a compound of formula II:
                                   0           R3
                                                                    N     R20o
                      RS, R4                           RS, R7
                                                  0 is arylalkyl, optionally substituted on the
        wherein R'" is hydrogen or alkyl and RO'
aryl with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halo, hydroxyl, nitro,
cyano, amino, alkyl, aminoalkyl, alkylamino, alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl,
and formyl; or R'O is a group of formula (III):

                                                  15
                             (CH2)n-N                 N        \     /
                                              R9
         wherein n=O to 6;
         or R'a and R20 ' together with the N to which they are attached form a heterocycle of
formula IV:
                                                        R10
                                         -N                   X-Y  1
                                                     (IV)
        wherein X is N or CII; and
         Y is aryl, alkylaryl, dialkylaryl, arylalkyl, alkoxyaryl, or heterocyclic, optionally
substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halo,
hydroxyl, nitro, cyano, amino, arninoalkyl, alkylanino, alkylcarbonyt, alkoxycarbonyl,
aminocarbonyl, and formyl; and
        R'- R'O are hydrogen or alkyl; or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof;
                (b) a compound of formula V:
                                                            0
                                                 _ H        1
                                                    N-C-L-Q1
                                z               Ra                        (
                wherein
        Z is a group having one or more 4-7 membered rings, wherein at least one of the rings
has at least one heteroatom selected from the group consisting of 0, S, and N; and when two
or more 4-7 membered rings are present, the rings may be fused or unfused; wherein the rings
are optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of

                                                  16
halo, hydroxy, alkoxy, nitro, cyano, amino, alkyl, aminoalkyl, alkylamino, alkylcarbonyl,
alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, and formyl;
        Ra is hydrogen, alkyl, or alkoxy;
        L is a bond, alkyl, alkoxy, (CH 2 )r, or (CH 2O),, wherein r and s are independently 1 to
6;
        Qi is a heterocyclic group, an aryl group, or an heterocyclyl aryl group, each of which
is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of
halo, hydroxy, alkoxy, nitro, cyano, amino, alkyl, aminoalkyl, alkylamino, alkylcarbonyl,
alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, and formyl; and
        when L is alkyl or alkoxy,  Qi is absent;
        or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and
                (c) a compound of formula VI:
                                                    R15
                        R13, R14               NN
                                                                   R"            (VI)
        wherein R" and R" are independently hydrogen, alkyl, cycloalkyl, or aryl which is
optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of
alkyl, alkoxy, halo, hydroxy, nitro, cyano, amino, alkylamino, aminoalkyl, alkylcarbonyl,
 alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, and formyl;
         R'- R'" are independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl, halo, alkoxy,
 hydroxy, nitro, cyano, amino, alkylamino, aminoalkyl, alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl,
 aminocarbonyl, and formyl;
         or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof In this regard, in an embodiment of the
 invention, the pharmaceutical composition comprises at least one compound of formula I in
 combination with one or more compounds disclosed in U.S. Patent Application Publication

                                              17
No. 2011/0144086, which is a United States national stage application of PCT/US09/50637,
filed on July 15, 2009, and which published as WO 2010/011537, each of which are
incorporated herein by reference,
[00381      In accordance with an embodiment of the invention, the pharmaceutical
composition comprises a compound of formula I and any one or more of
                            NN      S              NH
                             yNN
                                                                   0
                                                  13
                     NN                       NH
                           NN
                                             16
                                                           0
                                                  17
                                  N
                                    SN
                                                 O
                                                  18
                                    N                O               Br
                                                                        , and

                                                 18
                             N                                NH
                                   NO
                                                              0         0
                                                20.
[0039]      Another embodiment of the invention provides a method of treating or preventing
malaria in an animal comprising administering to the animal an effective amount of a
compound of formula I and at least one other antimalarial compound. In an embodiment, the
at least one other antimalarial compound is one or more compound(s) selected from the group
consisting of a compound of formula II, a compound of formula V, and a compound of
formula VI.
[0040]      Still another embodiment of the invention provides a method of inhibiting a
plasmodial surface anion channel of a parasite in an animal comprising administering to the
animal an effective amount of a compound of formula I and one or more compound(s)
selected from the group consisting of a compound of formula II, a compound of formula V,
and a compound of formula VI.
[00411      Referring now to terminology used generically herein, the term "alkyl" implies a
straight or branched alkyl moiety containing from, for example, I to 12 carbon atoms,
preferably from I to 8 carbon atoms, more preferably from I to 6 carbon atoms. Examples of
such moieties include methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyt, n-butyl, sec-butyl, isobutyl, tert-butyl,
pentyl, isoamyl, hexyl, octyl, dodecanyl, and the like.
[00421      The term "aryl" refers to an unsubstituted or substituted aromatic carbocyclic
moiety, as commonly understood in the art, and includes monocyclic and polycyclic
aromatics such as, for example, phenyl, biphenyl, naphthyl, anthracenyl, pyrenyl, and the
like. An aryl moiety generally contains from, for example, 6 to 30 carbon atoms, preferably
from 6 to 18 carbon atoms, more preferably from 6 to 14 carbon atoms and most preferably
from 6 to 10 carbon atoms. It is understood that the term aryl includes carbocyclic moieties
that are planar and comprise 4n+2    t electrons, according to uckel's Rule, wherein n = 1, 2,
or 3.
[00431      The term "heterocyclic" means a cyclic moiety having one or more heteroatoms
selected from nitrogen, sulfur, and/or oxygen. Preferably, a heterocyclic is a 5 or 6
membered monocyclic ring and contains one, two, or three heteroatoms selected from

                                                 19
nitrogen, oxygen, and/or sulfur. Examples of such heterocyclic rings are pyrrolinyl, pyranyl,
piperidyl, tetrahydrofuranyl, tetrahydrothiopheneyl, and morpholinyl.
100441      The term "alkoxy" embraces linear or branched alkyl groups that are attached to a
an ether oxygen. The alkyl group is the same as described herein. Examples of such
substituents include methoxy, ethoxy, t-butoxy, and the like.
[00451      The term "halo" as used herein, means a substituent selected from Group VIIA,
such as, for example, fluorine, bromine, chlorine, and iodine.
[00461      For the purpose of the present invention, the term "fused" includes a polycyclic
compound in which one ring contains one or more atoms preferably one, two, or three atoms
in common with one or more other rings.
[00471       Whenever a range of the number of atoms in a structure is indicated (e.g., a C,2,
C1as, Cj , or C14 alkyl, alkylamino, etc.), it is specifically contemplated that any sub-range or
individual number of carbon atoms falling within the indicated range also can be used. Thus,
for instance, the recitation of a range of 1-8 carbon atoms (e.g., CL-Cs), 1-6 carbon atoms
(e.g., C1-C6 ), 1-4 carbon atoms (e.g,, C-C4), 1-3 carbon atoms (e.g., C-C 3 ), or 2-8 carbon
atoms (e.g., C2 Cg) as used with respect to any chemical group (e.g., alkyl, alkylamino, etc.)
referenced herein encompasses and specifically describes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,7, 8, 9, 10, 11,
and/or 12 carbon atoms, as appropriate, as well as any sub-range thereof (e.g., 1-2 carbon
 atoms, 1-3 carbon atoms, 1-4 carbon atoms, 1-5 carbon atoms, 1-6 carbon atoms, 1-7 carbon
 atoms, 1-8 carbon atoms, 1-9 carbon atoms, 1-10 carbon atoms, 1-11 carbon atoms, 1-12
 carbon atoms, 2-3 carbon atoms, 2-4 carbon atoms, 2-5 carbon atoms, 2-6 carbon atoms, 2-7
 carbon atoms, 2-8 carbon atoms, 2-9 carbon atoms, 2-10 carbon atoms, 2-11 carbon atoms, 2
 12 carbon atoms, 3-4 carbon atoms, 3-5 carbon atoms, 3-6 carbon atoms, 3-7 carbon atoms,
 3-8 carbon atoms, 3-9 carbon atoms, 3-10 carbon atoms, 3-11 carbon atoms, 3-12 carbon
 atoms, 4-5 carbon atoms, 4-6 carbon atoms, 4-7 carbon atoms, 4-8 carbon atoms, 4-9 carbon
 atoms, 4-10 carbon atoms, 4-11 carbon atoms, and/or 4-12 carbon atoms, etc., as
 appropriate).
 [0048]      In accordance with an embodiment of the invention, R3 in formula II is hydrogen.
 In accordance with the above embodiments, R4-R in formula II are hydrogen. In an
                                                  2 00
 example, R1 Oin formula II is hydrogen and         o is a group of formula III, wherein n = I to 6,
 preferably n = 2 to 4.
                                                                               10        20
 [00491      In accordance with an embodiment of the invention, wherein R " and R
 together with the N to which they are attached form a heterocycle of formula IV, For

                                               20
example, X in formula IV is N. In accordance with the invention, in formula IV, Y is aryl
which is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group
consisting of halo, hydroxyl, nitro, cyano, amino, alkyl, alkoxy, aminoalkyl, alkylamino,
alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, and formyl. For example, in formula IV, Y,
is phenyl, which is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the
group consisting of halo, hydroxyl, nitro, cyano, amino, alkyl, alkoxy, aminoalkyl,
alkylamino, alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, and formyl, specifically, Y1 is
phenyl or phenyl substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting
of methyl, chloro, fluoro, and methoxy,
100501       In accordance with any of the embodiments above, the compound of formula II is:
                                                    00
                                                      N'
         H
                               N
           - K,,N2,
                                                                                        2,
                                                            0
                     0                           N
                                         /N                                      /
                                                      5

                                                21
                                                                  0
    o    H1                                      0                     N
                     N                       ciS               N          N               Fo
                                    N i:\~             S             7            'ZrF
                                                                                              or
      0
                               0
[00511      In accordance with another embodiment of the invention, X in formula IV is CI.
In a particular embodiment, Y, is arylalkyl or heterocyclic, which is optionally substituted
with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halo, hydroxyl, nitro,
cyano, amino, alkyl, aminoalkyl, alkylamino, alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl,
and fornyl. Illustratively, Yi is benzyl or piperidinyl, which is optionally substituted with
one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halo, hydroxyl, nitro, cyano,
amino, alkyl, aminoalkyl, alkylamino, alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, and
formyl. Examples of specific compounds of formula f1 are:
                                                                      0
                     0                              o     H
        0                N
          S                                    N       /    S             N
                                             and
                                                                                            200
 [00521      In another embodiment of the invention, R" in formula II is hydrogen and R is
arylalkyl, optionally substituted on the aryl with a substituent selected from the group
consisting of halo, hydroxyl, nitro, cyano, amino, alkyl, aminoalkyl, alkylamino,
alkylcarbonyl, and formyl. As an example, R2 ' is arylalkyl, e.g., phenylalkyl such as phenyl
butyl. A specific example of such a compound of formula II is:

                                                22
                            0                    o
                                      NN
                                                     H
                                                 I1
[00531      In accordance with an embodiment of the invention, a specific example of a
compound of formula III is:
                                                       00
                                                   0          N
                                 H          HN.~          N )
                                                 12
100541      In accordance with another embodiment of the invention, in the compound of
formula V, L is a bond or (CH 2 O),, and Q, is a heterocyclic group, an aryl group, or an
heterocyclyl aryl group, each of which is optionally substituted with one or more substituents
selected from the group consisting of halo, hydroxy, alkoxy, nitro, cyano, amino, alkyl,
aminoalkyl, alkylamino, alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, and formyl.
10055]      In accordance with an embodiment, wherein Z is a group having one or more 4-7
membered rings, wherein at [east one of the rings has at least one heteroatom selected from
the group consisting of 0, S, and N; and when two or more 4-7 membered rings are present,
they may be fused or unfused; wherein the rings are optionally substituted with one or more
substituents selected from the group consisting of halo, hydroxy, alkoxy, nitro, cyano, amino,
alkyl, aminoalkyl, alkylamino, alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, and fonnyl.
 100561      In the above embodiment, Z is a group having one or two 4-7 membered rings,
wherein at least one of the rings has at least one heteroatom selected from the group
consisting of 0, S, and N; and when two 4-7 membered rings are present, they may be fused
or unfused; wherein the rings are optionally substituted with one or more substituents

                                                  23
selected from the group consisting of halo, hydroxy, alkoxy, nitro, cyano, amino, alkyl,
aminoalkyl, alkylamino, alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, and formyl.
[0057]      In a specific embodiment of the formula V,      Qi is an aryl group, optionally
substituted with an alkoxy group or Qi is a heterocyclic group which is saturated or
unsaturated. For example,     Q, is aryl such as phenyl  or naphthyl.
[0058]      Examples of compounds of formula IV are:
                                                     N>S                    NH
 NN                      N
                        13                                   14
 Qo                      N                          N                       N
                                                                            0
                        15                                                 16
           N'              NN      0
               N0                          N
                           17
                           NO
                             18

                                                 24
                            H
                                    C      Br
      N\N               19 O
                                              , and
    N          sNH
                     NN
        N                            O                20
                                     0                20.
[00591       In accordance with an embodiment of the invention, in the compound of formula
V, Qi is a heteroaromatic group, e.g., pyridyl. An example of such a compound is:
         -                     0
           0                   NH
            N
                        21
[00601       In accordance with another embodiment of the invention, in the compound of
formula V, L is an alkyl group and Qi is absent. Examples of such compounds am:
                                HN                             N=      S                 NH
    N          S            --           0                         N                    0
        N&                                                        N     IN
               N                      22
                                                         and                   23
 (0061]       In accordance with another embodiment of the invention, in the compound of
formula VI, R" is alkyl or alkoxy and R14 and R" are hydrogen, In a particular embodiment,
R" is methyl or methoxy.
 [00621       In the above embodiments of the compound of formula VI, specifically, R" is
alkyl and R' 2 is alkyl, cycloalkyl, or aryl, wherein said aryl is optionally substituted with one
or more substituents selected from the group consisting of alkyl, alkoxy, halo, hydroxy, nitro,
cyano, amino, alkylamino, aminoalkyl, alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, and

                                                25
formyl. In a particular embodiment, R 2 is alkyl, cycloalkyl, or aryl, wherein said aryl is
optionally substituted with one or more alkyl and/or alkoxy substituents.
[0063]      Examples of compounds of formula VT are:
                               0                                         0
         ~ >4          N
                   24                                         25
                            0
                                N
                    26                   ,and7
 [0064]     In accordance with an embodiment of the invention, in compound of formula VI,
R" is hydrogen and R" is cycloalkyl or aryl, which is optionally substituted with one or
more alkyl and/or alkoxy substituents. Exemplary compounds of formula VI are:
                    0
              N             HIN             O\                 N       0    HN
                         28                    or                   29
 [00651     In accordance with the invention, an effective amount of a compound of formula I
 is administered in combination with any one or more compound(s) of formulas II, V, and VI,
 for example, a combination of compounds of formulas I and II, compounds of formulas I and
V, compounds of formulas I and VI, compounds of formulas I, 11 and V, compounds of
formulas 1,11 and VI, compounds of formulas I, V and VI, or compounds of formulas I, II, V,
 and VI, or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, is administered. It is contemplated that
 such combinations provide synergy - enhanced killing of the parasite, when a combination of
two or more compounds are employed. The extent of killing is greater than the sum of the
 individual killings.
 [0066]      The compounds of the invention can be prepared by suitable methods as would be
 known to those skilled in the art or obtained from commercial sources such as ChemDiv Inc.,
 San Diego, CA or Peakdale Molecular Limited, High Peak, England. See also WO 00/27851
 and US Pat Nos. 6,602,865 and 2,895,956.

                                                26
[00671       Another embodiment of the invention provides a clag3 amino acid sequence
comprising, consisting of, or consisting essentially of SEQ ID NO: 62, 64, 66, 72, 74, or 76,
with the proviso that the amino acid sequence is not SEQ ID NO: 2,4, or 78. SEQ ID NOs:
62, 64, 66, 74, and 76 correspond to amino acid residues 1063-1208, 1232-1417, 25-332,
488-907, and 925-1044 of the clag3.1 protein of the 3D7 parasite line. SEQ ID NO: 72
corresponds to amino acid residues 1063-1244 of the clag3.1 protein of the Dd2 parasite line.
SEQ ID NOs: 62, 64, 66, 72, 74, and 76 are encoded by nucleotide sequence SEQ ID NOs:
63, 65, 67, 73, 75, and 77, respectively.
100681       In this regard, an embodiment of the invention provides a clag3 amino acid
sequence comprising, consisting of, or consisting essentially of SEQ ID NO: 62, 64, 66, 72,
74, or 76, with the proviso that the amino acid sequence is not SEQ ID NO: 2,4, or 78.
 [00691      Another embodiment of the invention provides a nucleic acid comprising a
nucleotide sequence encoding the inventive amino acid sequences, with the proviso that the
nucleotide sequence is not SEQ ID NO: 1,3, or 79. For example, the nucleotide sequence
comprises, consists, or consists essentially of SEQ ID NO: 63, 65, 67, 73, 75, or 77.
 [0070]      Further embodiments of the invention provide a recombinant expression vector
 comprising an inventive nucleic acid, an isolated host cell comprising the inventive
recombinant expression vector, a population of cells comprising the inventive host cell, and
 an antibody, or antigen binding portion thereof, which specifically binds to an inventive
 amino acid sequence. The inventive amino acid sequence, nucleic acid, recombinant
 expression vector, host cell, population of cells, and/or antibody, or antigen binding portion
 thereof may be isolated or purified.
 [00711       Still another embodiment of the invention provides a pharmaceutical composition
 comprising the inventive amino acid sequence, nucleic acid, recombinant expression vector,
 host cell, population of cells, and/or antibody, or antigen binding portion thereof, and a
 pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
 [00721       Yet another embodiment of the invention provides a method of treating or
 preventing malaria in an animal comprising administering to the animal an effective amount
 of the inventive amino acid sequence, nucleic acid, recombinant expression vector, host cell,
 population of cells, antibody, or antigen binding portion thereof, and/or pharmaceutical
 composition.
  [00731      Yet another embodiment of the invention provides a method of stimulating an
  immune response against a plasmodial surface anion channel of a parasite in an animal

                                                 27
comprising administering to the animal an effective amount of the inventive amino acid
sequence, nucleic acid, recombinant expression vector, host cell, population of cells,
antibody, or antigen binding portion thereof, and/or pharmaceutical composition. In an
embodiment, stimulating an immune response comprises stimulating the production of
antibodies that specifically bind to the plasmodial surface anion channel.
[00741       The pharmaceutically acceptable carriers described herein, for example, vehicles,
adjuvants, recipients, or diluerts, are well known to those who are skilled in the art and are
readily available to the public. It is preferred that the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier be
one which is chemically inert to the active compounds and one which has no detrimental side
effects or toxicity under the conditions of use,
[00751       The choice of carrier will be determined in part by the particular active agent, as
well as by the particular method used to administer the composition. Accordingly, there is a
wide variety of suitable formulations of the pharmaceutical composition of the present
invention. The following formulations for oral, aerosol, parenterat, subcutaneous,
intravenous, intraarterial, intramuscular, interperitoneal, intrathecal, rectal, and vaginal
administration are merely exemplary and are in no way limiting.
 [00761       Formulations suitable for oral administration can consist of (a) liquid solutions,
such as an effective amount of the compound dissolved in diluents, such as water, saline, or
orange juice; (b) capsules, sachets, tablets, lozenges, and troches, each containing a
predetermined amount of the active ingredient, as solids or granules; (c) powders; (d)
suspensions in an appropriate liquid; and (e) suitable emulsions, Liquid formulations may
 include diluents, such as water and alcohols, for example, ethanol, benzyl alcohol, and the
polyethylene alcohols, either with or without the addition of a pharmaceutically acceptable
 surfactant, suspending agent, or emulsifying agent. Capsule forms can be of the ordinary
 hard- or soft-shelled gelatin type containing, for example, surfactants, lubricants, and inert
 fillers, such as lactose, sucrose, calcium phosphate, and cornstarch. Tablet forms can include
 one or more of lactose, sucrose, manmitol, corn starch, potato starch, alginic acid,
 microcrystalline cellulose, acacia, gelatin, guar gum, colloidal silicon dioxide, croscarmellose
 sodium, tale, magnesium stearate, calcium stearate, zinc stearate, stearic acid, and other
 excipients, colorants, diluents, buffering agents, disintegrating agents, moistening agents,
 preservatives, flavoring agents, and pharmacologically compatible carriers. Lozeuge forms
 can comprise the active ingredient in a flavor, usually sucrose and acacia or tragacanth, as
 well as pastilles comprising the active ingredient in an inert base, such as gelatin and

                                                 2g
glycerin, or sucrose and acacia, emulsions, gels, and the like containing, in addition to the
active ingredient, such carriers as are known in the art.
[0077]       The compounds of the present invention, alone or in combination with other
suitable components, can be made into aerosol formulations to be administered via inhalation.
These aerosol formulations can be placed into pressurized acceptable propellants, such as
dichlorodifluoromethane, propane, nitrogen, and the like. They also may be formulated as
pharmaceuticals for non-pressured preparations, such as in a nebulizer or an atomizer.
[0078]       Formulations suitable for parenteral administration include aqueous and non
aqueous, isotonic sterile injection solutions, which can contain anti-oxidants, buffers,
bacteriostats, and solutes that render the formulation isotonic with the blood of the intended
recipient, and aqueous and non-aqueous sterile suspensions that can include suspending
agents, solubilizers, thickening agents, stabilizers, and preservatives. The compound can be
administered in a physiologically acceptable diluent in a pharmaceutical carrier, such as a
sterile liquid or mixture of liquids, including water, saline, aqueous dextrose and related sugar
solutions, an alcohol, such as ethanol, isopropanol, or hexadecyl alcohol, glycols, such as
propylene glycol or polyethylene glycol, glycerol ketals, such as 2,2-dimethyl-1,3-dioxolane
4-methanol, ethers, such as poly(ethyleneglycol) 400, an oil, a fatty acid, a fatty acid ester or
glyceride, or an acetylated fatty acid glyceride with or without the addition of a
pharmaceutically acceptable surfactant, such as a soap or a detergent, suspending agent, such
as pectin, carbomers, methylcellulose, hydroxypropyLmethylcellulose, or
carboxymethylcellulose, or emulsifying agents and other pharmaceutical adjuvants.
[0079]       Oils, which can be used in parenteral formulations include petroleum, animal,
vegetable, or synthetic oils. Specific examples of oils include peanut, soybean, sesame,
cottonseed, com, olive, petrolatum, and mineral. Suitable fatty acids for use in parenteral
formulations include oleic acid, stearic acid, and isostearic acid. Ethyl oleate and isopropyl
 myristate are examples of suitable fatty acid esters. Suitable soaps for use in parenteral
 formulations include fatty alkali metal, ammonium, and triethanolamine salts, and suitable
 detergents include (a) cationic detergents such as, for example, dimethyl dialkyl ammonium
halides, and alkyl pyridinium halides, (b) anionic detergents such as, for example, alkyl, aryl,
 and olefin sulfonates, alkyl, olefin, ether, and monoglyceride sulfates, and sulfosuccinates, (c)
 nonionic detergents such as, for example, fatty amine oxides, fatty acid alkanolamides, and
 polyoxyethylene-polypropylene copolymers, (d) amphoteric detergents such as, for example,

                                               29
alkyl-beta-aminopropionates, and 2-alkyl-imidazoline quaternary ammonium salts, and (3)
mixtures thereof.
100801      The parenteral formulations will typically contain from about 0.5 to about 25% by
weight of the active ingredient in solution, Suitable preservatives and buffers can be used in
such formulations. In order to minimize or eliminate irritation at the site of injection, such
compositions may contain one or more nonionic surfactants having a hydrophile-lipophile
balance (HLB) of from about 12 to about 17. The quantity of surfactant in such formulations
ranges from about 5 to about 15% by weight. Suitable surfactants include polyethylene
sorbitan fatty acid esters, such as sorbitan monooleate and the high molecular weight adducts
of ethylene oxide with a hydrophobic base, formed by the condensation of propylene oxide
with propylene glycol. The parenteral formulations can be presented in unit-dose or multi
dose sealed containers, such as ampoules and vials, and can be stored in a freeze-dried
(lyophilized) condition requiring only the addition of the sterile liquid carrier, for example,
water, for injections, immediately prior to use. Extemporaneous injection solutions and
suspensions can be prepared from sterile powders, granules, and tablets of the kind
previously described.
[00811      The compounds of the present invention may be made into injectable
formulations. The requirements for effective pharmaceutical carriers for injectable
compositions are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art. See Pharmaceuticsand
PharmacyPractice,J. B. Lippincott Co., Philadelphia, Pa., Banker and Chalmers, eds., pages
238-250 (1982), and ASHP Handbook on Injectable Drugs, Toissel, 4th ed., pages 622-630
(1986).
 [0082]     Additionally, the compounds of the present invention may be made into
suppositories by mixing with a variety of bases, such as emulsifying bases or water-soluble
bases, Formulations suitable for vaginal administration may be presented as pessaries,
tampons, creams, gels, pastes, foams, or spray formulas containing, in addition to the active
ingredient, such carriers as are known in the art to be appropriate.
 [00831     Suitable carriers and their formulations are further described in A.R. Gennaro, ed.,
 Remington: The Science and PracticeofPharmacy (19th ed.), Mack Publishing Company,
 Easton, PA (1995).
 [0084]     The compound of the invention or a composition thereof can potentially be
administered as a pharmaceutically acceptable acid-addition, base neutralized or addition salt,
 formed by reaction with inorganic acids, such as hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid,

                                                 30
perchloric acid, nitric acid, thiocyanic acid, sulfuric acid, and phosphoric acid, and organic
acids such as formic acid, acetic acid, propionic acid, glycolic acid, lactic acid, pyruvic acid,
oxalie acid, malonic acid, succinic acid, maleic acid, and fumaric acid, or by reaction with an
inorganic base, such as sodium hydroxide, ammonium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, and
organic bases, such as mono-, di-, trialkyl, and aryl amines and substituted ethanolamines.
The conversion to a salt is accomplished by treatment of the base compound with at least a
stoichiometric amount of an appropriate acid. Typically, the free base is dissolved in an inert
organic solvent such as diethyl ether, ethyl acetate, chloroform, ethanol, methanol, and the
like, and the acid is added in a similar solvent. The mixture is maintained at a suitable
temperature (e.g., between 0 *C and 50 *C). The resulting salt precipitates spontaneously or
can be brought out of solution with a less polar solvent.
 10085)      The neutral forms of the compounds can be regenerated by contacting the salt
with a base or acid and isolating the parent compound in the conventional manner. The
parent form of the compound differs from the various salt forms in certain physical
properties, such as solubility in polar solvents, but otherwise the salts are equivalent to the
 parent form of the compound for the purposes of the present invention.
 [00861      The amount or dose of a compound of the invention or a salt thereof, or a
 composition thereof should be sufficient to affect a therapeutic or prophylactic response in
 the mammal. The appropriate dose will depend upon several factors. For instance, the dose
 also will be determined by the existence, nature and extent of any adverse side effects that
 might accompany the administration of a particular compound or salt. Ultimately, the
 attending physician will decide the dosage of the compound of the present invention with
 which to treat each individual patient, taking into consideration a variety of factors, such as
 age, body weight, general health, diet, sex, compound or salt to be administered, route of
 administration, and the severity of the condition being treated, By way of example and not
 intending to limit the invention, the dose of the compound(s) described herein can be about
 0.1 mg to about I g daily, for example, about 5 mg to about 500 mg daily. Further examples
 of doses include but are not limited to: 0.1 mg, 0.15 mg, 0.2 mg, 0.25 mg, 0.5 mg, 0.6 mg,
 0.75 mg, I mg, 1.5 mg, 2 mg, 3 mg, 4 mg, 5 mg, 6 mg, 7 mg, 8 mg, 9 mg, 10 mg, 12 mg, 15
 mg, 17 mg, 20 mg, 25 mg, 30 mg, 35 mg, 40 mg, 45 mg, 50 mg, 55 mg, 60 mg, 70 mg, 75
 mg, 80 mg, 85 mg, 90 mg, 95 mg, 100 mg, 125 mg, 140 mg, 150 mg, 175 mg, 200 mg, 225
 mg, 250 mg, 300 mg, 350 mg, 400 mg, 450 mg, 500 mg, 550 mg, 600 mg, 650 mg, 700 mg,
  750 mg, 800 mg, 850 mg, 900 mg, 950 mg, or 1000 mg/kg body weight per day.

                                                 31
                                                                                             not
[0087]        The following examples further illustrate the invention but, of course, should
be construed as in any way limiting its scope.
                                            EXAMPLES
Osmotic lysis experiments and high-throughputinhibitorscreen
 [00881       Laboratory lines of P, falciparum were cultured by standard methods, enriched at
the trophozoite stage using the Percoll-sorbitol method, washed, and resuspended at 25 *C
and 0.15% hematocrit in 280 mM sorbitol, 20 mM Na-HEPES, 0.1 mg/ml BSA, pH 7.4 with
 indicated concentrations of inhibitors; uptake of praline, alanine, and phenyl
trimethytanmonium chloride (PhTMA-CI) was similarly measured after iso-osmotic
 replacement for sorbitol, Osmotic swelling and lysis were continuously tracked by recording
 transmittance of 700-nm light through the cell suspension (DU640 spectrophotometer with
 Peltier temperature control, Beckman Coulter). Recordings were normalized to 100%
 osmotic lysis of infected cells at the transmittance plateau. Inhibitor dose responses were
 calcutated by interpolation of the time required to reach fractional lysis thresholds. Dose
 responses were fitted to the sum of two Langmuir isotherms:
  P=a/(I+(x/b))+(-a)/(1+(x/c))                                         (Eq. SI)
 where P represents the normalized solute permeability in the presence of inhibitor at
 concentration x, and a, b, and c are constants.
  [0089]       High-throughput screens using this transmittance assay were performed
  identically with HB3- and Dd2-infected cells at room temperature using a commercial library
  of 50,000 compounds with > 90% purity confirmed by NMR (ChemDiv). Screens were
  performed in 384-well format with individual wells containing a single compound at 10 iM
  final concentration. Each microplate had two types of controls, 32 positive control wells
  received PBS instead of sorbitol; erythrocytes in these wells do not lyse because PSAC has
  low Na* permeability, 32 negative control wells received sorbitol with DMSO but no test
  compound. Readings were taken at multiple timepoints to permit estimation of inhibitor
  affinity in a high-throughput format. The purity and molecular weight of ISPA-28 were
  confirmed by mass spectrometry.
   [00901      The activity of each screening compound was calculated based on readings at the
  2 h timepoint according to:

                                                 32
%B=100*(A           Ae)/(,,,)                                          (Eq. S2)
where %B is the normalized channel block and Apyrepresents the absorbance from a well
containing a test compound. A, and Am represent the mean absorbances of in-plate
negative and positive control wells. %B is a quantitative measure of inhibitor activity.
[00911       Inhibitors having significantly differing efficacies against uptake by HB3- and
Dd2-infected cells were selected using a weighted difference statistic (WDS), determined
from %B values at the 2 h timepoint according to:
WDS=I%B,"-%Bd 2 l1(3* a,)                                       (Eq. S3)
where o,, is the standard deviation of in-plate positive control wells. Isolate-specific
inhibitors have WDS 1.0; larger values correspond to greater differences in efficacy against
uptake by the two screened parasite lines. Analysis and data mining of the screens were
automated using locally developed code (DIAdem 10.2 and DataFinder, National
Instruments).
Electrophysiology
[0092]       Recordings were obtained with quartz patch pipettes (1-3 Mf) and symmetric
bath and pipette solutions of 1,000 mM choline chloride, 115 mM NaCI, 10 mM MgC 2 , 5
mM CaCl2 , 20 mM Na-HEPES, pH 7.4. Where present, ISPA-28 was added to both bath and
pipette compartments. Seal resistances were > 100 GO. Recordings were obtained at
imposed membrane potentials of -100 mV, applied as steps from a holding potential of 0 mV,
using an Axopatch 200B amplifier (Molecular Devices), low-pass filtered at 5 kilz (8-pole
Bessel, Frequency Devices), digitized at 100 kHz, and recorded with Clampex 9.0 software
(Molecular Devices).
 [0093]       Single channel open probabilities and gating analyses were determined using
locally developed code (DIAdem 8.1, National Instruments). The code for tallying closed
 channel durations was applied to recordings obtained as voltage steps of 10 s duration to
preserve seal integrity. It detects mid-threshold crossings, uses linear interpolation of
 adjacent sample times, and corrects for a Gaussian filter risetime of 66.4 lis as described in
 detail previously (Desai et al., Nanomedicine, 1: 58-66 (2005)). Durations were tallied into
 16 bins/decade, normalized to percent of the total number of events, and displayed on square
 root plots, where time constants for simple exponentially decaying processes are visible as
 maxima (Sigworth et al., Biophys. J. 52: 1047-54 (1987)).

                                                33
Quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis of ISPA-28 efficacies
[0094J      A distinct collection of 443 polymorphic microsatellite markers were selected that
distinguish the Dd2 and HB3 parental lines (Su et al., Science, 286: 1351-53 (1999)). 5
additional single nucleotide polymorphisms within the chromosome 3 locus were identified
by DNA sequencing and were used to genotype progeny clones. This genotype data was
used to search for genetic loci associated with ISPA-28 efficacy in the genetic cross progeny
by performing QTL analysis with R/qtl software (available at http://www.rqtl.org/) as
described (Broman et at, Bioinformatics, 19: 889-90 (2003)). Because P. falciparun asexual
stages are haploid, the analysis was analogous to that for recombinant inbred genetic crosses.
Significance thresholds at the P = 0.05 level were determined by permutation analysis. A
secondary scan to search for additional QTL was carried out by controlling for the primary
chromosome 3 locus as described in the R/qtl software package.
piggyBac transposase-mediatedcomplementation
10095]      Individual candidate genes and a conserved open reading frame within the
mapped locus were evaluated usingpiggyBac transposase-mediated complementation (Balu
et al. PNAS, 102: 16391-96 (2005)). Each candidate, along with its presumed endogenous 5'
promoter region (1-2 kb upstream of the start ATG) and 3'UTR (0.5 kb downstream from the
stop codon), was PCR amplified from HB3 genomic DNA with primers listed below in Table
1, and inserted into the multiple cloning site of the pXL-BaclI-DHFR vector; ligation places
the insert adjacent to the human dihydrofolate reductase gene (hDIIFR), whose product
permits selection by the antifolate WR992 10. This integration cassette is flanked by two
inverted terminal repeats (ITR) that are recognized by piggyBac. Transgene-bearing
plasmids were cotransfected into Dd2 with piITH, a helper plasmid that encodes the
transposase but lacks a selectable marker. Expression of the transposase facilitates genomic
integration of the transgene and hDHFR.
 [0096]     Dye-terminator sequencing of cDNA was used to confirm transgene expression
based on detection of known polymorphic sites as doublet peaks in sequence chromatograms.
Briefly, cDNA was generated by reverse transcription from total RNA with SuperScriptlll kit
(Invitrogen) according to manufacturer instructions. Specific transcripts were then amplified
with gene-specific primers. HB3 alleles noted as not expressed were either not detected by
this method or not examined due to the lack of polymorphism between Dd2 and HB3.

                         34
          o                         -co
            0
               0            C
                   C        H                    F
                      sH
                   F-       6<
                            "9       :
            12              o
                               00
            o    a                        0
                                          F-F
                                                 g
  a)                  0I
     ( 9    C)              CD      CCC)
     o      0               0       o   r
     a                              cc
       o         o                  F|: o
                            F-  CC
-4C         a    g          C)    a
         C) CC H                          C
              1!      CD    CD z-
                                          CD
                               U-
                 8M8                          IL

                                            35
                                                  2                  H
   o                        CD                           -
                         (9            F-
                                       H                 CC        C CD
               C)H          H)
              r.D        ZZ CD     Z    0      a(
                                               H
                                                     Wo
          '1)       H                  a
                                                         0         C
                C)
0'       I            -      -         CD                 0        o
      '
        o   <
                s-     e     a0-X---
                             F-
                                             r o
                                               FC          <)a
                CD
                 C)
        005                            "D       o-cO                 o
                                                                     5
                                     6 (D                C            HO
            3d                                                 _
                             w         8       0           CD
                                               W               0     CC
   F-                        6
                                                                   F
              UO             o         0                             H
        0        F-          H            a    o                 a   CD
                   0-              (LC                LI

                                              36
Allelic exchange of clag3
[00971      Allelic exchange was achieved by single-site homologous recombination of a Dd2
clag3.1 transgene into the HB3 genomic clag3.2. A DNA fragment containing the 3'portion
(3219 bp) of clag3, I and its 3' UTR (441 bp) was amplified from Dd2 with primers
5'-cataageggccgcGCCATTCAGACCAAGCAAGG-3'                 (SEQ ID NO: 35) and
5'-ttaaactgcagCTTTTCAATTAATT1TTATATTCTTTTGTTC-3'                  (SEQ ID NO: 36). The
amplicon was cloned into the pHD22Y plasmid (Fidock et al., PNAS, 94: 10931-36 (1997))
between Nod and Pstl sites. The final transfection plasmid (pHD22Y-120w-flag-PGI) was
constructed by addition of DNA sequence encoding tetra-cysteines and the FLAG epitope tag
(FLNCCPCCMEPGSDYKDDDDK) (SEQ ID NO: 37) in frame before the gene's stop codon
by standard site-directed mutagenesis. Homologous recombination into H1B3 was detected by
PCR five months after transfection. Recombinant parasites were enriched by sorbitol
treatment with ISPA-28 and subjected to limiting dilution to yield the limiting dilution clone
HB33".
 [0098]     Primers used for PCR verification of homologous recombination into the HB3
genome included those in Table 2:

                                              37
                                            TABLE2
primer                                   sequence
                                         GTGGAATTGTGAGCGGATAACA (SEQ IDNO:
p1                                       38)
                                         TCATCGTCCTTATAGTCGGATCC (SEQ ID NO:
p2                                       39)
                                         ATGTTTTGTAATTTATGGGATAGCOA (SEQ ID
p3                                       NO: 40)
                                         GTTGAGTACGCACTAATATGTCAATTTG (SEQ
p4                                        ID NO: 41)
                                         AACCATAACATTATCATATATGTTAATTACAC
p5                                        (SEQ ID NO: 42)
Southern blot hybridization
 [0099]      Genomic DNA was extracted using Wizard Genomic DNA extraction kit
(Promega), digested with indicated restriction enzymes, resolved on a 0.7% agarose gel at 55
V for 18 hrs, and blotted onto positively charged Nylon membrane (Roche). A DNA probe
complementary to hdhfr was prepared using primers
(5'-AYTCCAGAGAATGACCACAAC-3'                  (SEQ ID NO: 43) and
 5'-TFAAGATGGCCTGGGTGATTC-3') (SEQ ID NO: 44) and labeled with digoxigenin
dUTP. After prehybridization with DIG-Easy Hyb (Roche), the labeled probe was added and
                                                                                   0
hybridized overnight at 39 *C. The blot was washed with 0.1 x SSC/0,5% SDS at 53 C, and
 blocked. Probe binding was then detected with anti-digoxigenin-AP Fab fragments at a
 dilution of 1:10,000 and CDP-Star substrate (Roche).

                                              38
Quantification ofgene expression by real-time PCR
10190]      Two-step real-time PCR was used to quantify expression of clag genes. Primers
specific for each of the 5 clag genes were designed based on polymorphisms identified
through DNA sequencing. Genomic DNA PCR using possible permutations of forward and
reverse primers produced amplicons with only matched primer pairs, confirming specificity.
Primers used included those in Table 3:

                      39
               0Y              9           a
                        u Le
          FgA-                       0
C)                u        0     '   o     0
                  <C           -     0
                   <)     <  <
      <                              <
      0 C)0           0        <
     od   <e            a      <       e
   <                                 <
      u < <     0   C              <C0
         <C<
          S     -)4                      U
)i         L).      Q           L-         -u
                                0

                                               40
[01011        Total RNA was harvested from synchronous schizont-stage cultures with Trizol
reagent (Invitrogen) following the manufacturer's protocol. Residual genomic DNA
contaminant was removed by TURBO-DNA-free kit (Ambion). Reverse transcription was
performed using SuperScriptII kit (Invitrogen) with oligo-dT as primer. Negative control
reactions that omitted reverse transcriptase were used to exclude samples contaminated with
genomic DNA. Real-time PCR was performed with QuantiTect SyBr Green PCR kit
(Qiagen) and the above clag gene-specific primer pairs. Amplification kinetics were
followed in the iCycler iQ multicolor real-time PCR system (Bio-Rad). Serial dilution of
parasite genomic DNA was used to construct the standard curve for each primer pair.
rhopH2, rhopH3, and PF7_0073 were used as loading controls. The presented data are
 normalized to the total clag3 transcript abundance.
 In vitro selections ofparashes with altered ISPA efficacy
 101021       PSAC-mediated osmotic lysis of infected cells in unbuffered 280 mM sorbitol
 solution containing ISPA compounds was used to select for parasites with altered inhibitor
 efficacy. This strategy is based on rescue of parasites whose channels are blocked by
 addition of ISPA; it is analogous to the use of sorbitol in synchronization of parasite culture
 (Lambros et al., J ParasitoL, 65:418-20 (1979)). Optimal selection conditions were
 determined from lysis kinetics and dose responses. Synchronizations were performed on
 consecutive days using 30 min incubations of cultures at room temperature with 5 pM [SPA
 28 or 4 gM ISPA-43. The marked difference in ISPA-28 affinity between channels
 associated with the two clag3 genes yielded rapid selection, typically within 4-6
 synchronizations. Additional synchronizations were required in reverse selections using
 ISPA-43, consistent with a relatively modest difference in affinity.
 Polyclonal antibody production
  [0103]       DNA sequence encoding the C-terminal 141 amino acids of the Dd2 clag3.1
  product was cloned into pET-15b vector (Novagen) for over-expression in E. coli. Standard
  site-directed mutagenesis was used to introduce a C-terminal FLAG epitope tag yielding the
  final plasmid (pctl5b-120w-4B) which encodes NH 2
  MGSSFIIHHHIISSGGTKKYGYLGEVL4ARLSPKDKIMNYVHETNEDIMSNLRR YDMENAF
  KNKMSTYVDDFAFFDDCGKNEQFLNERCDYCPVIEEVEETQLFTTTGDKNTNKTTEIKKQ
  TSTYIDTEKANEADSADSDDEKDSDTPDDELMISRFIDYKDDDDK-CO2H(SEQ ID NO:

                                                 41
61) (clag3. 1 product italicized; hexa-histidine and FLAG tags underlined). Recombinant
protein was produced in BL21 CodonPlus (DE3) RIL cell line (Agilent Technologies) after
transformation with pET-15b-120w-4B and induction with 0.5 mM IPTG for 3 hours. The
recombinant protein was harvested by sonication in the presence of protease inhibitors, bound
to Ni-NTA Superflow beads (Qiagen), eluted with imidazole under optimized conditions, and
dialyzed. Purity and size were confirmed on coomassie-stained SDS-PAGE gels prior to
submission for standard mouse immunizations by Precision Antibody (Columbia, MD), an
OLAW certified facility. Antibody titers were > 1:100,000 by ELISA.
 Proteasesusceptibilitystudies
 [01041       Percoll-enriched synchronous trophozoite-infected cells were washed and treated
 with 1-2 mg/mL pronase E from Streptonyces griseus (Sigma Aldrich) at 5% hematocrit in
 PBS supplemented with 0.6 mM CaCl2 and I mM MgCl 2 for I h at 37 "C. Reactions were
 terminated by addition of 20 volumes of ice cold PBS with protease inhibitors (1 mM PMSF,
 2 pg/mL pepstatin, and 2 pg/nmL leupeptin) and exhaustive washing. Effectiveness of the
 protease treatment and the block by protease inhibitors was evaluated by examining PSAC
 activity with sorbitol uptake measurements. Protease accessibility to erythrocyte cytosol was
 examined by measuring hemoglobin band intensity in coomassie-stained SDS-PAGE gels of
 total cell lysate. Band intensity was quantified with ImageJ software (http://rsbweb.nih.gov/
 and revealed no detectable hemoglobin degradation (mean of 99 ± 2% relative to untreated
 controls, n    7 separate trials).
  Membrane fractionation
  (0105]      Infected cells, with or without prior protease treatment, were hemolysed in 40
  volumes of lysis buffer (7.5 mM Na2HPO 4 , I mM EDTA, pH 7.5) with protease inhibitors
  and ultracentrifuged (70,000 x g, 4 C, I h). The supernatant was collected as the 'soluble'
  fraction before resuspending the pellet in 100 mM Na2 CO 3, pH 11 at 4 *C for 30 min before
  centrifugation (70,000 x g). The "carbonate extract" supernatant was neutralized with 1/10
  volume I M HCL The final pellet was washed with lysis buffer before solubilization as the
  "membrane" fraction in 2% SDS.

                                                 42
Immunofluorescence confocal microscopy
(0106]       Synchronous parasite cultures were washed and used to make thin smears on glass
slides. The cells were air dried prior to fixation in 100% methanol (ice-cold for merozoites
and RT for trophozoites) for 5 min. After incubation in 10% Goat Serum Blocking Solution
(Invitrogen) with 0.1% Triton X- 100, primary antibody against the clag3 recombinant protein
and secondary antibody (Alexa Fluor 488 goat anti-mouse IgG, Invitrogen) were applied in
the same buffer at 1:50 and 1:500 dilution, respectively with thorough washing between
antibodies. Nuclei were stained with Hoechst 33342 before mounting in Fluoromount-G
(SoutheniBiotech). Dual color fluorescence images were taken on a Leica SP2 confocal
 microscope under a 100x oil immersion objective with serial 405 nm and 488 nm excitations.
 Images were processed in Imaris 6.0 (Bitplane AG) and uniformly deconvolved using
 Huygens Essential 3.1 (Scientific Volume Imaging BV).
 Immunoblots
 [01071      Protein samples were denatured and reduced in NuPAGE@ LDS Sample Buffer
 (Invitrogen) with 100 mM DTT and run on NuPAGE@ Novex 4-12% Bis-Tris gels in MES
 Buffer (Invitrogen), and transferred to nitrocellulose membrane. After blocking (3% fat-free
 milk in 150 mM NaCl, 20 mM TrisHCI, pH 7.4 with 0.1% Tween2O), anti-recombinant clag3
 product or anti-FLAG (Cell Signalling Technology), was applied at 1:3000 dilution in
 blocking buffer. After washing, binding was detected with HRP-conjugated secondary
  antibodies (Pierce) at 1:3000 dilution and chemiluminescent substrate (Immobilon, Millipore
  or SuperSignal West Pico, Pierce).
  Computationalanalyses
                                                                                          was
  101081      Phylogenetic analysis of clag products and the more distantly related RONs
  conducted using an approximately-maximum-likelibood method implemented in the FastTree
  2.1 program under default parameters (Price et at., Mol. Biol Evot, 26: 1641-50 (2009)).
  Transmembrane domains were predicted using the TMHMM and Phobius programs (Krogh
  et at., J Mot. Biol, 305: 657-80 (2001); Kallet a, Bioinformatics, 21 Suppl. 1: i251-57
  (2005)). Improved confidence in transmembrane domain prediction was achieved by
  inputting multiple alignments of group 2 clag products from several plasmodial species in the
  PolyPhobius mode.

                                                43
                                           EXAMPLE I
[01091      This example demonstrates the activity of compounds according to formulas ( a)
and (2a) below against PSAC. This example also demonstrates the in vitro growth inhibitory
activity of compounds (I a) and (2a) in nutrient-rich RPMI and PSAC-limiting medium
(PLM). The compounds of formulas (Ia) and (2a) are in accordance with an embodiment of
the invention.
10110)      The concentration of a chemical inhibitor required to produce 50% block of
PSAC-mediated solute uptake, Ko.5 for PSAC block (Table 4), was measured as described
previously (Biophysical J. 84:116-23, 2003), The chemical inhibitors included:
                                                        o N0N
                                                  ISG-21
                                                                                             (la)
                                    NN
                                                    SN                   N
                                                                        N~
                                                           S            H
                           and      0                     ISG-28
                                                                                            (2a).
 {01111      Briefly, P. falciparum trophozoites were obtained by in vitro culture in human
 erythrocytes, enriched by density gradient centrifugation, and used in a continuous light
 scattering osmotic lysis assay in sorbitol lysis solution (in mM: 280 sorbitol, 20 Na-HEPES,
 0.1 mg/ml BSA, pH 7.4). In this assay, increases in transmittance (%T, measured at 700 nm)
 correlated directly to lysis of infected RBCs and were plotted in arbitrary units. Uninfected
 RBCs lacked PSAC activity and had undetectably low sorbitol permeability. Uptake of other
 nutrient solutes and patch-clamp methods confirmed that this transmittance assay provides a

                                               44
quantitative measure of PSAC inhibition by compounds (Ia) and (2a). The PSAC inhibitors
of compounds (Ia) and (2a) represent a novel strategy for intervention against malaria
parasites because currently approved antimalarial drugs (artemisinin, mefloquine, and
chloroquine) did not inhibit PSAC activity (Table 4).
[0112]      In vitro parasite killing by PSAC inhibitors was quantified using a SYBR Green I
based fluorescence assay for parasite nucleic acid in 96-well format. Parasite cultures were
synchronized by incubation in 5% D-sorbitol before seeding at 1% parasitemia and 2%
hematocrit in standard media for parasite cultivation (RPMI 1640 supplemented with 25 mM
HEPES, 50 mg/L hypoxanthine, and 10% regular serum) or in PSAC-limiting medium (PLM,
a novel medium based on the RPMI 1640 formulation but with reduced concentrations of
isoleucine, glutamine, and hypoxanthine, three nutrients whose uptake by infected cells is
primarily via PSAC). While RPMI 1640 contained supraphysiological concentrations of
these nutrients, the values in PLM were closer to those measured in plasma from healthy
human donors.
 [01131      Cultures were maintained for 3 days at 37 "C in 5% 02, 5% CO 2 without media
change. After this incubation, Sybr Green I was added in 20 mM Tris, 10 mM EDTA,
0,016% saponin, 1.6% triton X100. Subsequent fluorescence measurements
(excitation/enission at 485/528 rn) permitted quantification of parasite growth because the
 fluorescence of Sybr Green I was a measure of parasite nucleic acid content. Table 4 shows
the concentration of each PSAC inhibitor (compounds of formulas (1 a) or (2a)) or control
 antimalarial drug (artemisinin, mefloquine, or chloroquine) required to produce a 50%
 reduction in parasite survival in RPMI 1640 (RPMI JCso) or PLM (PLM ICso). Improved
 killing by PSAC inhibitors (compounds of formulas (I a) and (2a)) upon testing in PLM
 indicated that the PSAC inhibitors may have a novel mechanism of parasite killing. These
 data supported a role of PSAC in parasite nutrient acquisition because nutrient limitation
 improved PSAC inhibitor efficacy, but did not significantly alter killing by artemisinin,
 mefloquine, or chloroquine (see Ratio of IC5 o (RPMI/PLM)).

                                                 45
                                             TABLE4
Structure          MW       clogP          KOa for      RPMI          PLM IC,       Ratio
                                           PSAC         IC50, Mm      pM            (RPMI/PLM)
                                           block, nM
Compound of        431      3.5            3            1.5           0.0023        800
formula (1 a)
Compound of        486      5.3            10           > 30          0.3           >100
formula (2a)
Artemisinin        282      2.7            inactive     0.018         0.026         0.66
Mefloquine         378      3,7            inactive     0,022         0.033         0.66
Chloroquine        319      5.1            inactive     0.22          0.34          0.67
                                          EXAMPLE 2
[0114]      This example demonstrates the identification of isolate-specific inhibitors, which
effectively inhibit PSAC activity associated with a specific parasite line. This example also
demonstrates that an inhibitor in accordance with the invention interacts directly with PSAC.
[0115]      A search for small molecule inhibitors with differing efficacies against channels
induced by divergent parasite lines was performed. Such inhibitors presumably bind to one
or more variable sites on the channel, which may result either from polymorphisms in a
parasite channel gene or from differing activation of human channels. To find these
inhibitors, a transmittance-based assay that tracks osmotic lysis of infected cells in sorbitol, a
sugar alcohol with increased permeability after infection was used (Wagner et al,, Biophys, J,
84: 116-23 (2003)). This assay had been adapted to 384-well format and used to find high
affinity PSAC inhibitors (Pillai et at., MoL Pharmacol.,77: 724-33 (2010)). Here, this
format was used to screen a library of compounds against erythrocytes infected with the HB3
and Dd2 P. falciparumlines. To maximize detection of hits, a low stringency was chosen in
the screens by using library compounds at a high concentration (10 pM) and by reading each
microplate at multiple timepoints (Pillai et al., Mol. Pharmacol., 77: 724-33 (2010)). 8% of
compounds met or exceeded the threshold of 50% normalized block at 2 h [%B= 100*(Acd
A,,,g)/(As - Ieg)], consistent with a low screening stringency. A weighted difference statistic
(WDS) was defined that normalized measured differences in efficacy against HB3 and Dd2
channels to the standard deviation of positive control wells in each microplate [WDS =

                                                 46
   %Buss- %B        Id2|
                      (3po,)]. 86% of all compounds produced indistinguishable effects on
the two parasite lines (WDS 5 1.0). Thus, most inhibitor binding sites were conserved.
[01161       Nevertheless, a small number of compounds produced significantly differing
activities in the two screens. One such inhibitor, named ISPA-28 (for isolate-specific PSAC
antagonistbased on studies described below, Formula A below), was reproducibly more
effective at inhibiting sorbitol uptake by Dd2- than HB3-infected cells. Secondary studies
with ISPA-28 revealed an - 800-fold difference in half-maximal affinities (Ko.s values of 56
    5 nM vs. 43 + 2 RM for Dd2 and HB3, respectively; P < 10-').
                              NNO
                              N
                               N
                                       ISPA-28 (Formula A)
 [0117]      ISPA-28 effects on uptake of the amino acids alanine and proline as well as the
 organic cation phenyl-trimethylammonium (PhTMA), solutes with known increases in
 permeability after infection (Ginsburg et al., MoL. Biochem. Parasitol,14: 313-22 (1985);
 Bokhari et al., J. Membr. Biol, 226: 27-34 (2008)), were also examined. Each solute's
 permeability was inhibited with dose responses matching those for sorbitol. Without being
 bound by a particular theory or mechanism, it is believed that these data provide evidence for
 a single shared transport mechanism used by these diverse solutes.
  [01181      22 different laboratory parasite lines were next tested and significant transport
 inhibition was found with only Dd2 and W2. Because Dd2 was generated by prolonged drug
 selections starting with W2 (Wellems et al., Nature, 345: 253-55 (1990)), their channels'
 distinctive ISPA-28 affinities suggested a stable heritable element in the parasite genome.
  [01191      To explore the mechanism of ISPA-28 block, patch-clamp of infected
  erythrocytes was performed. Using the whole-cell configuration, similar currents on HB3
  and Dd2-infected cells in experiments without known inhibitors were observed. These
  currents exhibited inward rectification. Previous studies determined that they were carried
  primarily by anions with a permeability rank order of SCN-> I'> Br"> Cl- (Desai et al.,

                                                47
Nature, 406: 1001-05 (2000)). 10 [M ISPA-28 reduced these currents, but had a
significantly greater effect on Dd2-infected cells. In the cell-attached configuration with 1.1
M Cl- as the charge carrier, ion channel activity characteristic of PSAC was detected on both
lines (-20 pS slope conductance with fast flickering gating, (Alkhalil et al., Blood, 104: 4279
86 (2004)); without inhibitor, channels from the two lines were indistinguishable. However,
recordings with 10 PM ISPA-28 revealed a marked difference as Dd2 channels were near
fully inhibited whereas HB3 channels were largely unaffected. Thus, this compound's effects
on single PSAC recordings parallel those on uptake of soibitol and other organic solutes.
 [01201       Closed durations from extended recordings were analyzed and it was determined
that ISPA-28 imposed a distinct population of long block events, but only in recordings on
Dd2-infected cells. At the same time, intrinsic channel closings, which occur in the absence
 of inhibitor, were conserved on both parasites and were not affected by ISPA-28.
                                           EXAMPLE 3
 [01211        This example demonstrates the inheritance of ISPA-28 efficacy in a Dd2 x HB3
 genetic cross and that piggyback-mediated complementations implicate clag 3.1 and clag 3.2
 in PSAC activity.
 101221        ISPA-28 efficacy against PSAC activity on red blood cells infected with
 recombinant progeny clones from the Dd2 x HB3 genetic cross (Wellems et al., Nature, 345:
 253-255 (1990)) was next examined. For each clone, sorbitol uptake was examined in the
 absence and presence of 7 pM ISPA-28, a concentration that optimally distinguishes the
 parental channel phenotypes, and quantified inhibition [%B= I 00*(Acdpeg)Gips Leg)].
 Although a few of the 34 independent progeny clones exhibited intermediate channel
 inhibition, most resembled one or the other parent. Quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis
 was used to search for associations between ISPA-28 efficacy and inheritance of available
 microsatellite markers. A primary scan identified a single significant peak having a
 logarithm of odds (LOD) score of 12.6 at the proximal end of chromosome 3. A secondary
 scan for residual effects did not find additional peaks reaching statistical significance,
  [0123]       The mapped locus contained 42 predicted genes. Although none had homology to
 classical ion channels from other organisms, many were conserved in other plasmodia, as
  expected for the responsible gene(s) from conservation of PSAC activity in malaria parasites
  (Lisk et al., Eukaryot. Cell, 4: 2153-59 (2005)). The mapped region was enriched in genes
  encoding proteins destined for export to host cytosol (P < 104 by simulation), as typical of

                                                48
apicomplexan subtelomeric regions. Some of the encoded proteins had one or more predicted
transmembrane domains as usually involved in channel pore formation, but this criterion may
miss some transport proteins. The PEXEL motif, which directs parasite proteins to the host
cell (Marti et al., Science, 306: 1930-33 (2004)), was present in some genes, but this module
is not universally required for export (Spielman et al., Trends Parasilol. 26: 6-10 (2010)).
Thus, computational analyses suggested several candidates, but could not specifically
implicate any as ion channel components.
 [01241      A DNA transfection approach was chosen andpiggyBac transposase was chosen
to complement Dd2 parasites with the HB3 allele of individual candidate genes (Balu et al,
PNAS, 102: 16391-96 (2005)). With this method, successfully transfected parasites will carry
 both parental alleles and therefore be merodiploid for candidate genes. Nevertheless, the
 marked difference in ISPA-28 efficacy between the parental lines would be expected to
 produce a detectable change in transport phenotype upon complementation with the
 responsible gene. The high efficiency of random integration conferred by piggyBac permits
 rapid examination of many genes (Balu et al., BMC MicrobioL., 9: 83 (2009)).
 [01251       Fourteen genes were cloned with their endogenous 5' and 3' UTR regions from
 the 1133 parent into the pXL-BaclI-DHFR plasmid; a 15' construct containing a conserved
 but not annotated open reading frame (ORF 147 kb) was also prepared. Each was transfected
 individually along with a helper plasmid encoding the transposase into Dd2 parasites.
 Selection for hDHFR expression yielded parasites that stably carried both Dd2 and HB3
 alleles for each candidate. Because an altered channel phenotype presumably requires
 expression of the HB3 allele, reverse transcriptase PCR was used to amplify polymorphic
 regions of each gene and the amplicons were sequenced to determine if both parental alleles
 were transcribed; this approach confirmed expression of 12 candidates. ISPA-28 dose
 responses for inhibition of sorbitol uptake by erythrocytes infected with each transfectant
  were performed. Two transfectants, expressing H133 alleles for PFCOI lOw (clag 3.2) and
  PFC0120w (clag 3.1), produced significant changes in ISPA-28 efficacy with Kos values
  between those of Dd2 and HB3, as expected for cells carrying channels from both parental
  lines (P = 0.01 and P < 10 in comparison to Dd2, respectively). Limiting dilution cloning
  of the PFC0120w transfectant yielded a clone, Dd2-pBl20w, which had undergone at least
  one integration event; its ISPA-28 Ka 5 was indistinguishable from the transfection pool. For
  both genes, quantitative analyses suggested relatively low level expression of the H1B3 allele
  because the transfectant Ko.5 values (95 ± 8 and 140 ± 12 nM) were closer to those of Dd2

                                                 49
than of HB3, Without being bound by a particular theory or mechanism, it is believed that
expression levels of the two parental alleles may be influenced by the genomic environment
of the integration site, relative promoter efficiencies, and a gene silencing mechanism
examined below.
                                           EXAMPLE 4
[01261       This example confirms a role for clag 3.1. and clag 3.2 in PSAC activity. This
example also demonstrates that clag3 gene silencing and switched expression determine
inhibitor affinity.
[01271       To examine the unexpected possibility that clag3 products contribute to PSAC
activity, an allelic exchange strategy was used to transfer potent ISPA-28 block from the Dd2
line to HB3 parasites. Because Dd2 parasites express clag3.1 but not clag3.2 (Kaneko et al.,
Mol. Biochein. Parasitol., 143: 20-28 (2005)), their clag3.1 gene presumably encodes high
ISPA-28 affinity. Therefore, a transfection plasmid was constructed carrying a 3.2 kb
fragment from the 3' end of the Dd2 clag3.1 allele, an in-frame C-terminal FLAG tag
followed by a stop codon, and the fragment gene's 3' untranslated region (pHD22Y-120w
flag-PGI). Because this plasmid carries only a gene fragment and lacks a leader sequence to
drive expression, an altered transport phenotype requires recombination into the parasite
genome. HB3 was transfected with this plasmid and PCR was used to screen for integration
into each of the five endogenous clag genes. This approach detected recombination into the
HB3 clag3.2 gene; limiting dilution cloning yielded HB3 3", a clone carrying a single site
integration event without residual episomal plasmid. DNA sequencing indicated
recombination between single nucleotide polymorphisms at 3718 and 4011 bp from the HB3
clag3.2 start codon. This recombination site corresponded to successful transfer of
downstream polymorphisms including a recognized hypervariable region at 4266-4415 bp;
contamination with other laboratory parasite lines was excluded by fingerprinting.
[01281       PSAC activity on HB33" exhibited a marked increase in ISPA-28 efficacy
(Figure 1), further supporting a role for clag3 genes in sorbitol and nutrient uptake. Although
this allelic exchange strategy yielded a gene replacement in contrast to the complementations
achieved with piggyBac, the channel's ISPA-28 affinity was again intermediate between
those of HB3 and Dd2 (Figure 2). Without being bound by a particular theory or mechanism,
it is believed that several mechanisms may contribute to the quantitatively incomplete
transfer of inhibitor affinity. First, two or more polymorphic sites on the protein might

                                                 50
contribute to ISPA-28 binding. If some of these sites are upstream from the recombination
event, the resulting chimeric protein may have functional properties distinct from those of
either parental line. Second, the channel may contain additional unidentified subunits; here,
transfection to replace each contributing HIB3 gene with Dd2 alleles might be required to
match the ISPA-28 affinity of Dd2. Finally, in addition to the chimeric clag3.2 Hs3-3.1d2
gene produced by transfection, HB3"       also carriesthe clag3.1 gene endogenous to HB3
parasites. Expression of both paralogs could also produce an intermediate ISPA-28 affinity.
[01291      To explore these possibilities, a cell-attached patch-clamp was performed on
HB3"-infected cells, Individual channel molecules exhibiting ISPA-28 potencies matching
those of each parental line were identified. These recordings excluded scenarios that require
a homogenous population of channels.
[0130J      In addition to the complex behavior of HB3", it was noticed that certain progeny
from the genetic cross had lower ISPA-28 affinity than Dd2 despite inheriting the mapped
chromosome 3 locus fully from the Dd2 parent. Because subtelomeric multigene families in
P. falciparum are susceptible to recombination and frequent gene conversion events (Freitas
Junior et al., Nature, 407: 1018-22 (2000)), both clag3 paralogs and neighboring genomic
DNA from 7C20 and Dd2 were sequenced but no DNA-level differences were found.
Epigenetic mechanisms that may influence ISPA-28 affinity were therefore considered.
clag3. I and clag3.2 have been reported to undergo mutually exclusive expression (Cortes et
al,, PLoSPathog., 3: e107 (2007)). Monoallelic expression and switching, also documented
for other gene families in P. falciparun (Chen et al. Nature, 394: 392-95 (1998); Lavazec et
al., Mol, Microbiol., 64: 1621-34 (2007)), allow individual parasites to express a single
member of a multigene family. Daughter parasites resulting from asexual reproduction
continue exclusive expression of the same gene through incompletely understood epigenetic
mechanisms (Hewitt et al., Mol. Microbial., 73: 1171-85 (2009)). After a few generations,
some daughters may switch to expression of another member of the gene family, affording
diversity that contributes to immune evasion (Sherf et al., Annu. Rev. Microbiol., 62: 445-70
(2008)).
[01311      Reverse transcriptase PCR was performed and it was found that Dd2 expresses
clag3.I almost exclusively while the three discordant progeny express clag3.2 at measurable
levels, suggesting epigenetic regulation. Selective pressure was therefore applied to progeny
cultures with osmotic lysis in sorbitol solutions containing ISPA-28. Inclusion of ISPA-28
preferentially spares infected cells whose channels have high inhibitor affinity: these cells

                                                 51
incur less sorbitol uptake and do not lyse. These selections, applied on multiple consecutive
days, yielded marked reductions in parasitemia. Surviving parasites exhibited improved
ISPA-28 affinity quantitatively matching that of the Dd2 parent. Identical selections applied
to HB3 and three progeny inheriting its chromosome 3 locus did not change ISPA-28 affinity,
excluding effects of the selections on unrelated genomic sites.
 101321      Real time qPCR using primers specific for each of the 5 clag genes revealed that
selection with sorbitol and ISPA-28 reproducibly increased clag3.1 expression while
decreasing that of clag3.2 in progeny inheriting the Dd2 locus. Selections applied to the
parental HB3 line were without effect, consistent with its unchanged inhibitor affinity. These
selections did not alter relative expression of other paralogs (clag2, clag8, and clag9).
 [01331      Selections were also applied to HB13'', which carries a chimeric clag3.2m3
3.1042 transgene and the clag3.1 gene native to HB3. In contrast to the lack of effect on the
isogenic HB3 line, these synchronizations increased the transfectant's ISPA-28 affinity to a
K. 5 of 51 ± 9 nM, matching that of Dd2 channels. This change in channel phenotype
correlated with a near exclusive expression of the transgene, confirming that expression of
HB3 clag3.1 by a subset of cells accounts for the intermediate ISPA-28 affinity. These
findings also delimit the determinants of ISPA-28 binding to polymorphic sites within the
Dd2 clag3.I gene fragment transferred to HB3"".
[01341       Without being bound to a particular theory or mechanism, it is believed that
expression switching in P.falciparummultigene families occurs over several generations and
should lead to a drift in population phenotype. After selection of the chimeric gene in
HB3 3"', continued in vitro propagation yielded a gradual decay in ISPA-28 affinity that
correlated with decreasing transgene expression. As with other multigene families (Lavazec
et al., Mol. Microbiol., 64: 1621-34 (2007)), several factors may affect the steady-state ISPA
28 affinity and relative expression levels for the two clag3 genes upon continued culture
without selective pressure.
                                           EXAMPLE 5
[0135J       This example demonstrates reverse selection with ISPA-43 and a clag3 mutation
in a leupeptin-resistant PSAC mutant.
[01361       A PSAC inhibitor with reversed specificity for the two Dd2 clag3 products was
next sought. To this end, hits from the high-throughput screen of Example 2 were surveyed
using the progeny clone 7C20 before and after selection for clag.3,I expression. This

                                                  52
secondary screen identified ISPA-43 as a PSAC inhibitor with an allele specificity opposite
that of ISPA-28 (Formula B below (Kas of 32 and 3.9 M for channels associated with
clag3. I and clag3.2 genes from Dd2, respectively).
[01371       A stable parasite mutant with altered PSAC selectivity, gating, and pharmacology
was recently generated by in vitro selection of HB3 with leupeptin (Lisk et al., Antimicrob.
Agents Chemother., 52: 2346-54 (2008)). Clag3 genes were sequenced from this mutant,
HB3-leuR1, and identified a point mutation within its clag3.2 gene that changes the
conserved A 1210 to a threonine, consistent with a central role of clag3 genes in solute
uptake. HB3-leuR1 silences its unmodified clag3.1 and preferentially expresses the mutated
clag3.2 (expression ratio of 19.2 ± 1.5), as required for a direct effect on PSAC behavior.
Because this mutation is within a predicted transmembrane domain, it may directly account
 for the observed changes in channel gating and selectivity.
                                  0        N
                                         N     N
                                      H
                                               ISPA-43
                                              Formula B
                                                                                            3
  101381      Sorbitol synchronizations with 4 FM ISPA-43 were then applied to the clag .1
 expressing 7C20 culture and achieved robust reverse selection: the surviving parasites
 exhibited both low ISPA-28 affinity and a reversed clag3 expression profile. Thus, inhibitors
  can be used in purifying selections of either clag3 gene. Because ISPA-28 affinity can be
  reduced either through drift without selective pressure or by selection for the alternate
  paralog with an inhibitor having reversed specificity, these studies alleviate concerns about
  indirect effects of exposure to sorbitol or individual inhibitors.
  101391      A stable parasite mutant with altered PSAC selectivity, gating, and pharmacology
  was recently generated by in vitro selection of IB3 with leupeptin (Lisk et al., Antimicrob.
  Agents Chenother, 52: 2346-54 (2008)). Clag3 genes from this mutant, HB3-leuRI, were
  sequenced and a point mutation was identified within its clag3.2 gene that changed the
  conserved A1210 to a threonine, consistent with a central role of clag3 genes in solute

                                                 53
uptake. HB3-leuRl silenced its unmodified clag3.1 and preferentially expressed the mutated
clag3.2 (expression ratio of 19.2 = 1.5), as required for a direct effect on PSAC behavior.
Without being bound by a particular theory or mechanism, it is believed that because this
mutation is within a predicted transmembrane domain, it may directly account for the
observed changes in channel gating and selectivity.
                                           EXAMPLE 6
[01401       This example demonstrates that clag3 products are exposed at the host erythrocyte
surface.
[0141]       To directly contribute to PSAC activity, it is believed that at least some of the
clag3 product would associate with the host membrane, presumably as an integral membrane
protein. Polyclonal antibodies were therefore raised to a carboxy-terminal recombinant
fragment conserved between the two clag3 products. Confocal microscopy with this
antibody confirmed reports localizing these proteins to the host cytosol and possibly the
erythrocyte membrane as well as within rhoptrics of invasive merozoites (Vincensini et aL,
 Mot Biochem. Parasitol.,160: 81-89 (2008)). To obtain more conclusive evidence,
 immunoblotting was used to examine susceptibility of these proteins to extracellular protease.
 Without protease treatment, a single -160 kDa band was detected in whole-cell lysates,
 consistent with the expected size of clag3 products. Treatment with pronase E under
 conditions designed to prevent digestion of intracellular proteins reduced the amount of the
 full-length protein and revealed a 35 kDa hydrolysis fragment. In contrast, a monoclonal
 antibody against KAHRP, a parasite protein that interacts with the host membrane
 cytoskeleton but is not exposed (Kilejian et al., Mol. Biachem. Parasitol.,44: 175-81 (1991)),
  confirmed that intracellular proteins are resistant to hydrolysis under these conditions. As
  reported for another protease (Baumeister et at, Mo. MicrobioL, 60: 493-04 (2006)), pronase
  E treatment significantly reduced PSAC-mediated sorbitol uptake ; this effect was sensitive to
  protease inhibitors, suggesting that proteolysis at one or more exposed sites interferes with
  transport.
   [0142]     Ultracentrifugation of infected cell lysates revealed that the clag3 product is fully
  membrane-associated; a fraction could however be liberated by treatment with Na2 CO3 ,
  which strips membranes of peripheral proteins (Fujiki et al., J. Cell Biot, 93: 97-102 (1982)).
   Because this fraction was protease insensitive, it reflects an intracellular pool of clag3

                                                54
product loosely associated with membranes. The C-terminal hydrolysis fragment was present
only in the carbonate-resistant insoluble fraction, indicating an integral membrane protein.
[0143]       Because the polyclonal antibodies might cross-react with clag products from other
chromosomes, protease sensitivity was next examined in HB3"", whose chimeric clag3
transgene encodes a C-terminal FLAG tag. Anti-FLAG antibody recognized a single integral
membrane protein in HB3s* and no proteins from the parental HB3 line, indicating
specificity for the recombinant gene product. Treatment with pronase E prior to cell lysis and
fractionation revealed a hydrolysis fragment indistinguishable from that seen with the
antibody raised against the native protein's C-terminus.
 [0144]      The following procedures were followed for the experiments described in
Examples 7-10:
Parasitecultivation, design qf PLM, and growth inhibition studies
 [01451       Asexual stage P.falciparumlaboratory lines were propagated by standard
methods in RPMI 1640 supplemented with 25 mM HEPES, 31 mM NaHCO 3 , 0.37 mM
hypoxanthine, 10 pg/mL gentamicin, and 10% pooled human serum. PLM is based on this
 standard medium and was designed after surveying parasite growth in media lacking
 individual constituents with known PSAC permeability: hypoxanthine, calcium
 panthothenate, and the amino acids Cys, Glu, Gln, fie, Met, Pro, and Tyr (Saliba et al., J
 BioL Chem.. 273: 10190-10195 (1998)). PLM contained reduced concentrations of
 isoleucine (11.4 jiM), glutamine (102 gM), and hypoxanthine (3.01 liM); human serum was
 exhaustively dialyzed against distilled H20 prior to supplementation in this medium.
 [01461       Growth inhibition experiments were quantified using a SYBR Green -based
 fluorescence assay for parasite nucleic acid in 96-well format, as described previously (Pillai
 et al., Mol. PharmacoL, 77: 724-733 (2010)). Ring-stage synchronized cultures were seeded
 at 1%parasitemia and 2% hematocrit in standard medium or PLM and maintained for 72 h at
 37 "C in 5% 02, 5% CO 2 without media change. Cultures were then lysed in 20 mM Tris, 10
 mM EDTA, 0,016% saponin, and 1.6% triton XIOO, pH 7.5 with SYBR Green I at twice the
 manufacture's recommended concentration (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA). After a 45 min
 incubation, parasite DNA content was quantified by measuring fluorescence
 (excitation/emission wavelengths, 485/528 nm). For each inhibitor concentration, the mean
 of triplicate measurements was calculated after subtraction of background fluorescence from
 matched cultures killed by 20 ptM chloroquine. Growth inhibition studies with the HB33"

                                               55
parasite were performed after transport-based selection with ISPA-28 to achieve expression
of the chimeric clag3 gene generated by allefic exchange transfection.
Transportinhibition assays
(01471       Inhibitor affinity for PSAC block was determined using a quantitative
transmittance assay based on osmotic lysis of infected cells in sorbitol (Wagner et al.,
Biophys. J., 84: 116-123 (2003)). Parasite cultures were enriched at the trophozoite stage
using the Percoll-sorbitol method, washed, and resuspended at 37 *C and 0.15% hematocrit in
280 mM sorbitol, 20 mM Na-HEPES, 0.1 mg/ml BSA, pH 7.4 with indicated concentrations
of inhibitors. PSAC-mediated sorbitol uptake produces osmotic lysis, which was
continuously tracked by measuring transmittance of 700 nm light through the cell suspension
(DU640 spectrophotometer with Peltier temperature control, Beckman Coulter). Inhibitor
dose responses were calculated from the time required to reach fractional lysis thresholds.
ISPA-28 dose responses were fitted to the sum of two Langmuir isotherms (Eq/ SI). Other
inhibitors had dose responses that are adequately fitted by a single Langmuir isotherm.
 [0148]      To examine possible inhibitor metabolism in parasite culture, Dd2 parasites were
 cultivated in standard media with 40 pM ISPA-28 at 37 "C for 72 h. After centrifugation, the
 culture supernatant was used as a source of ISPA-28 for comparison to freshly-prepared
 compound in transport inhibition studies.
 QTL Analysis
 101491       We sought genetic loci associated with ISPA-28 growth inhibitory efficacy in the
 Dd2 x HB3 genetic cross (Wellems et al, Nature, 345: 253-255 (1990)) using 448 previously
 selected polymorphic markers that distinguish the Dd2 and HB3 parental lines (Nguitragool
 et al., Cell, 145: 665-677 (2011)). QTL analysis was performed using R/qtl software (freely
 available at http://www.rqtl.org/) as described (Broman et al, Bioinfornatics, 19: 889-890
  (2003)) and conditions suitable for the haploid asexual parasite. A P = 0.5 significance
  threshold was estimated with permutation analysis. Growth inhibition data at 0.3 and 10 tM
  ISPA-28 identified the same locus reported with 3 PM ISPA-28. Additional QTL were
  sought with secondary scans by controlling for the clag3 locus.

                                                 56
Quantitative RT-PCR
[01501       Two-step real-time PCR was used to quantify clag gene expression using allele
specific primers developed previously (Nguitragool et al., Cell, 145: 665-677 (2011)). RNA
was harvested from schizont-stage cultures with TRIzol reagent (Invitrogen), treated with
DNase to remove residual genomic DNA contaminant, and used for reverse transcription
(SuperScriptiI and oligo-dT priming, Invitrogen). Negative control reactions without reverse
transcriptase confirmed there was no genomic DNA contamination. Real-time PCR was
performed with QuantiTect SyBr Green PCR kit (Qiagen), the iCycler iQ multicolor real
time PCR system (Bio-Rad), and clag gene-specific primers. Serial dilution of parasite
genomic DNA was used to construct the standard curve for each primer pair. PF7_0073 was
used as a loading control as it is constitutively expressed. Transcript abundance for each clag
gene was then determined from amplification kinetics.
PCR studiesfor clag3 recombination
 [01511      The clag3 locus of Dd2-PLM28 was characterized with genomic DNA and allele
 specific primers: 3. If(5'-GTGCAATATATCAAAGTGTACATGCA-3') (SEQ ID NO: 68),
 3.lr (5'-AAGAAAATAAATGCAAAACAAGTTAGA-3')                      (SEQ ID NO: 69), 3.2f(5'
 GTTGAGTACGCACTAATATGTCAATTTG-3') (SEQ ID NO: 41), and 3.2r (5'
 AACCATAACATTATCATATATGTTAATTACAC-3')                        (SEQ ID NO: 42). cDNA prepared
 from schizontstage cultures was also used with these primers to examine expression of both
 native and chimeric clag3 genes.
 Southern Blot
 [101521      A clag3-specific probe was prepared by PCR amplification from Dd2 genomic
 DNA using 5'-ATTTACAAACAAAGAAGCTCAAGAGGA-3'(SEQ ID NO: 70) and 5'
 TTFTCTATATCTTCATTTTCTTTAATTGTTC-3' (SEQ ID NO: 71) in the presence of
 Digoxygenin (DIG)-dUTP (Roche). Probe specificity was confirmed by blotting against full
 length PCR amplicons of the five clag genes generated from Dd2 genomic DNA with
 primers.
  [0153]      Genomic DNA was digested with indicated restriction enzymes (New England
  BioLabs), subjected to electrophoresis in 0.7% agarose, acid depurinated, transferred and
 crosslinked to Nylon membranes. The blot was then hybridized overnight at 39 *C with the

                                                  57
above DIG-labeled probe in DIG Easy Hyb (Roche), and washed with low and high
stringency buffers (2X SSC, 0.1% SDS, 23 *C followed by IX SSC, 0.5% SDS, 50 *C)prior
to DIG immunodetection according to the manufacturer's instructions.
Mammalian Cytotoxicity
[0154]       Cytotoxicity of PSAC inhibitors was measured with human HeLa cells (ATCC#
CLL-2) in 96-well plates at 4000 cells/well. Cultures were incubated with each inhibitor at
370 C for 72 h in Minimal Essential Medium (Gibco/Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) supplemented
with 10% fetal calf serum. Cell viability was quantified using the vital stain MTS [3-(4,5
dimethylthiazol-2-yl)- 5-(3-carboxymethonyphenol)-2-(4-sulfophenyl)-2H-tetrazolium, inner
salt}, as described (Marshall et al., Growth Regul., 5: 69-84 (1995)). The reported CCo value
is the concentration of an inhibitor that reduces conversion of MTS to formazan by 50%.
                                            EXAMPLE 7
 [0155]      This example demonstrates that ISPA-28 kills Dd2 cells in vitro when nutrient
availability in the media is reduced.
 [0156]      ISPA-28 blocks PSAC on Dd2-infected cells with high affinity and has only weak
activity against channels from HB3 parasites (Ko.s of 56 ± 5 nM and 43 ± 2 kM, respectively)
 (Nguitragool et al., Cell, 145: 665-677 (2011)). If channel activity serves a role in the growth
 of the intracellular parasite, this small molecule inhibitor would be expected to interfere with
 propagation of Dd2 cultures but spare those of HB3. The initial in vitro parasite growth
 studies revealed an insignificant difference with both parasitelines exhibiting sustained
 growth in RPMI-based media despite high ISPA-28 concentrations (ICso values > 40 pM
 each, P = 0.35 for a difference).
 [0157]      It was determined that ISPA-28 efficacy against Dd2 channels is not compromised
 by metabolism of the inhibitor under in vitro culture conditions. ISPA-28 is also not
 significantly adsorbed by serum protein or lipids, a phenomenon known to reduce activity of
 some PSAC inhibitors and many therapeutics (Matsuhisa et al., Chem, EngineeringJ., 34:
 1321-B27 (1987)). Thus, ISPA-28 does not to inhibit the growth of Dd2 parasites under
 standard in vitro culture conditions.
 [0158]       One possibility is that channel activity is involved in the survival of malaria
 parasites, but that the low level transport remaining in the presence of inhibitor adequately
 meets parasite demands under standard in vitro culture conditions. Consistent with this,

                                                     58
     sustained channel-mediated uptake in Dd2-infected erythrocytes even with high ISPA-28
     concentrations was observed. Significantly less residual uptake was observed with
     compound (31), a broad spectrum PSAC inhibitor with a comparable inhibitory Kos value for
     Dd2 channels (Pillai et al., Mol Pharmacol., 77: 724-733 (2010)). (P < 104 for comparison
     of these inhibitors at 10 yM). The unexpected difference in residual channel activity with
     these inhibitors may account for their differing efficacies against in vitro parasite growth
     (ICso values of- 50 pLM and 4.7 pM, respectively; Table 5).
                                                TABLE S
 Compound         Structure                                        Transport    RPMI PLM          ICso
Name                                                               inhibition   growth growth ratio
                                                                   KO.5, nM     ICso,     ICso,
                                                                                kM        pM
 furosemide                                                        2700         >200      21      >9.5
                                          NH 2
                               OH
dantrolene                                                         1200         42        3.8     18
(24)                                       0                       87           23        0,27    114
                      oN,            N
                                 24
(25)                                      0                        33           15        0.17    86
                              N
                                        /
         ________                 ~~25                           t_    _                   _   _    _

                                         59
Compound    Structure                          Transport RPMI PLM       IC50
Name                                           inhibition growth growth ratio
                                               KO5, nM ICso,     ICso,
                                                          pM     pM
(280)                             0            6          18     0.23   270
                   N)   N       HIN \       O\
                             280
(31)                                           84         4.7    0.41   15
(3) (TP-52)    O      H     3'
                          025                             7.3    0.19   3
                      N
                              N
                          -           \N
ISG-21                                         2.6        1.5    0.002  800
chloroquine                                    inactive   0.22   0.34   0.67
mefloquine                                     inactive   0.022  0.033  0,66
artemisinin                                    inactive   0.018  0.026  0.66

                                                 60
[01591       Without being bound to a particular theory or mechanism, it is believed that
incomplete block with high TSPA-28 concentrations despite a low KO s value for Dd2 channels
suggests a complex mechanism of inhibition. While dantrolene and fiosemide dose
responses are adequately fitted by the equation that assumes a 1:1 stoichiometry for inhibitor
and channel molecules, the ISPA-28 dose response was not well fit. An improved fit was
obtained with a two-component Langmuir equation. Because this two-component equation is
compatible with several possible mechanisms, the ISPA-28 stoichiometry and precise mode
of channel block has not yet been determined.
 [01601      Without being bound by a particular theory or mechanism, it is believed that if
PSAC functions in nutrient acquisition for the intracellular parasite (Desai et al., Nature, 406:
 1001-1005 (2000)), then the incomplete inhibition by ISPA-28 may permit adequate nutrient
 uptake. Many nutrients are present at supraphysiological concentrations in the general
 purpose RPM! 1640 medium (Sato et al., Curr.Protoc. Cell Bilo, 1: Unitl .2 (200 1)). The
 large inward concentration gradient for nutrients in this medium could sustain parasite
 nutrient uptake despite near-complete channel block. Nutrients with PSAC-mediated uptake
 were surveyed and isoleucine, glutamine, and hypoxanthine were selected because their
 isolated removal from media adversely affected parasite cultures. Isoleucine and glutamine
 dose responses revealed that both could be reduced by > 90% with negligible effects on
 propagation of either HB3 or Dd2, consistent with nutrient excess in standard media.
 Threshold concentrations of these amino acids as well as of hypoxanthine, a purine with high
 PSAC permeability, were selected (Gero et al,, A dv. Exp. Med. Biol., 309A: 169-172 (1991);
 Asahi et al., Parasitology, 113: 19-23 (1996)). To reduce the inward gradient for nutrient
 uptake, a PSAC-limiting medium (PLM) was prepared that uses these threshold values while
 following the RPMI 1640 formulation for all other solutes. Without being bound by a
 particular theory or mechanism, it is believed that the reduced nutrient content of the PLM
 medium more closely mimics the nutrient availability under in vivo physiological conditions
 as compared to RPMI 1640 medium. Both Dd2 and HB3 parasites could be propagated
 continuously in PLM (> 2 weeks), though at somewhat reduced rates. It was observed that
 cultures with low parasitemias grew well in PLM, but that rates decreased with higher
  parasite burden, consistent with nutrient limitation and competition between infected cells in
  culture.

                                                61
[01611       In contrast to the poor ISPA-28 efficacy against parasite growth in the standard
RPMI 1640 medium, studies using PLM revealed potent killing of Dd2 parasites and
continued weak activity against HB3 (Icso values of 0.66 ± 0.20 pM and 52 ± 19 pM,
respectively; P < 10-4; Figure 3A). Although there is a nonlinear relationship between
nutrient uptake and parasite growth, these Icso values are in reasonable agreement with the
transport  K0.5 values for PSAC block by ISPA-28.
                                           EXAMPLE S
[01621       This example demonstrates the ISPA-28 growth inhibition phenotype in the
progeny of a Dd2 x HB3 genetic cross.
[0163]       Linkage analysis using an independent transport phenotype and this genetic cross
have recently implicated two clag3 genes from parasite chromosome 3 in PSAC-mediated
solute uptake at the host membrane (Nguitragool et al., Cell, 145: 665-677 (2011)). Here, the
growth inhibition studies revealed a broad range of ISPA-28 efficacies for progeny clones,
with many progeny resembling one or the other parent. Because H133 and some progeny had
high growth IC50 values that could not be precisely estimated, linkage analysis was performed
using growth inhibition at 3 pM ISPA-28, a concentration that optimally distinguishes the
parental phenotypes (Figure 3B). This analysis identified a primary association of ISPA-28
growth inhibition with the clag3 locus, providing evidence for a role of this locus in
 inhibition of both solute transport and parasite killing by ISPA-28. Additional contributing
peaks were sought by removing the effects of the clag3 locus; this approach did not identify
 other statistically significant genomic loci.
 [0164]       The mapped locus is at the proximal end of the parasite chromosome 3 and
 contains approximately 40 genes. To determine whether clag3 genes are responsible for
                                                                                  3
 ISPA-28 mediated killing, growth inhibition studies were performed with 1B3 'rec,a parasite
 clone generated by altelic exchange transfection of HB3 to replace the 3' end of the native
 clag3.2 gene with the corresponding fragment from the clag3.I of Dd2. When this chimeric
 gene is expressed, HB33"n exhibits high affinity inhibition by ISPA-28 (KOs of 51 ± 9 nM, P
 =0.88 for no difference from Dd2) (Nguitragool et al., Cell, 145: 665-677 (2011)). Here,
 HB3 " was used in growth inhibition studies with PLM and it was found that it is sensitive
 to ISPA-28 at levels matching Dd2. Because HB33'         is otherwise isogenic with the resistant
 HB3 line, this finding indicates that ISPA-28 kills parasites primarily via action on the clag3

                                                 62
product and associated channel activity. Furthermore, the requirement for nutrient restriction
to detect ISPA-28 mediated killing supports a role of PSAC in parasite nutrient acquisition.
                                           EXAMPLE 9
[0165]        This example demonstrates the selection of resistant clag3 alleles though ISPA-28
mediated killing.
 [0166]       Most laboratory parasite lines carry two copies of clag3 genes, both on the
Watson strand of the chromosome 3 locus. Epigenetic mechanisms control expression of
these genes with individual parasites preferentially expressing one of the two alleles. Upon
asexual replication, most daughter parasites continue to express the same allele, but a few
undergo switching and express the other allele. In vivo, gene switching is used by malaria
parasites and other pathogens to evade host immune responses against crucial surface
 exposed antigens.
 10167]       ISPA-28 was previously used to examine clag3 gene switching (Nguitragool et
 al,, Cell, 145: 665-677 (2011)). This compound is a potent and specific inhibitor of channels
 associated with expression of the Dd2 clag3. I gene; it has little or no activity against
 channels formed by expression of Dd2 clag3.2 or of either clag3 in unrelated parasite lines.
 The ISPA-28 binding site was delimited to the C-terminus of the clag3.1 product; a short
 hypervariable domain within this region is exposed at the erythrocyte surface and may define
 the ISPA-28 binding pocket. ISPA-28 was used to select for cells expressing the Dd2 clag3.1
 allele through osmotic lysis in solutions containing ISPA-28 and sorbitol, a sugar alcohol
 with high PSAC permeability. Sorbitol selects for this allele because osmotic lysis eliminates
 infected cells whose channels are not blocked by ISPA-28. Of note, these selections were
 performed on three progeny clones inheriting the Dd2 clag3 locus, but not on Dd2 as this
 parental line already expresses clag3.1 exclusively. These selections were without effect on
  HB3 or progeny clones that inherit its clag3 locus because neither of the two HB3 alleles
  encodes high affinity ISPA-28 inhibition.
  10168]      Here, it was hypothesized that in vitro growth inhibition by ISPA-28 may also
  select for cells expressing individual clag3 genes. Without being bound by a particular
  theory or mechanism, it is believed that while sorbitol-induced osmotic lysis selects for cells
  that express the ISPA-28 sensitive clag3.1, growth inhibition in PLM should favor cells
  expressing the resistant clag3.2 allele because only parasites whose channels are not blocked
  by ISPA-28 will meet their nutrient demands. The progeny clone 7C20, which carries the

                                                 63
Dd2 clag3 locus and expresses both alleges in unselected cultures (Figures 4A-4B), was
examined. After selection with osmotic lysis in sorbitol and ISPA-28, surviving parasites had
PSAC inhibitor affinity matching the Dd2 parent and predominantly expressed the clag3.1
allele. The culture was then propagated in PLM containing 5 iiM ISPA-28 for a total of 10
days; microscopic examination of smears during this treatment revealed near complete
sterilization of the culture. Transport studies on parasites surviving this second treatment
revealed a marked reduction in ISPA-28 affinity, indicating that in vitro propagation with
PSAC inhibitors can be used to select for altered channel phenotypes. RT-PCR confirmed
strong negative selection against clag3. Ito yield a parasite population that preferentially
expresses clag3.2. There were also modest changes in expression of clag genes on other
chromosomes, suggesting that these paralogs may also contribute to PSAC activity. The
opposing effects of ISPA-28 on in vitro growth inhibition and on susceptibility to transport
induced osmotic lysis permit purifying selections of either clag3 allele and reveal a strict
correlation with channel phenotype.
 [0169]      Surprisingly, the Dd2 parental line retains exclusive expression of clag3.1 in
unselected cultures despite being isogenic with 7C20 at the clag3 locus (Nguitragool et al.,
Cell, 145: 665-677 (2011)). To explore possible mechanisms, it was sought to select Dd2
parasites expressing the alternate clag3.2 allele. Transport selection was tried using osmotic
 lysis with ISPA-43, a structurally distinct PSAC inhibitor with 10-fold higher affinity for
 channels formed by expression of the Dd2 clag3.2 than of clag3. I. Although this approach
has been successfully used to select for 7C20 parasites expressing clag3.2 (Nguitragool et a.,
 Cell, 145: 665-677 (2011), it was insufficient to affect channel phenotype in Dd2 parasites
 despite repeated selections over 4 months.
 [0170]      Negative selection was attempted with growth inhibition in PLM containing
 ISPA-28. After 2 cycles of drug pressure with 5 MM ISPA-28 for a total of 17 days, resistant
 cells were identified and characterized after limiting dilution to obtain the clone Dd2-PLM28,
 Consistent with killing primarily via PSAC inhibition, transport studies using this resistant
 clone revealed a marked reduction in inhibitor affinity (Figure 5A). Although the ISPA-28
 dose response quantitatively matched that of 7C20 parasites after identical PLM-based
 selection (upper solid line, Figure 5A), full length clag3.2 transcript was still undetectable,
 excluding the simple prediction of gene switching. Spontaneous recombination between the
 two clag3 genes was considered, and a chimeric clog3 transcript was identified using a
 forward clag3. I primer and a reverse clag3.2 primer; PCR confirmed that this chimera is

                                                64
present in the selected parasite's genome but absent from the original Dd2 line. Southern
blotting with a clag3 specific probe detected three discrete bands in the selected clone but
only the expected two bands in unselected Dd2 parasites, implicating a recombination event
to produce three clag3 genes in Dd2-PLM28. The size of the new band, - 16 kb, is consistent
with homologous recombination between clag3, I and clag3.2 in Dd2-PLM28. DNA
sequencing indicated that the chimeric gene derives its 5' untranslated region and the first
 ~70% of the gene from clag3. 1. After a crossover between single nucleotide polymorphisms
at 3680 and 3965 bp from the start codon, the gene carries the 3' end of clag3.2. Thus, the
chimeric gene is driven by the clag3.1 promoter, but encodes a protein with the C-terminal
variable domain of clag3.2. This altered C-terminus accounts for the reduced TSPA-28
efficacy against nutrient uptake and, hence, survival of this clone in the selection. Without
being bound by a particular theory or mechanism, it is believed that the proposed
homologous recombination also produces a parasite having a single clag3 gene and high
ISPA-28 affinity, but that recombinant is not expected to survive growth inhibition selection
 in PLM with ISPA-28.
 [01711      Quantitative RT-PCR was then used to examine transcription of clag genes in
 Dd2-PLM28 and found that the chimeric gene is preferentially expressed (8.9 ± 1.3 fold
 greater than clag3,1, P < 0.002). Transport-based selection in sorbitol with ISPA-28 was
 used to examine whether Dd2-PLM28 can undergo expression switching. This second
 selection yielded parasites that express the native clag3.1 almost exclusively (PLM-rev,
 Figure 5B). Transport studies revealed an ISPA-28 dose response identical to that of the
 original Dd2 line, as expected. Thus, the new chimeric clag3 gene can undergo epigenetic
 silencing and switching with clag3.1. DNA sequencing of the gene's promoter region did not
 reveal any mutations relative to that of 7C20.
 [01721      Without being bound by a particular theory or mechanism, it is believed that
 recombination between the two clag3 genes occurs with relative ease, consistent with reports
 of frequent recombination events in the parasite's subtelomeric regions (Freitas-Junior et al.,
 Nature, 407: 1018-22 (2000)). It is also believed that such recombination events may serve
 to increase diversity in PSAC phenotypes, apparent here as affording survival of a parasite
 with three clag3 genes under selective pressure.

                                                65
                                          EXAMPLE 10
101731      This example demonstrates the comparison of growth inhibitory effects of PSAC
inhibitors in PLM and standard media.
101741      Furosemide and dantrolene are known non-specific inhibitors with relatively low
PSAC affinity. These compounds are also adsorbed by serum, but are approved therapeutics
in other human diseases. They are only weakly effective against parasite growth in standard
medium, but have significantly improved activity in PLM. Eight high affinity PSAC
inhibitors from 5 distinct scaffolds recently identified by high-throughput screening were also
tested (Pillai et aL, Mot. Pharmacol.,77: 724-733 (2010)). Each exhibited significantly
improved potency when nutrient concentrations are reduced, strengthening the evidence for
the channel's role in nutrient acquisition. The extent of improved efficacy was variable, but
many compounds exhibited a >100-fold improvement in parasite killing upon nutrient
restriction (1C50 ratio, Table 5). Factors such as the stoichiometry of inhibitor:channel
interaction and resultant changes in the concentration dependence of channel block,
compound stability in culture, and adsorption by serum may influence this ratio,
 [0175]      To explore therapeutic potential, HeLa cell cytotoxicity was examined in vitro,
 Several potent PSAC inhibitors were found to be nontoxic and highly specific for parasite
killing (Table 6).
                                             TABLE 6
 PSAC Inhibitor                    HeLa cell CC5 o, PM             specificity (HeLa
                                                                   CCso/parasite PLM IC5o)
 (24)                              30                               110
 (280)                             >100                            >430
 (31)                              >100                            >240
 (3)                               >100                            >530
 Cpd 50                            >100                            >50
 TSG-21                            86                              43,000
  [01761     Finally, in vitro growth inhibition experiments were performed with chloroquine,
 mefloquine, and artemisinin, approved antimalarial drugs that work at unrelated targets
 within the intracellular parasite. These drugs do not inhibit PSAC-mediated solute uptake. In
 contrast to improved killing by PSAC inhibitors, these drugs were modestly less effective in

                                                 66
PLM than in RPMI (Table 5), excluding nonspecific effects of modified in vitro growth
conditions. Without being bound by a particular theory or mechanism, it is believed that the
robust improvement in parasite killing for PSAC inhibitors upon nutrient restriction is in
contrast to the effect on existing antimalarial drugs and, therefore, implicates a novel
mechanism of action. Because both isolate-specific and broad spectrum PSAC inhibitors
exhibit improved efficacy in PLM, these studies provide experimental evidence for a role of
PSAC in nutrient uptake by the intracellular parasite.
 101771       All references, including publications, patent applications, and patents, cited
herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference were
individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and were set forth in
 its entirety herein.
 101781       The use of the terms "a" and "an" and "the" and similar referents in the context of
describing the invention (especially in the context of the following claims) are to be
 construed to cover both the singular and the plural, unless otherwise indicated herein or
 clearly contradicted by context. The terms "comprising," "having," "including," and
 "containing" are to be construed as open-ended terms (i.e., meaning "including, but not
 limited to,") unless otherwise noted. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely
 intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value
 falling within the range, unless otherwise indicated herein, and each separate value is
 incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods
 described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or
 otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples, or exemplary
 language (e.g., "such as") provided herein, is intended merely to better illuminate the
 invention and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the invention unless otherwise
 claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non-claimed
 element as essential to the practice of the invention.
  (0179]      Preferred embodiments of this invention are described herein, including the best
 mode known to the inventors for carrying out the invention. Variations of those preferred
 embodiments may become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the
 foregoing description. The inventors expect skilled artisans to employ such variations as
 appropriate, and the inventors intend for the invention to be practiced otherwise than as
  specifically described herein. Accordingly, this invention includes all modifications and

                                                    67
equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by
applicable law. Moreover, any combination of the above-described elements in all possible
variations thereof is encompassed by the invention unless otherwise indicated herein or
otherwise clearly contradicted by context.
 This application is a divisional application from Australian application <removed-apn>. The full disclosure of
 AU<removed-apn> is incorporated herein by reference.

                                                 68
CLAIM(S):
         1.       A method of treating or preventing malaria in an animal comprising
administering an effective amount of a compound of formula (I) to the animal:
                                          Q-Y-R-R2 (1),
         wherein:
         Q is selected from the group consisting of a dioxo heterocyclyl  ring fused to an aryl
group, a heterocyclic amido group linked to a heterocyclic group, alkyl, a heterocyclic group
fused to a heterocyclic amido group, arylamino carbonyl, amino, heterocyclic amido, and
heterocyclic amino group, each of which, other than amino, is optionally substituted with one
or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halo, hydroxy, mercapto, alkoxy,
alkylthio, nitro, cyano, amino, alkyl, aryl, hydroxyalkyl, haloalkyl, cyanoalkyl, aminoalkyl,
alkylamino, dialkylamino, carboxy, carboxyalkyl, alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl,
aminocarbonyl, ureido, and formyl;
         Y is a bond, S, SO 2 , or amido;
         R' is divalent group selected from the group consisting of a heterocyclic ring having
at least one nitrogen atom, piperidinyl, piperazinyl, aryl, a heterocyclic ring having at least
one nitrogen atom linked to an alkylamino group, benzo fused heterocyclyl, heterocyclyl
fused to an iminotetrahydropyrimidino group, and heterocyclyl fused to a heterocyclic amido
group, each of which is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the
group consisting of halo, hydroxy, mercapto, alkoxy, alkylthio, nitro, cyano, amino, alkyl,
hydroxyalkyl, haloalkyl, cyanoalkyl, aminoalkyl, alkylamino, dialkylamino, carboxy,
carboxyalkyl, alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, ureido, and formyl;
         R 2 is selected from the group consisting of arylalkenyl, heterocyclyl carbonylamino,
heterocyclyl alkylamino, tetrahydroquinolinyl alkenyl, tetrahydroisoquinolinyl alkyl,
indolylalkenyl, dihydroindolylalkenyl, aryl, aryloxyalkyl, arylalkyl, diazolyl, and
quinolinylalkenyl, each of which is optionally substituted with one or more substituents
selected from the group consisting of halo, hydroxy, mercapto, alkoxy, alkylthio, nitro,
cyano, amino, alkyl, hydroxyalkyl, haloalkyl, cyanoalkyl, aminoalkyl, alkylamino,
dialkylamino, carboxy, carboxyalkyl, alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, ureido,
and formyl;
         or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

                                                69
        2.       A method of inhibiting a plasmodial surface anion channel of a parasite in an
animal comprising administering an effective amount of a compound of formula (I) to the
animal:
                                                   2
                                         Q-Y-R-R      (1),
         wherein:
         Q is selected from the group consisting of a dioxo heterocyclyl ring fused to an aryl
group, a heterocyclic amido group linked to a heterocyclic group, alkyl, a heterocyclic group
fused to a heterocyclic amido group, arylamino carbonyl, amino, heterocyclic amido, and
heterocyclic amino group, each of which, other than amino, is optionally substituted with one
or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halo, hydroxy, mercapto, alkoxy,
alkylthio, nitro, cyano, amino, alkyl, aryl, hydroxyalkyl, haloalkyl, cyanoalkyl, aminoalkyl,
alkylamino, dialkylamino, carboxy, carboxyalkyl, alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl,
aminocarbonyl, ureido, and formyl;
         Y is a bond, S, SO 2, or amido;
         R' is divalent group selected from the group consisting of a heterocyclic ring having
at least one nitrogen atom, piperidinyl, piperazinyl, aryl, a heterocyclic ring having at least
one nitrogen atom linked to an alkylamino group, benzo fused heterocyclyl, heterocyclyl
fused to an iminotetrahydropyrimidino group, and heterocyclyl fused to a heterocyclic amido
 group, each of which is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the
group consisting of halo, hydroxy, mercapto, alkoxy, alkylthio, nitro, cyano, amino, alkyl,
hydroxyalkyl, haloalkyl, cyanoalkyl, aminoalkyl, alkylamino, dialkylamino, carboxy,
carboxyalkyl, alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, urcido, and formyl;
         R2 is selected from the group consisting of arylalkenyl, heterocyclyl carbonylamino,
heterocyclyl alkylamino, tetrahydroquinolinyl alkenyl, tetrahydroisoquinolinyl alkyl,
 indolylalkenyl, dihydroindolylalkenyl, aryl, aryloxyalkyl, arylalkyl, diazolyl, and
 quinolinylalkenyl, each of which is optionally substituted with one or more substituents
 selected from the group consisting of halo, hydroxy, mercapto, alkoxy, alkylthio, nitro,
 cyano, amino, alkyl, hydroxyalkyl, haloalkyl, cyanoalkyl, aminoalkyl, alkylamino,
 dialkylamino, carboxy, carboxyalkyl, alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, ureido,
 and formyl;
         or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

                                               70
        3.       The method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein  Q is selected from the group
consisting of dioxotetrahydroquinoxalinyl, pyridazinyl heterocyclyl, alkyl, heterocyclyl
pyridazinyl, and arylaminocarbonylalkyl, each of which is optionally substituted with one or
more substituents selected from the group consisting of halo, hydroxy, mercapto, alkoxy,
alkylthio, nitro, cyano, amino, alkyl, hydroxyalkyl, haloalkyl, cyanoalkyl, aminoalkyl,
alkylamino, dialkylamino, carboxyalkyl, alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl,
ureido, and formyl.
        4.       The method according to any one of claims 1-3, wherein R' is piperidinyl,
piperazinyl, piperidinylalkylamino, benzothiazolyl, thiozolyl fused to an imino
tetrahydropyrimidino group, thiazolylfused to a pyridazone, each of which is optionally
substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halo, hydroxy,
mercapto, alkoxy, alkylthio, nitro, cyano, amino, alkyl, hydroxyalkyl, haloalkyl, cyanoalkyl,
aminoalkyl, alkylamino, dialkylamino, carboxyalkyl, alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl,
aminocarbonyl, ureido, and formyl.
         5.      The method according to any one of claims 1-4, wherein R2 is selected from
the group consisting of alkyl arylalkenyl, thiopheneylcarbonylamino, tetrahydro quinolinyl
alkenyl, tetrahydro isoquinolinylalkyl, alkoxyaryl, aryl, aryloxyalkyl, arylalkyl, each of
which is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group
consisting of halo, hydroxy, mercapto, alkoxy, alkylthio, nitro, cyano, amino, alkyl,
hydroxyalkyl, haloalkyl, cyanoalkyl, aminoalkyl, alkylamino, dialkylamino, carboxyalkyl,
 alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, urcido, and formyl.
         6.      The method according to any one of claims 1-5, wherein Y is SO2.
         7.      The method according to claim 6, wherein   Q is selected from the group
 consisting of:

                                             71
   00
O              NH
     HN
                           SHN      N
                                                    methyl, and isobutyl.
8.      The method according to claim 6 or 7, wherein R is selected from the group
consisting of:
             A      N       ~        ,<S        NH
                         ,and                   N
9.      The method according to any one of claims 6-8, wherein R2 is selected from the group
consisting of:
                                                   cel
                                                          F                    N
                     and
 10.     The method according to any one of claims 1-9, wherein the compound is:

                                     72
        0
  O        NH
  HN
              0             N
                ISG-17            0/    CI
                         C,
                    N
                                           ISG-23
                                                  N
                       ISG-22
                                        \
    HN\ -N                    ~   N/
0                               0

                             73
                                F
                              N
0        HN"NS/     0 HISG-34
                       N
            LST-d35
         0%/N
             5
   HNN
0=
       H/
                         IS - 1,

                                              74
                             NH
                  N     N        ..
                                     NHH
                  NN
                                                  N
                      CD-008
                             N
                                                                   NH
                    F                                                              N
                                  NH         NN       N
                    F
   cossigo0consstin
           of:                        an
                                      and.orCd                                             0
                                                             S                       h
       13.      The method according to ayoeo  claim    15, wherein    is
                                                                       eete.ro
       13.      The method according to claim 11o1,wherein      is selected from theu
tegpconsisting ofof     :    0  N-N
                                            and
                                              and          S
group consisting
       14.      The method according to any one of claims 11-13, wherein R2 is selected from
                                                  tco

                                            75
       15.   The method according to any one of claims 11-14, wherein the compound is:
           NH
   F
                 0N
                                     N-N                           or
     S
N,  N>- N              N
     N,           s       S            N
                                       H
                        ISG-28
      16.     The method according to any one of claims 1-5, wherein Y is a bond.
      17.    The method according to claim 16, wherein the compound is
            N
                 N          NHN
                N
           NN
                      0        CD-005O
              N                          CI4
                      0                      Cpd 80.

                                                76
        18.     The method according to claim 1, wherein Y is amido.
        19.     The method according to claim 18, wherein    Q is heterocyclic amido, R1 is a
heterocyclic ring having at least one nitrogen atom, and  R2 is diazolyl.
        20.     The method according to any one of claims 18-19, wherein the compound is
                                  O
                                                                        N
                                            ISPA-28.
        21.     The method according to any one of claims 1-20, further comprising
administering at least one other antimalarial compound to the animal.
        22.     The method according to claim 21, wherein the at least one other antimalarial
compound is selected from the group consisting of:
                a) a compound of formula II:
                                 O            R3
                                                                        NR200
                                       SR
                      5                                R6, R7
                    R , R4
                                               (II)
        wherein R100 is hydrogen or alkyl and R200 is arylalkyl, optionally substituted on the
aryl with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halo, hydroxyl, nitro,

                                                  77
cyano, amino, alkyl, aminoalkyl, alkylamino, alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl,
and formyl; or R200 is a group of formula (I):
                                                                    \AOR O2
                                                    N
                        - (CH2)n-N
                                             R9                                II)
         wherein n=0 to 6;
         or R'    and R200 together with the N to which they are attached form a heterocycle of
formula IV:
                                                  R10
                                         N             X-Y1
                                                               (IV)
         wherein X is N or CH; and
         Y1 is aryl, alkylaryl, dialkylaryl, arylalkyl, alkoxyaryl, or heterocyclic, optionally
 substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halo,
 hydroxyl, nitro, cyano, amino, aminoalkyl, alkylamino, alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl,
 aminocarbonyl, and formyl; and
         R3- R") are hydrogen or alkyl; or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof;
                  (b) a compound of formula V:
                                                        O
                                                 H      II
                                                 N-C      --  L --   Q1
                             Z               Ra                         (V)
          wherein
          Z is a group having one or more 4-7 membered rings, wherein at least one of the rings
 has at least one heteroatom selected from the group consisting of 0, S, and N; and when two
 or more 4-7 membered rings are present, the rings may be fused or unfused; wherein the rings
 are optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of
 halo, hydroxy, alkoxy, nitro, cyano, amino, alkyl, aminoalkyl, alkylamino, alkylcarbonyl,
 alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, and formyl;

                                                  78
         Ra is hydrogen, alkyl, or alkoxy;
         L is a bond, alkyl, alkoxy, (CH 2 )r,or (CH20),, wherein r and s are independently 1 to
6;
         Q1 is a heterocyclic group, an aryl group, or an heterocyclyl aryl group, each of which
is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of
halo, hydroxy, alkoxy, nitro, cyano, amino, alkyl, aminoalkyl, alkylamino, alkylcarbonyl,
alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, and formyl; and
when L is alkyl or alkoxy, Q' is absent;
         or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof; and
                 (c) a compound of formula VI:
                                             R15
                                  /    r>           0
                                       N            O           N     R1
                  R13, R14
                                                           R"                   (VI)
         wherein R" and R12 are independently hydrogen, alkyl, cycloalkyl, or aryl which is
 optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of
 alkyl, alkoxy, halo, hydroxy, nitro, cyano, amino, alkylamino, aminoalkyl, alkylcarbonyl,
 alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, and formyl;
         R1- R5 are independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl, halo, alkoxy,
 hydroxy, nitro, cyano, amino, alkylamino, aminoalkyl, alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl,
 aminocarbonyl, and formyl;
          or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof
          23.     The method according to any one of claims 1-22, wherein the animal is a
 human.
          24.     The method according to any one of claims 1-23, wherein the compound
 inhibits growth of P. falciparum Dd2.
          25.     A compound of formula (I):
                                            Q-Y-R -R2 (),

                                                79
        wherein:
         Q is selected from the group consisting of a dioxo heterocyclyl ring fused to an aryl
group, a heterocyclic amido group linked to a heterocyclic group, alkyl, a heterocyclic group
fused to a heterocyclic amido group, arylamino carbonyl, amino, heterocyclic amido, and
heterocyclic amino group, each of which, other than amino, is optionally substituted with one
or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halo, hydroxy, mercapto, alkoxy,
alkylthio, nitro, cyano, amino, alkyl, aryl, hydroxyalkyl, haloalkyl, cyanoalkyl, aminoalkyl,
alkylamino, dialkylamino, carboxy, carboxyalkyl, alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl,
aminocarbonyl, ureido, and formyl;
         Y is a bond, S, SO 2 , or amido;
         R' is divalent group selected from the group consisting of a heterocyclic ring having
at least one nitrogen atom, piperidinyl, piperazinyl, aryl, a heterocyclic ring having at least
one nitrogen atom linked to an alkylamino group, benzo fused heterocyclyl, heterocyclyl
 fused to an iminotetrahydropyrimidino group, and heterocyclyl fused to a heterocyclic amido
 group, each of which is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the
 group consisting of halo, hydroxy, mercapto, alkoxy, alkylthio, nitro, cyano, amino, alkyl,
 hydroxyalkyl, haloalkyl, cyanoalkyl, aminoalkyl, alkylamino, dialkylamino, carboxy,
 carboxyalkyl, alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, ureido, and formyl;
         R 2 is selected from the group consisting of arylalkenyl, heterocyclyl carbonylamino,
 heterocyclyl alkylamino, tetrahydroquinolinyl alkenyl, tetrahydroisoquinolinyl alkyl,
 indolylalkenyl, dihydroindolylalkenyl, aryl, aryloxyalkyl, arylalkyl, diazolyl, and
 quinolinylalkenyl, each of which is optionally substituted with one or more substituents
 selected from the group consisting of halo, hydroxy, mercapto, alkoxy, alkylthio, nitro,
 cyano, amino, alkyl, hydroxyalkyl, haloalkyl, cyanoalkyl, aminoalkyl, alkylamino,
 dialkylamino, carboxy, carboxyalkyl, alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, ureido,
  and formyl;
         or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof;
         for use in treating or preventing malaria in an animal.
         26.       A compound of formula (I):
                                                     2
                                          Q-Y-R-R       (1),
         wherein:

                                                 80
         Q is selected from the group consisting of a dioxo heterocyclyl ring fused to an aryl
group, a heterocyclic amido group linked to a heterocyclic group, alkyl, a heterocyclic group
fused to a heterocyclic amido group, arylamino carbonyl, amino, heterocyclic amido, and
heterocyclic amino group, each of which, other than amino, is optionally substituted with one
or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halo, hydroxy, mercapto, alkoxy,
alkylthio, nitro, cyano, amino, alkyl, aryl, hydroxyalkyl, haloalkyl, cyanoalkyl, aminoalkyl,
alkylamino, dialkylamino, carboxy, carboxyalkyl, alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl,
aminocarbonyl, ureido, and formyl;
         Y is a bond, S, So 2, or amido;
         R' is divalent group selected from the group consisting of a heterocyclic ring having
at least one nitrogen atom, piperidinyl, piperazinyl, aryl, a heterocyclic ring having at least
one nitrogen atom linked to an alkylamino group, benzo fused heterocyclyl, heterocyclyl
fused to an iminotetrahydropyrimidino group, and heterocyclyl fused to a heterocyclic amido
group, each of which is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the
group consisting of halo, hydroxy, mercapto, alkoxy, alkylthio, nitro, cyano, amino, alkyl,
hydroxyalkyl, haloalkyl, cyanoalkyl, aminoalkyl, alkylamino, dialkylamino, carboxy,
carboxyalkyl, alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, ureido, and formyl;
         R2 is selected from the group consisting of arylalkenyl, heterocyclyl carbonylamino,
heterocyclyl alkylamino, tetrahydroquinolinyl alkenyl, tetrahydroisoquinolinyl alkyl,
indolylalkenyl, dihydroindolylalkenyl, aryl, aryloxyalkyl, arylalkyl, diazolyl, and
quinolinylalkenyl, each of which is optionally substituted with one or more substituents
selected from the group consisting of halo, hydroxy, mercapto, alkoxy, alkylthio, nitro,
cyano, amino, alkyl, hydroxyalkyl, haloalkyl, cyanoalkyl, aminoalkyl, alkylamino,
dialkylamino, carboxy, carboxyalkyl, alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, ureido,
and formyl;
         or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof;
         for use in inhibiting a plasmodial surface anion channel of a parasite in an animal.
         27.     Use of a compound of formula (I):
                                          Q-Y-R'-R 2 (1),
         wherein:
         Q is selected from the group consisting of a dioxo heterocyclyl ring fused to an aryl
group, a heterocyclic amido group linked to a heterocyclic group, alkyl, a heterocyclic group

                                                 81
fused to a heterocyclic amido group, arylamino carbonyl, amino, heterocyclic amido, and
heterocyclic amino group, each of which, other than amino, is optionally substituted with one
or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halo, hydroxy, mercapto, alkoxy,
alkylthio, nitro, cyano, amino, alkyl, aryl, hydroxyalkyl, haloalkyl, cyanoalkyl, aminoalkyl,
alkylamino, dialkylamino, carboxy, carboxyalkyl, alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl,
aminocarbonyl, ureido, and formyl;
         Y is a bond, S, SO2 , or amido;
         R' is divalent group selected from the group consisting of a heterocyclic ring having
at least one nitrogen atom, piperidinyl, piperazinyl, aryl, a heterocyclic ring having at least
one nitrogen atom linked to an alkylamino group, benzo fused heterocyclyl, heterocyclyl
fused to an iminotetrahydropyrimidino group, and heterocyclyl fused to a heterocyclic amido
group, each of which is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the
group consisting of halo, hydroxy, mercapto, alkoxy, alkylthio, nitro, cyano, amino, alkyl,
hydroxyalkyl, haloalkyl, cyanoalkyl, aminoalkyl, alkylamino, dialkylamino, carboxy,
carboxyalkyl, alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, ureido, and formyl;
         R2  is selected from the group consisting of arylalkenyl, heterocyclyl carbonylamino,
heterocyclyl alkylamino, tetrahydroquinolinyl alkenyl, tetrahydroisoquinolinyl alkyl,
 indolylalkenyl, dihydroindolytalkenyl, aryl, aryloxyalkyl, arylalkyl, diazolyl, and
 quinolinylalkenyl, each of which is optionally substituted with one or more substituents
 selected from the group consisting of halo, hydroxy, mereapto, alkoxy, alkylthio, nitro,
 cyano, amino, alkyl, hydroxyalkyl, haloalkyl, cyanoalkyl, aminoalkyl, alkylamino,
 dialkylamino, carboxy, carboxyalkyl, alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, ureido,
 and formyl;
         or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof;
         in the manufacture of a medicament for treating or preventing malaria in an animal.
         28.      Use of a compound of formula (I):
                                          Q-Y-R-R    2  (I),
         wherein:
         Q is selected   from the group consisting of a dioxo heterocyclyl ring fused to an aryl
 group, a heterocyclic amido group linked to a heterocyclic group, alkyl, a heterocyclic group
 fused to a heterocyclic amido group, arylamino carbonyl, amino, heterocyclic amido, and
 heterocyclic amino group, each of which, other than amino, is optionally substituted with one

                                                 82
or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halo, hydroxy, mercapto, alkoxy,
alkylthio, nitro, cyano, amino, alkyl, aryl, hydroxyalkyl, haloalkyl, cyanoalkyl, aminoalkyl,
alkylamino, dialkylamino, carboxy, carboxyalkyl, alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl,
aminocarbonyl, ureido, and formyl;
         Y is a bond, S, SO2 , or amido;
         R' is divalent group selected from the group consisting of a heterocyclic ring having
at least one nitrogen atom, piperidinyl, piperazinyl, aryl, a heterocyclic ring having at least
one nitrogen atom linked to an alkylamino group, benzo fused heterocyclyl, heterocyclyl
fused to an iminotetrahydropyrimidino group, and heterocyclyl fused to a heterocyclic amido
group, each of which is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the
group consisting of halo, hydroxy, mercapto, alkoxy, alkylthio, nitro, cyano, amino, alkyl,
hydroxyalkyl, haloalkyl, cyanoalkyl, aminoalkyl, alkylamino, dialkylamino, carboxy,
carboxyalkyl, alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, ureido, and formyl;
         R2  is selected from the group consisting of arylalkenyl, heterocyclyl carbonylamino,
heterocyclyl alkylamino, tetrahydroquinolinyl alkenyl, tetrahydroisoquinolinyl alkyl,
indolylalkenyl, dihydroindolylalkenyl, aryl, aryloxyalkyl, arylalkyl, diazolyl, and
quinolinylalkenyl, each of which is optionally substituted with one or more substituents
selected from the group consisting of halo, hydroxy, mercapto, alkoxy, alkylthio, nitro,
cyano, amino, alkyl, hydroxyalkyl, haloalkyl, cyanoalkyl, aminoalkyl, alkylamino,
dialkylamino, carboxy, carboxyalkyl, alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, ureido,
and formyl;
         or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof;
         in the manufacture of a medicament for inhibiting a plasmodial surface anion channel
of a parasite in an animal.
         29.      A pharmaceutical composition comprising:
         i) a compound of formula (I):
                                          Q-Y-R'-R 2 (1),
         wherein:
         Q is selected from the group consisting of a dioxo heterocyclyl ring fused to an aryl
group, a heterocyclic amido group linked to a heterocyclic group, alkyl, a heterocyclic group
fused to a heterocyclic amido group, arylamino carbonyl, amino, heterocyclic amido, and
heterocyclic amino group, each of which, other than amino, is optionally substituted with one

                                                 83
or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halo, hydroxy, mercapto, alkoxy,
alkylthio, nitro, cyano, amino, alkyl, aryl, hydroxyalkyl, haloalkyl, cyanoalkyl, aminoalkyl,
alkylamino, dialkylamino, carboxy, carboxyalkyl, alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl,
aminocarbonyl, ureido, and formyl;
         Y is a bond, S, SO 2 , or amido;
         Ri is divalent group selected from the group consisting of a heterocyclic ring having
at least one nitrogen atom, piperidinyl, piperazinyl, aryl, a heterocyclic ring having at least
one nitrogen atom linked to an alkylamino group, benzo fused heterocyclyl, heterocyclyl
fused to an iminotetrahydropyrimidino group, and heterocyclyl fused to a heterocyclic amido
group, each of which is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the
group consisting of halo, hydroxy, mercapto, alkoxy, alkylthio, nitro, cyano, amino, alkyl,
hydroxyalkyl, haloalkyl, cyanoalkyl, aminoalkyl, alkylamino, dialkylamino, carboxy,
carboxyalkyl, alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, ureido, and formyl;
         R2 is selected from the group consisting of arylalkenyl, heterocyclyl carbonylamino,
heterocyclyl alkylamino, tetrahydroquinolinyl alkenyl, tetrahydroisoquinolinyl alkyl,
indolylalkenyl, dihydroindolylalkenyl, aryl, aryloxyalkyl, arylalkyl, diazolyl, and
quinolinylalkenyl, each of which is optionally substituted with one or more substituents
 selected from the group consisting of halo, hydroxy, mercapto, alkoxy, alkylthio, nitro,
 cyano, amino, alkyl, hydroxyalkyl, haloalkyl, cyanoalkyl, aminoalkyl, alkylamino,
 dialkylamino, carboxy, carboxyalkyl, alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, ureido,
 and formyl;
          or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof; and
          ii) at least one other antimalarial compound.
          30.      The pharmaceutical composition of claim 28, wherein the at least one other
 antimalarial compound is selected from the group consisting of:
                   a) a compound of formula II:

                                                  84
                                                                            R200
                                        SRa
                    5
                   R,R   4                               R6 , R7
        wherein R 0 is hydrogen or alkyl and R2 00 is arylalkyl, optionally substituted on the
aryl with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halo, hydroxyl, nitro,
cyano, amino, alkyl, aminoalkyl, alkylamino, alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl,
                   200
and formyl; or R       is a group of formula (III):
                                       N/        \NOR
                         - (CH2)n-
                                                      RG                      (III)
         wherein n=O to 6;
         or R 0 0 and R2 o together with the N to which they are attached form a heterocycle of
formula IV:
                                                  RIO
                                          N            X-Y
                                                                 (IV)
         wherein X is N or CH; and
         Y1 is aryl, alkylaryl, dialkylaryl, arylalkyl, alkoxyaryl, or heterocyclic, optionally
 substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of halo,
 hydroxyl, nitro, cyano, amino, aminoalkyl, alkylamino, alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl,
 aminocarbonyl, and formyl; and
         R- R10 are hydrogen or alkyl; or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof;

                                                  85
                (b) a compound of formula V:
                                                H
                                                N-C-L-Q           1
                           z \        /                             (v)
        wherein
        Z is a group having one or more 4-7 membered rings, wherein at least one of the rings
has at least one heteroatom selected from the group consisting of 0, S, and N; and when two
or more 4-7 membered rings are present, the rings may be fused or unfused; wherein the rings
are optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of
halo, hydroxy, alkoxy, nitro, cyano, amino, alkyl, aminoalkyl, alkylamino, alkylcarbonyl,
alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, and formyl;
        Ra is hydrogen, alkyl, or alkoxy;
        L is a bond, alkyl, alkoxy, (CH 2)r, or (CH 20), wherein r and s are independently I to
6;
        Qi is a heterocyclic group, an aryl group, or an heterocyclyl aryl group, each of which
is optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of
halo, hydroxy, alkoxy, nitro, cyano, amino, alkyl, aminoalkyl, alkylamino, alkylcarbonyl,
alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, and formyl; and
when L is alkyl or alkoxy,   Qi is absent;
        or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof; and
                (c) a compound of formula VI:
                                           R15
                                                              0
                                      N            ON-R
                R 1, R14
                                                          R'                   (VI)
        wherein R 11 and R12 are independently hydrogen, alkyl, cycloalkyl, or aryl which is
optionally substituted with one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of
alkyl, alkoxy, halo, hydroxy, nitro, cyano, amino, alkylamino, aminoalkyl, alkylcarbonyl,
alkoxycarbonyl, aminocarbonyl, and formyl;

                                              86
        R'- R" are independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl, halo, alkoxy,
hydroxy, nitro, cyano, amino, alkylamino, aminoalkyl, alkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl,
aminocarbonyl, and formyl;
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof
        31.    The pharmaceutical composition of claim 30, comprising a compound of
formula I and one or more of
                       N                                       O
                                      N-N                      0
                                               13
                     N \N,    S        &       NH
                            N-N
                                               0
                                              16
                                                        0
                          N     S\\                           N
                        N        /               NH
                             N-N          -/              \     NCj
                                                 17
                                                18
                          N-,N                      O
                                                   H
                    N           /0                                Br
                                                    19               , and

                                                87
                         NN
                                                            0           0
                                                20.
         32.    An isolated or purified clag3 amino acid sequence comprising, consisting of,
or consisting essentially of SEQ ID NO: 62, 64, 66, 72, 74, or 76, with the proviso that the
amino acid sequence is not SEQ ID NO: 2, 4, or 78.
         33.    A recombinant expression vector comprising a nucleic acid comprising,
consisting of, or consisting essentially of an isolated or purified nucleotide sequence
encoding the amino acid sequence of claim 32, with the proviso that the nucleotide sequence
is not SEQ ID NO: 1, 3, or 79.
         34.    The recombinant expression vector of claim 33, wherein the isolated or
purified nucleotide sequence comprises, consists of, or consists essentially of SEQ ID NO:
63, 65, 67, 73, 75, or 77.
         35.    An isolated or purified host cell comprising the recombinant expression vector
of claim 34.
         36.    A population of cells comprising at least one host cell of claim 35.
         37.    An antibody, or antigen binding portion thereof, which specifically binds to an
 amino acid sequence of claim 32.
         38.    A pharmaceutical composition comprising the amino acid sequence of claim
 32, the recombinant expression vector of claim 33 or 34, the host cell of claim 35, the
 population of cells of claim 36, or the antibody, or antigen binding portion thereof, of claim
 37, and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

                                                88
        39.     A method of treating or preventing malaria in an animal comprising
administering to the animal an effective amount of the amino acid sequence of claim 32, the
recombinant expression vector of claim 33 or 34, the host cell of claim 35, the population of
cells of claim 36, or the antibody, or antigen binding portion thereof, of claim 37, or the
pharmaceutical composition of claim 38.
        40.     A method of stimulating an immune response against a plasmodial surface
anion channel of a parasite in an animal comprising administering to the animal an effective
amount of the amino acid sequence of claim 32, the recombinant expression vector of claim
33 or 34, the host cell of claim 35, the population of cells of claim 36, or the antibody, or
antigen binding portion thereof, of claim 37, or the pharmaceutical composition of claim 38.
        41.     The method according to claim 40, wherein stimulating an immune response
comprises stimulating the production of antibodies that specifically bind to the plasmodial
surface anion channel.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                            709937ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
                                                    SEQUENCE LI STI NG
              <110>     THE UNI TED STATES OF AMERI CA, AS REPRESENTED BY THE
                        SECRETARY, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVI CES
              <120>     PLASMODI AL SURFACE ANI ON CHANNEL I NHI BI TORS FOR THE TREATMENT OR
                        PREVENTI ON OF MALARI A
              <130>     709937
              <150>     US 61/ 474, 583
              <151>     2011- 04- 12
<removed-apn>
              <160>     79
              <170>     Pat ent I n v er s i on 3. 5
              <210>     1
              <211>     4254
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Pl as modi um f al c i par um
              <400> 1
              at ggt t t c at t t t t t aaaac t c c aat c t t t at t t t aat t a t c t t t t t at a c t t aaat gaa     60
              aaggt aat at gt t c aat aaa t gaaaat c aa aat gaaaat g at ac c at t ag t c aaaat gt c                   120
              aac c aac at g aaaat at t aa t c aaaat gt a aat gat aat g ac aat at t ga ac aat t aaaa                  180
              t c c at gat t g gaaat gat ga ac t ac at aag aat t t aac aa t at t agaaaa at t aat t t t a              240
              gagt c t t t ag aaaaagat aa at t aaaat at c c t c t c c t t a aac aaggaac t gaac aat t g                300
              at agat at at c aaaat t t aa t aaaaaaaat at t ac agat g c ggat gat ga aac gt ac at c                    360
              at ac c c ac c g t c c aat c aac gt t t c ac gat at t gt gaaat ac gaac at c t t at aaaagaa              420
              c aat c aat ag aaat t t ac aa t t c t gat at a t c agat aaaa t t aagaaaaa aat t t t t at a              480
              gt aagaac at t gaaaac c at aaaat t aat g c t t at ac c at t aaac t c gt a c aaac aaaat                  540
              aat gac t t ga aat c t gc ac t c gaagaat t a aat aat gt at t t ac aaac aa agaagc t c aa                 600
              gaggaaagc a gt c c aat agg c gac c at ggg ac at t c t t t a gaaaat t gt t aac ac at gt t                660
              agaac aat t a aagaaaat ga agat at agaa aat aaaggag aaac ac t t at at t aggc gat                         720
              aat aaaat ag at gt aat gaa t t c aaac gat t t c t t t t t t a c aac c aac t c aaat gt aaaa              780
              t t t at ggaaa at t t agat ga t at aac aaat c aat at ggat t aggt t t gat t aat c at c t a               840
              ggt c c t c at t t aat agc c t t gggt c at t t t ac c gt at t aa aat t agc ac t aaaaaat t ac            900
              aaaaac t at t t t gaagc aaa aagt at t aaa t t t t t t agt t ggc aaaaaat t t t agagt t c                 960
              t c c at gt c t g at agat t t aa agt t c t t gat at gat gt gt g ac c at gaat c t gt at ac t at         1020
              t c c gaaaaaa aac gt agaaa aac at at t t a aaagt t gac a gat c aaat ac at c t at ggaa                  1080
              t gt aat at at t ggaat at t t at t ac at t at t t t aat aaat ac c aac t aga aat aat t aaa              1140
              ac t ac ac aag at ac t gat t t t gac t t ac at ggt at gat gg aac at aaat a t at aaaagat                1200
              t at t t c t t t t c at t t at gt g t aat gat c c t aaagaat gt a t t at t t at c a t ac gaat c aa      1260
              t t t aaaaaag aagc c aac ga agaaaac ac a t t t c c t gaac aagaagaac c t aac c gt c aa                  1320
              at aagt gc at t t aat t t at a t t t aaat t at t at t at t t c a t gaaac gt t a t agt t c at at        1380
                                                                    Page 1

                                                               709937ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              ggagt aaaaa agac at t at a t gt t c at t t a t t aaat t t aa c t ggac t t t t aaat t at gat         1440
              ac aagagc at ac gt gac at c ac t t t at t t a c c aggat at t ac aac gc t gt c gaaat gt c t          1500
              t t t ac ggaag aaaaagagt t t t c c aaac t t t t t gaaagc t t aat ac aat g t at t gaaaaa             1560
              t gc c at t c ag ac c aagc aag gc aaat at c a aaagat agt a at t t ac t t aa t aat at aac a          1620
              aaat gt gat t t gt gt aaagg agc c t t t t t a t at gc t aat a t gaaat t c ga t gaagt t c c t        1680
              t c aat gt t gc aaaaat t t t a c gt at at t t a ac t aaaggt c t c aaaat ac a aaaagt at c a          1740
<removed-apn>
              t c ac t aat c a aaac gc t aga t at at at c aa gat t ac agc a at t ac t t at c ac at gat at t       1800
              aat t ggt ac a c at t c c t at t t t t at t t aga c t t ac aagt t t t aaagaaat t gc aaagaaa         1860
              aat gt t gc t g aagc aat gt a t t t aaat at a aaagat gaag ac ac at t c aa c aaaac ggt a             1920
              gt aac aaac t at t ggt ac c c at c t c c t at a aaaaaat at t at ac at t at a t gt t agaaaa          1980
              c at at ac c aa at aat t t agt agat gaat t g gagaaat t aa t gaaaagt gg c ac t t t agaa              2040
              aaaat gaaaa aat c t c t c ac c t t t t t agt a c at gt gaat t c at t t t t ac a at t agat t t t     2100
              t t c c at c aat t aaat gaac c ac c t c t t gga t t ac c t c gat c at at c c at t at c gt t agt t   2160
              c t c gaac at a aat t t aaaga at ggat gaac agt t c gc c ag c aggt t t c t a t t t t t c aaat        2220
              t at c aaaat c c at at at c ag aaaagat t t g c at gat aaag t t t t at c ac a aaaat t t gaa          2280
              c c ac c t aaaa t gaat c agt g gaac aaagt t t t gaaat c at t aat t gaat g c gc at at gat            2340
              at gt at t t t g aac agagac a t gt t aaaaat t t at at aaat at c at aac at t t at aat at a           2400
              aat aac aaat t aat gt t aat gc gagat t c a at c gat t t gt at aaaaac aa t t t t gac gat             2460
              gt gt t at t t t t t gc ggat at at t t aat at g agaaaat at a t gac agc t ac ac c agt at at          2520
              aaaaaagt aa aagac agagt gt ac c at ac a t t gc at agt a t t ac aggaaa t t c t gt c aat              2580
              t t t t at aaat at ggt at t at at at ggat t t aaagt aaac a aagaaat at t aaaagaagt t                 2640
              gt c gat gaat t gt at t c c at c t at aat t t t aac ac c gac a t at t t ac gga t ac t t c c t t t   2700
              t t ac aaac c g t t t at t t at t at t t agaaga at agaagaaa c c t at aggac c c aaagaaga             2760
              gat gat aaaa t t agt gt gaa t aac gt t t t t t t c at gaat g t t gc t aat aa t t at t c c aaa       2820
              t t aaac aaag aagaaagaga aat c gaaat a c at aat t c c a t ggc at c aag at at t at gc a              2880
              aaaac gat gt t t gc agc at t t c aaat gt t a t t t t c aac aa t gt t gagc aa c aat gt agat          2940
              aat c t t gat a aagc at at gg at t aagt gaa aat at c c aag t agc aac aag t ac t t c c gc t          3000
              t t t c t t ac t t t t gc at at gt at at aac gga agt at aat gg at agt gt gac t aac agt t t a        3060
              t t gc c ac c at at gc gaagaa ac c t at aac a c aat t aaaat at ggaaaaac c t t c gt t t t c          3120
              t c aaac t at t t c at gc t agc at c c aaaat g t at gat at gt t aaat t at aa aaat t t aagt          3180
              c t t t t at gt g aat at c aggc t gt ggc aagt gc c aat t t c t ac t c t gc t aa aaaggt aggt         3240
              c agt t t c t t g gaagaaaat t t t t ac c c at a ac t ac at at t t t c t agt aat gagaat t agt        3300
              t ggac ac at g c t t t t ac aac t ggac aac at t t gat t agc g c t t t t ggt t c c c c aagt t c t    3360
              ac t gc t aat g gt aaaagt aa t gc t agt ggt t at aaat c c c c t gaaagt t t t t t c t t c ac t       3420
                                                                Page 2

                                                               709937ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              c ac ggac t t g c t gc t gaagc at c c aaat at t t at t t t t t t at t t t t t c ac aaat t t at ac   3480
              c t t gat gc c t ac aaat c t t t t c c t ggagga t t t ggt c c t g c aat aaaaga ac aaac t c aa       3540
              c at gt t c aag aac aaac c t a c gaac gc aaa c c gt c agt t c at agt t t t aa t agaaat t t t        3600
              t t c at ggaac t c gt aaat gg at t c at gt at gc c t t t t gt t t t t t t gc aat t t c t c aaat g   3660
              t at gc at at t t t gaaaat at t aat t t t t at at t ac aagt a at t t c c gt t t c t t ggat aga      3720
              t at t at ggt g t at t c aat aa at at t t t at a aac t at gc c a t aat t aaac t t aaagaaat t        3780
<removed-apn>
              ac t agt gat c t t t t aat aaa at at gaac gt gaggc t t at t t aagt at gaa aaaat at ggt              3840
              t at t t aggt g aagt t at t gc agc t agac t t t c t c c aaaag at aaaat t at gaat t at gt g          3900
              c ac gaaac t a ac gaagat at c at gagt aat t t aagaagat at gat at gga aaat gc t t t c                3960
              aaaaac aaaa t gt c aac at a t gt agat gat t t t gc t t t t t t t gat gat t g c ggaaaaaat            4020
              gaac aat t t t t aaat gagag at gt gat t at t gt c c t gt aa t t gaagaggt c gaagaaac a               4080
              c aat t at t t a c t ac c ac t gg t gat aaaaac ac t aat aaga c c ac ggaaat aaaaaaac aa              4140
              ac t agt ac at at at t gat ac t gaaaaaat g aat gaagc gg at t c t gc t ga t agc gac gat              4200
              gaaaaggat t c t gat ac t c c t gac gat gaa t t aat gat at c ac gat t t c a c t aa                   4254
              <210>     2
              <211>     1417
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Pl as modi um f al c i par um
              <400>     2
              Met Val Ser Phe Phe Ly s Thr Pr o I l e Phe I l e Leu I l e I l e Phe Leu
              1               5                       10                        15
              Ty r Leu As n Gl u Ly s Val I l e Cy s Ser I l e As n Gl u As n Gl n As n Gl u
                            20                       25                       30
              As n As p Thr I l e Ser Gl n As n Val As n Gl n Hi s Gl u As n I l e As n Gl n
                        35                      40                      45
              As n Val As n As p As n As p As n I l e Gl u Gl n Leu Ly s Ser Met I l e Gl y
                   50                      55                       60
              As n As p Gl u Leu Hi s Ly s As n Leu Thr I l e Leu Gl u Ly s Leu I l e Leu
              65                      70                      75                      80
              Gl u Ser Leu Gl u Ly s As p Ly s Leu Ly s Ty r Pr o Leu Leu Ly s Gl n Gl y
                                85                      90                     95
              Thr Gl u Gl n Leu I l e As p I l e Ser Ly s Phe As n Ly s Ly s As n I l e Thr
                            100                      105                     110
              As p Al a As p As p Gl u Thr Ty r I l e I l e Pr o Thr Val Gl n Ser Thr Phe
                        115                     120                      125
                                                                     Page 3

                                                        709937ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Hi s As p I l e Val Ly s Ty r Gl u Hi s Leu I l e Ly s Gl u Gl n Ser I l e Gl u
                   130                      135                      140
              I l e Ty r As n Ser As p I l e Ser As p Ly s I l e Ly s Ly s Ly s I l e Phe I l e
              145                      150                       155                      160
              Val Ar g Thr Leu Ly s Thr I l e Ly s Leu Met Leu I l e Pr o Leu As n Ser
                               165                     170                    175
<removed-apn>
              Ty r Ly s Gl n As n As n As p Leu Ly s Ser Al a Leu Gl u Gl u Leu As n As n
                             180                     185                    190
              Val Phe Thr As n Ly s Gl u Al a Gl n Gl u Gl u Ser Ser Pr o I l e Gl y As p
                      195                     200                    205
              Hi s Gl y Thr Phe Phe Ar g Ly s Leu Leu Thr Hi s Val Ar g Thr I l e Ly s
                   210                   215                   220
              Gl u As n Gl u As p I l e Gl u As n Ly s Gl y Gl u Thr Leu I l e Leu Gl y As p
              225                       230                      235                    240
              As n Ly s I l e As p Val Met As n Ser As n As p Phe Phe Phe Thr Thr As n
                                   245                   250                  255
              Ser As n Val Ly s Phe Met Gl u As n Leu As p As p I l e Thr As n Gl n Ty r
                           260                    265                     270
              Gl y Leu Gl y Leu I l e As n Hi s Leu Gl y Pr o Hi s Leu I l e Al a Leu Gl y
                       275                      280                    285
              Hi s Phe Thr Val Leu Ly s Leu Al a Leu Ly s As n Ty r Ly s As n Ty r Phe
                   290                  295                    300
              Gl u Al a Ly s Ser I l e Ly s Phe Phe Ser Tr p Gl n Ly s I l e Leu Gl u Phe
              305                      310                   315                      320
              Ser Met Ser As p Ar g Phe Ly s Val Leu As p Met Met Cy s As p Hi s Gl u
                               325                   330                    335
              Ser Val Ty r Ty r Ser Gl u Ly s Ly s Ar g Ar g Ly s Thr Ty r Leu Ly s Val
                           340                     345                     350
              As p Ar g Ser As n Thr Ser Met Gl u Cy s As n I l e Leu Gl u Ty r Leu Leu
                        355                  360                      365
              Hi s Ty r Phe As n Ly s Ty r Gl n Leu Gl u I l e I l e Ly s Thr Thr Gl n As p
                   370                     375                       380
              Thr As p Phe As p Leu Hi s Gl y Met Met Gl u Hi s Ly s Ty r I l e Ly s As p
              385                   390                    395                       400
                                                             Page 4

                                                       709937ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Ty r Phe Phe Ser Phe Met Cy s As n As p Pr o Ly s Gl u Cy s I l e I l e Ty r
                               405                    410                       415
              Hi s Thr As n Gl n Phe Ly s Ly s Gl u Al a As n Gl u Gl u As n Thr Phe Pr o
                            420                     425                      430
              Gl u Gl n Gl u Gl u Pr o As n Ar g Gl n I l e Ser Al a Phe As n Leu Ty r Leu
                        435                      440                     445
<removed-apn>
              As n Ty r Ty r Ty r Phe Met Ly s Ar g Ty r Ser Ser Ty r Gl y Val Ly s Ly s
                   450                    455                    460
              Thr Leu Ty r Val Hi s Leu Leu As n Leu Thr Gl y Leu Leu As n Ty r As p
              465                   470                  475                    480
              Thr Ar g Al a Ty r Val Thr Ser Leu Ty r Leu Pr o Gl y Ty r Ty r As n Al a
                                 485                  490                     495
              Val Gl u Met Ser Phe Thr Gl u Gl u Ly s Gl u Phe Ser Ly s Leu Phe Gl u
                           500                   505                    510
              Ser Leu I l e Gl n Cy s I l e Gl u Ly s Cy s Hi s Ser As p Gl n Al a Ar g Gl n
                      515                        520                     525
              I l e Ser Ly s As p Ser As n Leu Leu As n As n I l e Thr Ly s Cy s As p Leu
                    530                    535                     540
              Cy s Ly s Gl y Al a Phe Leu Ty r Al a As n Met Ly s Phe As p Gl u Val Pr o
              545                     550                    555                    560
              Ser Met Leu Gl n Ly s Phe Ty r Val Ty r Leu Thr Ly s Gl y Leu Ly s I l e
                               565                    570                   575
              Gl n Ly s Val Ser Ser Leu I l e Ly s Thr Leu As p I l e Ty r Gl n As p Ty r
                            580                    585                     590
              Ser As n Ty r Leu Ser Hi s As p I l e As n Tr p Ty r Thr Phe Leu Phe Leu
                       595                    600                      605
              Phe Ar g Leu Thr Ser Phe Ly s Gl u I l e Al a Ly s Ly s As n Val Al a Gl u
                  610                  615                       620
              Al a Met Ty r Leu As n I l e Ly s As p Gl u As p Thr Phe As n Ly s Thr Val
              625                    630                       635                   640
              Val Thr As n Ty r Tr p Ty r Pr o Ser Pr o I l e Ly s Ly s Ty r Ty r Thr Leu
                                645                     650                       655
              Ty r Val Ar g Ly s Hi s I l e Pr o As n As n Leu Val As p Gl u Leu Gl u Ly s
                            660                       665                    670
                                                            Page 5

                                                       709937ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Leu Met Ly s Ser Gl y Thr Leu Gl u Ly s Met Ly s Ly s Ser Leu Thr Phe
                      675                   680                     685
              Leu Val Hi s Val As n Ser Phe Leu Gl n Leu As p Phe Phe Hi s Gl n Leu
                  690                   695                   700
              As n Gl u Pr o Pr o Leu Gl y Leu Pr o Ar g Ser Ty r Pr o Leu Ser Leu Val
              705                     710                    715                   720
<removed-apn>
              Leu Gl u Hi s Ly s Phe Ly s Gl u Tr p Met As n Ser Ser Pr o Al a Gl y Phe
                                 725                    730                    735
              Ty r Phe Ser As n Ty r Gl n As n Pr o Ty r I l e Ar g Ly s As p Leu Hi s As p
                           740                      745                       750
              Ly s Val Leu Ser Gl n Ly s Phe Gl u Pr o Pr o Ly s Met As n Gl n Tr p As n
                       755                   760                     765
              Ly s Val Leu Ly s Ser Leu I l e Gl u Cy s Al a Ty r As p Met Ty r Phe Gl u
                   770                  775                       780
              Gl n Ar g Hi s Val Ly s As n Leu Ty r Ly s Ty r Hi s As n I l e Ty r As n I l e
              785                     790                     795                       800
              As n As n Ly s Leu Met Leu Met Ar g As p Ser I l e As p Leu Ty r Ly s As n
                                 805                   810                     815
              As n Phe As p As p Val Leu Phe Phe Al a As p I l e Phe As n Met Ar g Ly s
                            820                  825                      830
              Ty r Met Thr Al a Thr Pr o Val Ty r Ly s Ly s Val Ly s As p Ar g Val Ty r
                       835                   840                     845
              Hi s Thr Leu Hi s Ser I l e Thr Gl y As n Ser Val As n Phe Ty r Ly s Ty r
                   850                    855                   860
              Gl y I l e I l e Ty r Gl y Phe Ly s Val As n Ly s Gl u I l e Leu Ly s Gl u Val
              865                        870                    875                      880
              Val As p Gl u Leu Ty r Ser I l e Ty r As n Phe As n Thr As p I l e Phe Thr
                                885                      890                     895
              As p Thr Ser Phe Leu Gl n Thr Val Ty r Leu Leu Phe Ar g Ar g I l e Gl u
                           900                  905                   910
              Gl u Thr Ty r Ar g Thr Gl n Ar g Ar g As p As p Ly s I l e Ser Val As n As n
                       915                     920                       925
              Val Phe Phe Met As n Val Al a As n As n Ty r Ser Ly s Leu As n Ly s Gl u
                  930                  935                     940
                                                            Page 6

                                                       709937ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Gl u Ar g Gl u I l e Gl u I l e Hi s As n Ser Met Al a Ser Ar g Ty r Ty r Al a
              945                       950                     955                     960
              Ly s Thr Met Phe Al a Al a Phe Gl n Met Leu Phe Ser Thr Met Leu Ser
                               965                    970                 975
              As n As n Val As p As n Leu As p Ly s Al a Ty r Gl y Leu Ser Gl u As n I l e
                            980                     985                    990
<removed-apn>
              Gl n Val Al a Thr Ser Thr Ser Al a Phe Leu Thr Phe Al a Ty r Val Ty r
                       995                  1000                 1005
              As n Gl y Ser I l e Met As p Ser Val Thr As n Ser Leu Leu Pr o Pr o
                   1010                    1015                 1020
              Ty r Al a Ly s Ly s Pr o I l e Thr Gl n Leu Ly s Ty r Gl y Ly s Thr Phe
                   1025                      1030                   1035
              Val Phe Ser As n Ty r Phe Met  Leu Al a Ser Ly s Met  Ty r As p Met
                  1040                  1045                   1050
              Leu As n Ty r Ly s As n Leu Ser Leu Leu Cy s Gl u Ty r Gl n Al a Val
                  1055                    1060                  1065
              Al a Ser Al a As n Phe Ty r Ser Al a Ly s Ly s Val Gl y Gl n Phe Leu
                   1070                   1075                   1080
              Gl y Ar g Ly s Phe Leu Pr o I l e Thr Thr Ty r Phe Leu Val Met Ar g
                   1085                   1090                   1095
              I l e Ser Tr p Thr Hi s Al a Phe Thr Thr Gl y Gl n Hi s Leu I l e Ser
                    1100                   1105                  1110
              Al a Phe Gl y Ser Pr o Ser Ser Thr Al a As n Gl y Ly s Ser As n Al a
                   1115                  1120                   1125
              Ser Gl y Ty r Ly s Ser Pr o Gl u Ser Phe Phe Phe Thr Hi s Gl y Leu
                  1130                    1135                 1140
              Al a Al a Gl u Al a Ser Ly s Ty r Leu Phe Phe Ty r Phe Phe Thr As n
                   1145                    1150                  1155
              Leu Ty r Leu As p Al a Ty r Ly s Ser Phe Pr o Gl y Gl y Phe Gl y Pr o
                  1160                    1165                   1170
              Al a I l e Ly s Gl u Gl n Thr Gl n Hi s Val Gl n Gl u Gl n Thr Ty r Gl u
                   1175                     1180                    1185
              Ar g Ly s Pr o Ser Val Hi s Ser Phe As n Ar g As n Phe Phe Met Gl u
                   1190                   1195                   1200
                                                            Page 7

                                                                 709937ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Leu Val  As n Gl y Phe Met Ty r Al a Phe Cy s Phe Phe Al a I l e Ser
                  1205                   1210                   1215
              Gl n Met  Ty r Al a Ty r Phe Gl u As n I l e As n Phe Ty r I l e Thr Ser
                   1220                    1225                     1230
              As n Phe Ar g Phe Leu As p Ar g Ty r Ty r Gl y Val Phe As n Ly s Ty r
                   1235                  1240                    1245
<removed-apn>
              Phe I l e As n Ty r Al a I l e I l e Ly s Leu Ly s Gl u I l e Thr Ser As p
                  1250                       1255                     1260
              Leu Leu I l e Ly s Ty r Gl u Ar g Gl u Al a Ty r Leu Ser Met Ly s Ly s
                  1265                     1270                    1275
              Ty r Gl y Ty r Leu Gl y Gl u Val  I l e Al a Al a Ar g Leu Ser Pr o Ly s
                   1280                    1285                      1290
              As p Ly s I l e Met As n Ty r Val  Hi s Gl u Thr As n Gl u As p I l e Met
                   1295                     1300                    1305
              Ser As n Leu Ar g Ar g Ty r As p Met Gl u As n Al a Phe Ly s As n Ly s
                  1310                    1315                    1320
              Met Ser Thr Ty r Val As p As p Phe Al a Phe Phe As p As p Cy s Gl y
                  1325                  1330                  1335
              Ly s As n Gl u Gl n Phe Leu As n Gl u Ar g Cy s As p Ty r Cy s Pr o Val
                   1340                   1345                     1350
              I l e Gl u Gl u Val Gl u Gl u Thr Gl n Leu Phe Thr Thr Thr Gl y As p
                    1355                    1360                 1365
              Ly s As n Thr As n Ly s Thr Thr Gl u I l e Ly s Ly s Gl n Thr Ser Thr
                   1370                   1375                     1380
              Ty r I l e As p Thr Gl u Ly s Met  As n Gl u Al a As p Ser Al a As p Ser
                   1385                     1390                     1395
              As p As p Gl u Ly s As p Ser As p Thr Pr o As p As p Gl u Leu Met I l e
                   1400                    1405                    1410
              Ser Ar g Phe Hi s
                  1415
              <210>     3
              <211>     4251
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Pl as modi um f al c i par um
              <400> 3
              at ggt t t c at t t t t t aagac t c c gat c at t at t t t t t t t t t c c t c t t at g t t t aaat gaa   60
                                                                      Page 8

                                                              709937ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              aaggt at t at gt t c aat aaa t gaaaat gaa aat t t aggc g aaaat aaaaa c gaaaat gc a                  120
              aat gt aaac a c ac c t gaaaa t t t aaat aaa c t t c t aaat g agt at gac aa t at t gaac aa           180
              t t aaaat c c a t gat aggaaa t gat gaac t a c at aagaat t t aac aat at t agaaaaat t a               240
              at t t t agagt c t c t agaaaa agat aaat t a aaat at c c t c t c c t t aaac a aggaac t gaa           300
              c aat t gat ag at at at c aaa at t t aat aaa aaaaat at t a c agat gc gga t gat gaaac g              360
              t ac at c at ac c t ac c gt c c a at c aagc t t t c ac gat at t g t aaaat at ga ac at c t t at a    420
<removed-apn>
              aaagaac aat c aat agaaat t t at aat t c t gat at at c ag at aaaat t aa gaaaaaaat a                  480
              t t t at t gt aa gaac at t gaa aac aat aaaa t t aat gc t t a t ac c at t aaa t t c at ac aaa        540
              c aaaat aat g at t t gaaat c t gc gc t c gaa gaat t aaat a at gt at t t ac aaac aaagaa              600
              gc t c aaaagg aaagc agt c c aat aggc gac c at gggac at t c t t t agaaa at t gt t aac a              660
              c at gt t agaa c aat t aaaga aaat gaagat at agaaaat a aaggagaaac ac t t at at t a                   720
              ggc gat aat a aaat agat gt aat gaat t c a aac gat t t c t t t t t t ac aac c aac t c aaat           780
              gt aaaat t t a t ggaaaat t t agat gat at a ac aaat c aat at ggat t agg t t t gat t aat              840
              c at t t gggt c c t c at t t aat agc c t t ggga c at t t t gt t g t at t aaaat t agc ac t aaaa      900
              aat t ac aaaa at t at t t t ga agc aaaaaat at aaaat t t t t t agt t ggc a aaaaat t t t a            960
              gagt t c t c c a t gt c t gat ag at t t aaggt t c t t gat at ga t gt gt aac c a t gaat c t gt a    1020
              t at t at t c c g aaaaaaaac g t agaaagac a t at t t aaaag t c gac agat c aagc ac at c t            1080
              at ggaat gt a at at at t gga at at t t at t a c at t at t t t a at aaat ac c a ac t agaaat a       1140
              at t aaaac t a c ac aagat ac agat t t c gat t t ac at ggt a t gat ggaac a t aaat at at a           1200
              aaagat t at t t c t t t t c at t t at gt gt aac gat c c t aaag aat gt at t at t t at c at ac g     1260
              aat c aat t t a aaaaagaagc t aac gaagaa aac ac t t t t c c t gaac aaga agaac c t aac               1320
              c gt c aaat aa gt gc at t t aa t t t at at t t a aat t at t at t at t t c at gaa ac gt t at agt    1380
              t c at at ggaa c aaaaaaaac at t at at gt t c at t t at t aa at t t aac t gg ac t t t t aaac        1440
              c at gat ac aa gagc at ac gt gac at c c c t t t at t t ac c ag gat at t ac aa c gc t gt c gaa      1500
              at gt c t t t t a c ggac gat aa agagt t t t c c ac ac t t t t t g aaagc t t aat ac aat gt at t     1560
              gaaaaat gc c at t c agac c a agc aaggc aa at at c aaaag at agt aat t t ac t t aat aat              1620
              at aac aaaat gt gat t t gt g t aaaggagc c t t t t t at at g c t aat at gaa at t c gat gaa          1680
              gt t c c t t c aa t gt t gc aaaa at t t t ac gt a t at t t aac t a aaggt c t c aa aat ac aaaaa     1740
              gt at c at c ac t aat c aaaac gc t agat at a t at c aagat t ac agt aat t t c t t at c ac at        1800
              gat at t aat t ggt ac ac at t c c t at t t t t a t t t agac t t a c aagt t t t aa agaaat t gc a    1860
              aat aaaaat g t t gc t gaagc aat gt at t t a aat at aaaag at gaagac ac at t c aac aaa               1920
              ac gat agt aa c aaac t at t g gt ac c c at c t c c t at aaaaa aat at t at ac at t at at gt t       1980
              agaaaac at a t ac c aaat aa t t t agt agat gaat t agaga aat t aat gaa aagt ggc ac t                2040
              t t agaaaaaa t gaaaaaat c t c t c ac c t t t t t agt ac at g t gaat t c at t t t t ac aat t a      2100
                                                                 Page 9

                                                                 709937ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              gat t t t t t c c at c aat t aaa t gaac c ac c t c t t ggat t ac c t c gat c at a t c c at t at c g     2160
              t t agt t c t c g aac at aaat t t aaagaat gg at ggac agt t c gc c agc agg t t t c t at t t t            2220
              t c aaat t at c aaaat c c at a t at c agaaaa gat t t gc at g at aaagt t t t at c ac aaaaa               2280
              t t t gaac c ac c t aaaat gaa t c agt ggaac aaagt t t t ga aat c at t aat t gaat gc gc a                2340
              t at gat at gt at t t t gaac a gagac at gt t aaaaat t t at at aaat at c a t aac at t t at               2400
              aat at aaat a ac aaat t aat gt t aat gc ga gat t c aat c g at t t gt at aa aaac aat t t t               2460
<removed-apn>
              gac gat gt gt t at t t t t t gc ggat at at t t aat at gagaa aat at at gac agc t ac ac c a               2520
              gt at at aaaa aagt aaaaga c c gagt gt ac c at ac at t gc at agt at t ac aggaaat t c t                   2580
              gt c aat t t t t at aaat at gg t at t at at at ggat t t aaag t aaac aaaga aat at t aaaa                 2640
              gaagt t gt c g at gaat t gt a t t c c at c t at aat t t t aac a c c gac at at t t ac ggat ac t          2700
              t c c t t t t t ac aaac c gt t t a t t t at t at t t agaagaat ag aagaaac c t a t aggac c c aa           2760
              agaagagat g at aaaat t ag t gt gaat aac gt t t t t t t c a t gaat gt t gc t aat aat t at                2820
              t c c aaat t aa ac aaagaaga aagagaaat c gaaat ac at a at t c c at ggc at c aagat at                     2880
              t at gc aaaaa c gat gt t t gc agc at t t c aa at gt t at t t t c aac aat gt t gagc aac aat              2940
              gt agat aat c t t gat aaagc at at ggat t a agt gaaaat a t c c aagt agc aac aagt ac t                    3000
              t c c gc t t t t c t t ac t t t t gc at at gt at at aac ggaagt a t aat ggat ag t gt gac t aac           3060
              agt t t at t gc c ac c at at gc gaagaaac c t at aac ac aat t aaaat at gg aaaaac c t t c                 3120
              gt t t t c t c aa ac t at t t c at gc t agc at c c aaaat gt at g at at gt t aaa t t at aaaaat           3180
              t t aagt c t t t t at gt gaat a t c aggc t gt g gc aagt gc c a at t t c t ac t c t gc t aaaaag          3240
              gt aggt c agt t t c t t ggaag aaaat t t t t a c c c at aac t a c at at t t t c t agt aat gaga           3300
              at t agt t gga c ac at gc t t t t ac aac t gga c aac at t t ga t t t gc gc t t t t gat c c c aaa        3360
              agat gt ac t c c t gat t gt aa aaat agt ac t agt t at aaat c t c c t c aaag t t t t t t t t ac          3420
              ggt t ggc c t c c t agt t c aga aac at at t t g t t c t t t t at t t t t t c ac aaa t t t at ac c t t   3480
              gat gc c t at a aat c t t t t c c t ggaggat t t ggt c c t gc aa t aaaagaac a aac t c aac at             3540
              gt t c aagaac aaac c t ac ga ac gc aaac c g t c agt t c at a gt t t t aat ag aaat t t t t t c           3600
              at ggaac t c g t aaat ggat t c at gt at gc c t t t t gt t t t t t t gc aat t t c t c aaat gt at         3660
              gc at at t t t g aaaat at t aa t t t t t at at t ac aagt aat t t c c gt t t c t t ggat agat at          3720
              t at ggt gt at t c aat aaat a t t t t at aaac t at gc c at aa t t aaac t t aa agaaat t ac t             3780
              agt gat c t t t t aat aaaat a t gaac gt gag gc t t at t t aa gt at gaaaaa at at ggt t at                3840
              t t aggt gaag t t at t gc agc t agac t t t c t c c aaaagat a aaat t at gaa t t at gt gc ac              3900
              gaaac t aac g aagat at c at gagt aat t t a agaagat at g at at ggaaaa t gc t t t c aaa                   3960
              aac aaaat gg t t ac t t at gt ggat gac t t t gc t t t t t t t g at gat t gt gg c aaaaat gaa             4020
              c aat t t t t aa at gaaagat g t gat t at t gc c c t gt aat t g aagaggt gga agaaac ac aa                 4080
              t t at t t ac t a c c ac t ggt ga t aaaaat ac t aat gagac c a c ggaaat aaa aaaac aaac t                 4140
                                                                   Page 10

                                                             709937ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              agt ac at at a t t gat ac t ga aaaaat gaat gaagc ggat t c t gc t gat ag c gac gat gaa   4200
              aaggat t t t g at ac t c c t ga c aat gaat t a at gat c gc ac gat t t c at t a a        4251
              <210>     4
              <211>     1416
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Pl as modi um f al c i par um
              <400>     4
<removed-apn>
              Met Val Ser Phe Phe Ly s Thr Pr o I l e I l e I l e Phe Phe Phe Leu Leu
              1               5                       10                      15
              Cy s Leu As n Gl u Ly s Val Leu Cy s Ser I l e As n Gl u As n Gl u As n Leu
                            20                     25                       30
              Gl y Gl u As n Ly s As n Gl u As n Al a As n Val As n Thr Pr o Gl u As n Leu
                        35                       40                     45
              As n Ly s Leu Leu As n Gl u Ty r As p As n I l e Gl u Gl n Leu Ly s Ser Met
                   50                     55                        60
              I l e Gl y As n As p Gl u Leu Hi s Ly s As n Leu Thr I l e Leu Gl u Ly s Leu
              65                        70                     75                      80
              I l e Leu Gl u Ser Leu Gl u Ly s As p Ly s Leu Ly s Ty r Pr o Leu Leu Ly s
                                 85                      90                     95
              Gl n Gl y Thr Gl u Gl n Leu I l e As p I l e Ser Ly s Phe As n Ly s Ly s As n
                            100                      105                     110
              I l e Thr As p Al a As p As p Gl u Thr Ty r I l e I l e Pr o Thr Val Gl n Ser
                        115                      120                       125
              Ser Phe Hi s As p I l e Val Ly s Ty r Gl u Hi s Leu I l e Ly s Gl u Gl n Ser
                  130                     135                     140
              I l e Gl u I l e Ty r As n Ser As p I l e Ser As p Ly s I l e Ly s Ly s Ly s I l e
              145                        150                     155                       160
              Phe I l e Val Ar g Thr Leu Ly s Thr I l e Ly s Leu Met Leu I l e Pr o Leu
                                 165                    170                    175
              As n Ser Ty r Ly s Gl n As n As n As p Leu Ly s Ser Al a Leu Gl u Gl u Leu
                            180                      185                   190
              As n As n Val Phe Thr As n Ly s Gl u Al a Gl n Ly s Gl u Ser Ser Pr o I l e
                        195                   200                      205
              Gl y As p Hi s Gl y Thr Phe Phe Ar g Ly s Leu Leu Thr Hi s Val Ar g Thr
                   210                    215                   220
                                                                  Page 11

                                                       709937ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              I l e Ly s Gl u As n Gl u As p I l e Gl u As n Ly s Gl y Gl u Thr Leu I l e Leu
              225                       230                       235                     240
              Gl y As p As n Ly s I l e As p Val Met As n Ser As n As p Phe Phe Phe Thr
                                  245                     250                   255
              Thr As n Ser As n Val Ly s Phe Met Gl u As n Leu As p As p I l e Thr As n
                           260                   265                     270
<removed-apn>
              Gl n Ty r Gl y Leu Gl y Leu I l e As n Hi s Leu Gl y Pr o Hi s Leu I l e Al a
                        275                     280                     285
              Leu Gl y Hi s Phe Val Val Leu Ly s Leu Al a Leu Ly s As n Ty r Ly s As n
                  290                   295                   300
              Ty r Phe Gl u Al a Ly s As n I l e Ly s Phe Phe Ser Tr p Gl n Ly s I l e Leu
              305                     310                     315                      320
              Gl u Phe Ser Met Ser As p Ar g Phe Ly s Val Leu As p Met Met Cy s As n
                               325                    330                  335
              Hi s Gl u Ser Val Ty r Ty r Ser Gl u Ly s Ly s Ar g Ar g Ly s Thr Ty r Leu
                            340                    345                      350
              Ly s Val As p Ar g Ser Ser Thr Ser Met Gl u Cy s As n I l e Leu Gl u Ty r
                       355                   360                    365
              Leu Leu Hi s Ty r Phe As n Ly s Ty r Gl n Leu Gl u I l e I l e Ly s Thr Thr
                  370                    375                     380
              Gl n As p Thr As p Phe As p Leu Hi s Gl y Met Met Gl u Hi s Ly s Ty r I l e
              385                    390                    395                     400
              Ly s As p Ty r Phe Phe Ser Phe Met Cy s As n As p Pr o Ly s Gl u Cy s I l e
                                 405                  410                      415
              I l e Ty r Hi s Thr As n Gl n Phe Ly s Ly s Gl u Al a As n Gl u Gl u As n Thr
                              420                    425                      430
              Phe Pr o Gl u Gl n Gl u Gl u Pr o As n Ar g Gl n I l e Ser Al a Phe As n Leu
                       435                      440                      445
              Ty r Leu As n Ty r Ty r Ty r Phe Met Ly s Ar g Ty r Ser Ser Ty r Gl y Thr
                   450                     455                    460
              Ly s Ly s Thr Leu Ty r Val Hi s Leu Leu As n Leu Thr Gl y Leu Leu As n
              465                    470                   475                  480
              Hi s As p Thr Ar g Al a Ty r Val Thr Ser Leu Ty r Leu Pr o Gl y Ty r Ty r
                                 485                   490                    495
                                                           Page 12

                                                      709937ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              As n Al a Val Gl u Met Ser Phe Thr As p As p Ly s Gl u Phe Ser Thr Leu
                            500                  505                     510
              Phe Gl u Ser Leu I l e Gl n Cy s I l e Gl u Ly s Cy s Hi s Ser As p Gl n Al a
                       515                     520                       525
              Ar g Gl n I l e Ser Ly s As p Ser As n Leu Leu As n As n I l e Thr Ly s Cy s
                   530                      535                   540
<removed-apn>
              As p Leu Cy s Ly s Gl y Al a Phe Leu Ty r Al a As n Met Ly s Phe As p Gl u
              545                     550                    555                    560
              Val Pr o Ser Met Leu Gl n Ly s Phe Ty r Val Ty r Leu Thr Ly s Gl y Leu
                               565                    570                   575
              Ly s I l e Gl n Ly s Val Ser Ser Leu I l e Ly s Thr Leu As p I l e Ty r Gl n
                              580                  585                     590
              As p Ty r Ser As n Phe Leu Ser Hi s As p I l e As n Tr p Ty r Thr Phe Leu
                        595                  600                       605
              Phe Leu Phe Ar g Leu Thr Ser Phe Ly s Gl u I l e Al a As n Ly s As n Val
                  610                  615                     620
              Al a Gl u Al a Met Ty r Leu As n I l e Ly s As p Gl u As p Thr Phe As n Ly s
              625                     630                      635                    640
              Thr I l e Val Thr As n Ty r Tr p Ty r Pr o Ser Pr o I l e Ly s Ly s Ty r Ty r
                                645                      650                      655
              Thr Leu Ty r Val Ar g Ly s Hi s I l e Pr o As n As n Leu Val As p Gl u Leu
                           660                      665                    670
              Gl u Ly s Leu Met Ly s Ser Gl y Thr Leu Gl u Ly s Met Ly s Ly s Ser Leu
                        675                   680                   685
              Thr Phe Leu Val Hi s Val As n Ser Phe Leu Gl n Leu As p Phe Phe Hi s
                  690                  695                   700
              Gl n Leu As n Gl u Pr o Pr o Leu Gl y Leu Pr o Ar g Ser Ty r Pr o Leu Ser
              705                     710                    715                    720
              Leu Val Leu Gl u Hi s Ly s Phe Ly s Gl u Tr p Met As p Ser Ser Pr o Al a
                               725                     730                   735
              Gl y Phe Ty r Phe Ser As n Ty r Gl n As n Pr o Ty r I l e Ar g Ly s As p Leu
                            740                    745                       750
              Hi s As p Ly s Val Leu Ser Gl n Ly s Phe Gl u Pr o Pr o Ly s Met As n Gl n
                        755                   760                     765
                                                           Page 13

                                                       709937ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Tr p As n Ly s Val Leu Ly s Ser Leu I l e Gl u Cy s Al a Ty r As p Met Ty r
                   770                    775                     780
              Phe Gl u Gl n Ar g Hi s Val Ly s As n Leu Ty r Ly s Ty r Hi s As n I l e Ty r
              785                     790                    795                       800
              As n I l e As n As n Ly s Leu Met Leu Met Ar g As p Ser I l e As p Leu Ty r
                                   805                  810                      815
<removed-apn>
              Ly s As n As n Phe As p As p Val Leu Phe Phe Al a As p I l e Phe As n Met
                             820                   825                     830
              Ar g Ly s Ty r Met Thr Al a Thr Pr o Val Ty r Ly s Ly s Val Ly s As p Ar g
                        835                   840                     845
              Val Ty r Hi s Thr Leu Hi s Ser I l e Thr Gl y As n Ser Val As n Phe Ty r
                  850                    855                     860
              Ly s Ty r Gl y I l e I l e Ty r Gl y Phe Ly s Val As n Ly s Gl u I l e Leu Ly s
              865                        870                    875                      880
              Gl u Val Val As p Gl u Leu Ty r Ser I l e Ty r As n Phe As n Thr As p I l e
                                885                     890                    895
              Phe Thr As p Thr Ser Phe Leu Gl n Thr Val Ty r Leu Leu Phe Ar g Ar g
                           900                  905                  910
              I l e Gl u Gl u Thr Ty r Ar g Thr Gl n Ar g Ar g As p As p Ly s I l e Ser Val
                         915                    920                      925
              As n As n Val Phe Phe Met As n Val Al a As n As n Ty r Ser Ly s Leu As n
                   930                  935                     940
              Ly s Gl u Gl u Ar g Gl u I l e Gl u I l e Hi s As n Ser Met Al a Ser Ar g Ty r
              945                      950                        955                   960
              Ty r Al a Ly s Thr Met Phe Al a Al a Phe Gl n Met Leu Phe Ser Thr Met
                                 965                   970                  975
              Leu Ser As n As n Val As p As n Leu As p Ly s Al a Ty r Gl y Leu Ser Gl u
                           980                    985                      990
              As n I l e Gl n Val Al a Thr Ser Thr Ser Al a Phe Leu Thr Phe Al a Ty r
                         995                   1000                 1005
              Val Ty r As n Gl y Ser I l e Met  As p Ser Val Thr As n Ser Leu Leu
                  1010                     1015                  1020
              Pr o Pr o Ty r Al a Ly s Ly s Pr o I l e Thr Gl n Leu Ly s Ty r Gl y Ly s
                   1025                     1030                    1035
                                                           Page 14

                                                     709937ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Thr Phe Val Phe Ser As n Ty r Phe Met Leu Al a Ser Ly s Met Ty r
                  1040                 1045                  1050
              As p Met  Leu As n Ty r Ly s As n Leu Ser Leu Leu Cy s Gl u Ty r Gl n
                   1055                    1060                 1065
              Al a Val  Al a Ser Al a As n Phe Ty r Ser Al a Ly s Ly s Val Gl y Gl n
                   1070                    1075                   1080
<removed-apn>
              Phe Leu Gl y Ar g Ly s Phe Leu Pr o I l e Thr Thr Ty r Phe Leu Val
                  1085                   1090                   1095
              Met Ar g I l e Ser Tr p Thr Hi s Al a Phe Thr Thr Gl y Gl n Hi s Leu
                  1100                    1105                  1110
              I l e Cy s Al a Phe As p Pr o Ly s Ar g Cy s Thr Pr o As p Cy s Ly s As n
                    1115                    1120                    1125
              Ser Thr Ser Ty r Ly s Ser Pr o Gl n Ser Phe Phe Ty r Gl y Tr p Pr o
                  1130                  1135                  1140
              Pr o Ser Ser Gl u Thr Ty r Leu Phe Phe Ty r Phe Phe Thr As n Leu
                   1145                  1150                 1155
              Ty r Leu As p Al a Ty r Ly s Ser Phe Pr o Gl y Gl y Phe Gl y Pr o Al a
                   1160                    1165                   1170
              I l e Ly s Gl u Gl n Thr Gl n Hi s Val Gl n Gl u Gl n Thr Ty r Gl u Ar g
                    1175                    1180                    1185
              Ly s Pr o Ser Val Hi s Ser Phe As n Ar g As n Phe Phe Met Gl u Leu
                   1190                  1195                   1200
              Val As n Gl y Phe Met Ty r Al a Phe Cy s Phe Phe Al a I l e Ser Gl n
                  1205                   1210                  1215
              Met Ty r Al a Ty r Phe Gl u As n I l e As n Phe Ty r I l e Thr Ser As n
                  1220                    1225                     1230
              Phe Ar g Phe Leu As p Ar g Ty r Ty r Gl y Val Phe As n Ly s Ty r Phe
                  1235                   1240                   1245
              I l e As n Ty r Al a I l e I l e Ly s Leu Ly s Gl u I l e Thr Ser As p Leu
                    1250                       1255                     1260
              Leu I l e Ly s Ty r Gl u Ar g Gl u Al a Ty r Leu Ser Met  Ly s Ly s Ty r
                  1265                      1270                   1275
              Gl y Ty r Leu Gl y Gl u Val I l e Al a Al a Ar g Leu Ser Pr o Ly s As p
                   1280                   1285                     1290
                                                         Page 15

                                                                709937ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Ly s I l e Met As n Ty r Val Hi s Gl u Thr As n Gl u As p I l e Met Ser
                   1295                    1300                    1305
              As n Leu Ar g Ar g Ty r As p Met  Gl u As n Al a Phe Ly s As n Ly s Met
                   1310                    1315                    1320
              Val Thr Ty r Val As p As p Phe Al a Phe Phe As p As p Cy s Gl y Ly s
                  1325                   1330                  1335
<removed-apn>
              As n Gl u Gl n Phe Leu As n Gl u Ar g Cy s As p Ty r Cy s Pr o Val I l e
                   1340                   1345                     1350
              Gl u Gl u Val Gl u Gl u Thr Gl n Leu Phe Thr Thr Thr Gl y As p Ly s
                   1355                   1360                 1365
              As n Thr As n Gl u Thr Thr Gl u I l e Ly s Ly s Gl n Thr Ser Thr Ty r
                   1370                  1375                      1380
              I l e As p Thr Gl u Ly s Met As n Gl u Al a As p Ser Al a As p Ser As p
                    1385                   1390                    1395
              As p Gl u Ly s As p Phe As p Thr Pr o As p As n Gl u Leu Met I l e Al a
                   1400                    1405                    1410
              Ar g Phe Hi s
                   1415
              <210>     5
              <211>     38
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 5
              at ac c gt c ga c t t gt c aat t t t t at gt t t g c at aaac g             38
              <210>     6
              <211>     42
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 6
              aat t aggt ac c gt ac aaat a aat ac aat at t t t t c at agc aa             42
              <210>     7
              <211>     40
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
                                                                     Page 16

                                                               709937ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              <400> 7
              t at c c gt c ga c t c t at t t ac ac t c at gaag ac agaggt aa       40
              <210>     8
              <211>     38
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
<removed-apn>
              <400> 8
              aat t aggt ac c c t t c at t ga aaat t t t ac a agggt at c           38
              <210>     9
              <211>     41
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 9
              at ac c gt c ga c t at gaat ga t t gt ac t ac t t t t gt aagaa t     41
              <210>     10
              <211>     38
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 10
              aat at ggt ac c t ac ac at t g ac at agggt a t c at c at t           38
              <210>     11
              <211>     38
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 11
              at ac c gt c ga c c c t t t t t ac ac gt at at t c ggac aat c        38
              <210>     12
              <211>     37
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 12
              aat t aggt ac c gt t aac ac g aac aat t t t g c agt at g             37
              <210>     13
              <211>     33
              <212>     DNA
                                                                    Page 17

                                                             709937ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              <213>    Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>    Sy nt het i c
              <400> 13
              at ac c gt c ga c c aaaaaac c gaaat ggc at t t c                   33
              <210>    14
              <211>    39
              <212>    DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>    Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>    Sy nt het i c
              <400> 14
              aat t aggt ac c at gaaat at gt aat ac gt g ggt t aaaag             39
              <210>    15
              <211>    41
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>    Sy nt het i c
              <400> 15
              at ac c gt c ga c t t c c at gt t t aaagt gaaa t t agaagat a t     41
              <210>    16
              <211>    33
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>    Sy nt het i c
              <400> 16
              aat t aggt ac c c gac at t at gt t at t t c gg c ga                33
              <210>    17
              <211>    42
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>    Sy nt het i c
              <400> 17
              at ac c gt c ga c c agt at at a t aat c aaat t gagc t t aaaa ag    42
              <210>    18
              <211>    41
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>    Sy nt het i c
              <400> 18
              aat t aggt ac c agt gt t t t a aggc aat aat t at at t gt at t      41
                                                                    Page 18

                                                                709937ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              <210>     19
              <211>     40
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 19
              t c gac c t c ga gc at aaaat t gt gt gt t t c a t t aaaat c at        40
<removed-apn>
              <210>     20
              <211>     41
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 20
              ac gt agggc c c at gt at aaa t gaaaaat ga at gt gac t c t t           41
              <210>     21
              <211>     41
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 21
              at t c agt c ga c aagaaaaag gt aat at t t t agt ac ac t c a a         41
              <210>     22
              <211>     38
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 22
              t at t c ggt ac c t t t gt aat a t ac c t t t at g c gt t gac a       38
              <210>     23
              <211>     38
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 23
              at gc agt c ga c at gc ac t c a t t aat aat t t t aaac c gt           38
              <210>     24
              <211>     41
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
                                                                      Page 19

                                                                 709937ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              <400> 24
              t c gat gggc c c c t t t t c aat t aat t t t at a t t c t t t t gt t c   41
              <210>     25
              <211>     37
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
<removed-apn>
              <400> 25
              at ac c gt c ga c c c t gac gat gaat t aat ga t at c ac g                37
              <210>     26
              <211>     40
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 26
              t at aaggt ac c c aggt t aat at agc c aaaa t aaat t gaaa                 40
              <210>     27
              <211>     36
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 27
              at agagt c ga c ggat at t ag c t gat aaagc agc agc                       36
              <210>     28
              <211>     37
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 28
              gat t t ggt ac c t t t gt t t t c at gt c c c at c at aat t c            37
              <210>     29
              <211>     41
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 29
              at ac c gt c ga c t at t c t ac t t aaagat gaa t agc ac at at g          41
              <210>     30
              <211>     36
              <212>     DNA
                                                                       Page 20

                                                                  709937ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              <213>      Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>      Sy nt het i c
              <400> 30
              ac at t gggc c c t t c c c c t c a c at at c aat c at aaat              36
              <210>      31
              <211>      34
              <212>      DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>      Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>      Sy nt het i c
              <400> 31
              at ac agt c ga c gc at c c t at t c c c at c c t t t c c t              34
              <210>      32
              <211>      35
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>      Sy nt het i c
              <400> 32
              ac t gagggc c c gac aagaag c at t ac agag agc aa                        35
              <210>      33
              <211>      41
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>      Sy nt het i c
              <400> 33
              at ac c gt c ga c at t t t gc c c aagaat at aa aat aat aaga t           41
              <210>      34
              <211>      41
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>      Sy nt het i c
              <400> 34
              aat t aggt ac c c agagaaag aaaaat gt c a at at aaat aa a                41
              <210>      35
              <211>      33
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>      Sy nt het i c
              <400> 35
              c at aagc ggc c gc gc c at t c agac c aagc a agg                        33
                                                                           Page 21

                                                                 709937ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              <210>     36
              <211>     41
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 36
              t t aaac t gc a gc t t t t c aat t aat t t t at a t t c t t t t gt t c        41
<removed-apn>
              <210>     37
              <211>     21
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400>     37
              Phe Leu As n Cy s Cy s Pr o Cy s Cy s Met Gl u Pr o Gl y Ser As p Ty r Ly s
              1                 5                       10                      15
              As p As p As p As p Ly s
                             20
              <210>     38
              <211>     22
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 38
              gt ggaat t gt gagc ggat aa c a                                                22
              <210>     39
              <211>     23
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 39
              t c at c gt c c t t at agt c gga t c c                                        23
              <210>     40
              <211>     26
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 40
              at gt t t t gt a at t t at ggga t agc ga                                      26
              <210>     41
                                                                       Page 22

                                                                  709937ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              <211>      28
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>      Sy nt het i c
              <400> 41
              gt t gagt ac g c ac t aat at g t c aat t t g                            28
              <210>      42
<removed-apn>
              <211>      32
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>      Sy nt het i c
              <400> 42
              aac c at aac a t t at c at at a t gt t aat t ac ac                      32
              <210>      43
              <211>      22
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>      Sy nt het i c
              <400> 43
              at t t c c agag aat gac c ac a ac                                       22
              <210>      44
              <211>      21
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>      Sy nt het i c
              <400> 44
              t t aagat ggc c t gggt gat t c                                          21
              <210>      45
              <211>      27
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>      Sy nt het i c
              <400> 45
              c t c t t ac t ac t t at t at c t a t c t c t c a                       27
              <210>      46
              <211>      19
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>      Sy nt het i c
              <400>      46
                                                                      Page 23

                                                             709937ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              c c aggc gt ag gt c c t t t ac                                     19
              <210>     47
              <211>     28
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 47
<removed-apn>
              ac c c at aac t ac at at t t t c t agt aat g                       28
              <210>     48
              <211>     21
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 48
              gac aagt t c c agaagc at c c t                                     21
              <210>     49
              <211>     28
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 49
              ac c c at aac t ac at at t t t c t agt aat g                       28
              <210>     50
              <211>     30
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 50
              agat t t agt t ac ac t t gaag aat t agt at t                       30
              <210>     51
              <211>     28
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 51
              ac c c at aac t ac at at t t t c t agt aat g                       28
              <210>     52
              <211>     27
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
                                                                 Page 24

                                                             709937ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 52
              gat t t at aac t aggagc ac t ac at t t a                           27
              <210>     53
              <211>     28
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 53
              ac c c at aac t ac at at t t t c t agt aat g                       28
              <210>     54
              <211>     26
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 54
              t t at aac c at t aggagc ac t ac t t t c                           26
              <210>     55
              <211>     28
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 55
              ac c c at aac t ac at at t t t c t agt aat g                       28
              <210>     56
              <211>     21
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 56
              gac aagt t c c agaagc at c c t                                     21
              <210>     57
              <211>     24
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 57
              gt t ac t ac aa c at t c c t gat t c ag                            24
              <210>     58
                                                                 Page 25

                                                            709937ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              <211>     27
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 58
              aat gaaaat a t aaaaat gc t gggggat                                             27
              <210>     59
<removed-apn>
              <211>     27
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 59
              t ac c at t agt gt t t t at ac a c t t aagg                                    27
              <210>     60
              <211>     23
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 60
              c c aaaat at g gc c aagt ac t t gc                                             23
              <210>     61
              <211>     164
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400>     61
              Met Gl y Ser Ser Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Ser Ser Gl y Gl y Thr Ly s
              1                5                        10                     15
              Ly s Ty r Gl y Ty r Leu Gl y Gl u Val I l e Al a Al a Ar g Leu Ser Pr o Ly s
                             20                     25                       30
              As p Ly s I l e Met As n Ty r Val Hi s Gl u Thr As n Gl u As p I l e Met Ser
                        35                      40                      45
              As n Leu Ar g Ar g Ty r As p Met Gl u As n Al a Phe Ly s As n Ly s Met Ser
                   50                      55                     60
              Thr Ty r Val As p As p Phe Al a Phe Phe As p As p Cy s Gl y Ly s As n Gl u
              65                     70                    75                       80
              Gl n Phe Leu As n Gl u Ar g Cy s As p Ty r Cy s Pr o Val I l e Gl u Gl u Val
                                85                       90                       95
                                                                Page 26

                                                         709937ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Gl u Gl u Thr Gl n Leu Phe Thr Thr Thr Gl y As p Ly s As n Thr As n Ly s
                            100                  105                     110
              Thr Thr Gl u I l e Ly s Ly s Gl n Thr Ser Thr Ty r I l e As p Thr Gl u Ly s
                      115                       120                    125
              Met As n Gl u Al a As p Ser Al a As p Ser As p As p Gl u Ly s As p Ser As p
                  130                     135                     140
<removed-apn>
              Thr Pr o As p As p Gl u Leu Met I l e Ser Ar g Phe Hi s As p Ty r Ly s As p
              145                     150                    155                     160
              As p As p As p Ly s
              <210>      62
              <211>      146
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      Pl as modi um f al c i par um
              <400>      62
              Cy s Gl u Ty r Gl n Al a Val Al a Ser Al a As n Phe Ty r Ser Al a Ly s Ly s
              1                   5                      10                     15
              Val Gl y Gl n Phe Leu Gl y Ar g Ly s Phe Leu Pr o I l e Thr Thr Ty r Phe
                            20                     25                     30
              Leu Val Met Ar g I l e Ser Tr p Thr Hi s Al a Phe Thr Thr Gl y Gl n Hi s
                      35                      40                    45
              Leu I l e Ser Al a Phe Gl y Ser Pr o Ser Ser Thr Al a As n Gl y Ly s Ser
                  50                      55                   60
              As n Al a Ser Gl y Ty r Ly s Ser Pr o Gl u Ser Phe Phe Phe Thr Hi s Gl y
              65                      70                     75                   80
              Leu Al a Al a Gl u Al a Ser Ly s Ty r Leu Phe Phe Ty r Phe Phe Thr As n
                                 85                     90                   95
              Leu Ty r Leu As p Al a Ty r Ly s Ser Phe Pr o Gl y Gl y Phe Gl y Pr o Al a
                           100                     105                    110
              I l e Ly s Gl u Gl n Thr Gl n Hi s Val Gl n Gl u Gl n Thr Ty r Gl u Ar g Ly s
                         115                     120                    125
              Pr o Ser Val Hi s Ser Phe As n Ar g As n Phe Phe Met Gl u Leu Val As n
                   130                  135                    140
              Gl y Phe
              145
                                                             Page 27

                                                                 709937ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              <210>     63
              <211>     438
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Pl as modi um f al c i par um
              <400> 63
              t gt gaat at c aggc t gt ggc aagt gc c aat t t c t ac t c t g c t aaaaaggt aggt c agt t t               60
              c t t ggaagaa aat t t t t ac c c at aac t ac a t at t t t c t ag t aat gagaat t agt t ggac a           120
              c at gc t t t t a c aac t ggac a ac at t t gat t agc gc t t t t g gt t c c c c aag t t c t ac t gc t   180
<removed-apn>
              aat ggt aaaa gt aat gc t ag t ggt t at aaa t c c c c t gaaa gt t t t t t c t t c ac t c ac gga         240
              c t t gc t gc t g aagc at c c aa at at t t at t t t t t t at t t t t t c ac aaat t t at ac c t t gat   300
              gc c t ac aaat c t t t t c c t gg aggat t t ggt c c t gc aat aa aagaac aaac t c aac at gt t            360
              c aagaac aaa c c t ac gaac g c aaac c gt c a gt t c at agt t t t aat agaaa t t t t t t c at g          420
              gaac t c gt aa at ggat t c                                                                             438
              <210>     64
              <211>     186
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Pl as modi um f al c i par um
              <400>     64
              Thr Ser As n Phe Ar g Phe Leu As p Ar g Ty r Ty r Gl y Val Phe As n Ly s
              1                5                      10                     15
              Ty r Phe I l e As n Ty r Al a I l e I l e Ly s Leu Ly s Gl u I l e Thr Ser As p
                             20                         25                       30
              Leu Leu I l e Ly s Ty r Gl u Ar g Gl u Al a Ty r Leu Ser Met Ly s Ly s Ty r
                      35                        40                     45
              Gl y Ty r Leu Gl y Gl u Val I l e Al a Al a Ar g Leu Ser Pr o Ly s As p Ly s
                   50                     55                       60
              I l e Met As n Ty r Val Hi s Gl u Thr As n Gl u As p I l e Met Ser As n Leu
              65                      70                      75                      80
              Ar g Ar g Ty r As p Met Gl u As n Al a Phe Ly s As n Ly s Met Ser Thr Ty r
                                  85                     90                     95
              Val As p As p Phe Al a Phe Phe As p As p Cy s Gl y Ly s As n Gl u Gl n Phe
                            100                   105                      110
              Leu As n Gl u Ar g Cy s As p Ty r Cy s Pr o Val I l e Gl u Gl u Val Gl u Gl u
                       115                      120                      125
              Thr Gl n Leu Phe Thr Thr Thr Gl y As p Ly s As n Thr As n Ly s Thr Thr
                  130                  135                     140
              Gl u I l e Ly s Ly s Gl n Thr Ser Thr Ty r I l e As p Thr Gl u Ly s Met As n
              145                       150                    155                    160
                                                          Page 28

                                                            709937ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Gl u Al a As p Ser Al a As p Ser As p As p Gl u Ly s As p Ser As p Thr Pr o
                                 165                     170                     175
              As p As p Gl u Leu Met I l e Ser Ar g Phe Hi s
                             180                    185
              <210>     65
              <211>     558
<removed-apn>
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Pl as modi um f al c i par um
              <400> 65
              ac aagt aat t t c c gt t t c t t ggat agat at t at ggt gt at t c aat aaat a t t t t at aaac    60
              t at gc c at aa t t aaac t t aa agaaat t ac t agt gat c t t t t aat aaaat a t gaac gt gag     120
              gc t t at t t aa gt at gaaaaa at at ggt t at t t aggt gaag t t at t gc agc t agac t t t c t   180
              c c aaaagat a aaat t at gaa t t at gt gc ac gaaac t aac g aagat at c at gagt aat t t a        240
              agaagat at g at at ggaaaa t gc t t t c aaa aac aaaat gt c aac at at gt agat gat t t t         300
              gc t t t t t t t g at gat t gc gg aaaaaat gaa c aat t t t t aa at gagagat g t gat t at t gt   360
              c c t gt aat t g aagaggt c ga agaaac ac aa t t at t t ac t a c c ac t ggt ga t aaaaac ac t    420
              aat aagac c a c ggaaat aaa aaaac aaac t agt ac at at a t t gat ac t ga aaaaat gaat            480
              gaagc ggat t c t gc t gat ag c gac gat gaa aaggat t c t g at ac t c c t ga c gat gaat t a     540
              at gat at c ac gat t t c ac                                                                   558
              <210>     66
              <211>     308
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Pl as modi um f al c i par um
              <400>     66
              Ser I l e As n Gl u As n Gl n As n Gl u As n As p Thr I l e Ser Gl n As n Val
              1                   5                        10                      15
              As n Gl n Hi s Gl u As n I l e As n Gl n As n Val As n As p As n As p As n I l e
                             20                        25                      30
              Gl u Gl n Leu Ly s Ser Met I l e Gl y As n As p Gl u Leu Hi s Ly s As n Leu
                        35                     40                      45
              Thr I l e Leu Gl u Ly s Leu I l e Leu Gl u Ser Leu Gl u Ly s As p Ly s Leu
                  50                      55                     60
              Ly s Ty r Pr o Leu Leu Ly s Gl n Gl y Thr Gl u Gl n Leu I l e As p I l e Ser
              65                     70                      75                        80
              Ly s Phe As n Ly s Ly s As n I l e Thr As p Al a As p As p Gl u Thr Ty r I l e
                                 85                       90                      95
                                                                 Page 29

                                                   709937ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              I l e Pr o Thr Val Gl n Ser Thr Phe Hi s As p I l e Val Ly s Ty r Gl u Hi s
                             100                  105                      110
              Leu I l e Ly s Gl u Gl n Ser I l e Gl u I l e Ty r As n Ser As p I l e Ser As p
                        115                      120                      125
              Ly s I l e Ly s Ly s Ly s I l e Phe I l e Val Ar g Thr Leu Ly s Thr I l e Ly s
                   130                        135                    140
<removed-apn>
              Leu Met Leu I l e Pr o Leu As n Ser Ty r Ly s Gl n As n As n As p Leu Ly s
              145                    150                    155                     160
              Ser Al a Leu Gl u Gl u Leu As n As n Val Phe Thr As n Ly s Gl u Al a Gl n
                                165                    170                    175
              Gl u Gl u Ser Ser Pr o I l e Gl y As p Hi s Gl y Thr Phe Phe Ar g Ly s Leu
                            180                      185                   190
              Leu Thr Hi s Val Ar g Thr I l e Ly s Gl u As n Gl u As p I l e Gl u As n Ly s
                      195                     200                      205
              Gl y Gl u Thr Leu I l e Leu Gl y As p As n Ly s I l e As p Val Met As n Ser
                   210                    215                       220
              As n As p Phe Phe Phe Thr Thr As n Ser As n Val Ly s Phe Met Gl u As n
              225                   230                   235                   240
              Leu As p As p I l e Thr As n Gl n Ty r Gl y Leu Gl y Leu I l e As n Hi s Leu
                                  245                     250                     255
              Gl y Pr o Hi s Leu I l e Al a Leu Gl y Hi s Phe Thr Val Leu Ly s Leu Al a
                             260                     265                  270
              Leu Ly s As n Ty r Ly s As n Ty r Phe Gl u Al a Ly s Ser I l e Ly s Phe Phe
                       275                      280                    285
              Ser Tr p Gl n Ly s I l e Leu Gl u Phe Ser Met Ser As p Ar g Phe Ly s Val
                  290                      295                  300
              Leu As p Met Met
              305
              <210>    67
              <211>    924
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Pl as modi um f al c i par um
              <400> 67
              t c aat aaat g aaaat c aaaa t gaaaat gat ac c at t agt c aaaat gt c aa c c aac at gaa      60
              aat at t aat c aaaat gt aaa t gat aat gac aat at t gaac aat t aaaat c c at gat t gga      120
              aat gat gaac t ac at aagaa t t t aac aat a t t agaaaaat t aat t t t aga gt c t t t agaa   180
                                                               Page 30

                                                           709937ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              aaagat aaat t aaaat at c c t c t c c t t aaa c aaggaac t g aac aat t gat agat at at c a           240
              aaat t t aat a aaaaaaat at t ac agat gc g gat gat gaaa c gt ac at c at ac c c ac c gt c           300
              c aat c aac gt t t c ac gat at t gt gaaat ac gaac at c t t a t aaaagaac a at c aat agaa           360
              at t t ac aat t c t gat at at c agat aaaat t aagaaaaaaa t t t t t at agt aagaac at t g            420
              aaaac c at aa aat t aat gc t t at ac c at t a aac t c gt ac a aac aaaat aa t gac t t gaaa         480
              t c t gc ac t c g aagaat t aaa t aat gt at t t ac aaac aaag aagc t c aaga ggaaagc agt             540
<removed-apn>
              c c aat aggc g ac c at gggac at t c t t t aga aaat t gt t aa c ac at gt t ag aac aat t aaa        600
              gaaaat gaag at at agaaaa t aaaggagaa ac ac t t at at t aggc gat aa t aaaat agat                   660
              gt aat gaat t c aaac gat t t c t t t t t t ac a ac c aac t c aa at gt aaaat t t at ggaaaat        720
              t t agat gat a t aac aaat c a at at ggat t a ggt t t gat t a at c at c t agg t c c t c at t t a   780
              at agc c t t gg gt c at t t t ac c gt at t aaaa t t agc ac t aa aaaat t ac aa aaac t at t t t     840
              gaagc aaaaa gt at t aaat t t t t t agt t gg c aaaaaat t t t agagt t c t c c at gt c t gat         900
              agat t t aaag t t c t t gat at gat g                                                              924
              <210>     68
              <211>     26
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 68
              gt gc aat at a t c aaagt gt a c at gc a                                                            26
              <210>     69
              <211>     27
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 69
              aagaaaat aa at gc aaaac a agt t aga                                                                27
              <210>     70
              <211>     27
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 70
              at t t ac aaac aaagaagc t c aagagga                                                                27
              <210>     71
              <211>     31
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
                                                                   Page 31

                                                                   709937ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>      Sy nt het i c
              <400> 71
              t t t t c t at at c t t c at t t t c t t t aat t gt t c                         31
              <210>      72
              <211>      182
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>      Sy nt het i c
              <400>      72
              Cy s Gl u Ty r Gl n Al a Val Al a Ser Al a As n Phe Ty r Ser Al a Ly s Ly s
              1                   5                      10                     15
              Val Gl y Gl n Phe I l e Gl y Ar g Ly s Phe Leu Pr o I l e Thr Thr Ty r Phe
                            20                       25                     30
              Leu Val Met Ar g I l e Ser Tr p Thr Hi s Al a I l e Thr Thr Gl y Gl n Hi s
                      35                      40                      45
              Leu I l e Pr o Gl n Leu Thr As p Pr o Gl u Ty r Gl y Gl n Thr Pr o Ly s Gl y
                  50                      55                       60
              Ly s As p Al a Ser Gl y Thr Cy s Pr o Ser Al a Gl y Leu Gl u Ly s Cy s Thr
              65                      70                     75                      80
              As n Ty r Ar g Al a Pr o Gl y Ser Phe Phe Phe Thr Hi s Gl y Leu Al a Al a
                                  85                    90                    95
              Gl u Al a Ser Ly s Ty r Leu Phe Phe Ty r Phe Phe Thr As n Leu Ty r Leu
                            100                   105                   110
              As p Al a Ty r Ly s Ser Phe Pr o Gl y Gl y Phe Gl y Pr o Al a I l e Ly s Gl u
                        115                    120                     125
              Gl n Thr Gl n Hi s Val Gl n Gl u Gl n Thr Ty r Gl u Ar g Ly s Pr o Ser Val
                   130                    135                     140
              Hi s Ser Phe As n Ar g As n Phe Phe Met Gl u Leu Al a As n Gl y Phe Met
              145                    150                   155                    160
              Ty r Al a Phe Cy s Phe Phe Al a I l e Ser Gl n Met Ty r Al a Ty r Phe Gl u
                                 165                    170                     175
              As n I l e As n Phe Ty r I l e
                              180
              <210>      73
              <211>      546
              <212>      DNA
                                                                        Page 32

                                                                  709937ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              <213>       Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>       Sy nt het i c
              <400> 73
              t gt gaat at c aggc ggt agc aagt gc aaat t t c t ac t c t g c t aaaaaggt agggc aat t t                     60
              at t ggaagaa aat t t t t ac c c at aac t ac a t at t t t c t ag t aat gagaat t agt t ggac a               120
              c ac gc t at t a c aac t ggac a ac at t t aat t c c c c aat t aa c agat c c t ga at ac ggt c aa           180
<removed-apn>
              ac t c c t aagg gaaaggat gc t t c t ggaac t t gt c c t agt g c gggt t t aga aaaat gt ac t                 240
              aac t at agag c t c c t ggaag t t t t t t c t t t ac t c ac ggac t t gc t gc t ga agc at c c aaa          300
              t at t t at t t t t t t at t t t t t c ac aaat t t a t ac c t t gat g c c t ac aaat c t t t t c c t gga   360
              ggat t t ggt c c t gc aat aaa agaac aaac t c aac at gt t c aagaac aaac c t ac gaac gc                     420
              aaac c gt c ag t t c at agt t t t aat agaaat t t t t t c at gg aac t t gc aaa t ggt t t c at g            480
              t at gc t t t t t gt t t t t t t gc t at t t c ac aa at gt at gc at at t t t gaaaa t at t aat t t t       540
              t at at t                                                                                                 546
              <210>       74
              <211>       420
              <212>       PRT
              <213>       Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>       Sy nt het i c
              <400>       74
              Leu Ty r Leu Pr o Gl y Ty r Ty r As n Al a Val Gl u Met Ser Phe Thr Gl u
              1                 5                        10                   15
              Gl u Ly s Gl u Phe Ser Ly s Leu Phe Gl u Ser Leu I l e Gl n Cy s I l e Gl u
                             20                   25                      30
              Ly s Cy s Hi s Ser As p Gl n Al a Ar g Gl n I l e Ser Ly s As p Ser As n Leu
                        35                      40                       45
              Leu As n As n I l e Thr Ly s Cy s As p Leu Cy s Ly s Gl y Al a Phe Leu Ty r
                  50                       55                      60
              Al a As n Met Ly s Phe As p Gl u Val Pr o Ser Met Leu Gl n Ly s Phe Ty r
              65                     70                     75                    80
              Val Ty r Leu Thr Ly s Gl y Leu Ly s I l e Gl n Ly s Val Ser Ser Leu I l e
                               85                       90                    95
              Ly s Thr Leu As p I l e Ty r Gl n As p Ty r Ser As n Ty r Leu Ser Hi s As p
                           100                       105                    110
              I l e As n Tr p Ty r Thr Phe Leu Phe Leu Phe Ar g Leu Thr Ser Phe Ly s
                         115                   120                  125
                                                                        Page 33

                                                       709937ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Gl u I l e Al a Ly s Ly s As n Val Al a Gl u Al a Met Ty r Leu As n I l e Ly s
                   130                       135                    140
              As p Gl u As p Thr Phe As n Ly s Thr Val Val Thr As n Ty r Tr p Ty r Pr o
              145                    150                   155                     160
              Ser Pr o I l e Ly s Ly s Ty r Ty r Thr Leu Ty r Val Ar g Ly s Hi s I l e Pr o
                                  165                    170                     175
<removed-apn>
              As n As n Leu Val As p Gl u Leu Gl u Ly s Leu Met Ly s Ser Gl y Thr Leu
                            180                    185                   190
              Gl u Ly s Met Ly s Ly s Ser Leu Thr Phe Leu Val Hi s Val As n Ser Phe
                        195                   200                  205
              Leu Gl n Leu As p Phe Phe Hi s Gl n Leu As n Gl u Pr o Pr o Leu Gl y Leu
                  210                   215                     220
              Pr o Ar g Ser Ty r Pr o Leu Ser Leu Val Leu Gl u Hi s Ly s Phe Ly s Gl u
              225                     230                 235                     240
              Tr p Met As n Ser Ser Pr o Al a Gl y Phe Ty r Phe Ser As n Ty r Gl n As n
                                245                    250                    255
              Pr o Ty r I l e Ar g Ly s As p Leu Hi s As p Ly s Val Leu Ser Gl n Ly s Phe
                              260                     265                   270
              Gl u Pr o Pr o Ly s Met As n Gl n Tr p As n Ly s Val Leu Ly s Ser Leu I l e
                        275                     280                    285
              Gl u Cy s Al a Ty r As p Met Ty r Phe Gl u Gl n Ar g Hi s Val Ly s As n Leu
                   290                     295                     300
              Ty r Ly s Ty r Hi s As n I l e Ty r As n I l e As n As n Ly s Leu Met Leu Met
              305                      310                        315                   320
              Ar g As p Ser I l e As p Leu Ty r Ly s As n As n Phe As p As p Val Leu Phe
                                  325                     330                    335
              Phe Al a As p I l e Phe As n Met Ar g Ly s Ty r Met Thr Al a Thr Pr o Val
                            340                     345                    350
              Ty r Ly s Ly s Val Ly s As p Ar g Val Ty r Hi s Thr Leu Hi s Ser I l e Thr
                        355                     360                   365
              Gl y As n Ser Val As n Phe Ty r Ly s Ty r Gl y I l e I l e Ty r Gl y Phe Ly s
                   370                   375                       380
              Val As n Ly s Gl u I l e Leu Ly s Gl u Val Val As p Gl u Leu Ty r Ser I l e
              385                      390                   395                    400
                                                           Page 34

                                                               709937ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              Ty r As n Phe As n Thr As p I l e Phe Thr As p Thr Ser Phe Leu Gl n Thr
                                 405                    410                  415
              Val Ty r Leu Leu
                           420
              <210>     75
              <211>     1260
              <212>     DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 75
              c t t t at t t ac c aggat at t a c aac gc t gt c gaaat gt c t t t t ac ggaaga aaaagagt t t             60
              t c c aaac t t t t t gaaagc t t aat ac aat gt at t gaaaaat gc c at t c aga c c aagc aagg              120
              c aaat at c aa aagat agt aa t t t ac t t aat aat at aac aa aat gt gat t t gt gt aaagga                180
              gc c t t t t t at at gc t aat at gaaat t c gat gaagt t c c t t c aat gt t gc a aaaat t t t ac         240
              gt at at t t aa c t aaaggt c t c aaaat ac aa aaagt at c at c ac t aat c aa aac gc t agat              300
              at at at c aag at t ac agc aa t t ac t t at c a c at gat at t a at t ggt ac ac at t c c t at t t      360
              t t at t t agac t t ac aagt t t t aaagaaat t gc aaagaaaa at gt t gc t ga agc aat gt at                420
              t t aaat at aa aagat gaaga c ac at t c aac aaaac ggt ag t aac aaac t a t t ggt ac c c a               480
              t c t c c t at aa aaaaat at t a t ac at t at at gt t agaaaac at at ac c aaa t aat t t agt a           540
              gat gaat t gg agaaat t aat gaaaagt ggc ac t t t agaaa aaat gaaaaa at c t c t c ac c                   600
              t t t t t agt ac at gt gaat t c at t t t t ac aa t t agat t t t t t c c at c aat t aaat gaac c a      660
              c c t c t t ggat t ac c t c gat c at at c c at t a t c gt t agt t c t c gaac at aa at t t aaagaa      720
              t ggat gaac a gt t c gc c agc aggt t t c t at t t t t c aaat t at c aaaat c c at at at c aga          780
              aaagat t t gc at gat aaagt t t t at c ac aa aaat t t gaac c ac c t aaaat gaat c agt gg                840
              aac aaagt t t t gaaat c at t aat t gaat gc gc at at gat a t gt at t t t ga ac agagac at               900
              gt t aaaaat t t at at aaat a t c at aac at t t at aat at aa at aac aaat t aat gt t aat g              960
              c gagat t c aa t c gat t t gt a t aaaaac aat t t t gac gat g t gt t at t t t t t gc ggat at a        1020
              t t t aat at ga gaaaat at at gac agc t ac a c c agt at at a aaaaagt aaa agac agagt g                 1080
              t ac c at ac at t gc at agt at t ac aggaaat t c t gt c aat t t t t at aaat a t ggt at t at a         1140
              t at ggat t t a aagt aaac aa agaaat at t a aaagaagt t g t c gat gaat t gt at t c c at c              1200
              t at aat t t t a ac ac c gac at at t t ac ggat ac t t c c t t t t t ac aaac c gt t t at t t at t a   1260
              <210>     76
              <211>     120
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
                                                                     Page 35

                                                              709937ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              <400>     76
              Ser Val As n As n Val Phe Phe Met As n Val Al a As n As n Ty r Ser Ly s
              1                 5                    10                      15
              Leu As n Ly s Gl u Gl u Ar g Gl u I l e Gl u I l e Hi s As n Ser Met Al a Ser
                            20                        25                       30
              Ar g Ty r Ty r Al a Ly s Thr Met Phe Al a Al a Phe Gl n Met Leu Phe Ser
<removed-apn>
                        35                     40                     45
              Thr Met Leu Ser As n As n Val As p As n Leu As p Ly s Al a Ty r Gl y Leu
                  50                    55                     60
              Ser Gl u As n I l e Gl n Val Al a Thr Ser Thr Ser Al a Phe Leu Thr Phe
              65                       70                   75                   80
              Al a Ty r Val Ty r As n Gl y Ser I l e Met As p Ser Val Thr As n Ser Leu
                                 85                      90                    95
              Leu Pr o Pr o Ty r Al a Ly s Ly s Pr o I l e Thr Gl n Leu Ly s Ty r Gl y Ly s
                            100                      105                     110
              Thr Phe Val Phe Ser As n Ty r Phe
                      115                   120
              <210>     77
              <211>     360
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 77
              agt gt gaat a ac gt t t t t t t c at gaat gt t gc t aat aat t at t c c aaat t aaac aaagaa         60
              gaaagagaaa t c gaaat ac a t aat t c c at g gc at c aagat at t at gc aaa aac gat gt t t           120
              gc agc at t t c aaat gt t at t t t c aac aat g t t gagc aac a at gt agat aa t c t t gat aaa      180
              gc at at ggat t aagt gaaaa t at c c aagt a gc aac aagt a c t t c c gc t t t t c t t ac t t t t   240
              gc at at gt at at aac ggaag t at aat ggat agt gt gac t a ac agt t t at t gc c ac c at at         300
              gc gaagaaac c t at aac ac a at t aaaat at ggaaaaac c t t c gt t t t c t c aaac t at t t c        360
              <210>     78
              <211>     1417
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400>     78
              Met Val Ser Phe Phe Ly s Thr Pr o I l e Phe I l e Leu I l e I l e Phe Leu
                                                       Page 36

                                                        709937ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              1                   5                        10                         15
              Ty r Leu As n Gl u Ly s Val I l e Cy s Ser I l e As n Gl u As n Gl n As n Gl u
                            20                       25                       30
              As n As p Thr I l e Ser Gl n As n Val As n Gl n Hi s Gl u As n I l e As n Gl n
                        35                      40                      45
              As n Val As n As p As n As p As n I l e Gl u Gl n Leu Ly s Ser Met I l e Gl y
<removed-apn>
                   50                      55                       60
              As n As p Gl u Leu Hi s Ly s As n Leu Thr I l e Leu Gl u Ly s Leu I l e Leu
              65                      70                      75                      80
              Gl u Ser Leu Gl u Ly s As p Ly s Leu Ly s Ty r Pr o Leu Leu Ly s Gl n Gl y
                                85                      90                     95
              Thr Gl u Gl n Leu I l e As p I l e Ser Ly s Phe As n Ly s Ly s As n I l e Thr
                            100                      105                     110
              As p Al a As p As p Gl u Thr Ty r I l e I l e Pr o Thr Val Gl n Ser Thr Phe
                        115                     120                      125
              Hi s As p I l e Val Ly s Ty r Gl u Hi s Leu I l e Ly s Gl u Gl n Ser I l e Gl u
                   130                      135                      140
              I l e Ty r As n Ser As p I l e Ser As p Ly s I l e Ly s Ly s Ly s I l e Phe I l e
              145                      150                       155                      160
              Val Ar g Thr Leu Ly s Thr I l e Ly s Leu Met Leu I l e Pr o Leu As n Ser
                               165                     170                    175
              Ty r Ly s Gl n As n As n As p Leu Ly s Ser Al a Leu Gl u Gl u Leu As n As n
                             180                     185                    190
              Val Phe Thr As n Ly s Gl u Al a Gl n Gl u Gl u Ser Ser Pr o I l e Gl y As p
                      195                     200                    205
              Hi s Gl y Thr Phe Phe Ar g Ly s Leu Leu Thr Hi s Val Ar g Thr I l e Ly s
                   210                   215                   220
              Gl u As n Gl u As p I l e Gl u As n Ly s Gl y Gl u Thr Leu I l e Leu Gl y As p
              225                       230                      235                    240
              As n Ly s I l e As p Val Met As n Ser As n As p Phe Phe Phe Thr Thr As n
                                   245                   250                  255
              Ser As n Val Ly s Phe Met Gl u As n Leu As p As p I l e Thr As n Gl n Ty r
                           260                    265                     270
              Gl y Leu Gl y Leu I l e As n Hi s Leu Gl y Pr o Hi s Leu I l e Al a Leu Gl y
                                                          Page 37

                                                       709937ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
                       275                      280                        285
              Hi s Phe Thr Val Leu Ly s Leu Al a Leu Ly s As n Ty r Ly s As n Ty r Phe
                   290                  295                    300
              Gl u Al a Ly s Ser I l e Ly s Phe Phe Ser Tr p Gl n Ly s I l e Leu Gl u Phe
              305                      310                   315                      320
              Ser Met Ser As p Ar g Phe Ly s Val Leu As p Met Met Cy s As n Hi s Gl u
<removed-apn>
                               325                   330                    335
              Ser Val Ty r Ty r Ser Gl u Ly s Ly s Ar g Ar g Ly s Thr Ty r Leu Ly s Val
                           340                     345                     350
              As p Ar g Ser Ser Thr Ser Met Gl u Cy s As n I l e Leu Gl u Ty r Leu Leu
                        355                 360                      365
              Hi s Ty r Phe As n Ly s Ty r Gl n Leu Gl u I l e I l e Ly s Thr Thr Gl n As p
                   370                     375                       380
              Thr As p Phe As p Leu Hi s Gl y Met Met Gl u Hi s Ly s Ty r I l e Ly s As p
              385                   390                    395                       400
              Ty r Phe Phe Ser Phe Met Cy s As n As p Pr o Ly s Gl u Cy s I l e I l e Ty r
                               405                    410                       415
              Hi s Thr As n Gl n Phe Ly s Ly s Gl u Al a As n Gl u Gl u As n Thr Phe Pr o
                            420                     425                      430
              Gl u Gl n Gl u Gl u Pr o As n Ar g Gl u I l e Ser Al a Ty r As n Leu Ty r Leu
                        435                      440                      445
              As n Ty r Ty r Ty r Phe Met Ly s Ar g Ty r Ser Ser Ty r Gl y Val Ly s Ly s
                   450                    455                    460
              Thr Leu Ty r Val Hi s Leu Leu As n Leu Thr Gl y Leu Leu As n Ty r As p
              465                   470                  475                    480
              Thr Ar g Ser Ty r Val Thr Ser Leu Ty r Leu Pr o Gl y Ty r Ty r As n Al a
                                485                  490                     495
              Val Gl u Met Ser Phe Thr Gl u Gl u Ly s Gl u Phe Ser Ly s Leu Phe Gl u
                           500                   505                    510
              Ser Leu I l e Gl n Cy s I l e Gl u Ly s Cy s Hi s Ser As p Gl n Al a Ar g Gl n
                      515                        520                     525
              I l e Ser Ly s As p Ser As n Leu Leu As n As p I l e Thr Ly s Cy s As p Leu
                    530                    535                     540
              Cy s Ly s Gl y Al a Phe Leu Ty r Ser As n Met Ly s Phe As p Gl u Val Pr o
                                                         Page 38

                                                       709937ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              545                      550                    555                        560
              Ser Met Leu Gl n Ly s Phe Ty r Leu Ty r Leu Thr Ly s Gl y Leu Ly s I l e
                               565                    570                   575
              Gl n Ly s Val Ser Ser Leu I l e Ly s Thr Leu As p I l e Ty r Gl n As p Ty r
                            580                    585                     590
              Ser As n Phe Leu Ser Hi s As p I l e As n Tr p Ty r Thr Phe Leu Phe Leu
<removed-apn>
                       595                   600                      605
              Phe Ar g Leu Thr Ser Phe Ly s Gl u I l e Ser Ly s Ly s As n Val Al a Gl u
                  610                  615                      620
              Al a Met Ty r Leu As n I l e Ly s As p Gl u As p Thr Phe As n Ly s Thr I l e
              625                    630                       635                   640
              Val Thr As n Ty r Tr p Ty r Pr o Ser Pr o I l e Ly s Ly s Ty r Ty r Thr Leu
                                645                     650                       655
              Ty r Val Ar g Ly s Hi s I l e Pr o As n As n Leu Val As p Gl u Leu Gl u Ly s
                            660                       665                    670
              Leu Met Ly s Ser Gl y Thr Leu Gl u Ly s Met Ly s Ly s Ser Leu Thr Phe
                      675                   680                     685
              Leu Val Hi s Val As n Ser Phe Leu Gl n Leu As p Phe Phe Hi s Gl n Leu
                  690                   695                   700
              As n Gl u Pr o Pr o Leu Gl y Leu Pr o Ar g Ser Ty r Pr o Leu Ser Leu Val
              705                     710                    715                   720
              Leu Gl u Hi s Ly s Phe Ly s Gl u Tr p Met As p Ser Ser Pr o Al a Gl y Phe
                                 725                    730                    735
              Ty r Phe Ser As n Ty r Gl n As n Pr o Ty r I l e Ar g Ly s As p Leu Hi s As p
                           740                      745                       750
              Ly s Val Leu Ser Gl n Ly s Phe Gl u Pr o Pr o Ly s Met As n Gl n Tr p As n
                       755                   760                     765
              Ly s Val Leu Ly s Ser Leu I l e Gl u Cy s Al a Ty r As p Met Ty r Phe Gl u
                   770                  775                       780
              Gl n Ar g Hi s Val Ly s As n Leu Ty r Ly s Ty r Hi s As n I l e Ty r As n I l e
              785                     790                     795                       800
              As n As n Ly s Leu Met Leu Met Ar g As p Ser I l e As p Leu Ty r Ly s Thr
                                 805                   810                     815
              Hi s Phe As p As p Val Leu Phe Phe Al a As p I l e Phe As n Met Ar g Ly s
                                                       Page 39

                                                       709937ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
                             820                      825                     830
              Ty r Met Thr Al a Thr Pr o Val Ty r Ly s Ly s Val Ly s As p Ar g Val Ty r
                       835                   840                     845
              Hi s Thr Leu Hi s Ser I l e Thr Gl y As n Ser Val As n Phe Ty r Ly s Ty r
                   850                    855                   860
              Gl y I l e I l e Ty r Gl y Phe Ly s Val As n Ly s Gl u I l e Leu Ly s Gl u Val
<removed-apn>
              865                        870                    875                      880
              Val As p Gl u Leu Ty r Ser I l e Ty r As n Phe As n Thr As p I l e Phe Thr
                                885                      890                     895
              As p Thr Ser Phe Leu Gl n Thr Val Ty r Leu Leu Phe Ar g Ar g I l e Gl u
                           900                  905                   910
              Gl u Thr Ty r Ar g Thr Gl n Ar g Ar g As p As p Ly s I l e Ser Val As n As n
                       915                     920                       925
              Val Phe Phe Met As n Val Al a As n As n Ty r Ser Ly s Leu As n Ly s Gl u
                  930                  935                     940
              Gl u Ar g Gl u I l e Gl u I l e Hi s As n Ser Met Al a Ser Ar g Ty r Ty r Al a
              945                       950                     955                     960
              Ly s Thr Met Phe Al a Al a Phe Gl n Met Leu Phe Ser Thr Met Leu Ser
                               965                    970                 975
              As n As n Val As p As n Leu As p Ly s Al a Ty r Gl y Leu Ser Gl u As n I l e
                            980                     985                    990
              Gl n Val Al a Thr Ser Thr Ser Al a Phe Leu Thr Phe Al a Ty r Val Ty r
                       995                  1000                 1005
              As n Gl y Ser I l e Met As p Ser Val Thr As n Ser Leu Leu Pr o Pr o
                   1010                    1015                 1020
              Ty r Al a Ly s Ly s Pr o I l e Thr Gl n Leu Ly s Ty r Gl y Ly s Thr Phe
                   1025                      1030                   1035
              Val Phe Ser As n Ty r Phe Met  Leu Al a Ser Ly s Met  Ty r As p Met
                  1040                  1045                   1050
              Leu As n Ty r Ly s As n Leu Ser Leu Leu Cy s Gl u Ty r Gl n Al a Val
                  1055                    1060                  1065
              Al a Ser Al a As n Phe Ty r Ser Al a Ly s Ly s Val Gl y Gl n Phe I l e
                   1070                   1075                   1080
              Gl y Ar g   Ly s Phe Leu Pr o I l e   Thr Thr Ty r Phe Leu     Val Met Ar g
                                                           Page 40

                                                       709937ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
                   1085                     1090                      1095
              I l e Ser Tr p Thr Hi s Al a Phe Thr Thr Gl y Gl n Hi s Leu I l e Al a
                    1100                   1105                  1110
              Al a Phe As n Pr o Pr o Thr Ser Thr Thr As p Gl y Ly s Cy s Ser Al a
                   1115                   1120                  1125
              Pr o Ser Ty r Ly s Ser Pr o Gl u Ser Phe Phe Phe Thr Hi s Gl y Leu
<removed-apn>
                   1130                   1135                 1140
              Al a Al a Gl u Al a Ser Ly s Ty r Leu Phe Phe Ty r Phe Phe Thr As n
                   1145                    1150                  1155
              Leu Ty r Leu As p Al a Ty r Ly s Ser Phe Pr o Gl y Gl y Phe Gl y Pr o
                  1160                    1165                   1170
              Al a I l e Ly s Gl u Gl n Thr Gl n Hi s Val Gl n Gl u Gl n Thr Ty r Gl u
                   1175                     1180                    1185
              Ar g Ly s Pr o Ser Val Hi s Ser Phe As n Ar g As n Phe Phe Met Gl u
                   1190                   1195                   1200
              Leu Val  As n Gl y Phe Met Ty r Al a Phe Cy s Phe Phe Al a I l e Ser
                  1205                   1210                   1215
              Gl n Met  Ty r Al a Ty r Phe Gl u As n I l e As n Phe Ty r I l e Thr Ser
                   1220                    1225                     1230
              As n Phe Ar g Phe Leu As p Ar g Ty r Ty r Gl y Val Phe As n Ly s Ty r
                   1235                  1240                    1245
              Phe I l e As n Ty r Al a I l e I l e Ly s Leu Ly s Gl u I l e Thr Ser As p
                  1250                       1255                     1260
              Leu Leu I l e Ly s Ty r Gl u Ar g Gl u Al a Ty r Leu As n Met Ly s Ly s
                  1265                     1270                    1275
              Ty r Gl y Ty r Leu Gl y Gl u Val  I l e Al a Al a Ar g Leu Ser Pr o Ly s
                   1280                    1285                      1290
              As p Ly s I l e Met As n Ty r Leu Hi s Gl u Thr As n As p As p Val Met
                   1295                     1300                   1305
              Ser As n Leu Ar g Ar g Ty r As p Met Gl u As n Al a Phe Ly s As n Ly s
                  1310                    1315                    1320
              Met Val  Thr Ty r Val As p As p Phe Al a Phe Phe As p As p Cy s Gl y
                  1325                   1330                  1335
              Ly s As n   Gl u Gl n Phe Leu As n   Gl u Ar g Cy s As p Ty r   Cy s Pr o Val
                                                            Page 41

                                                                 709937ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
                    1340                            1345                        1350
              I l e Gl u Gl u Val Gl u Gl u Thr Gl u Leu Phe Thr Thr Thr Gl y As p
                    1355                    1360                 1365
              Ly s As n Thr As n Gl u Thr Thr Gl u I l e Ly s Ly s Gl n Thr Ser Thr
                   1370                   1375                     1380
              Ty r I l e As p Thr Gl u Ly s Met  As n Gl u Al a As p Ser Al a As p Ser
<removed-apn>
                   1385                     1390                     1395
              As p As p Gl u Ly s As p Phe As p Thr Pr o As p As n Gl u Leu Met I l e
                   1400                    1405                    1410
              Al a Ar g Phe Hi s
                   1415
              <210>     79
              <211>     4251
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 79
              at ggt t t c at t t t t t aaaac t c c aat c t t t at t t t aat t a t c t t t t t at a c t t aaat gaa     60
              aaggt aat at gt t c aat aaa t gaaaat c aa aat gaaaat g at ac c at t ag t c aaaat gt c                   120
              aac c aac at g aaaat at t aa t c aaaat gt a aat gat aat g ac aat at t ga ac aat t aaaa                  180
              t c c at gat t g gaaat gat ga ac t ac at aag aat t t aac aa t at t agaaaa at t aat t t t a              240
              gagt c t t t ag aaaaagat aa at t aaaat at c c t c t c c t t a aac aaggaac t gaac aat t g                300
              at agat at at c aaaat t t aa t aaaaaaaat at t ac agat g c ggat gat ga aac gt ac at c                    360
              at ac c c ac c g t c c aat c aac gt t t c ac gat at t gt gaaat ac gaac at c t t at aaaagaa              420
              c aat c aat ag aaat t t ac aa t t c t gat at a t c agat aaaa t t aagaaaaa aat t t t t at a              480
              gt aagaac at t gaaaac c at aaaat t aat g c t t at ac c at t aaac t c gt a c aaac aaaat                  540
              aat gac t t ga aat c t gc ac t c gaagaat t a aat aat gt at t t ac aaac aa agaagc t c aa                 600
              gaggaaagc a gt c c aat agg c gac c at ggg ac at t c t t t a gaaaat t gt t aac ac at gt t                660
              agaac aat t a aagaaaat ga agat at agaa aat aaaggag aaac ac t t at at t aggc gat                         720
              aat aaaat ag at gt aat gaa t t c aaac gat t t c t t t t t t a c aac c aac t c aaat gt aaaa              780
              t t t at ggaaa at t t agat ga t at aac aaat c aat at ggat t aggt t t gat t aat c at c t a               840
              ggt c c t c at t t aat agc at t gggt c at t t t ac c gt at t aa aat t agc ac t aaaaaat t ac             900
              aaaaac t at t t t gaagc aaa aagt at t aaa t t t t t t agt t ggc aaaaaat t t t agagt t c                 960
              t c c at gt c c g at agat t t aa ggt t c t t gat at gat gt gt a ac c at gaat c t gt at at t at         1020
              t c c gaaaaaa aac gt agaaa aac at at t t a aaagt t gac a gat c aagc ac at c gat ggaa                   1080
                                                                      Page 42

                                                            709937ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              t gt aat at at t ggaat at t t at t ac at t at t t t aat aaat ac c aac t aga aat aat t aaa              1140
              ac t ac ac aag at ac t gat t t t gac t t ac at ggt at gat gg aac at aaat a t at aaaagat                1200
              t at t t c t t t t c at t t at gt g t aat gat c c t aaggaat gt a t t at t t at c a t ac gaat c aa      1260
              t t t aaaaaag aagc c aac ga agaaaac ac a t t t c c t gaac aagaagaac c t aat c gt gaa                   1320
              at aagt gc at at aat t t at a t t t aaat t at t ac t at t t c a t gaaac gt t a t agt t c at at         1380
              ggagt aaaaa aaac at t at a t gt t c at t t a t t aaat t t aa c t ggac t t t t aaat t at gat            1440
<removed-apn>
              ac aagat c t t at gt gac at c ac t t t at t t a c c aggat at t ac aac gc t gt c gaaat gt c t           1500
              t t t ac ggaag aaaaagagt t t t c c aaac t t t t t gaaagc t t aat ac aat g t at t gaaaaa                1560
              t gc c at t c ag ac c aagc aag gc aaat at c a aaagat agt a at t t ac t t aa t gat at aac a             1620
              aaat gt gat t t gt gt aaagg agc at t c t t a t at t c t aac a t gaaat t c ga t gaagt t c c t           1680
              t c aat gt t gc aaaaat t t t a c t t at at t t a ac t aaaggt c t c aaaat ac a aaaagt at c a            1740
              t c ac t aat c a aaac gc t aga t at at at c aa gat t ac agt a at t t t t t at c ac at gat at t         1800
              aat t ggt ac a c at t c c t at t t t t at t t aga c t t ac aagt t t t aaagaaat t t c aaagaaa           1860
              aat gt t gc t g aagc aat gt a t t t aaat at a aaagat gaag at ac gt t c aa c aaaac gat a                1920
              gt aac aaac t at t ggt ac c c at c t c c t at a aaaaaat at t at ac at t at a c gt t agaaaa             1980
              c ac at ac c aa at aat t t agt agat gaat t g gagaaat t aa t gaaaagt gg c ac t t t agaa                 2040
              aaaat gaaaa aat c t c t c ac c t t t t t agt a c at gt gaat t c at t t t t ac a at t agat t t t        2100
              t t t c at c aac t t aat gaac c ac c t c t t gga t t ac c t c gat c at at c c t t t at c c t t agt t   2160
              c t t gaac at a aat t t aaaga at ggat ggac agt t c gc c c g c c ggat t t t a t t t t t c aaat          2220
              t at c aaaat c c at at at c ag aaaagat t t g c at gat aaag t t t t at c ac a aaaat t t gaa             2280
              c c ac c t aaaa t gaat c agt g gaac aaagt t t t gaagt c at t aat t gaat g c gc at at gat               2340
              at gt at t t t g aac agagac a t gt t aaaaat t t at at aaat at c at aac at t t at aat at a              2400
              aat aac aaat t aat gt t aat gagagat t c a at t gat t t at at aaaac c c a t t t t gac gac               2460
              gt at t at t t t t t gc ggat at at t t aat at g agaaaat at a t gac agc t ac ac c agt at at             2520
              aaaaaagt aa aagac agagt gt ac c at ac a t t gc at agt a t t ac aggaaa t t c t gt c aat                 2580
              t t t t at aaat at ggt at t at at at ggat t t aaagt aaac a aagaaat at t aaaagaagt t                    2640
              gt c gat gaat t gt at t c c at c t at aat t t t aac ac c gac a t at t t ac gga t ac t t c c t t t      2700
              t t ac aaac c g t t t at t t at t at t t agaaga at agaagaaa c t t at aggac c c aaagaaga                2760
              gat gac aaaa t aagt gt gaa t aac gt t t t t t t c at gaat g t t gc t aat aa t t at t c c aaa           2820
              t t aaac aaag aagaaagaga aat c gaaat a c at aat t c c a t ggc at c aag at at t at gc a                 2880
              aaaac gat gt t t gc agc at t t c aaat gt t a t t t t c aac aa t gt t gagc aa c aat gt agat             2940
              aat c t t gat a aagc at at gg at t aagt gaa aat at c c aag t agc aac aag t ac t t c c gc t             3000
              t t t c t t ac t t t t gc at at gt at at aac gga agt at aat gg at agt gt gac t aac agt t t a           3060
              t t gc c ac c at at gc gaagaa ac c t at aac a c aat t aaaat at ggaaaaac c t t c gt t t t c             3120
                                                                      Page 43

                                                             709937ST25. t x t
<removed-date>
              t c aaac t at t t c at gc t agc at c c aaaat g t at gat at gt t aaat t at aa aaat t t aagt           3180
              c t t t t at gt g aat at c aggc t gt ggc aagt gc c aat t t c t ac t c t gc t aa aaaggt aggt          3240
              c agt t t at t g gaagaaaat t t t t ac c c at a ac t ac at at t t t c t agt aat gagaat t agt          3300
              t ggac ac at g c t t t t ac aac t ggac aac at t t gat t gc c g c t t t t aat c c c c c aac t t c t   3360
              ac t ac t gat g gt aaat gt ag t gc t c c t agt t at aaat c c c c t gaaagt t t t t t c t t t ac t     3420
              c ac ggac t t g c t gc t gaagc at c c aaat at t t at t t t t t t at t t t t t c ac aaat t t at ac    3480
<removed-apn>
              c t t gat gc c t ac aaat c t t t t c c t ggagga t t t ggt c c t g c aat aaaaga ac aaac t c aa        3540
              c at gt t c aag aac aaac gt a t gaac gc aaa c c at c agt t c at agt t t t aa t agaaat t t t          3600
              t t c at ggaac t c gt aaat gg at t c at gt at gc c t t t t gt t t t t t t gc t at t t c ac aaat g    3660
              t at gc at at t t t gaaaat at t aat t t t t at at t ac aagt a at t t c c gt t t c t t ggat aga       3720
              t at t at ggt g t at t c aat aa at at t t t at a aac t at gc c a t aat t aaac t t aaagaaat t         3780
              ac t agt gat c t t t t aat aaa at at gaac gt gaggc t t at t t aaat at gaa aaaat at ggt               3840
              t at t t aggt g aagt t at t gc agc t agac t t t c t c c t aaag at aaaat t at gaat t at t t g         3900
              c ac gaaac t a ac gac gat gt c at gagt aat t t aagaagat at gat at gga aaat gc t t t c                3960
              aaaaac aaaa t ggt t ac t t a t gt ggat gac t t t gc t t t t t t t gat gat t g t ggc aaaaat           4020
              gaac aat t t t t aaat gaaag at gt gat t at t gt c c t gt aa t t gaagaggt ggaagaaac a                 4080
              gaat t at t t a c t ac c ac t gg t gat aaaaac ac t aat gaga c c ac ggaaat aaaaaaac aa                4140
              ac t agt ac at at at t gat ac t gaaaaaat g aat gaggc gg at t c c gc t ga t agc gac gat               4200
              gaaaaggat t t t gat ac t c c t gac aat gaa t t aat gat c g c ac gat t t c a t                        4251
                                                                     Page 44

