Abstract
The present invention relates to a system of managing a parking space,
comprising: a ) a server for managing and controlling the access of vehicles
into the parking space; b) at least one beacon associated with a passage
gate at a passage point for transmitting a wireless signal(s); c) an access
control module adapted to open/close said passage gate and accordingly to
notify  the state    of said passage    gate;  and d)        a   user terminal
communication device adapted to receive and identify said wireless
signals, and accordingly to notify said server and/or said access control
module upon the identification of said at least one beacon, thereby
enabling said server and/or said access control module to perform parking
related tasks.
                                                    LJA-"te\   ODAC70OA Al I\ I O72AAO7

                                  1/2
                                                       100
                                          5I 6  Bluetooth Beacon
                             3
                                                 Vehicle Detector
                             7IN
                             8                               OUT
                     Network      1            Bluetooth Beacon
                       11
                                       10
                                 Fig. 1
                  P107394.AU
97300811 (GHMatters)

                                     -1
     PARKING SPACE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AND METHOD
Field of the Invention
The present invention relates to the field of parking space management
systems. More particularly, the invention relates to a method and system
of providing automatic access control and usage of a parking space.
Background of the invention
Conventional parking lot payment methods typically involve a kiosk that
produces tickets that need to be manually paid by the car's driver or other
parking lot user. Moreover, usually the parking lot user needs to keep a
parking lot ticket, and to pay it at the exit from the parking lot. These
payment systems can be inconvenient for users parking in the lot due to
reasons, such as lost tickets, time consumed, etc. Moreover conventional
systems are highly expensive and therefore unaffordable to many parking
lots. Therefore, there is a need for improved parking lot management
systems that addresses some or all of the drawbacks of conventional
systems.
It is an object of the present invention to provide a system which is
capable of automatically identifying a driver attempting to enter/exit a
parking space.
It is another object of the present invention to provide a system which is
capable of automatically charging a parking space user for the parking
time.
Other objects and advantages of the invention will become apparent as the
description proceeds.
                                                   GHMatters) P107394.AU) 1 9730097

                                      -2
Summary of the Invention
The present invention relates to a system of managing a parking space,
comprising:
a) a parking space management server for managing and controlling the
   access of vehicles into the parking space;
b) at least one beacon associated with a passage gate at a passage point
   for transmitting a wireless signal(s);
c) an access control module adapted to open/close said passage gate and
   to notify the current state of said gate, whether said gate is in an open
   or close state; and
d) a user terminal communication device adapted to receive and identify
   said wireless signals, and accordingly to notify said parking space
   management server and/or said access control module upon the
   identification of said at least one beacon, thereby enabling said parking
   space management server and/or said access control module to perform
   parking related tasks, wherein         said tasks include opening the
   corresponding passage gate and/or recording the actual passage of the
   vehicle through said passage point.
According to an embodiment of the invention, the system further
comprises a gate sensor adapted to detect the status of the gate, wherein
the detection of an open gate triggers the transmitting of a wireless
signal(s) of at least one beacon associated with the passage gate that
corresponds to the passage point.
According to an embodiment of the invention, at least one of the vehicle
detection sensor is adapted to detect the actual passage of a vehicle
through the passage point after and/or during crossing said passage gate,
wherein said detection triggers the transmitting of a wireless signal by at
least one beacon associated with the passage gate that corresponds to the
said passage point.
                                                     GHMatters) P107394.AU) 1 9730097

                                     -3
According    to an embodiment       of the invention, the       user terminal
communication device is adapted to approximate the distance between the
user terminal communication device and the at least one of the beacons
location, based on the wireless signal strength of said beacon(s).
According to an embodiment of the present invention, at least one of the
vehicle detection sensors is a pre-passage point vehicle detection sensor
adapted to detect the presence of a vehicle at a specific passage point of
the parking space prior to the passage of said point, wherein the detection
of a vehicle at said specific passage point triggers the transmitting of a
first wireless signal by a first beacon associated with an entrance gate
that corresponds to said entrance point. According to an embodiment of
the invention, the notification of the first beacon is used by the server to
provide instruction to the access control module to open the corresponding
passage gate and thereby to allow the vehicle to enter/exit the parking
space.
According to an embodiment of the present invention, at least one of the
vehicle detection sensors is a meta-passage point vehicle detection sensor
adapted to detect the presence of a vehicle after crossing said passage
gate, wherein the detection of a vehicle by said meta-passage vehicle
detection sensor triggers the transmitting of a second wireless signal by a
second beacon. According to an embodiment of the invention, the
notification of the second beacon is used by the server to verify the actual
passage of the vehicle through the passage point.
According to an embodiment of the invention, the access control module
closes the gate whenever the exterior vehicle detection sensor detects no
vehicle for a predetermined period of time.
                                                    GHMatters) P107394.AU) 1 9730097

                                      -4
According to an embodiment of the invention, the instruction, to the access
control module, to open the corresponding entrance gate are provided by
the server via the user terminal communication device.
According to an embodiment of the present invention, the notification of
the at least one beacon as identified by the user terminal communication
device   are   communicated      to  the  server  via   said     user     terminal
communication device.
According to an embodiment of the present invention, the notification of
the at least one beacon as identified by the user terminal communication
device are provided to the server via the access control module.
According to an embodiment of the present invention, the notification of
the at least one beacon are identified by the access control module and are
provided to the server via the access control module.
According to an embodiment of the present invention, the system further
comprises     registration   data   representing   users       and/or      vehicles
registered/allowed to park in the parking space, thereby enabling said
registered/allowed    users/vehicles to automatically access the parking
space upon detection of user terminal communication devices associated
with said registered/allowed users/vehicles. For example, the registration
data can be stored in the access control module or in a database/memory
associated with said access control module. According to an embodiment of
the present invention, the database/memory associated with the access
control module is part of a local computer system adapted to collect data
from a plurality of entrance gate associated with the parking space. In
some embodiments, the registration data is stored in the server.
According to an embodiment of the present invention, at least one of the
beacons includes a receiver adapted to receive remote control signals from
                                                     GHMatters) P107394.AU) 1 9730097

                                      -5
the user terminal communication device or from a car dedicated beacon
located in the vehicle. The car dedicated beacon can be powered by the
vehicle's power source and/or by an internal power sources such as a
battery.
According to an embodiment of the invention, the car dedicated beacon is
adapted to communicate with the user terminal communication device,
thereby enabling to detect whether a driver is being presence in the
vehicle and/or whether the driver is being present a in a vehicle while
engine of said vehicle is working.
According to an embodiment of the present invention, the car dedicated
beacon is adapted to communicate with the at least one beacon in order to
notify the server to provide instruction to open the gate, thereby enabling
the vehicle to enter/exit the parking space and enabling the server to
provide the parking duration of said vehicle in the parking space.
According to an embodiment of the present invention, the server adapted
to keep count and manage the number of the entering and exiting vehicles
to/from   the   parking   space,   thereby enabling   to provide        real-time
information about the currently available parking spots in the parking
space and accordingly to disable access to the parking space when it
becomes fully occupied. According to an embodiment of the present
invention, the server may notify the user terminal communication device
whenever a specific parking space is fully occupied.
According to an embodiment of the present invention, the user terminal
communication      device   is  selected  from  the  group       consisting      of:
smartphone, media center installed in the vehicle, wearable computing
device, tablet, laptop, portable computer.
                                                    GHMatters) P107394.AU) 1 9730097

                                      -6
According to an embodiment of the present invention, the at least one of
the beacon includes an activation switch, thereby enabling a human
operator to active said beacon. For example, the activation switch is
configured by hardware (e.g., push button), software or any combination
thereof (e.g., virtual button on a touch screen).
According to an embodiment of the present invention, the system further
comprises a billing module for enabling to automatically charge users of
the terminal communication device according to data gathered from the at
least one beacon, wherein said data reflects the presence duration of a
user's vehicle in the parking space.
In another aspect, the present invention relates to a method of managing
a parking space, comprising:
a) Providing a parking space management server for managing and
   controlling the access of vehicles into the parking space;
b) Providing at least one vehicle detection sensor adapted to detect the
   presence of a vehicle at a specific passage point of the parking space,
   wherein the detection of a vehicle at said specific passage point triggers
   the transmitting of wireless signal(s) by at least one beacon associated
   with a passage gate at said passage point;
c) Providing an access control module adapted to open/close said passage
   gate and to notify the current state of said gate, whether said gate is in
   an open or close state;
d) Providing a user terminal communication device adapted to receive
   and identify said wireless signals, and accordingly to notify said
   parking space management server and/or said access control module
   upon the identification of said at least one beacon, thereby enabling
    said parking space management server and/or said access control
   module to perform parking related tasks, wherein said tasks include
   opening the corresponding passage gate and/or recording the actual
   passage of the vehicle trough said passage point.
                                                     GHMatters) P107394.AU) 1 9730097

                                      -7
According to an embodiment of the present invention, the method further
comprises detecting the status of the gate, and whenever said gate is open
transmitting a wireless signal(s) of at least one beacon associated with the
passage gate that corresponds to the passage point.
According to an embodiment of the present invention, at least one of the
vehicle detection sensor is used for detecting the actual passage of a
vehicle through the passage point after and/or during crossing said
passage gate, wherein said detection triggers the transmitting of a
wireless signal by at least one beacon associated with the passage gate
that corresponds to the said passage point.
According to an embodiment of the present invention, the method further
comprises    approximating     the   distance between     the     user terminal
communication device and the at least one of the beacons location, based
on the wireless signal strength of said beacon(s).
According to an embodiment of the present invention, the method further
comprises     enabling    registered/allowed    users   and/or       vehicles       to
automatically access the parking space upon detection of user terminal
communication       devices    associated    with   said     registered/allowed
users/vehicles.
According to an embodiment of the present invention, the method further
comprises enabling at least one beacon to receive remote control signals
from the user terminal communication device or from a car dedicated
beacon located in the vehicle.
According to an embodiment of the present invention, the method further
comprises counting and managing the number of the entering and exiting
vehicles to/from the parking space, thereby enabling to provide real-time
information about the currently available parking spots in the parking
                                                      GHMatters) P107394.AU) 1 9730097

                                      -8
space and accordingly to disable access to the parking space when it
becomes fully occupied.
According to an embodiment of the present invention, the method further
comprises managing parking reservations, thereby enabling drivers/users
to book parking in advance in a specific parking space via the user
terminal communication device or other enabled user interface. The
management of the parking includes dynamically updating the parking
pricing according to the current occupation status or based on statistical
model according to known rush hours, thereby enabling to reduce or
increase the pricing of the parking.
According to an embodiment of the present invention, the method further
comprises automatically charging users of the terminal communication
device according to data gathered from the at least one beacon, wherein
said data reflects the presence duration of a user's vehicle in the parking
space.
In yet another aspect, the present invention relates to an access control
module,   comprising:    a)  a   communication       module     for    enabling      to
communicate with a parking space management server; and b) a short
range    communication      unit    (e.g.,    Bluetooth,   NFC         (near      field
communication), high or low frequency sound wave, magnetic field, RF,
Wi-Fi,   any   combination     thereof,    etc.) for  locally     and     wirelessly
communicating with a user terminal communication device such as a
smartphone. For example, the short range communication unit is a beacon
such as the iBeacon which is an implementation of Bluetooth low-energy
(BLE) wireless technology by Apple Inc.
According to an embodiment of the invention, the access control module
further comprises a mechanical and/or electrical Radio Frequency (RF)
remote control adapter.
                                                       GHMatters) P107394.AU) 1 9730097

                                      -9
According to an embodiment of the invention, the access control module is
powered either by a battery or an external power source.
Brief Description of the Drawings
In the drawings:
    -  Fig. 1 schematically illustrates a parking space management
       system, according to an embodiment of the invention; and
    -   Fig. 2 schematically illustrates an access control module located at
       the parking space, according to an embodiment of the present
       invention.
Detailed Description of the Invention
Throughout this description the term "beacon" is used to indicate a short
range wireless communication unit that can communicate (Receive and
transmit wireless signals) with other devices, in particular to notify
nearby devices of their presence, in addition a beacon may process data,
perform computational task, etc. (depending on the configuration of each
specific beacon). The beacon enables a smartphone (e.g., via a mobile app)
or other user terminal communication device to perform actions when in
close proximity to a beacon. For example, the beacons may include small,
cheap Bluetooth and/or WiFi transmitters, and an application installed on
a smartphone (i.e., a mobile app) listens out for signals transmitted by
these beacons and respond accordingly when the smartphone comes into
range. In other words, mobile apps may listen for signals from beacons in
the physical world and react accordingly. In particular, beacons allow
mobile apps to understand their position on a micro-local scale, and
accordingly to deliver notifications based on location.
                                                     GHMatters) P107394.AU) 1 9730097

                                    - 10
Throughout this description the term "parking space" is used to indicate a
single/private parking spot, plurality of parking spots in a parking lot, or
other parking arrangements.
Reference will now be made to several embodiments of the present
invention, examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying figures.
Wherever practicable similar or like reference numbers may be used in the
figures and may indicate similar or like functionality. The figures depict
embodiments of the present invention for purposes of illustration only.
One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following description
that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated
herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the
invention described herein.
Fig. 1 schematically illustrates a parking space management system 100,
according to an embodiment of the invention. System 100 comprises a
parking space management server 11, a parking space pre-passage vehicle
detection sensor 1 and a corresponding beacon 2, a parking space meta
passage vehicle detection sensor 5 and a corresponding beacon 6, a
controllable gate/barrier 3 and a corresponding beacon 12, an access
control module 7 and a user terminal communication device 9.
Beacons 2, 6 and 12 are configured to transmit a wireless signal(s) (e.g.,
Bluetooth, NFC, high or low frequency sound wave, magnetic field, RF,
Wi-Fi,   any combination thereof etc.)       with specific     data.    In some
embodiments the signal(s) of each beacon may change over time and are
synchronized offline with server 11 by a preset shared key and/or method.
In some embodiments the signal(s) of each beacon may change over time
and are synchronized online with server 11 via access control module 7
and/or via terminal communication device 9.
                                                    GHMatters) P107394.AU) 1 9730097

                                     - 11
In some embodiments sensor 1 enables to detect the presence of a vehicle
at a specific passage point of a parking space, wherein the detection of the
vehicle at the specific passage point triggers the transmitting of a first
wireless signal(s) by the corresponding beacon 2 (e.g., Bluetooth, NFC,
high or low frequency sound wave, magnetic field, RF, Wi-Fi, any
combination thereof etc.). Beacon 2 is associated with gate 3 that
corresponds to at this specific passage point. Sensor 5 enables to detect the
passage of a vehicle 10 through the passage point after crossing the gate 3.
The detection of a vehicle by sensor 5 triggers the transmitting of a second
wireless signal(s) by the corresponding beacon 6.
The sensors 1 and 5 can be RFID reader, IR sensors, mechanical sensors,
video sensors, presence sensors, optical sensors, temperature sensors,
magnetic field sensors, electrical field sensors, sound sensors, pressure
sensors, light sensors, any other types of sensors, or any combination
thereof.
The access control module 7 enables to open/close gate 3 and, accordingly
to report server 11 the current state of gate 3, whether it is in an open or
close state. When open, gate 3 may trigger the transmitting of a second
wireless signal(s) by the corresponding beacon 12.
The communication between the access control module 7 and server 11 are
performed via a direct communication channel such as over the Internet,
cellular, LAN etc. allowing bidirectional flow of information between
server 11 and access control module 7 and one or more databases
associated with system 100.
According to an embodiment of the invention, server 11 is adapted to send
alerts (e.g., via email, SMS, push notifications etc.) regarding failures of
the at least one beacon and/or the access control module 7.
                                                    GHMatters) P107394.AU) 1 9730097

                                      - 12
The user terminal communication device 9 enables to receive and identify
the wireless signals generated by each beacons 2, 6 and 12, and
accordingly to notify server 11 upon the identification of each of the
beacons 2 or 6 or 12 by device 9 or by access control module 7. The user
terminal communication device 9 enables to receive and identify the
wireless signal strength generated by beacon 2 and approximate the
distance between the user terminal communication device 9 and beacon 2,
therefore    allows to   locate   and   attribute a specific user terminal
communication      device to a specific vehicle location (sensor 1). The
notification of beacon 2 may be used by server 11 to provide instruction to
the access control module 7, to open gate 3 and thereby to allow vehicle 10
to cross trough the passage point. The notification of beacon 12 may be
used by server 11 to verify the actual opening of gate 3. The notification of
beacon 6 may be used by server 11 to verify the actual passage of vehicle
10 through the passage point. The notification of beacons 6 and 12 may be
used by server 11 to count the number of vehicles passing through gate 3.
According to an embodiment of the present invention, the communication
between device 9 and server 11 can be performed via a wide area network
8 such as the Internet.
According to an embodiment of the invention beacons 2, 6 and 12 enable to
receive and identify wireless signals generated by the user terminal
communication device 9 and accordingly to notify server 11 upon the
identification of device 9 via access control module 7. Beacon 2 enables to
receive and identify the wireless signal strength generated by the user
terminal communication device 9 and approximate the distance between
the user terminal communication device 9 and beacon 2, therefore
allowing to locate and attribute a specific user terminal communication
device to a specific vehicle location (sensor 1).
The sensitivity to receive and/or transmit the strength of wireless signal(s)
may vary between different user terminal communication devices 9, due to
                                                    GHMatters) P107394.AU) 1 9730097

                                    -13
variance in model, manufacturer, batch, protective casing, software
version, firmware version, grip, unique ID, temperature, acceleration,
orientation, geolocation, battery status, etc. Server 11 is adapted to
automatically learn, calculate and normalize the sensitivity of each user
terminal communication device 9 based on historical data collected by
server 11 for a specific terminal communication device(s) 9. Server 11
might send user communication         device 9 at least one normalizing
sensitivity parameter allowing user communication device 9 to better
approximate the distance between the user terminal communication
device 9 and beacons 2 and/or 6 and/or 12. In some embodiments server 11
might send access control module 7 a normalizing receiving sensitivity
parameter based on different user communication devices 9 to better
approximate the distance between the user terminal communication
device 9 as a transmitter to the receiving beacons 2 and/or 6 and/or 12.
According to an embodiment of the invention, the notification of each of
the beacons 2, 6 and 12, as identified by the user terminal communication
device 9, can be provided to server 11 by device 9 via the wide area
network 8. Alternatively, of each of the beacons 2, 6 and 12, as identified
by the user terminal communication device 9, can be provided to server 11
by access control module 7 via the wide area network 8.
Access control module 7 may close the gate whenever a sensor located at
the gate area (e.g., an inductive loop vehicle detector as indicated by
sensor 4 in the figure) no longer detects a vehicle after a previous
detection session, or whenever sensor a sensor located at the gate area
detects no vehicle for a predetermined period of time (e.g., 20 seconds).
According to an embodiment of the invention, the instruction to open gate
3 can be provided to access control module 7 by server 11 via the user
terminal communication device 9 through a short range communication
protocol (e.g., Bluetooth, NFC, high or low frequency sound wave,
                                                    GHMatters) P107394.AU) 1 9730097

                                    - 14
magnetic field, RF, Wi-Fi, any combination thereof etc.). Alterably, the
instruction to open gate 3 can be provided to access control module 7 by
server 11 via network 8.
According to an embodiment of the invention, server 11 utilizes a machine
learning mechanism in order to decide which work flow would a specific
user go through in order to pass through a certain gate. The decision can
be based on one or more features such as user history, user device module,
user device software version, temperature, gate history, real time data
from the access control module etc.
According to some embodiments of the present invention, server 11 may
hold or may have accesses to data about payment methods of users of the
terminal communication devices, in order to allow system 100 to handle
payments for parking space usage. For example, server 11 may include a
billing module (not shown) for enabling to automatically charge users of
the terminal communication device according to data gathered from the at
least one beacon. Such gathered data may reflect the parking/presence
duration of a user's vehicle within the parking space (e.g., by counting the
entrance    and   exit  times  of a    vehicle using   the      user     terminal
communication     device and beacons). The billing module            can be an
integrated extension to server 11 in order to add billing and invoicing
features to system 100.
According    to an embodiment     of the   invention,  system       100 further
comprises an interface (not shown) for interfacing and communicating
with external systems, in particular with an existing parking space
system (e.g., a kiosk located at the parking space that produces parking
tickets), thereby enabling to exchange data between such external systems
and the parking space management server 11 and/or the user terminal
communication device. The external systems and system 100 may work in
                                                    GHMatters) P107394.AU) 1 9730097

                                    - 15
parallel and independently with or without the exchange of data between
them.
Fig. 2 shows an access control module that can be used in conjunction with
the invention. The access control module illustrated in this figure is
particularly convenient because it can be applied as an ad-on module to
existing gates/barriers in parking spaces or parking lots without the need
to carry out major alterations in the structure. The module generally
indicated by numeral 7 in the figure comprises a communication module
71 for enabling to communicate with the parking space management
server 11 via network 8 (e.g., the Internet), a short range communication
unit 72 (e.g., Bluetooth, NFC, high or low frequency sound wave, magnetic
field, RF, Wi-Fi, any combination thereof etc.) for locally and wirelessly
communicating with the user terminal communication device 9. In some
embodiments, access control module 7 further comprises a remote control
adapter 73 configured to communicate with a corresponding remote
control 74.
According to an embodiment of the present invention, server 11 is adapted
to manage the access of vehicles to the parking space or parking lot.
According to a specific embodiment of the present invention, as part of the
management process, server 11 may inform the drivers or users of device 9
information such as availably of parking space, whether they are allowed
to enter a specific parking space (e.g., when the parking space is fully
occupied), pricing, etc.
As part of its operation, server 11 may perform the following operations:
(i) confirms according the entrance and exit of vehicle to and from a
parking space; (ii) controls the operation of one or more entrance gates to
the parking space; (iii) registers/calculates the parking duration of each
vehicle; and, (iv) manages the financial operations of system 100.
                                                    GHMatters) P107394.AU) 1 9730097

                                      - 16
According to some embodiments of the invention, the management of the
parking includes discriminative         parking engine which would show
different prices to different users based on discriminating features such as
user history, the distance of a parking from a user requested destination,
the user terminal communication model, user age, user car type etc.
Figs. 1 and 2 and the above discussion were intended to provide a brief,
general description of a suitable computing environment in which the
invention may be implemented. While the invention is described in the
general context of program modules that execute in conjunction with an
application program that runs on an operating system on server 11 and on
device 9, those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention may also
be implemented in combination            with other program         modules       and
computer systems. Moreover, those skilled in the art will appreciate that
the    invention   may     be   practiced    with  other    computer         system
configurations,   including    hand-held devices,    multiprocessor        systems,
microprocessor-based        or    programmable       consumer          electronics,
minicomputers, mainframe computers, and the like. The invention may
also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are
performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a
communications      network.    In a distributed computing           environment,
program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage
devices.
Unless otherwise indicated, the functions described herein may be
performed by executable code and instructions            stored in computer
readable medium and running on one or more processor-based systems.
However, state machines, and/or hardwired electronic circuits can also be
utilized. Further, with respect to the example processes described herein,
not all the process states need to be reached, nor do the states have to be
performed in the illustrated order. Further, certain process states that are
illustrated as being serially performed can be performed in parallel.
                                                      GHMatters) P107394.AU) 1 9730097

                                    - 17
The terms, "for example", "e.g.", "optionally", as used herein, are intended
to be used to introduce non-limiting examples. While certain references
are made to certain example system components or services, other
components     and services   can be    used as well and/or         the example
components can be combined into fewer components and/or divided into
further components.
As will be appreciated by the skilled person the arrangement described in
the figures results in a system which is capable of automatically enabling
a driver to enter/exit a parking space.
All the above description and examples have been given for the purpose of
illustration and are not intended to limit the invention in any way. Many
different mechanisms, methods of communication, electronic and logical
elements    can be employed, all without       exceeding the scope of the
invention.
                                                     GHMatters) P107394.AU) 1 9730097

                                   - 18
CLAIMS
  1. A system of managing a parking space, comprising:
      a) a   parking   space   management      server  for     managing         and
         controlling the access of vehicles into the parking space;
      b) at least one beacon associated with a passage gate at a passage
         point for transmitting a wireless signal(s);
      c) an access control module adapted to open/close said passage
         gate and to notify the management server the current state of
         said gate, whether said gate is in an open or close state; and
      d) a user terminal communication device adapted to receive and
         identify said wireless signals, and accordingly to notify said
         parking space management server and/or said access control
         module upon the identification of said at least one beacon,
         thereby enabling said parking space management server and/or
         said access control module to perform parking related tasks,
         wherein said tasks include opening the corresponding passage
         gate and/or recording the actual passage of the vehicle through
         said passage point.
  2. The system according to claim 1, wherein the access control module
     is adapted to receive and/or identify and/or communicate with said
     at least one wireless signal, and accordingly to notify said parking
     space management server.
  3. The system according to claim 1, further comprising at least one
     vehicle detection sensor adapted to detect the presence of a vehicle
     at a specific passage point of the parking space, wherein the
     detection of a vehicle at said specific passage point triggers the at
     least one beacon.
                                                    GHMatters) P107394.AU) 1 9730097

                                - 19
4. The system according to claim 3, wherein the data of the sensor is
   collected directly by a database associated with the access control
   module.
5. The system according to claim 3, wherein at least one of the vehicle
   detection sensor is adapted to detect the actual passage of a vehicle
   through the passage point after and/or during crossing said passage
   gate, wherein said detection triggers the transmitting of a wireless
   signal by at least one beacon associated with the passage gate that
   corresponds to the said passage point.
6. The system according to claim 5, wherein the data of the sensor is
   collected directly by a database associated with the access control
   module.
7. The system according to claim 1, further comprising a gate sensor
   adapted to detect the state of the gate.
8. The system according to claim 7, wherein the detection of an
   open/close state of the gate triggers the transmitting of a wireless
   signal(s) of at least one beacon associated with the passage gate
   that corresponds to the passage point.
9. The system according to claim 1, wherein the user terminal
   communication device is adapted to approximate the distance
   between the user terminal communication device and the at least
   one of the beacons location, based on the wireless signal strength of
   said beacon(s).
10.The system according to claim 9, wherein the user terminal
   communication device is adapted to better approximate the distance
   between the user terminal communication device and the at least
                                                GHMatters) P107394.AU) 1 9730097

                                  - 20
    one of the beacons location, based on at least one unique parameter
    received from the management server.
11.The system according to claim 10, wherein the at least one unique
    parameter received from the management server is calculated
    based on unique features of the terminal communication device
    such as manufacturer, model, software version, firmware version,
    unique ID, temperature,       acceleration, orientation, geolocation,
    battery status, etc.
12.The system according to claim 10, wherein the at least one unique
    parameter received from the management server is calculated
    based on unique features of the at least one beacon such as model,
    software version, firmware       version, temperature,      acceleration,
    orientation, battery status, unique ID etc.
13.The system according to claim 10, wherein the at least one unique
    parameter received from the management server is calculated
    based on historical data collected in previous at least one session
    regarding at least one specific terminal communication device.
14.The system according to claim 10, wherein the at least one unique
    parameter received from the management server is calculated
    based on historical data collected in at least one previous session
    regarding at least one specified beacon.
15.The system according to claim 10, wherein the management server
    uses at least one algorithm to calculate the at least one unique
    parameter in an ongoing manner such as machine learning.
16. The system according to claim 1, wherein the access control module
    closes the gate whenever the at least one of the vehicle detection
    sensor detects no vehicle for a predetermined period of time.
                                                 GHMatters) P107394.AU) 1 9730097

                                 -21
17.The system according to claim 1, wherein the communication
    between the access control module and the server are performed via
    the user terminal communication device.
18. The system according to claim 1, wherein the communication
    between the access control module and the server are performed via
    direct communication      channel   allowing   bidirectional        flow    of
    information between the server and the access control module and
    one or more associated databases.
19. The system according to claim 1, wherein the notification of the at
    least one beacon as identified by the user terminal communication
    device are communicated to the server via said user terminal
    communication device.
20.The system according to claim 1, wherein the notification of the at
    least one beacon as identified by the user terminal communication
    device are provided to the server via the access control module.
21.The system according to claim 1, wherein the server is adapted to
    send alerts regarding failures of the at least one beacon and/or the
    access control module.
22.The system according to claim 1, further comprising registration
    data representing users and/or vehicles registered/allowed to park
    in the parking space, thereby enabling said registered/allowed
    users/vehicles to automatically access the parking space upon
    detection of user terminal communication devices associated with
    said registered/allowed users/vehicles.
                                                  GHMatters) P107394.AU) 1 9730097

                                 - 22
23.The system according to claim 22, wherein the registration data is
   stored in the access control module or in a database/memory
   associated with said access control module.
24.The system according to claim 23, wherein the database/memory
   associated with the access control module is part of a local computer
   system adapted to collect and push data from/to a plurality of gates
   associated with the parking space.
25.The system according to claim 22, wherein the registration data is
   stored in the server.
26.The system according to claim 1, wherein at least one beacon
   includes a receiver adapted to receive remote control signals from
   the user terminal communication device and/or from the access
   control module and/or from a car dedicated beacon located in the
   vehicle.
27. The system according to claim 26, wherein the car dedicated beacon
   is powered by the vehicle's power source.
28. The system according to claim 26, wherein the car dedicated beacon
   is adapted to communicate with the user terminal communication
   device,  thereby enabling to detect whether         a driver is being
   presence in the vehicle and/or whether the driver is being present a
   in a vehicle while engine of said vehicle is working.
29. The system according to claim 26, wherein the car dedicated beacon
   is adapted to communicate with the at least one beacon in order to
   notify the server to provide instruction to open the gate, thereby
   enabling the vehicle to enter/exit the parking space and enabling
                                                 GHMatters) P107394.AU) 1 9730097

                                 - 23
   the server to provide the parking duration of said vehicle in the
   parking space.
30. The system according to claim 1, wherein the server adapted to
   keep count and manage the number of the entering and exiting
   vehicles to/from the parking space, thereby enabling to provide real
   time information about the currently available parking spots in the
   parking space and accordingly to disable access to the parking space
   when it becomes fully occupied.
31.The system according to claim 30, wherein the server adapted to
   notify the user terminal communication device whenever a specific
   parking space is fully occupied.
32.The system according to claim 1, wherein the server adapted to
   manage parking reservations, thereby enabling drivers/users to
   book parking in advance in a specific parking space via the user
   terminal communication device.
33.The system according to claim 1, wherein the management of the
   parking    includes  dynamically    updating   the     parking      pricing
   according to the current occupation status or based on statistical
   model according to known rush hours, thereby enabling to reduce or
   increase the pricing of the parking.
34.The system according to claim 1, further comprising discriminative
   parking engine which would show different prices to different users
   based on discriminating features such as user history, the distance
   of a parking from a user requested destination, the user terminal
   communication model, user age, user car type etc.
                                                GHMatters) P107394.AU) 1 9730097

                                   -24
35. The system according to claim 1,           wherein the user terminal
    communication device is selected from the group consisting of:
    smartphone,     media   center   installed in    the   vehicle,     wearable
    computing device, tablet, laptop, portable computer.
36.The system according to claim 1, wherein at least one of the beacon
    includes an activation switch, thereby enabling a human operator to
    active said beacon.
37.The system according to claim 36, wherein the activation switch is
    configured by hardware, software or any combination thereof.
38.The system according to claim 1, further comprising a billing
    module for enabling to automatically charge users of the terminal
    communication device according to data gathered from the at least
    one beacon, wherein said data reflects the presence duration of a
    user's vehicle in the parking space.
39. The system according to claim 1, further comprising an interface for
    communicating      with external    systems,   in   particular with          an
    existing parking space management and control system.
40.The system according to claim 1, wherein the server utilizes a
    machine learning mechanism in order to decide which work flow
    would a specific user go through in order to pass through a certain
    gate based on one or more features such as user history, user device
    module, user device software version, temperature, gate history,
    real time data from the access control module etc.
41.A method of managing a parking space, comprising:
    a) Providing a parking space management server for managing and
        controlling the access of vehicles into the parking space;
                                                    GHMatters) P107394.AU) 1 9730097

                                  -  25
   b) Providing at least one beacon associated with a passage gate at a
       passage point for transmitting a wireless signal(s);
   c) Providing an access control module adapted to open/close said
       passage gate and to notify the current state of said gate, whether
       said gate is in an open or close state;
   d) Providing a user terminal communication device adapted to
       receive and identify said wireless signals, and accordingly to
       notify said parking space management server and/or said access
       control module upon the identification of said at least one
       beacon, thereby enabling said parking space management server
       and/or said access control module to perform parking related
       tasks, wherein said tasks include opening the corresponding
       passage gate and/or recording the actual passage of the vehicle
       trough said passage point.
42.The method according to claim 41, further comprising detecting the
   status of the gate, and whenever said gate is open transmitting a
   wireless signal(s) of at least one beacon associated with the passage
   gate that corresponds to the passage point.
43.The method according to claim 41, wherein at least one of the
   vehicle detection sensor is used for detecting the actual passage of a
   vehicle through the passage point after and/or during crossing said
   passage gate, wherein said detection triggers the transmitting of a
   wireless signal by at least one beacon associated with the passage
   gate that corresponds to the said passage point.
44.The     method     according     to  claim  41,   further        comprising
   approximating       the   distance    between    the      user      terminal
   communication device and the at least one of the beacons location,
   based on the wireless signal strength of said beacon(s).
                                                  GHMatters) P107394.AU) 1 9730097

                                 -26
45.The method according to claim 41, wherein the access control
    module closes the gate whenever the at least one of the vehicle
    detection sensor detects no vehicle for a predetermined period of
    time.
46.The method according to claim 41, wherein the communication
    between the access control module and the server are performed via
    the user terminal communication device.
47. The method according to claim 41, wherein the notification of the at
    least one beacon as identified by the user terminal communication
    device are communicated to the server via said user terminal
    communication device.
48. The method according to claim 41, wherein the notification of the at
    least one beacon as identified by the user terminal communication
    device are provided to the server via the access control module.
49. The method according to claim 41, wherein the notification of the at
    least one beacon is identified by the access control module and is
    provided to the server via the access control module.
50.The method according to claim 41, further comprising enabling
    registered/allowed users and/or vehicles to automatically access the
    parking space upon detection of user terminal communication
    devices associated with said registered/allowed users/vehicles.
51.The method according to claim 41, further comprising enabling at
    least one beacon to receive remote control signals from the user
    terminal communication device or from a car dedicated beacon
    located in the vehicle.
                                                  GHMatters) P107394.AU) 1 9730097

                                   -27
52. The method according to claim 51, wherein the car dedicated
    beacon   is   adapted   to   communicate   with   the     user     terminal
    communication device, thereby enabling to detect whether a driver
    is being presence in the vehicle and/or whether the driver is being
    present a in a vehicle while the engine of said vehicle is working.
53. The method according to claim 51, wherein the car dedicated
    beacon is adapted to communicate with the at least one beacon in
    order to notify the server to provide instruction to open the gate,
    thereby enabling the vehicle to enter/exit the parking space and
    enabling the server to provide the parking duration of said vehicle
    in the parking space.
54. The method according to claim 41, further comprising counting and
    managing the number of the entering and exiting vehicles to/from
    the   parking    space,   thereby  enabling    to   provide       real-time
    information about the currently available parking spots in the
    parking space and accordingly to disable access to the parking space
    when it becomes fully occupied.
55. The method according to claim 54, further comprising notifying the
    user terminal communication device whenever a specific parking
    space is fully occupied.
56.The method according to claim 41, further comprising managing
    parking   reservations,    thereby enabling    drivers/users       to   book
    parking in advance in a specific parking space via the user terminal
    communication device or other enabled user interface.
57.The method according to claim 56, wherein the management of the
    parking    includes   dynamically   updating    the     parking      pricing
    according to the current occupation status or based on statistical
                                                  GHMatters) P107394.AU) 1 9730097

                                  - 28
    model according to known rush hours, thereby enabling to reduce or
    increase the pricing of the parking.
58. The method according to claim 41, further comprising automatically
    charging users of the terminal communication device according to
    data gathered from the at least one beacon, wherein said data
    reflects the presence duration of a user's vehicle in the parking
    space.
59.The method according to claim 41, further comprising interfacing
    and communicating with external systems, in particular with an
    existing parking space system, thereby enabling to exchange data
    between said external systems and the parking space management
    and/or the user terminal communication device.
                                               GHMatters) P107394.AU) 1 9730097

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
