I: \Kzh\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\KZI\6903844_ .docx-03 05/2018
                                                              ABSTRACT
                 The present disclosure concerns effervescent compositions and methods of making and
using the same. In some embodiments, the disclosed effervescent compositions are formed
from an input blend comprising an acid and a base by granulating the input blend in a twin
screw processor. The granules formed from the input blend can be formed by an in situ
granulating agent, which can be a portion of the acid that melts during granulation. In some
embodiments, the effervescent compositions can be made using a twin-screw processor
comprising an intake zone for receiving an input blend comprising an acid and a base; a
granulation initiation zone for melting only a portion of the acid to serve as an in situ
granulating agent; a granulation completion zone for granulating the input blend; and an outlet
for discharging the granules.

    EFFERVESCENT COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS OF MAKING AND USING
                                           THE SAME
           This is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2015316552, the entire
 5 contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
   FIELD
           The present disclosure relates to embodiments of effervescent compositions and
   methods of making and using the same.
10
   BACKGROUND
           Effervescent compositions that produce effervescence when added to water find
   use in pharmaceutical, food, veterinary, nutraceutical, horticultural, household, culinary,
   pesticidal, agricultural, cosmetic, herbicidal, industrial, cleansing, confectionery and
15 flavoring   applications.  Effervescent   compositions,  particularly   in   pharmaceutical
   applications, are an interesting dosage form offering some unique advantages such as
   administration of an Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient (API) in solution form and taste
   masking of the API. Patients benefited by the use of effervescent tablets are the geriatric
   population, pediatric population and a large adult population with a gag reflex and/or
20 swallowing difficulty. Additionally, since the API is administered as a solution, problems
   associated with dissolution, that is, absorption rate and extent of bioavailability are
   minimized and a rapid on-set of action can be realized.
           Manufacture    of effervescent   compositions is complicated      requiring careful
   environmental control on account of the tendency of effervescent compositions to become
25 reactive in the presence of moisture. This reaction is auto-catalyzed and is difficult to
   control. Also, effervescent compositions require rapid disintegration times which depend
   on the porosity of the composition. For example, effervescent tablets require rapid
   disintegration times of generally less than 60 seconds. At the same time, effervescent
   compositions also need to be amenable to packaging and transportation. For example,
30 effervescent tablets need to have adequate hardness so that they can be satisfactorily
   packed and transported. Finally, effervescent compositions should evolve sufficient
   amount of carbon dioxide in water to be effective. Various methods have been explored
                                                1

for the manufacture of effervescent compositions such as wet granulation, dry granulation,
direct compression and hot melt processing. The effervescent compositions resulting from
these conventional techniques however suffer from one or more of disadvantages such as
low carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) content, low porosity and longer disintegration times, for
                                            IA

      WO 2016/042372                                                          PCT/IB2015/000400
    example, when external binders are used,         granules that are not free flowing, or are
    difficult to compress       and form tablets, low mechanical         strength,  difficulty in
   manufacturing and the like.
            Therefore, there is a need for effervescent compositions that have high carbon
 5  dioxide retention, high porosity and high mechanical strength and which do not require
    affirmatively adding a granulating agent and/or a binder. There is also a need for a process
    for manufacture of such effervescent compositions which is rapid and can be easily
   controlled. It is desirable that such a process be continuous.
10  SUMMARY
            The present disclosure relates to a granular composition comprising an anhydrous
   acid component comprising a combination of a portion of the acid that has been melted
   and a portion of the acid that has not been melted and; an anhydrous base component
   comprising a carbonate functional group, wherein the base component is capable of
15 reacting with the acid component to form carbon dioxide; and wherein the anhydrous acid
   component and the anhydrous base component are present in a weight ratio ranging from
    1:9 to 9:1 and the composition does not comprise an affirmatively added granulating
   agent.
            The present disclosure also relates to a porous effervescent composition formed
20 from an input blend comprising an acid and a base by granulating the input blend in a
   twin-screw processor, the porous effervescent composition comprising granules formed by
   an in situ granulating agent, wherein the in situ granulating agent is a portion of the acid,
   the portion of the acid being a portion of the acid that melts during granulation.
            The present disclosure also concerns an oral solid dosage form such as an
25 effervescent tablet or a powder for oral administration or a combination thereof, the oral
   solid dosage form comprising a porous effervescent composition formed from an input
   blend comprising an acid and a base by granulating the input blend in a twin-screw
   processor, the porous effervescent composition comprising granules formed by an in situ
   granulating agent, wherein the in situ granulating agent is a portion of the acid, the portion
30 of the acid being a portion of the acid that melts during granulation; and one or more
   optional processing excipients.
            The present disclosure further concerns a twin screw processor for preparing
   porous effervescent granules, the processor comprising an intake zone for receiving an
                                                   2

    WO 2016/042372                                                         PCT/IB2015/000400
   input blend comprising an acid and a base; a granulation initiation zone for melting only a
   portion of the acid to serve as an in situ granulating agent; a granulation completion zone
   for granulating the input blend; and an outlet for discharging the granules.
           The present disclosure further concerns a process for preparing porous effervescent
 5 granules, the process comprising feeding an input blend comprising an acid and a base into
   a twin-screw processor; melting only a portion of the acid to serve as an in situ granulating
   agent; granulating the input blend to form granules; and optionally collecting the granules
   from the twin screw processor.
           The present disclosure further concerns porous effervescent granules comprising
10 an acid and a base, wherein the granules have porosity at least 50% greater than the
   porosity of an input blend used to prepare the granules and the granules retain at least 90%
   of carbon dioxide of the input blend.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
15         FIG. 1 illustrates the screw configuration of a co-rotating twin screw extruder in
   accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure.
           FIG. 2 illustrates a processor for manufacturing porous effervescent granules in
   accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure.
20 DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   I.      Explanation of Terms
           The following explanation of terms is provided to better describe the present
   disclosure and to guide those of ordinary skill in the art in the practice of the present
   disclosure. As used herein, "comprising" means "including but not limited to" and the
25 singular forms "a" or "an" or "the" include plural references unless the context clearly
   dictates otherwise. The term "or" refers to a single element of stated alternative elements
   or a combination of two or more elements, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
           The devices, compositions, and methods described herein should not be construed
   as limiting in any way. Instead, the present disclosure is directed towards all novel and
30 non-obvious features and aspects of the various disclosed embodiments, alone and in
   various combinations and sub-combinations with one another. The disclosed devices,
   compositions, and methods are not limited to any specific aspect or feature or
   combinations thereof, nor do the disclosed devices, compositions, and methods require
                                                 -3

    WO 2016/042372                                                          PCT/IB2015/000400
   that any one or more specific advantages be present or problems be solved. Any theories
   of operation are to facilitate explanation, but the disclosed devices, compositions, and
   methods are not limited to such theories of operation.
            Although the operations of some of the disclosed methods are described in a
 5 particular, sequential order for convenient presentation, it should be understood that this
   manner of description encompasses rearrangement, unless a particular ordering is required
   by specific language set forth below. For example, operations described sequentially may
   in some cases be rearranged or performed concurrently. Moreover, for the sake of
   simplicity, the attached figures may not show the various ways in which the disclosed
10 devices, compositions, and methods can be used in conjunction with other devices,
   compositions, and methods. Additionally, the description sometimes uses terms like
   "produce" and "provide" to describe the disclosed methods. These terms are high-level
   abstractions of the actual operations that are performed. The actual operations that
   correspond to these terms will vary depending on the particular implementation and are
15 readily discernible by one of ordinary skill in the art.
            In some examples, values, procedures, or devices are referred to as "lowest,"
   "best," "minimum," or the like. It will be appreciated that such descriptions are intended
   to indicate that a selection among many used functional alternatives can be made, and such
   selections need not be better, smaller, or otherwise preferable to other selections.
20          Examples are described with reference to directions indicated as "above," "below,"
   "upper," "lower," and the like. These terms are used for convenient description, but do not
   imply any particular spatial orientation.
            Unless explained otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the
   same meaning as commonly understood to one of ordinary skill in the art to which this
25 disclosure belongs. Unless otherwise indicated, all numbers expressing quantities of
   components, molecular weights, percentages, temperatures, times, and so forth, as used in
   the specification or claims are to be understood as being modified by the term "about".
   Accordingly, unless otherwise indicated, implicitly or explicitly, the numerical parameters
   set forth are approximations that can depend on the desired properties sought and/or limits
30 of detection under standard test conditions/methods. When directly and explicitly
   distinguishing embodiments from discussed prior art, the embodiment numbers are not
   approximates unless the word "about" is recited. Furthermore, not all alternatives recited
   herein are equivalents.
                                                  4

        WO 2016/042372                                                         PCT/IB2015/000400
    II.     Overview
            The present disclosure relates to a porous effervescent composition, more
    specifically, granules. The composition possesses one or more critical attributes such as
    the ability to flow freely, compressibility, porosity, significant amount of retained carbon
  5 dioxide and mechanical strength. The effervescent compositions in the form of granules
    can be used as such, can be mixed with other excipients before being used or are suitable
    for example for forming effervescent tablets with desired mechanical                  strength,
    effectiveness and rapid disintegration times. In some embodiments,                the porous
    effervescent compositions in the form of granules of this disclosure have porosity at least
 [o 50% greater than the porosity of the input blend and retain all or substantially all of the
    carbon dioxide (C0 2 ) content of the input blend. Herein, the porosity of the effervescent
    composition with respect to the input blend is referred to as relative porosity. The relative
    porosity may be measured either as the relative bulk porosity or the relative tap porosity.
    The term "all or substantially all of the CO 2 content of the input blend" means at least 90%
 15 of the CO 2 content of the input blend and is also expressed as the percent relative retained
    CO 2 content of the composition, specifically, granules.
            Effervescence in effervescent compositions is obtained due to the presence of acid
    and base substances such as carbonates or bicarbonates that react rapidly in the presence
    of water and release CO 2 to provide a carbonated or sparkling liquid drink. Due to
 w  liberation of CO 2 , the dissolution of API in water as well as taste masking of the API is
    achieved.
            Manufacture of satisfactory effervescent compositions requires a balance of the
    porosity of the composition, amount of carbon dioxide retained in the composition and the
    mechanical strength of the composition.
25          One conventional technique for producing effervescent compositions is wet
    granulation. Wet granulation requires addition or generation of a granulating agent (other
    than the in situ granulating agent disclosed herein). The affirmatively added granulating
    agent can be water, steam, or solvents such as alcohol, propylene glycol or glycerin that
    act as moistening agents or a binding agent such as polyvinylpyrrolidone. One type of wet
30  granulation preferred for making effervescent formulations is TOPO vacuum granulation
    in which a small amount of water is added during the process. Additional water is
    generated during the chain reaction initiated by the reaction of citric acid with bi
    carbonates or carbonates. To control and manage this chain reaction, water is eliminated
                                                    5

     WO 2016/042372                                                        PCT/IB2015/000400
   by repeatedly applying a vacuum for certain periods of time during the granulation
   process. Porosity of such compositions is a result of the carbon dioxide generated during
   the reaction. Control of this process is very critical. The porosity and carbon dioxide
   content of compositions may vary depending on the extent of the reaction.
 5         A fluid bed spray granulator can also be used for wet granulation where
   granulation and drying take place at the same time. Although a low moisture level is
   attained throughout the process, a large volume of granulation fluid is needed thereby
   making the process longer and expensive to perform with a potential risk of loss of
   effervescence quality.
10         Wet granulation may also be carried out by fusion method. In this method, alkali is
   mixed with acid, which is at least partially a hydrated acid. The mixture is heated until the
   water of crystallization is released. The released water of crystallization then acts as a
   granulating agent. Although this method avoids use of external water as granulating agent,
   the method can also trigger a chain reaction that is difficult to terminate leading to
15 additional moisture that needs to be removed. Porosity of the composition is once again a
   result of the carbon dioxide generated in the reaction. The effervescent compositions
   produced by this method have variable and in some cases, lower CO 2 content. Also, the
   tablets produced from these compositions do not have sufficient mechanical strength for
   product handling and packaging operations.
20         Wet granulation may also be carried out by running two separate granulation steps
   for the acid and the base components with a subsequent dry blending step. A challenge in
   this conventional technique is achieving tablet homogeneity, as it is difficult to
   homogenously blend the material into a uniform composition.
           Another drawback of these conventional wet granulation techniques is the fact that
25 the use of solvents such as alcohol for wet granulation requires complex equipment such
   as flame proof versions of the equipment described above and higher safety requirements
   to handle the granulation fluid.
           Another conventional method for forming effervescent compositions is dry
   granulation. This method generally includes slugging or roller compaction without
30 requiring any liquid or binder. However, the compositions obtained by this method
   possess low porosity. Direct compression techniques have also been used for preparing
   effervescent compositions which have low porosity resulting in longer disintegration times
   and low mechanical strength.
                                                 6

     WO 2016/042372                                                         PCT/IB2015/000400
            Hot melt processing has also been employed for the manufacture of effervescent
   compositions and broadly involves melting of a binder. One such method is disclosed in
   U.S. Patent Nos. 6,071,539, 6,488,961 and 6,649,186 to Robinson, which discuss hot melt
   extrusion involving melting of a binder. Although the use of binders can potentially avoid
 5 the drawbacks of using water or solvents, there are limitations on the type of binders that
   can be used and the resulting compositions have low porosity and CO 2 content. U.S.
   Patent No. 6,426,111 describes another hot melt process in which the acid is melted and
   mixed with an alkali and other ingredients. The process ensures complete entrapment of
   the base and other ingredients by the melted acid, so as to form a protective layer. The
10 taffy mass formed by this process may be directly extruded to form desired shapes. The
   process is limited by the excipients which need to be used to impart porosity to the
   composition so formed. This process, also, requires melting all acid present in the
   composition to achieve the results disclosed therein. Further, it does not provide
   effervescent tablets having improved properties and performance that is exhibited by the
15 presently disclosed composition. The present inventors replicated the process disclosed in
   the US patent 6,426,111 to ascertain the same. As disclosed in the patent, required
   quantity of anhydrous citric acid was placed in a stainless steel container and placed on a
   heating plate maintained at 1250 C. However, there was no sign of melting of anhydrous
   citric acid even after exposing it to 125'C for 45 minutes. Therefore, the temperature was
20 increased to 145 to 150'C. The effervescent composition formed according to the process
   disclosed in this patent had percent relative retained CO 2 content of around 71.55% and
   relative specific bulk porosity of 14.10 % only.
            In contrast to these conventional methods, the present disclosure concerns a porous
   effervescent composition formed from an input blend comprising an acid and a base by
25 granulating the input blend in a twin-screw processor, the composition comprising
   granules formed by an in situ granulating agent, wherein the in situ granulating agent is a
   portion of the acid, the portion of the acid being a portion of the acid that melts during
   granulation. The in situ granulating agent of the present disclosure is distinct from an
   affirmatively added granulating agent, which is a granulating agent other than (or separate
30 from) the acid component that reacts with the base to provide effervescence.
           A contribution of the present disclosure over the conventional methods described
   above resides in obtaining a porous effervescent composition having porosity at least 50%
   greater than the porosity of the input blend.
                                                 7

      WO 2016/042372                                                         PCT/IB2015/000400
           A contribution of the present disclosure over the conventional methods described
   above resides in obtaining a porous effervescent composition having retained carbon
   dioxide content of at least 90% of the input blend.
           The melting of only a portion of acid leads to formation of solid bridges with the
 5 molecules of other particles. This leads to the binding of the particles in close proximity to
   form deformable, irregular shaped, porous granules that have improved compressibility.
   The melting of only a portion of the acid can provide granules suitable for tableting.
   Complete melting of the acid, as is described in the methods of U.S. Patent No. 6,426,111,
   results in over-granulation and consequently a poor quality effervescent tablet with
10 compromised effervescence efficiency.
           As little or no reaction takes places between the acid and the base during
   granulation, negligible or no carbon dioxide is lost during granulation. In some
   embodiments, the granules retain all or substantially all of the CO2 content of the input
   blend. This also leads to improved effervescence when exposed to water. In some
15 embodiments, the effervescent tablets made from the granules of the present disclosure
   have a disintegration time of less than sixty seconds.
           Further, as the acid and the base molecules are in close proximity, the granules
   formed according to the present disclosure exhibit improved mechanical strength. For
   example, tablets formed from the granules exhibit improved hardness as well as
20 disintegration time when exposed to water.
           Thus, formation of the porous effervescent composition having porosity at least
   50% greater than the porosity of the input blend or retained carbon dioxide content of at
   least 90% of the input blend using an in situ granulating agent results in avoiding the
   problems associated with conventional          methods (e.g., using affirmatively added
25 granulating agents, such as water or binders, or completely melting an acid component). It
   further eliminates the requirement of additional steps such as drying and other processing
   steps providing for ease of manufacturing.
   III.    Compositions and Methods of Making and Using the Same
30         Disclosed herein are embodiments of a porous effervescent composition that
   exhibit improved properties contributing to the composition's use in a variety of
   applications. In some embodiments, the porous effervescent compositions can be formed
   using an input blend comprising an acid and a base. In some embodiments, the porous
                                                  8

     WO 2016/042372                                                        PCT/IB2015/000400
   effervescent composition has porosity at least 50% greater than the porosity of the input
   blend. In some embodiments, the porous effervescent composition has retained carbon
   dioxide content of at least 90% of the input blend. It has been observed that an increase in
   porosity of the granules can be achieved without compromising with other properties of
 5 the granules.
           In accordance with an exemplary embodiment, the composition does not contain,
   or is free of, an affirmatively added granulating agent. The composition is understood as
   being free of an affirmatively added component (other than the acid or base) that either
   deleteriously affects the function of the acid and base components and/or is an
10 affirmatively added granulating agent (e.g., water, a binding agent, or any of the
   conventional granulating agents described above).
           In accordance with one embodiment, the acid can be any organic acid in free acid,
   acid anhydride and acid salt form. Specifically, the acid can be selected from citric acid
   and other acids such as tartaric acid, maleic acid, fumaric acid, malic acid, adipic acid,
15 succinic acid, lactic acid, glycolic acid, alpha hydroxy acids, ascorbic acid, amino acids
   and their alkali hydrogen acid salts. Mixture of one or more acids can also be used. In
   accordance with an embodiment, the acid is an API. Examples of such -acids include
   aspirin, N-acetyl cysteine, ibandronic acid, ibuprofen, ketoprofen, mefenamic acid,
   ascorbic acid and other acidic amino acids.
20         In accordance with one embodiment, the base is a carbon dioxide precursor and
   can   be   selected    from a    carbonate-containing   compound,    such  as   carbonates;
   sesquicarbonates; bicarbonate salts of potassium, lithium, sodium, calcium, ammonium; L
   lysine carbonate; arginine carbonate; sodium glycine carbonate; or sodium amino acid
   carbonate. Mixtures of one or more bases can also be used. For example, in some
25 embodiments, the base is a mixture of sodium carbonate and sodium bicarbonate.
           In some embodiments, the composition consists essentially of the acid and the
   base. The acid and the base are present in a quantity sufficient to cause effervescence on
   addition of water. The amount of the acid and the base in the composition can vary
   depending on the acid and the base used. In some embodiments, the amount of acid used
30 can range from 10% w/w to 90% w/w, such as 20% w/w to 70% w/w, or 40 to 50% w/w
   in the composition. In exemplary embodiments, the amount of acid used can be selected
   from 40% w/w to 50% w/w in the composition. The amount of the base can range from
   10% w/w to 90% w/w, such as 20% w/w to 70% w/w, or 45% to 55% w/w in the
                                                 9

      WO 2016/042372                                                            PCT/IB2015/000400
   composition. In exemplary embodiments, the amount of the base used can be selected
   from 45% to 55% w/w in the composition. In some embodiments, the molar ratio of the
   acid and the base can vary depending on the desired pH maintenance of the solution
   during effervescence. In exemplary embodiments, the molar ratio of the acid and the base
 5 can be selected from 3:1 to 1:5. In exemplary embodiments, the weight ratio of the acid
   and the base can be selected from 1:9 to 9:1.
            In one embodiment, the ingredients of the input blend are anhydrous. In
   accordance with an exemplary embodiment, an anhydrous form of the acid is used to
   ensure that no water of crystallization is released when the acid is heated in the granulation
10 initiation zone of the twin screw processor. In accordance with an exemplary embodiment,
   the anhydrous form of the base is used. In yet another embodiment, both an anhydrous
   form of the acid and an anhydrous form of the base can be used. In accordance with
   another embodiment, the input blend has moisture content of less than 0.5%. One or more
   of the ingredients of the input blend can be subjected to a moisture removal step before
15 feeding into the processor. In some embodiments, it can be beneficial to maintain the
   moisture content of the acid and the base at less than 0.25% w/w. The moisture of the acid
   and the base may be removed by any drying method known to those of ordinary skill in
   the art. For example, moisture can be removed by tray drying of the ingredients at 45 to 60
   'C. The ingredients can then be sieved to obtain fine particles for homogeneous
20 processing. In some embodiments, the ingredients are subjected to sieving through ASTM
   # 40 and/or # 60 mesh sieve to obtain particles having size less than 420 microns and 250
   microns respectively.
            In some embodiments, the input blend can also comprise one or more active
   ingredients selected from pharmaceutical, food, veterinary, nutraceutical, horticultural,
25 household, culinary, pesticidal, agricultural, cosmetic, herbicidal, industrial, cleansing,
   confectionery and flavoring agents, or combinations thereof.
            The pharmaceutical agent includes any API covering complete range of therapeutic
   indications such as anti-infectives, antibacterials, antihistamines and decongestants,
   antiinflammatory     agents,   antiparasitics,    antivirals,    antifungal,   amoebicidal,    or
30 trichomonocidal     agents,   analgesics,    antiarthritics,   antiasthmatics,   anticoagulants,
   anticonvulsants,     antidepressants,     antidiabetics,      antineoplastics,   antipsychotics,
   antihypertensives, expectorants, electrolytes, laxatives, phytopharmaceuticals, muscle
   relaxants, diuretics and the like. The amount of the API may vary depending on the
                                                  10

      WO 2016/042372                                                          PCT/IB2015/000400
   desired application and may be, for example, a unit dose based on the clinically
   established efficacy. For example, the amount of API can range from 0.01 mg to about
    1000 mg based on the API selected.
            In some embodiments, one or more API is added during the formation of the
 5 effervescent composition. In an alternate embodiment, the API is added subsequent to the
   formation of the effervescent composition.
            The input blend can further comprise one or more processing excipients selected
   from soluble and insoluble lubricants, flavoring substances, coloring agents, or
   combinations thereof.
10          Soluble lubricants can include but are not limited to polyethylene glycols (PEG),
   for example- PEG 4000, PEG 6000 and PEG 8000, polyoxyethylene stearate and sodium
   or magnesium lauryl sulphate, sodium benzoate, L-leucine and the like and combinations
   thereof. Insoluble lubricants can include but are not limited to magnesium stearate, stearic
   acid, glyceryl palmitostearate and the like and combinations thereof. The amount of the
15 lubricant depends on the lubricating effects desired and is well known to those of ordinary
   skill in the art.
            The flavoring substances can include but are not limited to synthetic flavor oils and
   flavoring aromatics and/or natural oils, extracts from plants, leaves, flowers, fruits and so
   forth and combinations thereof. These may include cinnamon oil, oil of wintergreen,
20 peppermint oils, clove oil, bay oil, anise oil, eucalyptus, thyme oil, cedar leaf oil, oil of
   nutmeg, oil of sage, oil of bitter almonds, cassia oil and the like. Also useful as flavors are
   vanilla, citrus oil, including lemon, orange, grape, lime and grapefruit, and fruit essences,
   including apple pear, peach, strawberry, raspberry, cherry, plum, pineapple, apricot and so
   forth. Flavors which have been found to be particularly useful include commercially
25 available orange, grape, cherry and bubble gum flavors and mixtures thereof. The amount
   of flavoring may depend on a number of factors, including the organoleptic effect desired.
            Useful coloring agents can include but are not limited to food, drug and cosmetic
   (FD&C) colors, for example- dyes, pigments, lakes, natural colorants and derived
   colorants and natural colorants. Useful lakes include dyes adsorbed on aluminum
30 hydroxide and other suitable carriers. Examples of suitable colors include FD&C Red No.
   3, FD&C Red No. 40, FD&C Blue No. 1, FD&C Blue No. 2, FD&C Yellow No. 5, FD&C
   Yellow No. 6, FD&C Green No. 3 and combinations thereof. The amount of coloring
                                                 11

      WO 2016/042372                                                        PCT/IB2015/000400
   agent depends on the aesthetic appearance desired and is well known to those skilled in the
   art.
           The present disclosure also concerns an oral solid dosage form comprising the
   porous effervescent composition described above. Examples of the oral solid dosage form
 5 include but are not limited to an effervescent tablet, a powder for oral administration, or
   combinations thereof. The term effervescent tablet also includes variants thereof such as
   an orally disintegrating tablet and a rapidly disintegrating tablet which utilize
   effervescence to achieve the desired results.
           The oral solid dosage form comprises the porous effervescent composition formed
10 from an input blend comprising an acid and a base by granulating the input blend in a
   twin-screw processor, the composition comprising granules formed by an in situ
   granulating agent, wherein the in situ granulating agent is a portion of the acid, the portion
   of the acid being the portion of the acid that has been melted during granulation; and
   optionally, processing excipients.
15         The processing excipients may be selected from non-effervescent disintegrants,
   soluble and insoluble lubricants, flavoring substances, coloring agents, or combinations
   thereof.
           Non- limiting examples of non-effervescent disintegrants include microcrystalline
   cellulose, crospovidone, starches, modified starches, clays such as bentonite, gums such as
20 pectin, tragacanth, alginates, sodium starch glycolate and croscarmellose sodium. The
   amount of non-effervescent disintegrants may be up to about 20 weight percent and is
   preferably between about 2 and 10 weight percent of the oral solid dosage form.
           In accordance with one embodiment, the tablet has a disintegration time of 20 to 90
   seconds in water at room temperature, about 25 'C ± 5 0C. In accordance with an
25 exemplary embodiment, the tablet has a disintegration time of 30 to 60 seconds in water at
   room temperature, about 25 'C ± 5 'C. In accordance with an embodiment, the tablet has
   hardness of at least 3Kp (Kilopond). In accordance with an exemplary embodiment, the
   tablet has hardness of 3 to 20 Kp.
           Any conventional compression techniques well known to the person skilled in the
30 art may be used to form the oral solid dosage form of the present disclosure.
           The present disclosure also relates to a twin screw processor for preparing porous
   effervescent granules. The processor comprises an intake zone for receiving an input blend
   comprising an acid and a base; a granulation initiation zone for melting only a portion of
                                                 12

      WO 2016/042372                                                          PCT/IB2015/000400
    the acid to serve as an in situ granulating agent; a granulation completion zone for
    granulating the input blend; and an outlet for discharging the granules.
             FIG. 2 illustrates a processor (200) for preparing effervescent compositions in
    accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure. The processor (200) comprises
 5  an intake zone (202) for receiving an input blend comprising an acid and a base, a
    granulation initiation zone (204) for melting only a portion of the acid to serve as an in situ
    granulating agent; a granulation completion zone (206) for granulating the input blend;
    and an outlet (208) for discharging the granules.
             The granulation initiation zone of the processor is provided with heating elements
10 to heat the processor barrel to a temperature sufficient to cause melting of only a portion
    of the acid. In some embodiments, the granulation initiation zone is maintained at a
   temperature 10 to 40*C lower than the melting temperature of the acid. In an exemplary
    embodiment, the granulation initiation zone is maintained at a temperature about 20*C
    lower than the melting temperature of the acid. In accordance with an embodiment, the
15 melting of only a portion of the acid is ensured by low residence time in the granulation
    initiation zone. In accordance with an embodiment, the residence time in the processor is
    less than 10 seconds. In accordance with a specific embodiment, the residence time in the
   processor having an L/D of 60, is 8 to 10 seconds. In accordance with a specific
   embodiment, the residence time in the granulation initiation zone is 3 to 5 seconds. In
20 some embodiments, the granulation initiation zone solely consists of conveying elements.
   In some embodiments, the granulation initiation zone consists essentially of conveying
   elements. Conveying elements are the elements that are used for transporting the material
   downstream in a processor without exerting any significant shear on the material.
   Conveying elements help in preventing material stagnation and providing low residence
25 times.
              In some embodiments, the granulation completion zone is maintained at around 25
   to 35"C. In some embodiments, the granulation completion zone of the processor is also
   provided with conveying elements. In accordance with one embodiment, the granulation
   completion zone of the processor solely consists of conveying elements. In some
30 embodiments, the granulation completion zone consists essentially of conveying elements.
             In some embodiments, the processor can further comprise a transition zone
   between the granulation initiation zone and the granulation completion zone. The
   transition zone can also comprise heating elements. The temperature of the transition zone
                                                  13

       WO 2016/042372                                                        PCT/IB2015/000400
    is less than that of the granulation initiation zone. In some embodiments, the transition
    zone is maintained at a temperature lower than that of the granulation initiation zone and
    higher than that of the granulation completion zone. In an exemplary embodiment, the
    transition zone is maintained at 50 to 70*C. In accordance with one embodiment, the
 5  transition zone of the processor consists of conveying elements or a mix of conveying and
    kneading elements. Kneading elements are the elements used to introduce shear energy to
    the material also thereby helping in mixing. Increasing the angle of the kneading elements
    results in decreasing the conveying ability of the elements. In an exemplary embodiment,
    forward conveying 450 angle is used.
10          In some embodiments, the twin-screw processor is a co-rotating twin screw
   processor. In accordance with an embodiment, the co-rotating twin screw processor is a
    co-rotating twin screw extruder. The screw configuration of an exemplary co-rotating twin
    screw extruder is illustrated in FIG. 1.
            The present disclosure also relates to a process for preparing a porous effervescent
15 composition. In some embodiments, the process is used to make a porous effervescent
   composition that has porosity at least 50% greater than the porosity of the blend and which
   retains at least 90% CO 2 content of the input blend.
            In some embodiments, the process comprises feeding an input blend comprising an
   acid and a base into a twin-screw processor, melting only a portion of the acid to serve as
20 an in situ granulating agent, granulating the input blend to form granules, and optionally
   collecting the granules from the twin screw processor.
             In some embodiments, melting of only a portion of the acid can be achieved by
   maintaining the granulation initiation zone at a temperature 10 to 40*C lower than the
   melting temperature of the acid. In some embodiments, melting of only a portion of the
25 acid can be achieved by maintaining low residence time within the processor such as
   within the granulation initiation zone of the processor. In some embodiments, melting of
   only a portion of the acid can be achieved by reducing the length of the granulation
   initiation zone. In some embodiments, the melting of only a portion of the acid can be
   achieved using a lower L/D ratio. In some embodiments, the L/D ratio is 60. The melting
30 of only a portion of the acid can also be achieved by preventing material stagnation within
   the granulation initiation zone. In some embodiments, melting of only a portion of the acid
   is achieved by only using conveying elements within the granulation initiation zone. In
   some embodiments, melting of only a portion of the acid is achieved by essentially using
                                                  14

      WO 2016/042372                                                           PCT/IB2015/000400
   conveying elements within the granulation initiation zone. Combinations of the
   embodiments can also be used to achieve the desired melting of only a portion of the acid.
   The melting of only a portion of the acid also minimizes any potential reactions between
   the acid and the base providing for a high amount (90 to 100%) of carbon dioxide retained
 5 in the effervescent granules.
           In accordance with an embodiment, the melting of a portion of the acid includes
   surface melting of the acid. Surface melting is defined as the melting of that portion of the
   acid that is in physical contact with inner surface of the granulation initiation zone.
           The portion of the acid that melts may be estimated using the torque observed in
10 the processor and using it to calculate the power (P) and specific energy input (SEI). SEI is
   a measure of the energy that is input by the twin screw processor for producing the
   granules and can be in the form of thermal energy, mechanical energy and the like and
   combinations thereof. In accordance with an embodiment, the SEI can be a combination of
   thermal and mechanical energy. That is,
15                                     SEI  = SEIMechanical + SEIThermal
           In accordance with another embodiment, the SEI can be substantially mechanical
   energy. In accordance with an embodiment, the SEI of the processor is less than the energy
   required for complete melting of the acid (Em). In accordance with an exemplary
   embodiment, the SEI of the processor can be about 50% of Em. An estimate of the percent
20 of the acid melting can be obtained using the equation (1) as:
                           Percent acid melted = SEI / Em x 100....... (1)
   where the energy required for complete melting of acid (Em) can be obtained from a
   Differential Scanning Calorimetry (DSC) thermogram of the input blend as well as its
   ingredients.
25         In accordance with an embodiment where SEI is substantially mechanical energy,
   the power (P) and specific energy input (SEIMechanical), can be calculated using the
   equations (2) and (3):
                                   P = 2 7 N T / 60,000 ........ (2)
   where, P= Power (kW)
30         N = Screw Speed (rpm)
           ,= Torque (Nm)
               SEIMechanical = Power (kW) / through put or Feed rate (kg/h) ...... (3)
                                                  15

      WO 2016/042372                                                        PCT/IB2015/000400
   where, SEIMecianical is Mechanical Specific Energy Input (kWh/kg) of the twin screw
   processor.
           The input blend is processed and conveyed towards the outlet of the processor
   from the granulation initiation zone through a granulation completion zone. The
 5 processing and conveying allows the portion of the acid that has been melted to solidify,
   thereby achieving granulation within the processor. In some embodiments, only conveying
   elements or substantially conveying elements are used in a granulation completion zone of
   the processor. The granulation step aids in the formation of discrete free flowing granules
   with high porosity and compressibility. In some embodiments, the process of forming
10 porous effervescent compositions using the twin screw processor can be a batch process.
   In some embodiments, the process of forming effervescent compositions using the twin
   screw processor can be a continuous process. The term "batch process" refers to a process
   where all materials are charged before the start of processing and are discharged at the end
   of processing. The term "continuous process" refers to a process where material is
15 simultaneously charged and discharged during the processing.
           In accordance with one embodiment, the input blend fed into the processor has
   moisture content of less than 0.5%.
   IV.     Overview of several embodiments
20         The compositions, process and processor embodiments disclosed herein provide.
   for the production of effervescent compositions having critical attributes such as higher
   porosity and higher carbon dioxide content as compared to conventional similar
   effervescent compositions. These porous effervescent compositions can be further
   processed using processing excipients to form, for example, effervescent tablets which
25 exhibit improved mechanical strength, and also exhibit rapid disintegration times of
   generally less than 60 seconds.
           The process embodiments disclosed do not require any additives, such as water,
   solvents, or affirmatively added binders. The process and processor embodiments
   disclosed herein also provide for a cost efficient continuous system. The process
30 embodiments disclosed herein are scalable and suitable for rapid production of high
   volumes of effervescent compositions.
           The melting of only a portion of the acid is believed to contribute towards
   achieving effervescent granules having a relative porosity of at least 50% and retained
                                                16

       WO 2016/042372                                                        PCT/IB2015/000400
     carbon dioxide content of at least. 90% of the input blend. In some embodiments, the
     composition has a normal particle size distribution wherein at least 90% of the particles
     are not greater than 1000 microns. Such a particle size distribution aids the free flowing
     nature of the granules. The melting of only a portion of the acid is also believed to
  5  contribute towards an increase in relative porosity of the granules. High porosity of the
     granules aids in rapid disintegration of the tablets. The melting of only a portion of the
     acid is also believed to contribute towards the formation of irregular granules that
     increases their compressibility thereby making the granules suitable for tableting resulting
     in the tablet having sufficient hardness for product handling and packaging activities. The
10   tablets obtained from the granules of the present disclosure have a disintegration time of
     less than 60 seconds and hardness of at least 3kp.
     V.      Examples
             Described herein are examples for determining the moisture content, retained CO 2
15   content, disintegration time, porosity, bulk density and tap density and other properties of
    the porous effervescent composition, specifically granules, formed using embodiments of
    the claimed process.       Some examples highlight the benefits of using the presently
    disclosed compositions and methods in comparison to conventional processes.
             Exemplary processes used for measuring these properties are described below.
20           Determination of Moisture Content: The input blend and the granules were
    analyzed by an infrared moisture balance analyzer at 75'C for 5 minutes. Loss in weight
    was recorded as percent (%) moisture content with respect to their initial weight.
             Determination of Retained CO 2 Content: 5.0 g of input blend and 5.0 g of
    granules were added in two separate 100 ml 10% v/v sulfuric acid solutions. The loss in
25  weight of the input blend and granules due to liberation of CO 2 as a result of the reaction
    between sulfuric acid and bicarbonate or carbonate present in the blend or granules was
    recorded as observed weight of carbon dioxide. The difference between the weight of the
    input blend and granules after reaction and the initial weight of input blend and granules
    respectively was calculated to measure the retained CO 2 content (g) in the blend or
30  granules. The percent (%) relative retained CO 2 content in the granules was then
    calculated using the formula below:
         Relative retained CO 2 content (%) = (Observed Weight (g) of CO 2 in granules X 100)!
                                Observed Weight (g) of CO 2 in input blend
                                                  17

     WO 2016/042372                                                          PCT/IB2015/000400
           Determination      of   Disintegration    Time     of   Effervescent   Tablet:    The
   disintegration time was calculated as the average time required for each of three
   effervescent tablets (number of units tested (n)=3) to disintegrate in 200 ml of purified
   water at room temperature, about 25 'C ± 5 'C and form a clear solution.
 5         Determination of Hardness and Thickness of Effervescent Tablet: The hardness
   was calculated as the average of the hardness measured using Inweka TBH 125 hardness
   tester (Germany) for each of five effervescent tablets (number of units tested (n) =5). The
   thickness was calculated as the average of the thickness measured using vernier callipers
   for each of five effervescent tablets (number of units tested (n) =5).
10         Measurement of Bulk and Tap Density: A known amount (m) of the input blend
   and the granules were added into two separate dry graduated 100 ml cylinders. The
   contents of the two cylinders were leveled without compacting; and the unsettled apparent
   bulk volume (Vo) to the nearest graduated unit was read.
                       The bulk density (g/ml) was calculated using formula:
15                             Bulk Density =  Mass (in) / Bulk Volume (Vo)
          To calculate the tap density, the contents of the two cylinders were tapped
   mechanically upto a maximum of 1250 taps and the apparent tapped volume (Vi ) to the
   nearest graduated unit was read. The tap density was calculated using formula:
                             Tap Density = Mass (in) / Tapped Volume (Vt)
20        Measurement of porosity: Porosity was measured in terms of percentage relative
   bulk porosity and percentage relative tap porosity.
           Percentage relative bulk porosity was calculated considering 1 g specific (Sp)
   volume using formula:
                 %Relative Bulk Porosity = ((Bulk Sp. volume of 1 g granule -Bulk Sp.
25              volume of 1 g input blend) X 100)/ Bulk Sp. volume of 1 g input blend
   Where, Bulk Sp. volume of 1 g granule = 1 / Bulk density of granules; and
               Bulk Sp. volume of I g input blend = 1 / Bulk density of input blend
           Percentage relative tap porosity was calculated considering 1 g specific (Sp)
   volume using formula:
30        % Relative Tap Porosity = ((Tap Sp. volume of 1 g granule - Tap Sp. volume of 1 g
                        input blend) X 100)) / Tap Sp. volume of 1 g input blend
   Where, Tap Sp. volume of 1 g granule = 1 / Tap density of granules
                Tap Sp. volume of 1 g input blend = 1 / Tap density of input blend
                                                18

       WO 2016/042372                                                        PCT/IB2015/000400
          Measurement of Compressibility: Compressibility was measured in terms of
    Hausner ratio and Compressibility Index, as provided in Hausner, H.H., Int. J. Powd.
    Metall, Vol 3, pg 7, 1967 and Carr, R.L., Chem. Eng., Vol 72, Issue 1, pg 163 and Issue 2,
    pg 69, 1965, respectively. Both the citations are incorporated herein by reference.
 5
          Example 1: Preparation of a Porous Effervescent Composition According to the
    Present Disclosure:
          Four experiments were conducted to form exemplary granules with different acids.
    The ingredients used to form the exemplary granules are listed below.
 LO
    Table 1: Ingredient for preparing Exemplary Effervescent Granules
       Exemplary              Ingredients                  Moles                 % w/w
        Granule
                         Citric acid anhydrous              1.00                  44.55
                          Sodium bicarbonate                2.58                  50.28
      Exemplary           Anhydrous sodium                  0.21                   5.16
       Granules 1              carbonate
                               Malic acid                   1.00                  45.70
                          Sodium bicarbonate                1.72                  49.24
      Exemplary           Anhydrous sodium                  0.14                   5.06
       Granules 2              carbonate
                              Adipic acid                   1.00                  47.84
                          Sodium bicarbonate                1.72                  47.29
      Exemplary           Anhydrous sodium                  0.14                   4.85
       Granules 3              carbonate
                             Tartaric acid                  1.00                  48.50
                          Sodium bicarbonate                1.72                  46.69
      Exemplary           Anhydrous sodium                  0.14                   4.79
      Granules 4               carbonate
            To form the granules, each ingredient of the input blend was tray dried at 45'C to
    reduce their moisture content to less than 0.5% w/w followed by sifting of each ingredient
15  separately through ASTM # 60 mesh sieve. The sifted ingredients were mixed in a cone
                                                  19

     WO 2016/042372                                                     PCT/IB2015/000400
  blender to form an input blend. The input blend was processed immediately in a co
  rotating twin screw extruder. The machine specification and the process parameters are
  described in Table 2, below:
5 Table 2: Machine specification and the process parameters
                 Machine Name                                   Omega 20
                Total no. of Barrels                                 10
                 Barrel Diameter                                  20 mm
              Length of Each Barrel                              120 mm
              Total Length of Barrels                           1200 mm
    Machine Length to Diameter Ratio (L/D)                          60
               Screw Configuration                          Please see FIG. 1
                   Screw Speed                                   600 rpm
          Processing Area Temperature                           25cC - 350 C
      Processing area Relative Humidity (%)                       20 +5 %
                 Residence time*                             8 - 10 seconds
                  Element length                                1200 mm
             Maximum Screw Speed                                1000 rpm
             Maximum motor power                                  9 KW
                     Diameter                                   19.6 mm
          Percentage of kneading blocks                             1.6
                                       Screw Elements
                          1.                               RSE 15/15-1CHS
                          2.                                   NRF 40/20
                          3.                                   RFV 40/40
                          4.                                   RFV 40/40
                          5.                                   RFV 40/40
                          6.                                   RFV 40/40
                          7.                                   RFN 40/20
                          8.                                   RSE 30/15
                          9.                                   RSE 15/30
                          10.                                  RSE 15/30
                                            20

WO 2016/042372                PCT/IB2015/000400
               11.     RSE 15/30
               12.     RSE 15/30
               13.     RSE 15/30
               14.     RSE 15/30
               15.     RSE 15/30
               16.     RSE 15/30
               17.     RSE 15/30
               18.     RSE 15/30
               19.     RSE 15/15
               20.     RSE 15/15
               21.     RSE 15/15
               22.     RSE 15/15
               23.     RSE 15/15
               24.     RSE 15/15
               25.     RSE 15/15
               26.    RKB 45/5/10
               27.    RKB 45/5/10
               28.     RSE 15/15
               29.     RSE 20/20
               30.     RSE 20/20
               31.     RSE 20/20
               32.     RSE 20/20
               33.     RSE 20/20
               34.     RSE 20/20
               35.     RSE 20/20
               36.     RSE 20/20
               37.     RSE 20/20
               38.     RSE 20/20
               39.     RSE 20/20
               40.     RSE 20/20
               41.     RSE 20/20
               42.     RSE 20/20
                   21

      WO 2016/042372                                                       PCT/IB2015/000400
                            43.                                     RSE 20/20
                            44.                                     RSE 20/20
                            45.                                     RSE 20/20
                            46.                                     RSE 20/20
                            47.                                     RSE 20/20
                            48.                                     RSE 20/20
                            49.                                     RSE 20/20
                            50.                                     RSE 20/20
                            51.                                     RSE 20/20
                            52.                                     RSE 20/20
                            53.                                     RSE 20/20
                            54.                                     RSE 20/10
                            55.                                     RSE 20/20
   *Residence time (RT) is defined as the time duration of the material spent within the
   processor. RT can be affected by feed rate, screw speed, free volume of the processor and
   density of the material.
 5          List of Abbreviations for Elements
               RSE         Right Handed Screw Element
              RFV          Regular Flight Shovel Element
              RFN          Regular Flight Shovel Element to Normal
              RKB          Right Handed Kneading Block
              NRF          Normal to RFV (transition element)
              CHS          Champer and Step
            While the aforementioned parameters were kept constant for the four experiments,
   the feed rate and the barrel temperature profile were varied as mentioned below.
            Feed Rate: Feed rate was maintained at 186 grams / minute for citric acid; 205
10 grams / minute for malic acid; 225 grams / minute for adipic acid and 215 grams / minute
   for tartaric acid.
            Barrel Temperature Profile for Exemplary Granules formed Using Different
   Acids: Please refer to Table 3 provided below.
                                                -22

      WO 2016/042372                                                          PCT/IB2015/000400
Table 3: Barrel Temperature Profile
   Barrel No.        CO     C1     C2     C3      C4         C5         C6    C7    C8      C9
                 Feeding              Granulation         Transition          Granulation
                   Zone             Initiation Zone         Zone           Completion Zone
      Temp.          30      30     13    130     130        60         30    30    30      30
   (C± 10"C)                        0
     - Citric
       Acid
      Temp.          30      30    120    120     120        60         30    30    30      30
  (*C 10*C)
   Malic Acid
      Temp.          30      30    140    140     140        60         30    30    30      30
  (*C 10*C)
  Adipic Acid
      Temp.          30      30    150    150     150        60         30    30    30      30
  (-C 10 C)
  Tartaric Acid
    The granules obtained from the outlet of the co-rotating twin screw extruder were tray
dried at 45 'C until the loss on drying was less than 0.5% w/w; and stored in a moisture
proof packing. The granules were then assessed to determine their properties. The
properties of the granules obtained in the four experiments have been summarized in Table
4, below.
Table 4: Properties of the effervescent granules
  Parameters          Exemplary               Exemplary              Exemplary            Exemplary
                      Granules 1              Granules 2             Granules 3           Granules 4
                  Containing Citric       Containing Malic           Containing           Containing
                        Acid                      Acid              Adipic Acid         Tartaric Aci<
                  Input     Granules      Input     Granules      Input    Granules    Input    Granul
                  Blend                   Blend                  Blend                 Blend
   Moisture        0.17       0.51         0.19        0.26       0.25       0.34      0.18       0.45
                                               23

 WO 2016/042372                                   PCT/IB2015/000400
Content (%
    w/w)
 Observed        1.43    1.36  1.40    1.35  1.38   1.28      1.32   1.31
 Weight of
  CO 2 (g)
  Relative              95.10         97.82        92.75            99.24
  retained
CO 2 content
of Granules
    Bulk        0.680   0.389 0.762   0.464 0.832  0.488     0.794   0.52
  Density
   (g/cc 3)
Tap Density     1.137.  0.555 1.005   0.633 1.040  0.661     1.118  0.739
   (g/cc 3)
Compressibi     40.00    30.0 24.14   26.67 20.0   26.15     29.03  29.23
 lity index
     (%)
  Hausner       1.667   1.429 1.320   1.364 1.250  1.354     1.408  1.413
    ratio
  Relative        --   74.81    --    64.25   --   70.49       --   51.82
  Specific
    Bulk
  Porosity
     (%)
  Relative        --   104.86   --    58.77   --   57.34       --   51.29
  Specific
     Tap
  Porosity
     (%)
  Median          --     480    --     700    --    630        --    350
  Particle
                                   24

     WO 2016/042372                                                         PCT/IB2015/000400
      diameter
         (pm)
      Particles        --         87.43        --       83.12        -        82.31       --  74.1
     retained on
     ASTM #60
     mesh sieve
          (%)
   **Note: Due to random error in measurement, the value of retained CO 2 content may vary
   between + 5% and may also exceed 100.
 5         As an example, the calculation of % relative retained CO 2 content for Exemplary
   Granules 1 containing Citric acid is shown below:
    % relative retained CO 2 content = (Observed Weight (g) of CO 2 in granules X 100)!
                                                 Observed Weight (g) of CO 2 in input blend
    The values in Table 4 when placed in the equation above yield the following value:
10                 % relative retained CO 2 content = (1.36 X 100)/ 1.43 = 95.10
           As an example, the calculation of % relative specific bulk porosity for Exemplary
   Granules 1 containing Citric acid is shown below:
                  Bulk Sp. volume of 1 g granules = I / Bulk density of granules
               Bulk Sp. volume of 1 g input blend = 1 / Bulk density of input blend
15          % Relative Bulk Porosity = ((Bulk Sp. volume of 1 g granules - Bulk Sp. volume
                     of 1 g input blend) X 100)) / Bulk Sp. volume of 1 g input blend
   The values in Table 4 when placed in the equation above yield the following value:
   Bulk Sp. volume of 1 g granule = 1 / 0.389 = 2.570
   Bulk Sp. volume of 1 g input blend     1 / 0.680 = 1.470
20                    % Relative Bulk Porosity = (2.57 - 1.47 X 100) / 1.47   = 74.81
   As an example, the calculation of % relative Specific Tap Porosity for Exemplary
   Granules I containing Citric acid is shown below:
                   Tap Sp. volume of 1 g granules = 1 / Tap density of granules
                Tap Sp. volume of 1 g input blend = 1 / Tap density of input blend
25 % Relative Tap Porosity = ((Tap Sp. volume of 1 g granules - Tap Sp. volume of 1 g input
                         blend) X 100))/ Tap Sp. volume of 1 g input blend
                                                  25

      WO 2016/042372                                                         PCT/IB2015/000400
           The values in Table 4 when placed in the equation above yield the following value:
                        Tap Sp. volume of 1 g granules = 1 / 0.555 = 1.801
                       Tap Sp. volume of 1 g input blend = 1 / 1.137 = 0.879
                % Relative Tap Porosity   = (1.801 - 0.879 X 100) / 0.879 = 104.86
 5         Observations: The % relative retained CO 2 content was found to be greater than
    90% and the relative specific bulk porosity as well as relative specific tap porosity of the
    granules was found to be greater than 50%.
           Example 2: Preparation of Exemplary Effervescent Tablets
10         The exemplary granules 1-4 obtained in the four experiments described in Example
    1 were maintained at 45'C till the loss on drying was 0.5% w/w. The dried granules were
   passed through ASTM mesh # 20 sieve. The granules from the above step were
   compressed into tablets weighing 2.5 grams using a single station table top Inweka tablet
   compression machine (Ahmedabad, India) with 20 mm round flat faced bevel edge
15 tooling. The tablets were then assessed to determine their properties. The properties of the
   tablets obtained in the four experiments have been summarized in Table 5, below.
   Table 5: Properties of Tablets obtained using the Exemplary Effervescent Granules
      Effervescent Tablet Obtained           Hardness             Disintegration Time (in
                Using Acid                  (Kiloponds)                   seconds)
                                                (n=5)                       (n=3)
                Citric Acid                      9.4                          35
                Malic Acid                       6.3                          30
                Adipic Acid                      6.4                          55
               Tartaric Acid                     3.3                          90
           Observation: The tablets were observed to have hardness of at least 3 Kp with a
20 disintegration time between 20 and 90 seconds.
   Example 3: Preparation of Effervescent Tablets with API
           Three experiments were conducted to form effervescent tablets comprising the
   APIs - Aspirin, N- Acetyl-L-Cysteine (NAC) and Cefixime. The ingredients used to form
25 the effervescent tablets are provided below.
                                                 26

      WO 2016/042372                                                       PCT/IB2015/000400
   Table 6: Ingredients for Preparing Effervescent Tablets comprising an API
   Tablets                                        Ingredients                %w/w
    Tablet 1: 325 mg of aspirin in 4.06              Aspirin                   8.00
                   g tablet                 Exemplary Granules 1              86.15
                                                   Sucralose                   0.80
                                              Strawberry Flavor                0.05
                                               Sodium benzoate                 5.00
    Tablet 2: 450 mg of N- acetyl - L-                NAC                     18.00
      cysteine (NAC) in 2.5 g tablet        Exemplary Granules 1              76.15
                                                   Sucralose                   0.80
                                              Strawberry Flavor                0.05
                                               Sodium benzoate                 5.00
             Tablet 3: 200 mg of             Cefixime Trihydrate              10.00
         of Cefixime in 2.0 g tablet        Exemplary Granules 1              84.15
                                                   Sucralose                   0.80
                                              Strawberry Flavor                0.05
                                               Sodium benzoate                 5.00
            To form the effervescent tablets 1, 2 and 3 having composition mentioned in Table
   6 above, the Exemplary Granules 1 prepared in accordance with Example 1 was passed
 5 through ASTM # 30 mesh sieve. The API was separately sieved through ASTM # 30 mesh
   sieve. The Exemplary Granules 1 and the API thus obtained were mixed manually. Other
   ingredients (sucralose and strawberry flavour) were passed through ASTM # 60 mesh
   sieve and then mixed with the mixture obtained above. The final mixture was lubricated
   with sodium benzoate that has been passed through ASTM # 60 mesh sieve. The
10 lubricated mixture was compressed into tablets using a single station table top Inweka
   tablet compression machine (Ahmedabad, India) with 20 mm round flat face bevel edge
   tooling.
            The effervescent tablets thus obtained were then assessed to determine their
   properties. The properties of the tablets obtained in the three experiments have been
15 summarized in Table 7, below.
                                                 ,27

       WO 2016/042372                                                      PCT/IB2015/000400
    Table 7: Properties of the Effervescent Tablets
              Property              Tablets of       Tablets of        Tablets of Cefixime
                                      Asprin            NAC
        Thickness (mm) (n=5)            9.80            6.20                   4.93
         Hardness (Kp) (n=5)             7.0             6.1                    5.7
         Disintegration time             36              26                     25
           (Seconds)(n=3)
            Observations: The tablets were observed to have hardness of at least 5 Kp with
    disintegration time of as low as 25 seconds.
  5
            Example 4: Preparation of effervescent granules by using meltable binder as an
    affirmatively added granulating agent
            In one example, tablets were made using a process wherein an affirmatively added
    binder was used to form granules. The ingredients used to form the tablets in this example
10  are provided below.
    Table 8: Ingredients for preparing granules using a process involving use of an
    affirmatively added binder
      S. No.                           Ingredients                               %w/w
         1                        Citric acid anhydrous                           40.09
         2                         Sodium bicarbonate                             45.26
         3                    Sodium carbonate anhydrous                           4.65
         4                Xylitol (affirmatively added binder)                    10.00
                                           Total                                 100.00
15          Each ingredient was tray dried at 45'C to reduce the moisture content less than 0.5
    %w/w and sifted separately through ASTM # 60 mesh sieve. The dispensed ingredients
    were mixed manually and processed immediately as per the processing conditions
    mentioned below using a co-rotating twin screw extruder. The machine specification and
    the process parameters are described in Table 9, below:
20
                                                  28

       WO 2016/042372                                                        PCT/IB2015/000400
   Table 9: Machine specifications and processing conditions
        1                   Machine                                  Omega 20
       2                 Barrel Diameter                               20 mm
       3               Each Barrel length                             120 mm
       4               Total no. of Barrels                            10 nos.
       5             Total Length of Barrel                          1200 mm
       6                  Machine L/D                                    60
       7                  Screw Speed                                600 rpm
       8              Screw Configuration                      Please see Figure 1
       9                    Feed Rate                      10 Hz (215 grams / minute)
       10          Barrel temperature Profile               As illustrated in Table 10
        The process was carried out in a twin screw extruder having the novel screw
   configuration and elements as used in the disclosed process.
 5
   Table 10: Barrel temperature Profile
     Barrel No.       CO    C1       C2      C3       C4     C5      C6     C7     C8      C9
    Temperature       30    30      100      100      100    60      30      30    30      30
      ("C±10*C)
           The granules thus obtained were tray dried at 45'C until the moisture content was
   less than 0.5 %w/w and stored in moisture proof packing. The granules were then assessed
10 to determine their properties. The properties of the granules have been summarized in
   Table 11, below.
   Table 11: Properties of granules
                         Parameters                                     Granules
       Relative retained CO 2 content of granules (%)                     84.74
                    Bulk Density (g/cc3)                                  0.463
                  Relative % bulk porosity                                  15
                                                 29

       WO 2016/042372                                                       PCT/IB2015/000400
           Observations: The CO 2 content efficiency for granules made using the above
   method was found to be much lower than that obtained using the teachings of the present
   disclosure. Lower content of CO 2 likely is attributable to loss in CO 2 due to the reaction
   between the acid and the base. It is envisaged that any additional elements such as
 5 kneading elements if added to the granulation initiation zone will not yield satisfactory
   granules.
           In view of the many possible embodiments to which the principles of the present
   disclosure may be applied, it should be recognized that the illustrated embodiments are
   only preferred examples of the present disclosure and should not be taken as limiting the
 o scope of the presently disclosed subject matter. Rather, the scope of the present disclosure
   is defined by the following claims.
   SPECIFIC EMBODIMENTS ARE DESCRIBED BELOW
           A granular composition comprising an anhydrous acid component comprising a
 5 combination of a portion of the acid that has been melted and a portion of the acid that has
   not been melted and; an anhydrous base component comprising a carbonate functional
   group, wherein the base component is capable of reacting with the acid component to form
   carbon dioxide; and wherein the anhydrous acid component and the anhydrous base
   component are present in a weight ratio ranging from 1: 9 to 9: 1 and the composition does
 0 not comprise an affirmatively added granulating agent.
           Such composition(s), wherein the composition further comprises an active
   pharmaceutical agent selected from a group consisting of an anti-infective, an
   antibacterial, an antihistamine, a decongestant, an antiinflammatory, an antiparasitic, an
   antiviral, an antifungal, an amoebicidal, a trichomonocidal agent, an analgesic, an
25 antiarthritic, an antiasthmatic, an anticoagulant, an anticonvulsant, an antidepressant, an
   antidiabetic, an antineoplastic, an antipsychotic, an antihypertensive, an expectorant, an
   electrolyte, a laxative, a phytopharmaceutical,       a muscle relaxant, a diuretic, or
   combinations thereof.
           Such composition(s), wherein the composition further comprises aspirin, N
30 Acetyl-L-Cysteine, Cefixime, or a combination thereof.
           A porous effervescent composition formed from an input blend comprising an acid
   and a base by granulating the input blend in a twin-screw processor, the porous
   effervescent composition comprising granules formed by an in situ granulating agent,
                                                 30

      WO 2016/042372                                                          PCT/IB2015/000400
   wherein the in situ granulating agent is a portion of the acid, the portion of the acid being a
   portion of the acid that melts during granulation.
            Such composition(s), wherein the porous effervescent composition has porosity at
   least 50 % greater than the porosity of the input blend.
 5          Such composition(s), wherein the porous effervescent composition has retained
   carbon dioxide content of at least 90 % of the input blend.
            Such composition(s), wherein the composition does not contain, or is free of, an
   affirmatively added granulating agent.
            Such composition(s), wherein one or both of the acid and the base of the input
10 blend is anhydrous.
            Such composition(s), wherein the input blend has moisture content of less than
   0.5% w/w of the composition.
            Such composition(s), wherein the acid is selected from a group consisting of citric
   acid, tartaric acid, adipic acid, malic acid, or combinations thereof.
15          Such composition(s), wherein the input blend further comprises one or more
   ingredients selected from a group consisting of pharmaceutical, food, veterinary,
   nutraceutical,    horticultural, household, culinary,     pesticidal, agricultural,  cosmetic,
   herbicidal, industrial, cleansing, confectionery and flavoring agents, or combinations
   thereof.
20          Such composition(s), wherein the input blend further comprises one or more
   processing excipients selected from a group consisting of soluble and insoluble lubricants,
   flavoring substances, coloring agents, or combinations thereof.
           An oral solid dosage form comprising a porous effervescent composition formed
   from an input blend comprising an acid and a base by granulating the input blend in a
25 twin-screw processor, the porous effervescent composition comprising granules formed by
   an in situ granulating agent, wherein the in situ granulating agent is a portion of the acid,
   the portion of the acid being a portion of the acid that melts during granulation; and one or
   more optional processing excipients.
            Such form(s), wherein one or both of the acid and the base of the input blend is
30 anhydrous.
            Such form(s), wherein the porous effervescent composition has porosity at least 50
   % greater than the porosity of the input blend.
                                                   31

        WO 2016/042372                                                          PCT/IB2015/000400
             Such form(s), wherein the porous effervescent composition has a percent retained
    carbon dioxide content of at least 90 % of the input blend.
             Such form(s), wherein the acid is selected from a group consisting of citric acid,
    tartaric acid, adipic acid, malic acid, or combinations thereof.
 5           Such form(s), further comprising one or more ingredients selected from a group
    consisting of pharmaceutical, food, veterinary, nutraceutical, horticultural, household,
    culinary, pesticidal, agricultural, cosmetic, herbicidal, industrial, cleansing, confectionery
    and flavoring agents, or combinations thereof.
             Such form(s), wherein the processing excipients are selected from a group
 0  consisting of from non-effervescent disintegrants, soluble and insoluble lubricants,
    flavoring substances, coloring agents, or combinations thereof.
             Such form(s), wherein the oral solid dosage form is selected from a group
    consisting of an effervescent tablet, a powder for oral administration, or a combination
    thereof.
 .5          Such form(s), wherein the effervescent tablet is a rapidly disintegrating tablet or an
    orally disintegrating tablet.
             Such form(s), wherein the effervescent tablet has a disintegration time of 20 to 90
    seconds in water at room temperature of about 25 0C ± 5 *C.
             Such form(s), wherein the effervescent tablet has hardness of at least 3Kp.
 o           A process for preparing porous effervescent granules, the process comprising
    feeding an input blend comprising an acid and a base into a twin-screw processor; melting
    only a portion of the acid to serve as an in situ granulating agent; granulating the input
    blend to form granules; and optionally collecting the granules from the twin screw
    processor granulating the input blend to form granules.
25           Such process(es), wherein the melting of only a portion of the acid is achieved in a
    granulation initiation zone of the twin screw processor without any material stagnation, the
    granulation initiation zone consisting essentially of conveying elements.
             Such process(es), wherein the melting of only a portion of the acid is achieved by
    keeping low residence time within the twin-screw processor.
30           Such process(es), wherein the melting of only a portion of the acid is achieved by
    keeping low residence time within the granulation initiation zone of the twin-screw
    processor.
                                                   32

       WO 2016/042372                                                         PCT/IB2015/000400
             Such process(es), wherein the granulation initiation zone is maintained at a
    temperature sufficient to cause melting of only a portion of the acid.
             Such process(es), wherein specific input energy of the twin screw processor is less
    than the energy required for completely melting the acid.
  5          Such process(es), wherein the twin-screw processor is a co-rotating twin screw
    extruder.
             Such process(es), wherein the granules collected from the twin screw processor
    have porosity at least 50 % greater than the porosity of the input blend.
             Such process(es), wherein the granules collected from the twin screw processor
 10 have retained carbon dioxide content of at least 90 % of the input blend.
             Such process(es), wherein the process is a continuous process or a batch process.
             A twin screw processor for preparing porous effervescent granules, the twin-screw
    processor comprising an intake zone for receiving an input blend comprising an acid and a
    base; a granulation initiation zone for melting a portion of the acid to serve as an in situ
 t5 granulating agent; a granulation completion zone for granulating the input blend; and
             an outlet for discharging the granules.
             Such processor(s), wherein the granulation initiation zone consists essentially of
    conveying elements.
             Such processor(s), wherein the granulation initiation zone comprises heating
 !0 elements to maintain the granulation initiation zone at a temperature sufficient to melt only
    a portion of the acid.
             Such processor(s), wherein the granulation completion zone consists essentially of
    conveying elements.
             Such processor(s), wherein the granulation completion zone is maintained at a
25  temperature lower than that of the granulation initiation zone.
             Such processor(s), further comprising a transition zone between the granulation
    initiation zone and the granulation completion zone, the transition zone maintained at a
    temperature lower than that of the granulation initiation zone and higher than that of the
    granulation completion zone.
30           Such processor(s), wherein the twin-screw processor is a co-rotating twin screw
    extruder.
             Porous effervescent granules comprising an acid and a base, wherein the porous
    effervescent granules have porosity at least 50% greater than the porosity of an input blend
                                                   33

      WO 2016/042372                                                          PCT/IB2015/000400
   used to prepare the granules and the granules retain at least 90% of carbon dioxide of the
   input blend.
           A composition, comprising a carbonate-containing base; and a combination of
   melted acid and un-melted acid, the combination configured to increase the porosity of the
 5 composition by at least 50%.
           A composition, comprising a carbonate-containing base; and a combination of
   melted acid and un-melted acid, the combination configured to retain at least 90% of
   carbon dioxide.
           A porous effervescent composition formed from an input blend comprising an acid
tO and a base by granulating the input blend in a twin-screw processor, the porous
   effervescent composition comprising granules formed by an in situ granulating agent,
   wherein the in situ granulating agent is a portion of the acid, the portion of the acid being a
   portion of the acid that melts during granulation and where the specific input energy of the
   twin screw processor does not exceed 50% of the energy required for completely melting
L5 the acid.
                                                 -34

     WO 2016/042372                                                        PCT/IB2015/000400
   We Claim:
   1. A granular composition comprising:
                 an anhydrous acid component comprising a combination of a portion of the
        acid that has been melted and a portion of the acid that has not been melted and;
 5               an anhydrous base component comprising a carbonate functional group,
        wherein the base component is capable of reacting with the acid component to form
        carbon dioxide; and
                 wherein the anhydrous acid component and the anhydrous base component
        are present in a weight ratio ranging from 1: 9 to 9: 1 and the composition does not
10      comprise an affirmatively added granulating agent.
   2. The composition of claim 1, wherein the composition further comprises an active
      pharmaceutical agent selected from a group consisting of an anti-infective, an
      antibacterial, an antihistamine, a decongestant, an antiinflammatory, an antiparasitic,
15    an antiviral, an antifungal, an amoebicidal, a trichomonocidal agent, an analgesic, an
      antiarthritic, an antiasthmatic, an anticoagulant, an anticonvulsant, an antidepressant,
      an antidiabetic,    an antineoplastic,    an  antipsychotic,   an antihypertensive,   an
      expectorant, an electrolyte, a laxative, a phytopharmaceutical, a muscle relaxant, a
      diuretic, or combinations thereof.
20
   3. A porous effervescent composition formed from an input blend comprising an acid and
      a base by granulating the input blend in a twin-screw processor, the porous
      effervescent composition comprising granules formed by an in situ granulating agent,
      wherein the in situ granulating agent is a portion of the acid, the portion of the acid
25    being a portion of the acid that melts during granulation.
   4. The porous effervescent composition of claim 3, wherein the porous effervescent
      composition has porosity at least 50% greater than the porosity of the input blend.
30 5. The porous effervescent composition of claim 3, wherein the porous effervescent
      composition has retained carbon dioxide content of at least 90% of the input blend.
                                                35

       WO 2016/042372                                                          PCT/IB2015/000400
    6. The porous effervescent composition of claim 3, wherein the composition does not
        contain, or is free of, an affirmatively added granulating agent.
    7. The porous effervescent composition of claim 3, wherein one or both of the acid and
  5     the base of the input blend is anhydrous.
    8. The porous effervescent composition of claim 3, wherein the input blend has moisture
        content of less than 0.5% w/w of the composition.
 to 9. The porous effervescent composition of claim 3, wherein the acid is selected from a
        group consisting of citric acid, tartaric acid, adipic acid, malic acid, or combinations
        thereof.
    10. The porous effervescent composition of claim 3, wherein the input blend further
 t5     comprises one or more ingredients selected from a group consisting of pharmaceutical,
        food,   veterinary,    nutraceutical,   horticultural, household,    culinary, pesticidal,
        agricultural, cosmetic, herbicidal, industrial, cleansing, confectionery and flavoring
        agents, or combinations thereof.
  0 11. An oral solid dosage form comprising:
        a porous effervescent composition formed from an input blend comprising an acid and
        a base by granulating the input blend in a twin-screw processor, the porous
        effervescent composition comprising granules formed by an in situ granulating agent,
        wherein the in situ granulating agent is a portion of the acid, the portion of the acid
25      being a portion of the acid that melts during granulation; and one or more optional
        processing excipients.
    12. The oral solid dosage form of claim 11, wherein one or both of the acid and the base of
        the input blend is anhydrous.
30
    13. The oral solid dosage form of claim 11, wherein the porous effervescent composition
        has porosity at least 50 % greater than the porosity of the input blend.
                                                    36

       WO 2016/042372                                                              PCT/IB2015/000400
     14. The oral solid dosage form of claim 11, wherein the porous effervescent composition
         has retained carbon dioxide content of at least 90 % of the input blend.
    15. The oral solid dosage form of claim 11, wherein the acid is selected from a group
  5      consisting of citric acid, tartaric acid, adipic acid, malic acid, or combinations thereof.
    16. The oral solid dosage form of claim 11, further comprising one or more ingredients
         selected from a group consisting of pharmaceutical, food, veterinary, nutraceutical,
         horticultural, household, culinary, pesticidal, agricultural,          cosmetic, herbicidal,
 LO      industrial, cleansing, confectionery and flavoring agents, or combinations thereof.
    17. The oral solid dosage form of claim 11, wherein the oral solid dosage form is selected
         from a group consisting of an effervescent tablet, a powder for oral administration, or a
         combination thereof.
 L5
    18. The oral solid dosage form of claim 17, wherein the effervescent tablet is a rapidly
         disintegrating tablet or an orally disintegrating tablet.
    19. The oral solid dosage form of claim 17, wherein the effervescent tablet has a
  !      disintegration time of 20 to 90 seconds in water at room temperature of about 25 *C
         5 oC.
    20. The oral solid dosage form of claim 17, wherein the effervescent tablet has hardness of
         at least 3Kp.
25
    21. A process for preparing porous effervescent granules, the process comprising:
                     feeding an input blend comprising an acid and a base into a twin-screw
              processor;
                     melting only a portion of the acid to serve as an in situ granulating agent;
30                   granulating the input blend to form granules; and
                     optionally collecting the granules from the twin screw processor.
                                                      37

     WO 2016/042372                                                          PCT/IB2015/000400
   22. The process of claim 21, wherein the melting of only a portion of the acid is achieved
       in a granulation initiation zone of the twin screw processor without any material
       stagnation, the granulation initiation zone consisting essentially of conveying
       elements.
 5
   23. The process of claim 21, wherein the melting of only a portion of the acid is achieved
       by keeping low residence time within the twin-screw processor.
   24. The process of claim 21, wherein the granulation initiation zone is maintained at a
10     temperature sufficient to cause melting of only a portion of the acid.
   25. The process of claim 21, wherein the twin-screw processor is a co-rotating twin screw
       extruder.
15 26. The process of claim 21, wherein the granules collected from the twin screw processor
       have porosity at least 50 % greater than the porosity of the input blend.
   27. The process of claim 21, wherein the granules collected from the twin screw processor
       have retained carbon dioxide content of at least 90 % of the input blend.
20
   28. A twin screw processor for preparing porous effervescent granules, the twin-screw
       processor comprising:
                   an intake zone for receiving an input blend comprising an acid and a base;
                   a granulation initiation zone for melting only a portion of the acid to serve
25     as an in situ granulating agent;
                   a granulation completion zone for granulating the input blend; and
                   an outlet for discharging the granules.
   29. The twin-screw processor of claim 28, wherein the granulation initiation zone consists
30     essentially of conveying elements.
                                                 38

      WO 2016/042372                                                         PCT/IB2015/000400
    30. The twin-screw processor of claim 28, wherein the granulation initiation zone
         comprises heating elements to maintain the granulation initiation zone at a temperature
         sufficient to melt only a portion of the acid.
  5 31. The twin-screw processor of claim 28, wherein the granulation completion zone
        consists essentially of conveying elements.
    32. The twin-screw processor of claim 28, wherein the granulation completion zone is
        maintained at a temperature lower than that of the granulation initiation zone.
10
    33. The twin-screw processor of claim 28, further comprising a transition zone between
        the granulation initiation zone and the granulation completion zone, the transition zone
        maintained at a temperature lower than that of the granulation initiation zone and
        higher than that of the granulation completion zone.
15
    34. The twin-screw processor of claim 28, wherein the twin-screw processor is a co
        rotating twin screw extruder.
    35. Porous effervescent granules comprising an acid and a base, wherein the porous
20      effervescent granules have porosity at least 50% greater than the porosity of an input
        blend used to prepare the granules and the granules retain at least 90% of carbon
        dioxide of the input blend.
                                                   39

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
