ABSTRACT
An in-ground floor guide channel for a top hung sliding door including an
elongated main body having a base plate along said main body length. The
base plate at opposing longitudinal edges including inwardly inclined surfaces
aligned one towards the other ending in a substantially upstanding collar upon
each inclined surface, wherein a gap defined between each upstanding collar
provides a robust guide for guide pins or guide blades of the top hung sliding
door to be directionally guided within the in-ground floor guide channel.

        1/6
             32
24
162
    12
        14
       Figure 1

 AN IN-GROUND FLOOR GUIDE CHANNEL FOR A SLIDING DOOR AND A
                     SUPPORT ARRANGEMENT THEREOF
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[001] This invention relates to in-ground floor guide channels, the kind one
equates with top hung sliding doors that for the most part at the base of the
door include blade guides or guide pins that are guided through channel to
assist in opening and closing the door.
BACKGROUND ART DISCUSSION
[002]    It has been found that these kinds of in-ground floor guide channels
which have had concrete formed about their configuration do tend to
deteriorate in their effectiveness to provide a fluid and non-obstructive sliding
arrangement over time.
 [003] These conventional in-ground guide channels through time tend to
 collapse inwards towards the centre because of general ground surface traffic
 and stresses placed across the channel. If there is significant pressure placed
 upon the surface of the channel through traffic at ground level and the like,
 such as forklifts, cars, trucks and so forth, the edges of the channel tend to
 pull away or become weaken from the concrete to which the channel has
 been formed or set in.
 [004] As there is no real structural support from the concrete formed around
 the channel this pressure at the surface as introduced above sees an inward
 collapse of the channel walls around the centre.
 [005] Inward collapsing of the channel walls also results from the gradual
 build up of dirt between the outer edge of the channel and the concrete. As is
 to be appreciated the situation can get worse as the more pressure placed
  upon the channel through traffic weakens the formed support of the channel
 within the concrete which creates a greater opportunity for further build up of
 dirt and debris between the outer edge of the channel and the concrete.

[006] Also the in-ground guide channel provides a slot within the ground that
acts as a place for rubbish and dirt and so forth to accumulate withinside the
channel.
[007] As the guide blades or guide pins move back and forth over such
accumulated debris the efficiency and ease with which the sliding action of the
door can operated maybe reduced because of these obstacles.
[008] Therefore it would be particularly advantageous if one was able to
provide an in-ground floor guide channel which could provide stability of
structure over prolonged use of the guide channel and avoid the tendency of
that collapsing inwardly of the vertical upright sides of the channel towards the
centre despite the problems referred to above.
[009] It is an object of the invention to provide such an improved in-ground
floor guide channel for top hung sliding doors which is able to overcome, or at
least substantially ameliorate, the problems associated with conventional
channels that are referred to above.
[010] Further objects and advantages of the invention will become apparent
from a complete reading of this specification.
 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
 [011] According in one form of the invention, there is provided an in-ground
floor guide channel for a sliding door, said channel including;
         an elongated main body having a base plate along said main body
 length;
         said base plate at opposing longitudinal edges including inwardly
 inclined surfaces aligned one towards the other ending in a substantially
 upstanding collar upon each inclined surface, wherein a gap defined between
 each upstanding collar provides a robust guide for guide pins or guide blades
 of the top hung sliding door to be directionally guided within the in-ground floor
 guide channel.
                                          2

[012] Advantageously the inwardly tapered inclined surfaces that are aligned
such that they end in the upright upstanding collars which provide the
appropriate gap and robust guide confines for the guide blades or pins in the
channel but these inclined surfaces by design are able to bite into the
concrete which will be formed around such an in-ground floor guide channel to
prevent the inward collapse towards the centre of the upright vertical supports
that one would expect as a result of the general surface traffic that crosses
over the channel as well as explained above to the problem of the gradual
build up of dirt between the outer edge of the channel and the concrete that
develops over time.
[013] In the channel of this invention, if there is significant pressure placed
 upon the surface of the channel through traffic crossing over the channel that
would include heavy objects such as loaded forklifts, cars, trucks and so forth
the added strength provided by the inclined sides biting into the concrete
 prevents this pulling away of the edges of the channel from the concrete
 allowing the walls of the channel to structurally stay intact rather than
 collapsing.
 [014] If one was to look at the channel in a general cross-section view, the
 lateral base of the conventional U shape has been increased in dimensions
 and while there needs to be that guide gap so that the guide blades or pins
 can be orientated during sliding so that the door can be guided from point A to
 point B, this is being achieved by the upstanding collars that extend from the
 inclined surfaces, away from the base of the channel.
 [015] The re-shaping of the conventional substantially flat based U channel
 to this unique configuration which is more conical or triangular in cross section
 towards the base, again provides an inherent ability within the in-ground floor
 guide channel itself once the concrete has been formed about it to maintain its
 structural integrity despite ongoing continuous traffic movement on the
 surface.
  [016] Advantageously the increasing of the width of the base of the channel
  along with the introduction on the inwardly inclined surfaces provides spacing
                                          3

away from the guide blades or pins wherein rubbish rather than being
accumulated along that part of the guide channel in which the guide blades or
pins are moving through, can be pushed aside into the cornered triangular
edges away from the actual guide blades and/or guide pins of the sliding door.
[017] In preference the substantially upstanding collar for each of the
inwardly inclined surfaces at its upper edge includes a lateral lip along the
length of the floor guide channel terminating in a shouldered edge such that
the upstanding collar, lateral lip and edge shoulder provide a substantially
inverted flat based U shape.
[018] In preference in one embodiment of the invention the in-ground floor
guide channel for a top hung sliding door further includes an in-ground
support bracket wherein the support bracket includes a main frame having a
base plate flanked by two vertical upright plates, each vertical upright plate
having a shaped void corresponding with the shape of the in-ground floor
guide channel such that the in-ground floor guide channel is able to nest
therein said support bracket.
[019] In preference the shaped voids corresponding to the shape of the in
ground floor guide channel include two tab extensions substantially of the
same dimensions and shape so as to be adapted to be insertable into the
 inverted flat based U shape of the upstanding collar, lateral lip and the edge
shoulder of the in-ground floor guide channel to rest and support therein.
 [020] An advantage of the support bracket provides a more convenient way
for the in-ground floor guide channel to be levelled, aligned and fastened into
 place before the concrete is formed about the in-ground floor guide channel.
 [021] Advantageously the support bracket arrangement as will be described
 also in greater detail below, can assist the in-ground floor guide channel to
 maintain its structural shape and to provide even greater support to reduce
the potential for the inward collapse of the channel walls overtime.
 [022] Advantageously by including the tab extensions on each of vertical
 upright plates of the support bracket and to be configured such that they
                                          4

comfortably nest in and rest within the lateral lip and edge shoulder of the
channel guide provides a fitted match to again provide additional strength and
support so as to remove or substantially reduce the tendency of the walls of
the guide channel to collapse in despite as introduced above the significant
exposure to the surface traffic upon the channel, which could include heavy
objects such as loaded forklifts, cars, trucks and so forth.
[023] In preference the in-ground floor guide channel is a continuous integral
length that can be cut to size as required.
[024] In preference the support bracket for the in-ground floor guide channel
is an integral unitary sheet of metal.
[025] An advantage of such an arrangement is that both the in-ground floor
guide channel and the support bracket provide the relevant functionality by
virtue of their inherent design.
[026] Other than fastening the support bracket into place using conventional
fastening means such as securing bolts and so forth, it is the configured
shape and the interaction of the in-ground floor guide channel nestable
withinside the support bracket and the way in which the tab extensions extend
 up into the inverted flat based U shape of the lateral lip and edge shoulder of
the guide channel that provides the necessary structural association between
the two parts.
 [027] In order now to describe the invention in greater detail a series of
 preferred embodiments will be presented with the assistance of the following
 illustrations and accompanying text.
 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE ILLUSTRATIONS
 [028] Figure 1 is a top perspective view of the in-ground floor guide channel
 and the preferred embodiment of this invention.
 [029] Figure 2 is a bottom looking up perspective view of the in-ground floor
 guide channel for a sliding door in a preferred embodiment of this invention.
                                          5

[030] Figure 3 is a cross-sectional view of the in-ground floor guide channel
for a sliding door shown in Figures 1 and 2.
[031] Figure 4 is a perspective view of the support bracket for the in-ground
floor guide channel in a preferred embodiment of the invention.
[032] Figure 5 is a perspective view showing the in-ground floor guide
channel being supported within the support bracket in a preferred embodiment
of the invention.
[033] Figure 6 is a similar perspective view to Figure 5 however it shows by
way of dotted lines, the internal mating and support of the in-ground floor
guide channel within the support bracket.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE ILLUSTRATIONS
[034] Referring to the drawings now in greater detail wherein the in-ground
floor guide channel for a sliding door is shown generally as (10).
 [035] It should be envisaged that the in-ground floor guide channel would be
of a continuous length and cut to the required lengths as required.
 [036] For the most part there is a base plate (12) which at the respective
edged corners (14) and (16) have the opposing inclined surfaces (18), (20),
 running towards each other ending in the upstanding collars (22) (24) which
 provide and define the gap (28).
 [037] The upstanding collars (22) and (24) are linked with the lateral lip (30)
 and (32) which end in the shouldered edge (34) and (36).
 [038] These provide the inverted flat based U shape (29) and (31) which as
 will be described in greater detail in relation to Figure 6 correspond with the  N
 tab extensions on the vertical upright plates of the support bracket in which
 the in-ground floor guide channel would rest therein.
 [039] Looking generally at Figures 1 to 3 it is clear to see that the base plate
 (12) and the inclined surfaces (18) and (20) provide more of a triangular
 shape.
                                           6

[040] In the conventional in-ground floor channel the collars (22) and (24)
would for the most part run vertically down all the way to the base plate.
[041] As explained above there is the tendency through time, due to the
traffic placed on the surface of the channel, for the sides to collapse in
towards the middle which would then reduce or disfigure the defined gap
which allows the guide blades or pins of the sliding door to comfortably be
guided there along.
[042] Advantageously in this invention the inclined surfaces (18) and (20)
along with the upstanding collars (22) and (24) still provide the rigidity and
robust support to be able to guide and direct the guide blades and/or guide
pins of the sliding door in the channel, but by flanging out into the triangular
configuration towards the base (12) of the in-ground floor guide channel (10),
means that the inclined sides are literally able to in a sense bite into the
concrete which would be formed about the in-ground floor channel (10) when
placed within the ground.
[043] Hence if there is significant pressure placed upon the surface of the
channel through ground level traffic the added strength provided by the
 inclined sides biting into the concrete prevents this pulling away of the edges
of the channel from the concrete which would have allowed debris to build up
therein leading to an inward collapse of the channel walls around the centre.
 [044] Figure 4 introduces a further advantageous feature of the invention
 although it need not be essential to the invention as the in-ground floor guide
 channel (10) described above in itself would be inherently adapted to
 overcome, at least to a certain extent, the problems foretold in connection with
 collapsing of the channel walls and rubbish accumulation.
 [045] Nonetheless the support bracket shown generally as (36) provides a
 convenient means in which the in-ground floor channel (10) can be supported
 therein so as it can be conveniently leveled, aligned and fastened into place
 before the concrete slab is poured and formed about the in-ground floor
 channel.
                                          7

[046] The support bracket (36) includes a base platform (38) with two vertical
upright supports (40) and (42).
[047] Each of the vertical upright supports (40) and (42) include a slot made
up of edges (54), (52), (48) and (50) which provide a void shape which
corresponds with the cross-sectional configuration of the in-ground floor
channel (10) so that it can be nested therein the support bracket (36).
[048] The vertical uprights (40) and (42) also include corresponding inclines
(41) and (43) on the vertical upright (40) and inclines (45) and (47) on the
vertical upright (42) which end in tab extensions (58a) and (58b) on vertical
upright (40) and tab extension (60a) and (60b) on vertical upright support (42).
 [049] These tab extensions (58a), (58b), (60a) and (60b) are configured so
as to fit exactly in a mating relationship with the inverted flat based U shape of
the upstanding vertical collar (22), (24), with extensions (30), (32) and
 shoulder edges (34) and (36).
 [050] As best seen in Figure 6 the tab extensions along with the ability of the
 in-ground floor channel to be nestled for a contact fit within the support
 bracket provides additional strength and integrity to maintain the in-ground
 floor guide channel in position, in alignment and fastened to the concrete all
 contributing so as to avoid the collapsing inwards towards the centre of the
 side of the channel, regardless of the pressure applied above from the surface
 traffic over the channel.
 [051] Also advantageously as can be appreciated by viewing Figure 3, the
 corners (14) and (16) provide.a location in which rubbish which has entered
 the channel can be pushed aside into the respective corners (14) and (16)
 rather than remain within the location where the guide blades or guide pins of
 the top hung sliding door move there along.
                                           8

   THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION:
   1.      An in-ground floor guide channel for a top hung sliding door, said
   channel including;
 5         an elongated main body having a base plate along said main body
   length;
   said base plate at opposing longitudinal edges including inwardly inclined
   surfaces aligned one towards the other ending in a substantially upstanding
   collar upon each inclined surface, wherein a gap defined between each
10 upstanding collar provides a robust guide for guide pins or guide blades of the
   top hung sliding door to be directionally guided within the in-ground floor guide
   channel; and wherein the substantially upstanding collar for each of the
   inwardly inclined surfaces at its upper edge includes a lateral lip along the
   length of the floor guide channel terminating in a shouldered edge such that
15 the upstanding collar, lateral lip and edge shoulder provide a substantially
   inverted flat based U shape.
   2.      The in-ground floor guide channel for a top hung sliding door of claim 1
   further including an in-ground support bracket and/or wherein the support
   bracket includes a main frame having a base plate flanked by two vertical
20 upright plates, each vertical upright plate having a shaped void corresponding
   with the shape of the in-ground floor guide channel such that the in-ground
   floor guide channel is able to nest therein said support bracket and/or wherein
   the in-ground floor guide channel is a continuous integral length that can be
   cut to size as required
25 3.      The in-ground floor guide channel for a top hung sliding door of claim 3
   wherein the vertical upright plates corresponding to the shape of the in-ground
   floor guide channel include two tab extensions substantially of the same
   dimensions and shape so as to be adapted to be insertable into the inverted
   flat based U shape of the upstanding collar, lateral lip and the edge shoulder
30 of the in-ground floor guide channel to rest and support therein.
                                            9

   4.     The in-ground floor guide channel for a top hung sliding door of claim 2
   wherein the support bracket for the in-ground floor guide channel is an integral
   unitary sheet of metal.
   5.     The in-ground floor guide channel for a top hung sliding door of claim 1
 5 wherein the inwardly inclined surfaces along with the upstanding collars
   provide rigidity and robust support to be able to guide and direct guide blades
   and/or guide pins of the sliding door in the channel and/or wherein the
   inwardly inclined surfaces flange out into a triangular configuration towards
   the base of the in-ground floor guide channel.
10
                                           10

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
