   Abstract
       The present invention relates to a modular heating system
   comprising    many composite      heating modules,      each with a
   microwave resonant cavity for accommodating an object. Each is
 5 separable into two parts. One part is a microwave heating
   semi-cavity (30) which includes a microwave guiding device fixed
   on the machine frame, and the other part is a conductive heating
   semi-cavity (40) which is transferrable as a carrier of heating object.
   The heat-receiving object is placed into a sealed container (10) and
10 positioned in the microwave resonant cavity. The microwaves
   propagated by the microwave guiding device can heat up the object.
   The sealed container (10) is configured to sustain the outward
   expansion pressure due to the temperature rise in the object. The
   microwave resonant cavities act individually and do not affect each
15 other, they are modular so as to provide flexibility to increase or
   decrease the module numbers for each production line.

        HYBRID MODULAR MICROWAVE HEATING SYSTEM
                     WITH SEPARABLE CAVITIES
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
       The present invention relates to a system for heating objects.
 5 More particularly, it relates to a hybrid modular microwave heating
   system with separable cavities.
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
       Heating is one of the basic industrial food processes. Methods
   of heating includes contact heating (heating sources include fire,
10 sheathed    heaters,  and ceramic      heaters), microwave   heating,
   electromagnetic induction heating and more. Contact heating is a
   conventional heating method. It requires a longer period of heating
   time since the temperature of a heat-receiving object rises from its
   exterior and the heat is gradually transmitted to its interior.
15 Microwave is a kind of electromagnetic wave. Microwaves with
   specific   frequencies    enable    the   polar  molecules   of   the
   heat-receiving object (for example, water) to resonate, so that the
   heating begins from the internal of the objects rapidly. When the
   microwaves     start heating    the object, however,    its intensity
20 distribution thereof will vary according to factors such as the
   interactions between the microwave power generator, resonant
   cavity, the heat-receiving object and so on, thereby leading to
   uneven heating in certain parts.
       In order to achieve heating uniformity in microwave heating
25 and for the purpose of continuous production, sterilization and/or
                                       1

   pasteurization, many patents employ hot fluids (such as hot water or
   hot    steam)    as  additional  heating   mediums    (US7119313B2,
   US4962298). The heat-receiving object is packed inside a sealed
   container in advance, then sent into a microwave resonant cavity
 5 filled with high-pressure fluids. The object in the sealed container is
   heated by the microwaves and the fluids. As the temperature of the
   heat-receiving object in the sealed box rises, it would expand due to
   internal steam or vapor, exerting an outward pressure on the sealed
   container, therefore causing damage. As a result, the microwave
10 resonant cavity must be pressurized internally so that the pressure
   inside the microwave resonant cavity counteracts the outward
   expansion pressure of the sealed container. However, at the initial
   stage of heating, there is no expansion pressure inside the sealed
   container, thus excessive pressure in the microwave resonant cavity
15 may cause the unheated sealed container to collapse, while
   insufficient pressure in the microwave resonant cavity will not be
   able to resist the outward expansion pressure of the sealed container
   after it is heated, thereby causing a leakage of the sealed container.
   Since the maximum heating temperature is in proportion with the
20 exerted pressure , this significantly limits the designing of the
   heating process. Meanwhile, such a system requires a large-scale
   microwave resonant cavity and the said microwave resonant cavity
   must be able to withstand the high pressure of the fluids. Moreover,
   when the sealed container is fed into and out of the microwave
25 resonant     cavity,  accurate   pressurization   and   decompression
                                       2

   processes are necessary. For this reason, it is impossible for the
   sealed container to leave the microwave resonant cavity for
   temperature measurement and monitoring during the process.
   During heating, the objects are immersed in high-pressure hot water
 5 or hot steam and exposed to microwave electromagnetic field,
   making it difficult to track the temperature and quality of the
   heat-receiving objects by the usual apparatus and methods. This
   shows that conventional heating processes lack flexibility. Also
   such a system easily produces waste heat because of the hot water
10 and hot steam used, which means unnecessary power loss.
        One operation prerequisite of contact heating is that the
   heat-receiving object must be in tight contact with the heat source,
   so that the heat can be transmitted to the object efficiently.
   Meanwhile microwave heating requires a suitable resonant cavity to
15 accommodate the heat-receiving object during heating. Although
   many patents have combined the applications of the two heating
   methods (US4900884, US6864468 B2, US5548101, US5177333)
   mentioned above, the cavities in the applications thereof are all
   fixed structures, wherein the heat-receiving object is merely placed
20 in a heating plate or pan, without any means of keeping the object
   in tight contact with the heating source.
        There are many published techniques applying microwaves to
   continuous       heating      systems     (US2009/0230124        Al,
   US2012/0103976 Al). Such systems propagates microwaves into
25 several   heating spaces while      the heat-receiving  objects   are
                                      3

   continuously delivered into and out of the heating system. However,
   the cavities in the applications are fixed, the object is not sealed in
   advance and no conductive heating is introduced therein.
       In summary, the existing microwave heating systems have the
 5 following technical disadvantages:
        1. The cavities are fixed structures that cannot be adjusted
   modularly.
       2. Without the use of additional heating mediums, the sealed
   container is not in contact with the conductive heating source,
10 thereby leading to a lower heating efficiency.
         3. When additional heating mediums are employed, the
   cavities need to be pressurized as well. However, the scale of this
   applied pressure, the heating temperature and the pressure-resisting
   strength of the sealed container are mutually dependent, thereby
15 narrowing the processing condition window down to only a few
   choices.
       4. With a conventional system, it is difficult to measure the
   temperature changes of the heat-receiving object during microwave
   heating, which means the heating program cannot implement
20 close-loop control. As a result, such systems would not be able to
   satisfy the requirements of thermal processing of food.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
       The primary purpose of the present invention is to provide a
   composite microwave heating system in which each heating cavity
25 accommodating a package of heat-receiving object is separable and
                                      4

   modularized. The system of the present invention is operated
   without the need of heat-transferring fluids and counter-balancing
   pressure. In addition, because the cavities are modular and can be
   separated into two parts, the heat-receiving object can be taken out
 5 for measurement in any part of the heating process. This means any
   changes of quality in the heat-receiving object can be detected
   immediately. Therefore the heating power, and the length of the
   heating time, heat holding time and cooling time can be adjusted at
   any time of the heating process, making this heating system flexible
10 enough to meet the needs of various heating processes.
       The   present   invention   comprises   a   microwave    heating
   semi-cavity, a conductive heating semi-cavity, a conductive heating
   unit, a microwave heating unit and a sealed container. The
   conductive heating unit provides a conductive heating source, while
15 the microwave heating unit is used to generate microwaves. The
   sealed container accommodates a heat-receiving object. And the
   microwave    heating   semi-cavity    and the   conductive   heating
   semi-cavity can be assembled to form a microwave resonant cavity.
   The heat-receiving object is packed in the sealed container and then
20 placed in the microwave resonant cavity. The microwave heating
   semi-cavity includes a microwave guiding device (such as a
   waveguide, etc.) that can deliver the microwaves radiated by the
   microwave heating unit into the microwave resonant cavity to heat
   up the object in the sealed container. The conductive heating
25 semi-cavity has a microwave-transparent lid used to press against
                                     5

   the sealed container inside the conductive heating semi-cavity,
   thereby making the sealed container in close contact with the inner
   wall thereof. The conductive heating semi-cavity is made of
   materials with good thermal conductivity and can thus receive heat
 5 from the conductive heating unit, which enables heating up the
   object in the sealed container by conduction heating. The hot steam,
   hot vapor or volume expansion due to the rise of temperature inside
   the object will produce an outward expansion pressure on the sealed
   container. The conductive heating          semi-cavity lid and the
10 conductive heating semi-cavity of the present invention are
   configured to have the sufficient mechanical strengths to resist the
   structural deformation of the sealed container in order to prevent
   leakage.
       The system of the present invention can individually or
15 simultaneously use microwave and traditional heating methods to
   heat the objects. Microwave heating can rapidly increase the
   temperature of the heat-receiving object in the sealed container
   therefore causing it to expand and press the sealed container against
   the conductive heating semi-cavity. As a result, it makes the contact
20 heating of the conductive heating unit to the heat-receiving object
   more efficient.
       As stated above, the present invention adopts means that are
   different from conventional techniques that apply high-pressure
   water, vapor, steam, etc. to resist the outward expansion pressure of
25 the sealed container. This allows the system to be operated under
                                       6

   atmospheric        environment.       Furthermore,     because     the
   pressure-resisting design of the present invention does not exert
   pressure on the sealed container, it therefore causes no deformation
   of the unheated sealed container. In summary, since the resistant
 5 strength comes from the designs of the mechanical structures, the
   heating temperature in the present invention can be higher than
   conventional heating systems could ever allow, so as to meet the
   needs    of most     thermal    processes.   The   conductive  heating
   semi-cavity and the microwave heating semi-cavity are assembled
10 to form the microwave resonant cavity during microwave heating.
   Then they are separated and transferred away from the microwave
   environment, with the conductive heating semi-cavity containing
   the sealed container. This way the quality (such as temperature,
   color, etc.) of the object in the sealed container can be measured by
15 the usual equipment employed in conventional industrial heating
   processes, so that the operator will be able to monitor, record and
   adjust the entire heating process. With separable conductive heating
   semi-cavities and microwave heating semi-cavities, the present
   invention has the flexibility to arrange for subsequent processes of
20 heat holding, cooling and so forth in order to meet processing
   needs.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   Fig. 1 is an exploded view showing the structure of a conductive
   heating semi-cavity of the present invention, with a sealed container
25 placed inside;
                                       7

   Fig. 2 is a system schematic diagram of a composite heating module
   comprising the conductive heating semi-cavity, the microwave
   heating cavity, and other components, before being assembled.;
   Fig. 3 is a structural appearance view of the composite heating
 5 module mentioned above after it is assembled; and
   Fig. 4 is an illustrative diagram of a preferred embodiment of the
   composite heating modules to achieve continuous heating.
   DETAILED          DESCRIPTION         OF     THE    PREFERRED
   EMBODIMENTS
10     Detailed descriptions and technical contents of the present
   invention will be described with reference to the accompanying
   drawings shown below.
       Referring to Fig. 1 to Fig. 3, the present invention provides a
   hybrid modular microwave heating system with separable cavities
15 used to heat objects (heat-receiving objects are not shown in the
   drawings). The claimed system comprises a microwave heating
   semi-cavity 30, a conductive heating semi-cavity 40 a conductive
   heating unit 20, a microwave heating unit 70 and a sealed container
   10. The sealed container 10 accommodates the heat-receiving object.
20 The conductive heating unit 20 can be an electromagnetic heater, a
   gas heater, an infrared lamp, a heater strip, or any other heating
   source that is able to transmit heat to the conductive heating
   semi-cavity 40. Among the options of heating sources, the most
   preferable is an electromagnetic induction heater which generates
25 heat into a conductive heating semi-cavity body 41 through
                                     8

   high-frequency electromagnetic waves. The heating power of the
   conductive heating unit 20 can be adjusted by a conductive heating
   power controller 80.
       The conductive heating semi-cavity 40 comprised of the
 5 conductive heating semi-cavity body 41 as mentioned and also a
   conductive heating semi-cavity lid 42. The conductive heating
   semi-cavity body 41 includes a conductive heating semi-cavity
   inner wall 411, a receiving space 412 formed by the conductive
   heating semi-cavity inner wall 411, and a conductive heating
10 semi-cavity outer wall 413. The conductive heating semi-cavity lid
   42 is made of microwave-transparent materials. The conductive
   heating semi-cavity lid 42 and the conductive heating semi-cavity
   body 41 each possesses a fastening mean so that they can be locked
   together as one or opened into two.
15     The sealed container 10 is accommodated in the receiving space
   412. When the conductive heating semi-cavity lid 42 is locked to
   the conductive heating semi-cavity body 41, the conductive heating
   semi-cavity lid 42 presses tightly against the sealed container 10.
   And as the object expands in volume or produces steam or vapor
20 after being heated, the sealed container 10 will expand, pressing
   more tightly against the conductive heating semi-cavity inner wall
   411. The expansion pressure of the sealed container 10 is sustained
   and counteracted by the mechanical strength of the conductive
   heating semi-cavity lid 42 and the conductive heating semi-cavity
25 body 41 with no risk of leakage or damage. Thus, the heating
                                     9

   temperature can be greatly increased.
       The material of the conductive heating semi-cavity body 41 is
   preferably     ferromagnetic     and     not   microwave-penetrable
   (microwaves at such frequencies as 2.45GHz or 915MHz, etc.) so
 5 that when it is exposed to high-frequency electromagnetic waves (at
   frequencies such as 10KHz~200KHz), eddy current can be induced
   to generate heat. The conductive heating semi-cavity 40 is placed
   on top of the conductive heating unit 20 to receive heat from the
   heating source, to heat the conductive heating semi-cavity body 41.
10     The microwave heating semi-cavity 30 includes a wave guiding
   channel 31, a microwave heating semi-cavity sleeve 32 and a
   microwave heating semi-cavity body 33. When a composite heating
   module 60 is assembled, the microwave heating semi-cavity sleeve
   32 presses down against the conductive heating semi-cavity outer
15 wall 413 as illustrated in Fig. 3. After being assembled, the interior
   of the microwave heating semi-cavity body 33 and the receiving
   space 412 inside the conductive heating semi-cavity 40 will form an
   integrated microwave resonant cavity. In this way, the sealed
   container 10, with the heat-receiving object, and the conductive
20 heating semi-cavity lid 42 are accommodated inside the microwave
   resonant cavity. Since the conductive heating semi-cavity lid 42 and
   the sealed container 10 are both made of microwave-transparent
   materials, the heat-receiving      object placed inside the sealed
   container 10 thus becomes the only receiver of microwaves in the
25 microwave resonant cavity. In addition, to effectively          avoid
                                      10

   microwave     leakages,  the conventional     microwave    leak-proof
   devices or structures, such as choke isolation metal rings or
   microwave damping structures, can be further arranged in the
   interfaces of the microwave heating semi-cavity sleeve 32 and the
 5 conductive heating semi-cavity outer wall 413.
        The microwave heating unit 70 generates microwaves as a
   microwave heating source. The microwaves are propagated into the
   microwave resonant cavity via the wave guiding channel 31. In a
   preferred embodiment, the microwave heating unit 70 is further
10 equipped with a microwave intensity adjusting function. This
   allows the operator to adjust the intensity of the microwave heating
   power, and control the length of the heating time during the process.
        In order to enhance the uniformity of the heating process, the
   present invention further comprises a spinning plate 50 that rotates,
15 on which the conductive heating semi-cavity 40 is loaded, and a
   motor 51. The spinning plate 50 is equipped with a driven gear 501,
   preferably an outer ring gear as shown in Fig. 2 and Fig. 3, while
   the motor 51 is equipped with a gear 52. The power of the motor 51
   is transmitted via the gear 52 in contact with the driven gear 501 to
20 rotate the spinning plate 50. Rotation of the conductive heating
   semi-cavity 40 on the spinning plate 50, as well as the sealed
   container 10 inside the conductive heating semi-cavity 40 improves
   heating uniformity. As a result, problems of uneven heating in the
   past are reduced significantly.
25      A practical system application of the present invention is
                                      11

   illustrated in Fig. 4. Turning back to Fig. 3, the microwave heating
   unit 70, the microwave heating semi-cavity 30, the conductive
   heating unit 20, the conductive heating power controller 80, the
   spinning plate 50 and the motor 51 are grouped in view to constitute
 5 the composite heating module 60. As illustrated in Fig. 4, one
   preferred embodiment includes several composite heating modules
   60 in annular arrangement on a rotating device 61. The rotating
   device 61 can be a rotating circular disk or a conveyor belt arranged
   in a circle. The heat-receiving object is placed in the sealed
10 container 10, and the sealed container 10 is further placed and
   locked inside the conductive heating semi-cavity 40. In Fig. 4, the
   loaded conductive heating semi-cavity 40 is fed into at one side of
   the rotating device 61 and then assembled with the microwave
   heating semi-cavity 30, forming the composite heating module 60
15 with a microwave resonant cavity. As the composite heating module
   60 is rotating and moving forward annularly with the rotating
   device 61, the microwave heating unit 70 and the conductive
   heating unit 20 of the composite heating module 60 heat up the
   object inside each of the conductive heating semi-cavity 40. In one
20 preferred embodiment, the conductive heating unit 20 is equipped
   with the conductive heating power controller 80 in order to adjust
   the heating power. As the heating is completed, the conductive
   heating semi-cavity 40 is separated from the microwave heating
   semi-cavity 30 at another side of the rotating device 61. Since the
25 conductive heating semi-cavity 40 have already left microwave
                                     12

   influence, the measurements of the heated object are conducted
   without the influences of the microwave interference or effect. The
   accuracy of the measurements (such as temperature or color) can be
   accordingly achieved. The conductive heating semi-cavity 40
 5 carrying the sealed container 10 can be transferred to additional
   heating, holding or cooling processes. As a result, the present
   invention can be adjusted to fit in any production line, such as
   foodstuff cooking, sterilization or bactericidal processing, to meet
   specific needs of different heating processes.
10     As   stated  in the    above    descriptions,    compared     to  the
   conventional techniques, the present invention has the following
   advantages:
        1.  Higher heating temperature: Since the sealed container is
   pressed and locked inside the conductive heating semi-cavity by the
15 mechanical strength, it can resist a higher expansion pressure,
   which means that the heat-receiving object can be heated to a
   higher temperature.
       2.   High-efficiency    conduction    heating:     In   conventional
   heating systems, the conductive heating is inefficient without the
20 use of high-pressure hot water, hot steam, or other fluids as
   additional heating sources. In contrast, at the initial stage of heating,
   the present invention allows microwaves to directly heat the
   heat-receiving object in the sealed container. As the sealed container
   begin to expand due to the heat, it will press tightly against the
25 conductive heating semi-cavity inner wall. As a result, the
                                      13

   conductive heating unit can efficiently heat up the object through
   the conductive heating semi-cavity body through conduction
   heating.
        3.  Normal-pressure cavity configuration and low operation
 5 cost: Different from the conventional pressurized cavities with air,
   with hot water or hot steam providing the overriding pressure
   needed to counter-act the expansion of the sealed container, which
   also act as additional heating mediums, the present invention is
   operated at a higher heating temperature          but requires   only
10 atmospheric environment. Thus the problem of heat loss is solved.
   It is evident that the system building and operation cost of the
   present invention can be greatly saved.
        4.   Modular cavity designs, creating a flexible production line:
   In view of the conventional fixed-cavity microwave heating system,
15 the scale of production often depends on the cavity volume. Once
   the scale of capacity needs to be changed, the microwave resonant
   distribution and parameters must be correspondingly re-tested; and
   the heating cavities re-designed. On the contrary, the present
   invention is modular with the composite heating modules, which
20 means each module is independent and has no influence on each
   other. Consequently, the number of the composite heating modules
   can be randomly added onto or taken off the production line to meet
   the needs of industrial production without affecting the microwave
   heating semi-cavity designs of the system.
25      5.   Suitable for a continuous      production without     batch
                                     14

   operations: Loaded onto the rotating device in the production line,
   the composite     heating modules      with the sealed containers
   continuously move in and out one by one during the process. Thus,
   the present invention can function continuously without batch
 5 operations.
       6.   Measuring parameters of the heat-receiving object in a
   non-microwave environment during processing: The majority of the
   electronic measuring equipment are easily burned, destroyed or
   disabled due to microwave influence. For this reason, it is difficult
10 to apply the usual equipment to measure the quality of the
   heat-receiving object in the microwave heating semi-cavities. In
   contrast, the present invention feed the conductive heating
   semi-cavity with the sealed containers into and out of the
   production line for several times, so the heating process can be
15 arranged in multiple sections. Between two heating sections, since
   the conductive heating semi-cavity is away from the microwave
   resonant cavity, the measurements can be performed to ensure the
   quality of the object. The operator can also adjust the heating power
   in the subsequent heating sections accordingly, simply with the use
20 of the usual equipment. As a result, the final processing quality of
   the object can be guaranteed.
       7.   The flexibility to combine        microwave     heating and
   conductive heating into a hybrid heating process: Conventional
   microwave heating methods easily result in partial temperature
25 differences; or the so-called cold and hot spots; while conventional
                                     15

   conductive heating methods do not have problems with temperature
   non-uniformity, but has the shortcomings of poor heating efficiency
   and longer heating-time. The present invention has the flexibility to
   appropriately deploy the use of the microwave heating and
 5 conductive    heating   according to    the characteristics   of the
   heat-receiving object.
       8.   Enhancing temperature uniformity with rotating devices
   cavities: The present invention offers devices in which the
   heat-receiving objects are placed, (such as spinning plates) that spin
10 or rotate    inside   the microwave      resonant  cavity, reducing
   temperature differences in the circumferential direction caused by
   microwave heating.
                                     16

   CLAIMS:
   1. A hybrid modular microwave heating system with separable
   cavities used to heat an object, comprising:
       a conductive heating unit for providing a contact heat source;
 5     a microwave heating unit for generating microwaves;
       a sealed container for accommodating          said heat-receiving
   object;
       a conductive heating semi-cavity comprising
       a conductive heating semi-cavity body including a conductive
10 heating semi-cavity inner wall;
       a   receiving   space   formed    by   said  conduction     heating
   semi-cavity inner wall for placing said sealed container and
       a    conductive    heating    semi-cavity    lid   made      of    a
   microwave-transparent material for sealing said receiving space,
15 wherein said conductive heating semi-cavity inner wall and said
   conductive heating semi-cavity lid press against said sealed
   container, and
       said conductive heating semi-cavity body with the side that is
   across from said conductive heating semi-cavity lid being in contact
20 with said contact heat source; and
       a microwave heating semi-cavity comprising a wave guiding
   channel, a microwave heating semi-cavity sleeve and a microwave
   heating semi-cavity body;
       wherein    said   microwave     heating   semi-cavity    and    said
25 conductive    heating  semi-cavity    can be coupled      to   form a
                                      17

   microwave resonant cavity, with microwaves generated by said
   microwave heating unit propagated via said wave guiding channel
   into said microwave resonant cavity to effect on said heat-receiving
   object.
 5 2.   The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said microwave
   heating semi-cavity body is made of ferromagnetic materials.
   3.   The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said conductive
   heating unit can be an electromagnetic heater, a gas heater or an
   sheathed heater, or a combination of any of them.
10 4.   The system as recited in claim 1 further comprising a spinning
   plate for carrying said microwave resonant cavity to rotate.
   5.   The system as recited in claim 4 further comprising a motor,
   wherein said spinning plate is equipped with a driven gear, and said
   motor is equipped with a gear to engage with said driven gear to
15 transmit the power of the motor to rotate said spinning plate.
   6.   The system as recited in claim 5, wherein said conductive
   heating unit is equipped with and power-controlled by a conductive
   heating power controller;     said microwave      heating unit, said
   microwave heating semi-cavity, said conductive heating unit, said
20 conductive heating power controller, said spinning plate and said
   motor are modularized as a composite heating module; and the
   system comprises a multiple of said composite heating modules and
   said conductive heating semi-cavities so that said composite heating
   modules are arranged annularly on a rotating device and said
25 conductive heating semi-cavities are fed into and out of the
                                     18

  corresponding composite heating modules thereof one by one.
                     Bottle Top Machinery Co., Ltd.
           Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
5                       SPRUSON & FERGUSON
                                     19

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
