                                           Abstract
        Assemblies designed to facilitate detection of water flow in low water flow situations.
In some embodiments, the assembly includes a channel that narrows from an inlet end of the
assembly to an outlet end of the assembly to increase the velocity of water flowing through
the channel.   In some embodiments, the assembly may also include a water delivery
mechanism that delivers water flowing through the channel to a flow sensor and enables the
detection of water flow, even in low flow situations.

   DEVICES AND METHODS FOR MONITORING WATER FLOW THROUGH A
                  CHLORINE-GENERATING OR OTHER ASSEMBLY
                             Cross Reference to Related Application
[0001]          The present application is a divisional application of Australian Patent
Application No. 2015206377, filed 16 January 2015, which claims the benefit of U.S.
Provisional Patent Application No. 61/928,469 filed January 17, 2014 and titled "Method of
Monitoring Flow Utilizing a Gas Trap Sensor at Low Flows," the content both of which
applications is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
                                         Technical Field
[0002]          The present disclosure generally relates to devices and methods for detecting
and/or monitoring water flow through a chlorine-generating or other assembly.
                                           Background
[0003]          During electrolytic purification of water, a flow stream from a body of water is
passed through an electrolytic cell or other chlorine-generating assembly to oxide halide ions
of the water by electrolysis to form hypohalic acid, hypohalite ions or both to disinfect or
"chlorinate" the water. The treated flow stream is then returned to the body of water.
[0004]          Some assemblies for chlorinating water by electrolysis include a flow sensor
that senses if water is flowing through the assembly. Such a flow sensor, sometimes referred
to as a gas trap sensor, includes an electrode that detects flow so long as there is conductivity
between the electrode and one of the chlorine-generating electrode plates of the chlorine
generating assembly. The electrolytic process generates gas bubbles that are pushed out of
the assembly by the water flow.       When water is not flowing through the assembly, the
generated gas bubbles build up and break the connection between the gas flow electrode and
                                                 1

the chlorine-generating electrode plates. However, in low flow situations, for example water
flowing at a rate lower than approximately 30 gallons per minute (GPM), gas continues to
build in the flow sensor faster than the water flow can push it out. The buildup of gas breaks
the connection between the gas flow electrode and the chlorine-generating electrode plates
and the flow sensor is unable to sense the water flow and erroneously returns a "no flow"
condition even though water is flowing through the assembly.
                                             Summary
[0005]          The term embodiment and like terms are intended to refer broadly to all of the
subject matter of this disclosure and the claims below.     Statements containing these terms
should be understood not to limit the subject matter described herein or to limit the meaning
or scope of the claims below. Embodiments of the present disclosure covered herein are
defined by the claims below, not this summary. This summary is a high-level overview of
various aspects of the disclosure and introduces some of the concepts that are further
described in the Detailed Description section below.        This summary is not intended to
identify key or essential features of the claimed subject matter, nor is it intended to be used in
isolation to determine the scope of the claimed subject matter. The subject matter should be
understood by reference to appropriate portions of the entire specification of this disclosure,
any or all drawings and each claim.
[0006]          Aspects of the present disclosure relate to improved chlorine-generating
assemblies and methods. More particularly, the assembly is designed in some embodiments
so that a flow sensor is able to detect water flow even in low water flow situations, for
example water flowing at a rate less than approximately 30 GPM. In some embodiments, the
assembly includes a flow channel that narrows from an inlet end of the assembly to an outlet
end of the assembly to increase the velocity of the water flowing through the flow channel.
                                                2

The assembly may also include a water delivery mechanism that facilitates the delivery of
water through the flow sensor and thus allows the flow sensor to detect the water flow even
in low flow situations. In some embodiments, the assembly is configured so that it can be
locked and unlocked with a quarter turn.       Further, in some embodiments, the assembly
includes a keying feature that ensures the assembly is locked in the correct orientation.
                               Brief Description of the Drawings
[0007]         Illustrative embodiments of the present disclosure are described in detail
below with reference to the following drawing figures:
[0008]         FIG. 1 is a perspective view of a chlorine-generating assembly according to
one embodiment, shown with the upper and lower portions disassembled.
[0009]         FIG. 2 is a top perspective view of the chlorine-generating assembly of FIG. 1,
shown with the upper and lower portions assembled together.
[0010]         FIG. 3 is a top cut-away perspective view of select components of the
chlorine-generating assembly of FIG. 1.
[0011]         FIG. 4 is a partial cut-away view of the chlorine-generating assembly of FIG.
1.
[0012]         FIG. 5 is a partial cut-away schematic of the chlorine-generating assembly of
FIG. 1.
[0013]         FIG. 6 is a bottom perspective view of the chlorine-generating assembly of
FIG. 1, shown with the upper and lower portions positioned with respect to one another.
[0014]         FIG. 7a is a top view of the chlorine-generating assembly of FIG. 1, shown
with the upper and lower portions assembled together and in an unlocked position.
[0015]         FIG. 7b is a top view of the chlorine-generating assembly of FIG. 1, shown
with the upper and lower portions assembled together and in a locked position.
                                                3

[0016]            FIG. 8 is a partial cutaway view of a locking key of a chlorine-generating
assembly according to one embodiment.
[0017]            FIG. 9 is a top perspective view of a lower portion according to one
embodiment.
[0018]            FIG. 10 is a bottom perspective view of an upper portion according to one
embodiment.
                                        Detailed Description
[0019]            Certain aspects and features of the present disclosure relate to apparatuses and
methods for sanitizing and protecting water from the growth of microorganisms, such as
bacteria, virii, fungi, algae, and the like. Such sanitation and protection can be used for water
in a variety of applications, including swimming pools, hot tubs, spas, as well as wastewater
treatment facilities, cooling towers, and the like.
[0020]            Figure 1 illustrates one non-limiting example of a chlorine-generating
assembly 10. Chlorine-generating assembly 10 includes an upper portion 12 and a lower
portion 14. Chlorine-generating assembly 10 includes a flow channel 32 (Figure 3), through
which a plurality of chlorine-generating electrode plates 24 generally extend.           Chlorine
generating electrode plates 24 may be formed of any suitable material, including but not
limited to, titanium and may be uncoated or coated with a precious or semi-precious metal,
such as platinum, ruthenium, or iridium.
[0021]            The lower portion 14 includes an inlet 26, an outlet 28, and a cavity 29
between inlet 26 and outlet 28. When upper portion 12 and lower portion 14 are assembled
together, the flow channel 32 is received within cavity 29 of lower portion 14. Since upper
portion 12 is removable with respect to lower portion 14, the chlorine-generating electrode
plates 24 can be easily accessed and repaired or replaced when needed. Although illustrated
                                                  4

as a two-piece assembly, chlorine generating assembly may have any suitable configuration
and is not limited to the disclosed two-piece arrangement.
[0022]          Assembly 10 is designed so that water flows through flow channel 32, and
thus across chlorine-generating electrode plates 24, in a flow direction 30.      As shown in
Figure 4, upper portion 12 also includes a chamber 37 that is separated from flow channel 32
by a plate 39. A venturi tube 38 and a flow sensor 20 extend through plate 39 and are in fluid
communication with both the chamber 37 and the flow channel 32. Flow sensor 20 includes
a flow sensor electrode 22. When conductivity exists in water flowing between flow sensor
electrode 22 and chlorine-generating electrode plates 24, the flow sensor 20 senses water
flow and returns a flow condition. When the connection between the flow sensor electrode
22 and the chlorine-generating electrode plates 24 is broken, the flow sensor 20 is unable to
sense water flow and returns a no-flow condition, even if water is flowing through flow
channel 32. The connection can be broken, for example, when gas bubbles generated as part
of the chlorine-generating electrolytic process build up in the assembly 10 faster than the
water flow pushes them and break the connection between the flow sensor electrode 22 and
the chlorine-generating electrode plates 24. When water is flowing through the flow channel
32 at a sufficient rate (in some cases, at a rate of approximately 30 GPM or above), the
venturi tube 38 evacuates air from the chamber 37 and water moves through flow sensor 20
into chamber 37.     As water moves through flow sensor 20, the water pushes gas bubbles
generated as part of the electrolytic process out of the assembly at a faster rate than the gas
bubbles are produced so that water continually covers the flow sensor electrode 22 and a
connection is maintained between the flow sensor electrode 22 and the chlorine-generating
electrode plates 24. Therefore, the flow sensor 20 senses flow and returns a flow condition.
[0023]          In some embodiments, as shown in Figure 3, the flow channel 32 narrows
from the inlet side 34 of the channel 32 toward the outlet side 36 of the channel 32. The
                                                5

narrowing of the flow channel 32 causes the velocity of the water to increase as it flows
through the flow channel 32. The assembly 10 also includes a water delivery mechanism 40,
shown in Figure 5. As illustrated, the longitudinal axis of the water delivery mechanism 40 is
generally aligned with at least a portion of the flow sensor electrode 22 of the flow sensor 20,
although water delivery mechanism 40 can be aligned differently.
[0024]           Water delivery mechanism 40 is designed to act as a fountain that helps direct
water flowing through flow channel 32 into contact with flow sensor electrode 22 of flow
sensor 20, even in low flow situations and even when air is present inside chamber 37. In this
way, the water delivery mechanism 40 helps bridge any gaps between the flow sensor
electrode 22 and the chlorine-generating electrode plates 24 so that the flow sensor 20 senses
water flow even in low flow situations, such as under approximately 30 GPM or even as low
as approximately 10 GPM or lower. In some embodiments, water delivery mechanism 40
includes a scooped portion 43 configured to scoop up water flowing through flow channel 32
and direct it to flow sensor electrode 22. As illustrated, the scooped portion 43 is positioned
so that water flowing through flow channel 32 contacts the concave surface of the scooped
portion 43 and travels upward toward flow sensor electrode 22. Because the flow channel 32
narrows, the water flow velocity increases and even more water is pushed across flow sensor
electrode 22 via the water delivery mechanism 40.
[0025]           In some cases, as shown in Figures 1-2, upper portion 12 includes a collar 15
that is rotatable with respect to a top surface 13 of the upper portion 12 and thus with respect
to chlorine-generating electrode plates 24.       Top surface 13 may also include a viewing
window 16 that is at least partially transparent so that at least some of the internal
components may be viewed when the assembly 10 is assembled. For example, in some
embodiments, the lower portion 14 is opaque and the transparent viewing window 16 is
arranged so that at least part of the top surfaces of the chlorine-generating electrode plates 24
                                                 6

is visible when the chlorine-generating electrode plates 24 are disposed within the opaque
lower portion 14. As shown in Figures 1-2, a cable 18 may extend through the top surface 13
of the upper portion 12.
[0026]           Non-limiting embodiments of assembly 10 can include various other features
if desired. For example, upper portion 12 and lower portion 14 can be designed to move into
a locked position with a quarter-turn of the upper portion 12 relative to the lower portion 14,
as illustrated in Figures 7a-7b. Specifically, as shown in Figure 6, collar 15 of upper portion
12 can include two or more abutments 44 that rotatably lock with respect to two or more
flanges 42 of lower portion 14. In other embodiments, collar 15 of upper portion 12 includes
flanges 42 and lower portion 14 includes abutments 44. As mentioned above, collar 15 is
rotatable with respect to top surface 13 and chlorine-generating electrode plates 24. Once
chlorine-generating electrode plates 24 are positioned within lower portion 14, collar 15 can
be rotated with respect to chlorine-generating electrode plates 24 and lower portion 14 to lock
or unlock the assembly.      Specifically, when each abutment 44 is aligned with one of the
flanges 42, the upper portion 12 is locked with respect to the lower portion 14. In some
embodiments, the two abutments 44 are approximately 180 degrees from one another and the
two flanges 42 are approximately 180 degrees from one another. To unlock the upper portion
12 with respect to the lower portion 14, one of the portions is rotated with respect to the other
portion about a longitudinal axis of the portion until the abutments 44 are no longer aligned
with the two flanges 42. In some embodiments, the upper portion 12 is rotated approximately
90 degrees relative to the lower portion 14. Such a design allows the assembly 10 to be
assembled into a locked position and disassembled without requiring the use of tools. Collar
15 of upper portion 12 may also include gripping tabs 46 that facilitate locking and unlocking
of the assembly.
                                                7

[0027]          The chlorine-generating assembly 10 described above is configured such that
water must flow in a particular flow direction 30 to function properly.         Therefore, it is
important that the upper portion 12 be assembled correctly with respect to the lower portion
14 so that the water flows in flow direction 30 through upper portion 12. To ensure that the
upper portion 12 (and, in turn, its water delivery mechanism 40 and narrowing flow channel
32) are installed correctly, the assembly 10 may include a key feature that ensures upper
portion 12 is aligned correctly with respect to lower portion 14. If included, the key feature
can take any suitable form. One of many examples is illustrated in Figure 8. As shown in
Figure 8, cavity 29 of lower portion 14 includes a ramped surface 50 and a recess 52. A
protrusion 48 extending from the bottom surface of upper portion 12 includes a tab 54 that is
configured to slide along ramped surface 50 and be guided into recess 52. When tab 54 is
received within recess 52, the assembly 10 is assembled correctly and the lower portion 14
and upper portion 12 are capable of being locked together by rotating collar 15 relative to
lower portion 14 as described above.       In another non-limiting embodiment, protrusion 48
includes a plurality of slots 56 that receive a corresponding plurality of ribs 58 projecting
from cavity 29 of lower portion 14 when the assembly 10 is assembled correctly. When the
upper portion 12 is assembled incorrectly (i.e., the water delivery mechanism 40 and flow
channel 32 are not aligned correctly with respect to the lower portion 14), the ribs 58 are not
received in the slots 56 and prevent locking of the upper portion 12 with the lower portion 14.
These key features are illustrative only; numerous other key features may be used instead to
ensure that upper portion 12 is assembled properly with respect to lower portion 14.
[0028]          Although the narrowing flow channel and water delivery mechanism, which
both facilitate detection of water flow in low flow situations, have been described above with
respect to a chlorine-generating assembly, they can be incorporated into any suitable structure
when it is desired that flow be sensed in low flow situations. Moreover, any or all of the
                                                8

disclosed features may be used with any chlorine-generating assembly or other suitable
structure and are not limited to use with the specific assembly 10 depicted and described
herein.
[0029]         Different arrangements of the components depicted in the drawings or
described above, as well as components and steps not shown or described are possible.
Similarly, some features and subcombinations are useful and may be employed without
reference to other features and subcombinations. Embodiments of the invention have been
described for illustrative and not restrictive purposes, and alternative embodiments will
become apparent to readers of this patent. Accordingly, the present invention is not limited
to the embodiments described above or depicted in the drawings, and various embodiments
and modifications can be made without departing from the scope of the claims below.
                                              9

                                             Claims
What is claimed is:
  1.       An assembly for electrolytic purification comprising:
               (a)     an inlet and an outlet and a flow channel extending between and in
           fluid communication with the inlet and the outlet,
               (b)     a plurality of chlorine-generating electrode plates disposed within the
           flow channel;
                (c)    a flow sensor in fluid communication with the flow channel, wherein
           the flow sensor comprises a flow sensor electrode; and
               (d)     a water delivery mechanism positioned within the flow channel and
           configured to alter a direction of water flowing through the flow channel so that
           the water is urged into contact with the flow sensor electrode.
  2.       The assembly of claim 1, wherein the flow channel narrows from the inlet toward
           the outlet.
  3.       The assembly of claim 1, wherein a longitudinal axis of the water delivery
           mechanism intersects at least a portion of the flow sensor electrode.
  4.       The assembly of claim 1, wherein the water delivery mechanism comprises a
           scooped portion and wherein a concave surface of the scooped portion faces the
           inlet.
  5.       The assembly of claim 1, wherein the assembly comprises an upper portion and a
           lower portion that are rotatable with respect to one another to move the assembly
                                               10

   between an unlocked position and a locked position by rotating the upper portion
   relative to the lower portion.
6. The assembly of claim 5, wherein:
                one of the upper portion and the lower portion comprises at least two
       abutments and the other of the upper portion and the lower portion comprises
       at least two flanges; and
                the assembly is in the locked position when one of the at least two
       abutments cooperates with one of the at least two flanges; and
                the assembly is in the unlocked position when the at least two
       abutments are not aligned with respect to the at least two flanges.
7. The assembly of claim 6, wherein the upper portion comprises a collar that is
   rotatable with respect to a top surface of the upper portion.
8. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the assembly comprises a transparent portion
   arranged so that at least part of a top surface of the plurality of chlorine-generating
   electrode plates is visible through the transparent portion when the plurality of
   chlorine-generating electrode plates is disposed within the flow channel.
9. The assembly of claim 1, wherein a cable extends out of a top surface of the upper
   portion.
                                         11

10. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the assembly further comprises:
        an upper portion and a lower portion that are rotatable with respect to one
    another; and
        a keying feature that prevents the assembly from moving into a locked
    position when the upper portion and the lower portion are not aligned in a correct
    orientation.
11. The assembly of claim 10, wherein the keying feature comprises a first feature on
    the upper portion and a second feature on the lower portion.
12. The assembly of claim 11, wherein:
        the first feature is a tab;
        the second feature comprises a ramp and a recess; and
        the tab is configured to slide along the ramp as the assembly moves from the
    unlocked position towards the locked position and wherein the tab is received in
    the recess when the assembly is in the correct orientation.
13. The assembly of claim 11, wherein:
        the first feature is a plurality of slots;
        the second feature is a plurality of ribs; and
        the plurality of ribs are received within the plurality of slots when the
    assembly is in the correct orientation.
                                           12

14. An assembly for electrolytic purification comprising:
        (a)      an upper portion     comprising a plurality of chlorine-generating
    electrode plates;
        (b)      a lower portion comprising an inlet and an outlet and a cavity;
        (c)      a flow channel that extends across the plurality of chlorine-generating
    electrode plates;
        wherein the upper portion is separable from the lower portion and wherein, in
    an assembled position, the plurality of chlorine-generating electrode plates of the
    upper portion is disposed in the cavity of the lower portion; and
        wherein, when in the assembled position, the assembly is movable between an
    unlocked position and a locked position by rotating the upper portion relative to
    the lower portion about a longitudinal axis of the assembly.
15. The assembly of claim 14, wherein:
                 one of the upper portion and the lower portion comprises at least two
        abutments and the other of the upper portion and the lower portion comprises
        at least two flanges; and
                 the assembly is in the locked position when one of the at least two
        abutments cooperates with one of the at least two flanges; and
                 the assembly is in the unlocked position when the at least two
        abutments are not aligned with respect to the at least two flanges.
16. The assembly of claim 15, wherein the upper portion comprises a collar that is
    rotatable with respect to a top surface of the upper portion.
                                         13

17. The assembly of claim 14, further comprising a flow sensor with a flow sensor
    electrode and a water delivery mechanism positioned within the flow channel and
    configured to alter a direction of water flowing through the flow channel so that
    the water is brought into contact with the flow sensor.
18. The assembly of claim 17, wherein a longitudinal axis containing a portion of the
    flow sensor electrode intersects the water delivery mechanism.
19. The assembly of claim 17, wherein the water delivery mechanism comprises a
    scooped portion and wherein a concave surface of the scooped portion faces the
    inlet.
20. The assembly of claim 14, wherein the flow channel narrows from the inlet
    toward the outlet.
21. The assembly of claim 17, wherein the flow channel narrows from the inlet
    toward the outlet.
22. An assembly for electrolytic purification comprising:
        (a)     an upper portion      comprising a plurality of chlorine-generating
    electrode plates;
        (b)     a lower portion comprising an inlet and an outlet and a cavity;
        (c)     a flow channel that extends across the plurality of chlorine-generating
    electrode plates;
                                        14

        (d)      a flow sensor in fluid communication with the flow channel and
    comprising a flow sensor electrode; and
        (e)      a water delivery mechanism positioned within the flow channel so that
    a longitudinal axis of the water delivery mechanism intersects at least a portion of
    the flow sensor electrode, wherein the water delivery mechanism is configured to
    alter a direction of water flowing through the flow channel so that the water is
    urged into contact with the flow sensor;
        wherein the upper portion is separable from the lower portion and wherein, in
    an assembled position, the plurality of chlorine-generating electrode plates is
    disposed in the cavity; and
        wherein, when in the assembled position, the assembly is movable between an
    unlocked position and a locked position by rotating the upper portion relative to
    the lower portion about a longitudinal axis of the assembly.
23. The assembly of claim 22, wherein the water delivery mechanism comprises a
    scooped portion and wherein a concave surface of the scooped portion faces the
    inlet.
24. The assembly of claim 22, wherein:
                 one of the upper portion and the lower portion comprises at least two
        abutments and the other of the upper portion and the lower portion comprises
        at least two flanges; and
                 the assembly is in the locked position when one of the at least two
        abutments cooperates with one of the at least two flanges;
                                        15

                      the assembly is in the unlocked position when the at least two
             abutments are not aligned with respect to the at least two flanges.
25.      The assembly of claim 22, further comprising a keying feature that prevents the
         assembly from moving into the locked position when the upper portion and the
         lower portion are not aligned in a correct orientation, wherein the keying feature
         comprises a first feature on the upper portion and a second feature on the lower
         portion.
26.      The assembly of claim 25, wherein:
             the first feature is a tab;
             the second feature comprises a ramp and a recess; and
             the tab is configured to slide along the ramp as the assembly moves from the
         unlocked position toward the locked position and wherein the tab is received in
         the recess when the assembly is in the correct orientation.
27.      The assembly of claim 25, wherein:
         the first feature is a plurality of slots;
         the second feature comprises a plurality of ribs; and
         the plurality of ribs are received within the plurality of slots when the assembly is
    in the correct orientation.
28.      The assembly of claim 22, wherein the flow channel narrows from the inlet
         toward the outlet.
                                                16

29. The assembly of claim 22, wherein the upper portion comprises a collar that is
    rotatable with respect to a top surface of the upper portion.
30. An assembly for electrolytic purification comprising:
        (a)     an upper portion      comprising a plurality of chlorine-generating
    electrode plates and a top surface, wherein the top surface comprises a transparent
    portion;
        (b)     a lower portion comprising an inlet and an outlet and a cavity, wherein
    an exterior of the lower portion is opaque;
        wherein the upper portion is separable from the lower portion and wherein, in
    an assembled position, the plurality of chlorine-generating electrode plates is
    disposed in the cavity of the opaque lower portion; and
        wherein the transparent portion of the top surface of the upper portion is
    arranged to allow visibility of an upper surface of the plurality of chlorine
    generating electrode plates when the assembly is in the assembled position.
                                         17

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
