ABSTRACT
Methods for spend pattern analysis include gathering, by an executable script
embedded within a graphical user interface of a user's financial account, transaction
data with at least one computer, wherein the user's financial account is a financial
institution account that is maintained on behalf of the user. One such method includes
analyzing the transaction data with at least one computer for a spend pattern;
comparing the spend pattern of the user to the spend patterns for other users with the
at least one computer; using the at least one computer, matching a merchant with the
spend pattern of the user based on the spend patterns of other users that have
interacted with the merchant; displaying the merchant and a rationale for the matching
nearby the displayed merchant in the graphical user interface of the user's financial
account; selecting a savings opportunity with a decision engine to match to the user;
and displaying the savings opportunity in the graphical user interface of the user's
financial account, the displayed savings opportunity further comprising like and
dislike icons for the user to rate his or her opinion of the displayed savings
opportunity.
                                              78

                      67/67
                                C)
CN                              C0
C)
C0      C)
        CD
                         2 72
                   -. -9 t t  .
              CLC
   41
                   EL
      M
      t7b
               CLC
                   C)C
           0.

                        SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR SPEND
             PATTERN ANALYSIS AND APPLICATIONS THEREOF
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
        10001]      This application is a continuation-in-part of, and claims the benefit
of the filing date of U.S. Pat. Application 13/082,59 1, filed on April 8, 2011, which
claims the benefit of the filing date of Provisional Appl. 61/388,680, filed on October
1, 2010. This application is a continuation-in-part of, and claims the benefit of the
filing date of U.S. Pat. Application 13/180,511 filed on July 11, 2011, which claims
the benefit of the filing date of Provisional Application 61/427,138,               filed on
December 24, 2010.
BACKGROUND
        [0002]      Field:
        10003]      The present invention is generally related to an in-statement
rewards platform.
        [0004]      Description of the Related Art:
        10005]      While consumer comparison shopping for products is known, an
unbiased way of comparison shopping for competing services is unavailable. Often a
consumer may only be aware of some of the information related to a service
provider's services, options, terms, conditions, costs, and the like. Also, the consumer
may not be aware of how the service options change based on their particular usage
characteristics. Thus, there remains a need for a consumer comparison shopping
method that obtains actual or predicted service usage data from the consumer and
service provider information in order to present the consumer with relevant alternative
service offering options. As well as overcoming some of the aforementioned
disadvantage, it is an additional or alternative object of the present invention to at
least provide the public with a useful choice.
SUMMARY
        [0005a]          In a first aspect, the present inventions relates to a method,
comprising gathering, by an executable script embedded within a graphical user
interface of a user's financial account, transaction data from the user's financial
account with at least one computer, wherein the graphical user interface is presented
                                                1

on a mobile device of the user, and the user's financial account is a financial
institution account that is maintained on behalf of the user; analyzing the transaction
data with at least one computer for a spend pattern; comparing the spend pattern of
the user to the spend patterns for other users with the at least one computer; using the
at least one computer, matching a merchant with the spend pattern of the user based
on at least one rationale including the spend patterns of other users that have
interacted with the merchant and an inferred customer trait; displaying the merchant
and the at least one a rationale for the matching nearby the displayed merchant in the
graphical user interface of the user's financial account; selecting an online savings
opportunity with a decision engine to match to the user; receiving, with the at least
one computer, a response from the user indicating that the user has rejected the online
savings opportunity for the merchant presented to the user; receiving, with the at least
one computer, from the mobile device of the user, location data indicating that the
user has entered a geographic area, set by the merchant, within which the online
savings opportunity is provided; and in response to receiving the response and the
location data, transmitting a geo-enhanced savings opportunity based on the online
savings opportunity to the mobile device for displayin the graphical user interface of
the user's financial account, the displayed geo-enhanced savings opportunity further
comprising like and dislike icons for the user to rate his or her opinion of the
displayed geo-enhanced savings opportunity.
         [0005b]        The term 'comprising' as used in this specification and claims
means 'consisting at least in part of. When interpreting statements in this
specification and claims which include the term 'comprising', other features besides
the features prefaced by this term in each statement can also be present. Related
terms such as 'comprise' and 'comprised' are to be interpreted in similar manner.
         [0005c]        In a second aspect, the invention relates to a method, the
method comprising gathering, by an executable script embedded within a graphical
user interface of a user's financial account, transaction data from the user's financial
account with at least one computer, wherein the graphical user interface is presented
on a mobile device of the user, and the user's financial account is a financial
institution account that is maintained on behalf of the user; analyzing the transaction
data from a plurality of merchants with the at least one computer to determine an

amount spent per merchant; generating a spending chart displaying the amount spent
per merchant with the at least one computer; matching a merchant with which the user
is likely to interact based on at least one rationale including other users with a
similarity in an amount spent with the merchant and an inferred customer trait;
displaying the matched merchant and the at least one rationale for the matching
nearby the displayed merchant in the graphical user interface of the user's financial
account; selecting an online savings opportunity with a decision engine to match the
user; receiving, with the at least one computer, a response from the user indicating
that the user has rejected the online savings opportunity for the merchant presented to
the user; receiving, with the at least one computer, from the mobile device of the user,
location data indicating that the user has entered a geographic area, set by the
merchant, within which the online savings opportunity is provided; and in response to
receiving the response and the location data, transmitting a geo-enhanced savings
opportunity based on the online savings opportunity to the mobile device for display
in the graphical user interface of the user's financial account, the displayed geo
enhanced savings opportunity further comprising like and dislike icons for the user to
rate his or her opinion of the geo-enhanced displayed savings opportunity.
         [0005d]         In a third aspect, the invention relates to a method, the method
comprising gathering, by an executable script embedded within a graphical user
interface of a user's financial account, transaction data of a user with a plurality of
merchants from a financial account of the user with at least one computer, wherein the
graphical user interface is presented on a mobile device of the user, and the financial
account of the user is a financial institution account that is maintained on behalf of the
user; analyzing the transaction data of the user with the at least one computer to
determine an amount spent per a selected view type; generating with the at least one
computer a spending chart of the user displaying the amount spent per selected view
type; displaying the spending chart with a statement of the user's financial account,
wherein the spending chart includes data for a comparison of the total amount spent
by the user per merchant for each of the plurality of merchants, with a benchmark
amount for each of the plurality of merchants; matching a merchant with the spending
chart of the user based on at least one rationale including other users with a similarity
in amounts spent that have interacted with the merchant and an inferred customer
trait; displaying the merchant and the at least one rationale for the matching nearby
                                               3

the displayed merchant in the graphical user interface; selecting a savings opportunity
with a decision engine to match to the user; receiving, with the at least one computer,
a response from the user indicating that the user has rejected the online savings
opportunity for the merchant presented to the user; receiving, with the at least one
computer, from the mobile device of the user, location data indicating that the user
has entered a geographic area, set by the merchant, within which the online savings
opportunity is provided; and, in response to receiving the response and the location
data, transmitting a geo-enhanced savings opportunity based on the online savings
opportunity to the mobile device for display in the graphical user interface of the
user's financial account, the displayed geo-enhanced savings opportunity further
comprising like and dislike icons for the user to rate his or her opinion of the geo
enhanced displayed savings opportunity.
         10006]      In embodiments, methods and systems may comprise gathering
transaction data from a user's financial account, analyzing the transaction data for a
savings opportunity indication, matching a savings opportunity from a database of
savings opportunities to the user based on the savings opportunity indication, and
displaying the savings opportunity in association with a statement of a user's financial
account. Further, a past response may be gathered to a savings opportunity indication
and analyzing it, wherein the savings opportunity is based on both the analyzed
transaction data and past response data. The statement may be an online statement, an
online graphical user interface associated with the user's financial account, an online
bill pay area, a dialog box associated with the user's financial account, an ATM
receipt, a teller receipt, a mobile statement, a paper statement, and the like. The step
of analyzing may comprise extracting at least one of a merchant name, a merchant
category, a merchant location, a store number, a transaction amount, a transaction
frequency, a zip code, a store category, a transaction description, and a total spending
amount. The step of analyzing may comprise analyzing the transaction data for a
savings opportunity indication relating to a merchant. The step of analyzing may
comprise analyzing the transaction data for a savings opportunity indication relating
to a market segment. The step of displaying the savings opportunity may comprise
displaying the savings opportunity within a field of the statement where prior
transaction data may be presented. The savings opportunity may be presented
interweaved within the presented prior transaction data. The step of displaying the
                                              4

savings opportunity may comprise displaying the savings opportunity within a field of
the statement not where prior transaction data may be presented. The user's financial
account may be a credit card account, a bank account, a checking account, a savings
account, a personal finance program account, a loan account, and the like. The step of
analyzing may comprise anonymizing the transaction data. The savings opportunity
may comprise an offer to perform a bill analysis. Further, generating and displaying a
link may be provided in a graphical user interface to the user's financial account, to a
transaction assessment user interface to compare the transaction to a plurality of
alternative offers. The savings opportunity may be a coupon. The coupon may be a
barcode presented on a mobile device. The coupon may be a printed coupon
presented in a statement. The coupon may be an online redemption coupon code.
The savings opportunity may be an automatic discount on a subsequent transaction.
The savings opportunity may be a credit on a subsequent transaction. When the user
makes the subsequent transaction, the user may receive the credit. The savings
opportunity may be a pre-paid offer. The pre-paid offer may be charged immediately
to the user's financial account. The pre-paid offer may be redeemed via an online
coupon code, an in-store coupon, a mobile phone coupon, and the like. The savings
opportunity may be a merchant loyalty program. The merchant loyalty program may
be implemented through the use of a transaction card associated with the financial
account. The merchant loyalty program may be implemented by providing the user
with a printed coupon, a bar code coupon presented on a mobile device, a credit on a
merchant loyalty card, and the like. Wherein analyzing the transaction data may
comprise analyzing market segment information. The step of matching may be
limited to savings opportunities near a user's identified location. The user's location
may be identified manually by the user. The user's location may be identified
automatically from a mobile device implementing the method.
         10007]     In embodiments, methods and systems may comprise following a
secure user login procedure, presenting a graphical user interface where a user's
financial transaction data are presented, wherein the financial transaction data were
obtained from a financial institution that maintains a financial account on behalf of
the user, and presenting a savings opportunity, in proximity to the financial
transaction data, wherein the savings opportunity relates to the financial transaction
data. The sales offer may be presented in an interweaved fashion amongst more than
                                            5

one financial transaction of the financial transaction data. The financial account may
be a credit card account, a bank account, a checking account, a savings account, a
personal finance program account, a loan account, and the like. A past response may
be gathered to a savings opportunity and analyzing it, wherein the current savings
opportunity may be based on both the financial transaction data and past response
data. The savings opportunity may relate to an aspect of the financial transaction data
chosen from a merchant name, a merchant category, a merchant location, a store
number, a transaction amount, a transaction frequency, a zip code, a store category, a
transaction description, a total spending amount, and the like. Further, the financial
transaction data may be anonymized. The step of presenting may be limited to
savings opportunities near a user's identified location. The user's location may be
identified manually by the user. The user's location may be identified automatically
from a mobile device implementing the method. The savings opportunity may
comprise an offer to perform a bill analysis. Further, generating and displaying a link
may be provided in a graphical user interface to the user's financial account, to a
transaction assessment user interface to compare the transaction to a plurality of
alternative offers. The savings opportunity may be a coupon. The coupon may be a
barcode presented on a mobile device. The coupon may be a printed coupon
presented in a statement. The coupon may be an online redemption coupon code.
The savings opportunity may be an automatic discount on a subsequent transaction.
The savings opportunity may be a credit on a subsequent transaction. When the user
makes the subsequent transaction, the user may receive the credit. The savings
opportunity may be a pre-paid offer. The pre-paid offer may be charged immediately
to the user's financial account. The pre-paid offer may be redeemed via an online
coupon code, an in-store coupon, a mobile phone coupon, and the like. The savings
opportunity may be a merchant loyalty program.
         10008]     In embodiments, methods and systems may comprise presenting an
opportunity to assess alternative offerings related to a financial transaction from a
user's financial account, wherein the financial transaction is related to a presently
selected offering, in response to the selection of the opportunity, gathering transaction
data relating to the presented selected offering and analyzing the transaction data,
wherein the step of analyzing involves normalizing the transaction data such that a
comparison to other offers can be assessed, collecting offer data relating to an
                                             6

alternative offering and normalizing the offer data such that a comparison with the
normalized transaction data can be assessed, comparing the normalized transaction
data with the normalized offer data to assess if the alternative offering presents an
improvement to the user in comparison to the presently selected offering, and
presenting the alternative offering to the user if the alternative offering presents an
improvement. Presenting may be done in a statement. The statement may be an
online statement, an online graphical user interface associated with the user's
financial account, an online bill pay area, a dialog box associated with the user's
financial account, an ATM receipt, a teller receipt, a mobile statement, a paper
statement, and the like. The financial transaction may be presented in a bill for
payment in an online bill pay area. The improvement may be related to at least one of
a cost, a coverage, a quality, and a rating. The user financial account is may be a
credit card account, a bank account, a checking account, a savings account, a personal
finance program account, a loan account, and the like. Analyzing the transaction data
may involve extracting a merchant name, a merchant category, a merchant location, a
transaction amount, a transaction frequency, a zip code, a store name, a store
category, a store number a transaction description, a purchase frequency, a total
spending amount, and the like. Further, the transaction data may be anonymized.
         10009]     In embodiments, methods and systems may comprise presenting, in
a user financial account graphical user interface, an opportunity to assess alternative
offerings related to a transaction that is presented within the account graphical user
interface, wherein the transaction is related to a presently selected offering, and in
response to the selection of the opportunity, redirecting the user to an alternative
offering graphical user interface adapted to present the user with alternative offerings.
The bill's details may be analyzed and normalized for comparison with an alternative
offering that has been normalized, and if the alternative offering presents an
improvement in comparison to the presently selected offering, the alternative offering
may be presented in the alternative offering graphical user interface. The bill details
may include a merchant name, a merchant category, a merchant location, a transaction
amount, a transaction frequency, a zip code, a store name, a store category, a store
number a transaction description, a purchase frequency, a total spending amount, and
the like. The improvement may be related to a cost, a coverage, a quality, a rating,
and the like. The financial account may be a credit card account, a bank account, a
                                              7

checking account, a savings account, a personal finance program account, a loan
account, and the like. Further, the transaction may be anonymized. The opportunity
to assess alternative offerings may relate to a plurality of transactions.
         10010]      In embodiments, methods and systems may comprise gathering
transaction data relating to a user's bill wherein the bill is related to a presently
selected offering, analyzing the transaction data, wherein the step of analyzing
involves normalizing the transaction data such that a comparison to other offers can
be assessed, collecting offer usage data relating to an alternative offering and
normalizing the offer usage data such that a comparison with the transaction data can
be assessed, comparing the nonralized transaction data with the normalized offer
usage data to assess if the alternative offering presents an advantage to the user in
comparison to the presently selected offering, and in response to an assessment
indicating that the alternative offering presents an improvement to the user,
presenting, in a user financial account statement, an indication that an alternative
offering related to the bill is available. The statement may be an online statement, an
online graphical user interface associated with the user's financial account, an online
bill pay area, a dialog box associated with the user's financial account, an ATM
receipt, a teller receipt, a mobile statement, a paper statement, and the like. The
improvement may be related to a cost, a coverage, a quality, a rating, and the like.
The financial account may be a credit card account, a bank account, a checking
account, a savings account, a personal finance program account, a loan account, and
the like. Analyzing the transaction data may comprise anonymizing the transaction
data.
         10011]      In embodiments, methods and systems may comprise presenting a
statement of a user's financial transaction data, where the financial transaction data
were obtained from a financial institution that maintains a financial account on behalf
of the user, and presenting a map of a geographic area and indicating where, within
the geographic area, a savings opportunity is presented, wherein the savings
opportunity relates to the financial transaction data. The map may be presented in
proximity to the financial transaction data. The map may be presented in a separate
window from the financial transaction data. The statement may be an online
statement, an online graphical user interface associated with the user's financial
                                              8

account, an online bill pay area, a dialog box associated with the user's financial
account, an ATM receipt, a teller receipt, a mobile statement, a paper statement, and
the like. The financial account may be a credit card account, a bank account, a
checking account, a savings account, a personal finance program account, a loan
account, and the like. Further, the financial transaction data may be anonymized. The
geographic area may relate to a user's identified location. The user's location may be
identified manually by the user. The user's location may be identified automatically
from a mobile device implementing the method. The savings opportunity may
comprise an offer to perform a bill analysis. Further, generating and displaying a link
may be provided in a graphical user interface to the user's financial account, to a
transaction assessment user interface to compare the transaction to a plurality of
alternative offers. The savings opportunity may be a coupon. The coupon may be a
barcode presented on a mobile device. The coupon may be a printed coupon
presented in a statement. The coupon may be an online redemption coupon code.
The savings opportunity may be an automatic discount on a subsequent transaction.
The savings opportunity may be a credit on a subsequent transaction. When the user
makes the subsequent transaction, the user may receive the credit. The savings
opportunity may be a pre-paid offer. The pre-paid offer may be charged immediately
to the user's financial account. The pre-paid offer may be redeemed via an online
coupon code, an in-store coupon, a mobile phone coupon, and the like. The savings
opportunity may be a merchant loyalty program.
         10012]     In embodiments, methods and systems may comprise gathering
transaction data from a user for a merchant from a user's financial account, where the
user's financial account is a financial institution account that is maintained on behalf
of the user; analyzing the transaction data to determine if an aspect of the transaction
data meet a criteria set by the merchant; if the transaction data meet the criteria,
matching a savings opportunity from the merchant to the user based on the analyzed
transaction data; and enabling the user to redeem the savings opportunity during a
subsequent transaction with the merchant. The criteria may comprise a total spending
amount with the merchant, a number of transactions with the merchant, a number of
transactions within a category, total spending during a period of time, a particular
transaction, a particular set of transactions, a transaction at a particular merchant
location, and the like. The financial account may be a bank account, a checking
                                              9

account, a savings account, a credit account, a personal finance program account, a
loan account, and the like. Enabling may comprise automatic redemption upon
presentation of a transaction card associated with the user's financial account.
Enabling may comprise providing the user with a printed coupon, a bar code coupon
presented on a mobile device, a credit on a merchant loyalty card, and the like.
Analyzing may comprise anonymizing the financial transaction data. Analyzing may
comprise extracting a merchant name, a merchant category, a merchant location, a
transaction amount, a transaction frequency, a zip code, a store name, a store
category, a store number, a transaction description, a purchase frequency, a total
spending amount, and the like.
        10013]      In embodiments, methods and systems may comprise gathering
transaction data from a user for a merchant from a user's financial account, wherein
the user's financial account is a financial institution account that is maintained on
behalf of the user; analyzing the transaction data; matching a savings opportunity
from the merchant to the user based on the analyzed transaction data; and enabling the
user to redeem the savings opportunity during a subsequent transaction with the
merchant. The financial account may be a bank account, a checking account, a
savings account, a credit account, a personal finance program account, a loan account,
and the like. Enabling may comprise automatic redemption upon presentation of a
transaction card associated with the user's financial account. Enabling may comprise
providing the user with at least one of a printed coupon, a bar code coupon presented
on a mobile device, and a credit on a merchant loyalty card. Analyzing may comprise
anonymizing the financial transaction data. Analyzing may comprise extracting a
merchant name, a merchant category, a merchant location, a transaction amount, a
transaction frequency, a zip code, a store name, a store category, a store number, a
transaction description, a purchase frequency, a total spending amount, and the like.
        10014]      In embodiments, methods and systems may comprise presenting a
merchant bill assessment graphical user interface where an indication of a savings
opportunity is presented, and in response to a placement of a savings opportunity in a
graphical user interface associated with a user's financial account, wherein the
savings opportunity was related to one or more transactions processed through the
user's financial account, tracking interaction with the savings opportunity and
                                             10

reporting the tracking to a merchant through the merchant bill assessment graphical
user interface. The reporting may comprise reporting on a total spending amount with
the merchant, a number of transactions with the merchant, a number of transactions
within a category, total spending during a period of time, a particular transaction, a
particular set of transactions, a transaction at a particular merchant location, and the
like.
        10015]       In embodiments, methods and systems may comprise an executable
script such that when embedded in a graphical user interface of a user's financial
account will automatically provide the user, through the graphical user interface, a
savings opportunity interface, wherein savings opportunities relating to user financial
transactions will be presented. The executable program may be implemented in the
JavaScript programming language.
        10016]       In embodiments, methods and systems may comprise embedding
an executable script in a graphical user interface of a user's financial account,
executing the executable script when the user accesses the user financial account; and
using the executable script to: (1) gather transaction data from the user financial
account and anonymize the transaction data before transmitting the anonymized
transaction data to a server for analysis; (2) instruct a decision engine in
communication with the server to select a savings opportunity to match to the user
based on the anonymized transaction data analyzed by the server; (3) receive an
indication of the matched savings opportunity from the decision engine; and (4)
display the savings opportunity in the user financial account graphical user interface.
Analyzing may comprise extracting a merchant name, a merchant category, a
merchant location, a transaction amount, a transaction frequency, a zip code, a store
name, a store category, a store number, a transaction description, a purchase
frequency, a total spending amount, and the like. Further, the executable script may
be used to instruct the decision engine to consult a rules database in making the
match. The rules database may comprise criteria that the transaction data should meet
before a match is made. The criteria may comprise a total spending amount with the
merchant, a number of transactions with the merchant, a number of transactions
within a category, total spending during a period of time, a particular transaction, a
particular set of transactions, a transaction at a particular merchant location, and the
                                             11

like. The financial account may be a bank account, a checking account, a savings
account, a credit account, a personal finance program account, a loan account, and the
like.
         10017]      In embodiments, methods and systems may comprise: providing an
executable script such that when embedded in a graphical user interface of a user's
financial account will automatically provide a merchant with anonymized information
relating to transactions made by the user from the user's financial account; and in
response to receipt of the anonymized information, enabling the merchant to present a
savings opportunity to the user, which will appear in the graphical user interface. The
executable program may be implemented in the JavaScript programming language.
The user may select to which merchants the executable program can transmit the
anonymized information. A user financial account host may select to which
merchants the executable program can transmit the anonymized infonnation.
         10018]      In embodiments, methods and systems may comprise embedding a
first executable script in a graphical user interface of a user's financial account,
executing the first executable script when the user accesses the user financial account,
and using the first executable script to: (1) gather transaction data from the user
financial account and anonymize the transaction data before transmitting the
anonymized transaction data to a first server for analysis and (2) specify the address
of a second executable script, wherein the second executable script accesses the
analyzed transaction data and perfonns a function with the analyzed transaction data.
The executable script may be implemented in the JavaScript programming language.
         10019]      In embodiments, methods and systems may comprise embedding
an executable script in a graphical user interface of a user's financial account,
executing the executable script when the user accesses the user financial account, and
using the executable script to: (1) gather transaction data from the user financial
account and anonymize the transaction data before transmitting the anonymized
transaction data to a server for analysis; and (2) transmit the transaction data to a third
party application to be leveraged. The third party application may be a fraud
detection application. The third party application may be a transaction analytics
application. The third party application may be a marketing application. The third
                                             12

party application may be a social networking application. The executable script may
be implemented in the JavaScript programming language.
        10020]     In an aspect of the invention, a method for a conditional purchase
may include receiving a conditional purchase offer for a good or service, wherein the
conditional purchase offer specifies at least one of a desired discount and an offer
price, comparing the conditional purchase offer with at least one of an inventory and a
pricing information to determine if the conditional purchase offer is acceptable, if the
conditional purchase offer is acceptable, optionally binding the customer to purchase
the good or service, wherein binding comprises automatically charging a financial
account of the user for the good or service, and if the conditional purchase offer is not
acceptable, allowing the user to modify at least one of the discount and offer price.
        [0021]     A system and method for platform-driven savings opportunity
matching includes gathering transaction data from a user's financial account, wherein
the user's financial account is a financial institution account that is maintained on
behalf of the user and analyzing the transaction data for a psychographic inference. A
savings opportunity from a database of savings opportunities is matched to the user
based on the psychographic inference. The savings opportunity is displayed in
association with a statement of the user's financial account. The psychographic
inference may relate to at least one of a credit rating, a gender, an age group, a life
event, an income level, and a demographic.
        10022]     A system and method for financial institution- and merchant-driven
savings opportunity matching includes gathering transaction data from a user's
financial account, wherein the user's financial account is a financial institution
account that is maintained on behalf of the user and analyzing the transaction data for
a savings opportunity indication. A filter may be applied to a database of savings
opportunities prior to matching one to the user based on the savings opportunity
indication. The savings opportunity may be displayed in association with a statement
of a user's financial account. The filter may relate to a host of the user's financial
account. The filter may be a blacklist of at least one of a merchant, a merchant type, a
transaction type, a time period, and a savings opportunity type. The filter may relate
to a merchant offering a savings opportunity. The filter may relate to a past spend
                                            13

with the merchant, a past spend in a category, a past purchase frequency, a
transaction, and a change in purchase pattern.
        10023]     A system and method for user-driven savings opportunity matching
includes gathering transaction data from a user's financial account, wherein the user's
financial account is a financial institution account that is maintained on behalf of the
user and analyzing the transaction data for a savings opportunity indication. A savings
opportunity from a database of savings opportunities may be matched to the user
based on the savings opportunity indication.         The savings opportunity may be
displayed in association with a statement of a user's financial account, and the user is
allowed to interact with the savings opportunity. The interaction data may be used to
drive a subsequent match of a savings opportunity. The interaction data may be a past
response to a savings opportunity.       The system and method may further include
decreasing the number of matches made if the response is negative. The system and
method may further include increasing the number of matches made if the response is
positive. The system and method may further include changing the type of savings
opportunity matched if the response is negative. The interaction data may be a like or
dislike of the savings opportunity. The interaction data may be an expansion of a
savings opportunity headline to reveal additional details. The interaction data may be
a sharing of the savings opportunity with at least one of a second user and a social
network.
        10024]     A system and method for providing rewards through a user
financial instrument includes gathering transaction data from a user's financial
account, wherein the user's financial account is a financial institution account that is
maintained on behalf of the user and analyzing the transaction data to determine a
reward level. The savings opportunity from the merchant may be matched to the user
based on the reward level.     The user is enabled to redeem the savings opportunity
during a subsequent transaction with the merchant.        The system and method may
further include allowing the merchant to set a criterion for determining the reward
level. The criterion may relate to an amount spent with the merchant. The criterion
may relate to a number of visits to the merchant. As the reward level improves, the
matched savings opportunity may improve.
                                            14

         10025]      A system and method for providing a future reward through a user
financial instrument includes gathering transaction data from a user's financial
account, wherein the user's financial account is a financial institution account that is
maintained on behalf of the user and analyzing the transaction data to determine a
future savings opportunity accessible to the user after completion of a goal. Systems
and methods track progress towards completing the goal.        The user is enabled to
obtain the future savings opportunity when the goal is completed. The system and
method may further include allowing the merchant to set the goal.        The goal may
relate to an amount spent with the merchant. The goal may relate to a number of
visits to the merchant.
         10026]      A system and method for providing socially enabled rewards
through a user financial instrument includes gathering transaction data from a user's
financial account and analyzing the transaction data for a savings opportunity
indication.    A savings opportunity from a database of savings opportunities is
matched to the user based on the savings opportunity indication, wherein the savings
opportunity can be shared with other users or a social network.            The savings
opportunity is displayed in association with a statement of a user's financial account
and the user is allowed to share the savings opportunity, wherein sharing causes a
shared savings opportunity to be generated. A second user, one who received the
shared savings opportunity, can redeem the shared savings opportunity. The sharing
and redemption of the shared savings opportunity is tracked, such as to improve
targeting users who are influential based on the number of redemptions of the shared
savings opportunity.        The system and method may further include allowing a
merchant to modify the savings opportunity priori to generating the shared savings
opportunity.
         [0027]      A system and method for providing a geo-enhanced savings
opportunity in association with a financial account includes gathering transaction data
from a user's financial account and analyzing the transaction data for a savings
opportunity     indication.    A  savings opportunity from a database of savings
opportunities is matched to the user based on the savings opportunity indication. The
savings opportunity is displayed in association with a statement of a user's financial
account.    A response to the savings opportunity is tracked in order to receive an
                                           15

indication of whether or not the savings opportunity has been accepted. If it was not
accepted,    an additional incentive to accept the savings opportunity may be made
when the user is in a geographic location set by a merchant offering the savings
opportunity.    The incentive may be at least one of an additional % discount, an
additional monetary discount, an additional savings opportunity, the opportunity to
share the savings opportunity, and a related opportunity.
        10028]     A system and method for providing a savings opportunity matched
to a spend pattern in association with a financial account includes gathering
transaction data from a user's financial account and analyzing the transaction data for
a spend pattern. A savings opportunity from a database of savings opportunities is
matched to the user based on the spend pattern. The savings opportunity is displayed
in association with a statement of a user's financial account. The system and method
may further include gathering a past response to a savings opportunity and analyzing
it, wherein the savings opportunity is based on both the spend pattern and past
response data.
        [0029]      Methods and systems for a conditional purchase may include
gathering transaction data from a user's financial account, wherein the user's financial
account is a financial institution account that is maintained on behalf of the user and
analyzing the transaction data for a savings opportunity indication. A savings
opportunity is matched from a database of savings opportunities to the user based on
the savings opportunity indication. The user may provide a conditional purchase offer
for a good or service identified by the savings opportunity, wherein the conditional
purchase offer specifies at least one of a desired discount and an offer price. The
conditional purchase offer is compared with at least one of an inventory and a pricing
information to determine if the conditional purchase offer is acceptable. If the
conditional purchase offer is acceptable, the customer may be bound to purchase the
good or service, wherein binding comprises automatically charging a financial
account of the user for the good or service. If the conditional purchase offer is not
acceptable, the user may modify at least one of the discount and offer price of the
conditional purchase offer to try to gain acceptance again.
        [0030]      A system and method for matching a savings opportunity using
census data includes gathering transaction data from a user's financial account and
                                            16

analyzing the transaction data for a savings opportunity indication. Third party census
data related to a geographic location of the user may be used in addition to the savings
opportunity indication to match a savings opportunity from a database of savings
opportunities to the user. The savings opportunity is displayed in association with a
statement of the user's financial account. The system and method may further include
gathering a past response to a savings opportunity indication and analyzing it, wherein
the savings opportunity is based on both the analyzed transaction data and past
response data.
         [0031]      A system and method for matching a savings opportunity using
third party data includes gathering transaction data from a user's financial account and
analyzing the transaction data for a savings opportunity indication. Third party data
regarding the savings opportunity may be used in addition to the savings opportunity
indication to match a savings opportunity from a database of savings opportunities to
the user. The savings opportunity is displayed in association with a statement of the
user's financial account. The third party data may relate to an aspect of the merchant.
The third party data may relate to an aspect of a product or service offered by the
merchant.
         10032]     These and other systems, methods, objects, features, and
advantages of the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from
the following detailed description of the preferred embodiment and the drawings.
         10033]     All documents mentioned herein are hereby incorporated in their
entirety by reference. References to items in the singular should be understood to
include items in the plural, and vice versa, unless explicitly stated otherwise or clear
from the text. Grammatical conjunctions are intended to express any and all
disjunctive and conjunctive combinations of conjoined clauses, sentences, words, and
the like, unless otherwise stated or clear from the context.
         10034]     In this specification where reference has been made to patent
specifications, other external documents, or other sources of information, this is
generally for the purpose of providing a context for discussing the features of the
invention. Unless specifically stated otherwise, reference to such external documents
is not to be construed as an admission that such documents, or such sources of
                                             17

information, in any jurisdiction, are prior art, or form any part of the common general
knowledge in the art.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
         10035]     The invention and the following detailed description of certain
embodiments thereof may be understood by reference to the following figures:
         10036]     Fig. 1 depicts a block diagram of a consumer service comparison
shopping system.
         10037]     Fig. 2 depicts a flow diagram for comparing alternative service
offerings.
         10038]     Fig. 3 depicts an alternative service offering model.
         10039]     Fig. 4 depicts a flow diagram for comparing alternative credit card
offerings.
         10040]     Fig. 5 depicts a flow diagram for comparing alternative credit card
offerings according to a value of rewards.
         10041]     Fig. 6 depicts a flow diagram for comparing insurance policies.
         10042]     Fig. 7 depicts a flow diagram for comparing alternative service
offerings and performing a billing error analysis.
         [0043]     Fig. 8 depicts a flow diagram for determining a personalized true
cost of service offerings.
         10044]     Fig. 9 depicts a flow diagram of a process for normalizing user
data.
         10045]     Fig. 10 depicts a flow diagram of a process for generating a
normalized service usage model.
         10046]     Fig. 11 depicts a flow diagram of a method for comparing
alternative wireless service offerings.
         10047]     Fig. 12 depicts a flow diagram of a method for comparing savings
account offerings.
         10048]     Fig. 13 depicts a flow diagram of a method for comparing internet,
television, and telephone service offerings.
         10049]     Fig. 14 depicts a screenshot of a user account.
         10050]     Fig. 15 depicts a wireless plan log in window.
                                             18

        10051]     Fig, 16 depicts a data import report window.
        10052]     Fig. 17 depicts an alternative service plan recommendation
window.
        [0053]     Fig. 18 depicts a screenshot of a user account.
        10054]     Fig. 19 depicts a data entry window for a gasoline savings
application of the system.
        10055]     Fig. 20 depicts a map showing results of the gasoline savings
application.
        10056]     Fig. 21 depicts a screenshot of a user BillPay window.
        10057]     Fig. 22 depicts a wireless plan log in window.
        10058]     Fig. 23 depicts a data import report window.
        [0059]     Fig. 24 depicts a screenshot of a user account.
        10060]     Fig. 25 depicts a deal purchase window.
        10061]     Fig. 26 depicts a receipt for deal purchase.
        10062]     Fig. 27 depicts a block diagram of the system.
        10063]     Fig. 28 depicts a block diagram of a merchant categorization
system.
        [0064]     Fig. 29 depicts a method of the system.
        10065]     Fig. 30 depicts example rewards redemptions.
        10066]     Fig. 31 depicts an integrated bill analysis, with 'like / dislike'
button.
        [0067]     Fig. 32 depicts an embodiment technology stack.
        10068]     Fig. 33 depicts a welcome and login for an embodiment bank
dashboard.
        10069]     Fig. 34 depicts administration settings for an embodiment bank
dashboard.
        10070]     Fig. 35 depicts rewards controls for an embodiment bank
dashboard.
        10071]     Fig. 36 depicts user interface settings for an embodiment bank
dashboard.
                                            19

       10072]    Fig. 37 depicts payment controls for an embodiment bank
dashboard.
       10073]    Fig. 38 depicts financial institution management for an
embodiment bank dashboard.
       10074]    Fig. 39 depicts an approve-deny window for financial institution
management for an embodiment bank dashboard.
       [0075]    Fig. 40 depicts a reporting window in an embodiment bank
dashboard.
       10076]    Fig. 41 depicts a reporting window in an embodiment bank
dashboard.
       [0077]    Fig. 42 depicts a reporting window in an embodiment bank
dashboard
       10078]    Fig. 43 depicts a customer service user lookup in an embodiment
bank dashboard.
       [0079]    Fig. 44 depicts customer service contact for an embodiment bank
dashboard.
       10080]    Fig. 45 depicts a campaign window for creating a reward in an
embodiment merchant dashboard.
       10081]    Fig. 46 depicts a campaign window for targeting a reward in an
embodiment merchant dashboard.
       10082]    Fig. 47 depicts campaign performance in an embodiment merchant
dashboard.
       10083]    Fig. 48 depicts a reporting window in an embodiment merchant
dashboard.
       100841    Fig. 49 depicts a reporting window in an embodiment merchant
dashboard.
       10085]    Fig. 50 depicts a reporting window in an embodiment merchant
dashboard.
       10086]    Fig. 51 depicts a reporting window with sales performance in an
embodiment merchant dashboard.
       10087]    Fig. 52 depicts a statement rewards embodiment.
                                          20

         10088]     Fig. 53 depicts a statement rewards embodiment.
         [0089]     Fig. 54 depicts a statement rewards embodiment.
         10090]     Fig. 55 depicts a statement rewards embodiment.
         [0091]     Fig. 56 depicts a statement rewards embodiment.
         10092]     Fig. 57 depicts a statement rewards embodiment.
         10093]     Fig. 58 depicts a statement rewards embodiment.
         10094]     Fig. 59 depicts a statement rewards embodiment.
         10095]     Fig. 60 depicts a statement rewards embodiment.
         10096]     Fig. 61 depicts a mobile statement rewards embodiment.
         10097]     Fig. 62 depicts a mobile statement rewards embodiment.
         [0098]     Fig. 63 depicts a mobile statement rewards embodiment.
         10099]     Fig. 64 depicts a mobile statement rewards embodiment.
         100100]    Fig. 65 depicts a predicted merchants window.
         1001011    Fig. 66 depicts a merchant level spending chart.
         100102]    Fig. 67 depicts a geographic proximity spending chart.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
         100103]    Referring to Fig. 1, an embodiment of a consumer service
comparison shopping system 100 is depicted. Through the user interface 102, a user
may access the decision engine 108 and monitoring engine 104. In an embodiment,
the user interface 102 may be embodied in a website. The user may enter service
usage data and preference data into a user profile database 112. For example, the data
may include a geographical location, a current service provider, a current service cost,
a current service usage, a predicted future service usage, preferences for future
service, and other pertinent information. In an alternative embodiment, the data may
be gathered automatically from the user's service provider by a data engine 120, such
as by logging in to a user's service account after obtaining authorization from the user
for release of such information. The data normalization platform 118 may normalize
data obtained from the user and stored in the user profile database 112, data obtained
about the user's service usage using the data engine 120, as well as alternative service
offering data stored in a product database 110. A data normalization engine 124 may
perform the normalization step. The decision engine 108 may utilize the usage and
                                            21

preference data from the consumer along with the business rules server 122 to
determine how the user's needs, based on a previous or predicted future usage, and
preferences match with alternate service offerings offered by various service
providers. The decision engine 108 may organize the usage data based on the business
rules server 122, and then determines how well each service offering fits the user
based on one or more factors, such as total cost, per unit cost, service quality, and the
like. The user may then be given the option to select an alternative service offering
based on the recommendation by the decision engine 108. The user may be given the
option to proceed to acceptance of terms and conditions as well as payment for
services. In an embodiment, the monitoring engine 104 may repeat the process of
obtaining and normalizing alternative service offering data and comparing it to the
user's needs and preferences to determine on an updated basis which alternative
service offering best fits the user's needs and preferences. The tracking criteria and
output of the monitoring engine 104 may be stored in the tracking database 114. For
example, the monitoring engine 104 may repeat the process when a new service
offering becomes available, when a user's service usage changes, when a user moves
to a new geographic location, when a user indicates a desire to do so, and the like.
The user may be alerted when the process is repeated.
         100104]     Referring now to Fig. 2, a method of comparing service plans
based on a user's service usage data may include the steps of collecting service usage
data for a user's current service using a computer implemented facility 202, analyzing
the service usage data to obtain a normalized service usage dataset 204, optionally,
normalizing data related to a plurality of alternative service offerings according to a
normalized alternative service offering model 208, applying the normalized
alternative service offering model to the normalized service usage dataset to produce a
plurality of alternative service offering normalized datasets, wherein the dataset
comprises at least the cost for the alternative service offering 210, comparing the
alternative service offering normalized datasets to the normalized usage dataset to
determine if an alternative service offering is better than the user's current service
212, and optionally, repeating said collecting, analyzing, normalizing, applying and
comparing periodically to determine on an updated basis which alternative service
offering is better than the user's current service 214. It should be understood that the
methods and systems described herein may be applicable to any service plan, policy,
                                             22

or offering engaged in by a user. For example, the service offering may relate to
wireless telephony, wireless data, internet service, hotel services, restaurant services,
rental car services, loans, insurance services, auto loans, home loans, student loans,
life insurance, home insurance, casualty insurance, auto insurance, motorcycle
insurance, disability insurance, financial services, a credit card, a checking account, a
savings account, a brokerage account, an insurance policy, utility service, personal
finance management, residential fuel, automotive fuel, a gym membership, a security
service, television programming, VoIP, long distance calling, international calling,
utilities, tennite services, pest services, moving services, identity theft protection
services, travel services, software applications, and the like. For example, in the case
where the service offering is travel services, the system 100 may obtain information
about a user's previous travel, such as what hotels they have stayed at and what level
of service is offered by the hotel, what level of service the user purchases for flights,
what type of car the user has rented, if the user pre-purchases tour packages, and the
like. When the user requests that the system determine a new travel offering, the
system may search for accommodations based on at least one aspect of the user's
previous travel. The user's previous travel may be analyzed to obtain a normalized
travel service usage dataset which may be compared to an alternative service offering
normalized dataset to determine a travel service offering for the user.
          [00105]    In an embodiment, collecting service usage data for a user's current
service using a computer implemented facility 202 may comprise the service usage
data being input manually by the user to the computer implemented facility. For
example, using the user interface 102, a wireless service user may indicate their
service usage data, such as how much they spend a month, how many anytime
minutes they use, how many wireless lines they have, if they send text, video, or
MMS messages, how frequently they message, their geographic locations of use, and
the like. The service usage data may be for a current use, past use, or a predicted
future use. The service usage data may relate to more than one service plan. In an
embodiment, the service usage data may relate to a single service usage parameter. In
an alternative embodiment, the service usage data may be obtained automatically,
such as with a secure retrieval application. For example, the user may give
permission for the data engine 120 to log into the user's service account and obtain
the service usage data. In an embodiment, the service usage data are obtained from
                                             23

usage records or billing records, either current or historical. In some embodiments,
the data engine 120 obtains a copy of a bill and processes it to obtain the service
usage data. The service usage data may relate to more than one service plan. In an
alternative embodiment, the service usage data are obtained from an application. For
example, the application may be an online banking application, personal financial
management software, a bill payment application, a check writing application, a
logging application, a mobile phone usage logging application, a computer usage
logging application, a browsing application, a search application, and the like. The
service usage data may consist of average usage data over a specified period of time
in the past. The service usage data may be obtained independent of a user's billing
data.
         100106]     In an embodiment, analyzing the service usage data to obtain a
normalized service usage dataset 204 may comprise processing historical usage data
to obtain an average normalized usage dataset. Alternatively, processing a single time
period's usage data may be done to obtain a normalized usage dataset for that time
period. Nornalizing usage data may be done by sorting the data according to service
related data types used to define a data model. In an embodiment, the data are sorted
according the same data types used in the normalized alternative service offering
model to facilitate applying the normalized alternative service offering model to the
usage data
         100107]     In an embodiment, normalizing data related to a plurality of
alternative service offerings may be done according to a nonnalized alternative
service offering model. The data engine 120 is programmed to extract data related to
alternative service offerings from multiple sources, some of which may be human
generated. For example, the data engine 120 may be programmed to know the
location of rate plan data on a wireless carrier's website. The data related to the
plurality of alternative service offerings may be obtained from a data vendor, a
human-assisted normalization system, public information sources, direct connections
to service providers, and the like. The data then are normalized according to an
alternative service offering model. Normalizing data related to the plurality of
alternative service offerings may include defining a plurality of service usage-related
data types, such as number of peak minutes available, number of nights and weekend
                                            24

minutes available, and the like, collecting parameters related to a service usage using
the computer implemented facility, such as how many minutes were used during a
particular time period, and normalizing the service parameters according to the
defined service usage-related data types to generate a normalized alternative service
offering model. The data engine 120 may sort all of the data it collects for each plan
and its potential add-on's according to the normalized alternative service offering
model. As the data are collected from various sources, it is integrated according to
the normalized alternative service offering model. Normalization occurs via at least
one of two methods, semantic normalization, syntactic normalization, and the like. In
semantic normalization, a string of characters or set of words, phrases, number, and
the like may be determined to mean something specific in the data model. Semantic
normalization may be done by human encoding, where humans decide the semantic
meaning, or may be done in an automated fashion. For example, the normalized
alternative service offering model may have only a field for afternoon rates, but a
provider's rate plan segments the day according to chunks of hours, such as from 1
pm - 4pm, and the like. The data normalization platform 118 may examine the data
from the service provider and determine that the 1 pm - 4pm time period rate should
be described as an afternoon rate in the normalized alternative service offering model.
The assignment of the provider's rate time period to a particular field of the
normalized alternative service offering model may only need to be done once in order
for the data normalization platform 118 to know how to interpret the data every time
it pulls data automatically, such as for updating, from the service provider. In
syntactic normalization, the data normalization platform 118 possesses certain
information to convert certain patterns to others. For example, the data normalization
platform 118 can extract the 1pm to 2 pm time period and assign it to Hour A, extract
the 2 pm to 3pm time period and assign it to Hour B, extract the 3 pm to 4pm time
period and assign it to Hour C, and so on.     In an embodiment, the data may be
enhanced or validated prior to normalization.
         100108]    In an embodiment, a canonical model for the user data may be
defined manually. Then, an agent, or data engine, may be defined or taught so it
knows how to map data from a given source into the canonical model. The data
engine may be automated from then on. The data engine is taught by a human how to
read the data, then convert that into a global concept, such as a model of a cell phone
                                            25

bill. Then the data engine may be instructed to run on a specific item, such as a bill
from VERIZON, to pull data and map the data to a canonical model.
         100109]     Referring to Fig. 9, a process for normalizing user data may
include defining a plurality of service usage-related data types 902, collecting service
usage data using a computer implemented facility 904, and sorting the service usage
data according to the defined service plan-related data types 908.
         100110]      In an embodiment, the business rules server 122 may enhance
and/or validate the normalized data, either the normalized service usage dataset or the
normalized alternative service offering dataset, and/or the normalized alternative
service offering model. Rules may be applied to the datasets or model, such as rules
regarding a given vertical, rules based on facts about a rate plan, add-on's, phones or
devices, their relative importance in determining the best plan or an aggregate score,
information about the user, information about similar users, and the like. The
business rules server 122 may verify that the datasets and/or model fit known facts
and heuristics stored in the business rules server 122.
         1001111     In an embodiment, producing a plurality of alternative service
offering normalized datasets may comprise applying the normalized alternative
service offering model to the normalized service usage dataset. In some
embodiments, the alternative service offering normalized datasets comprise at least
the cost for the alternative service offering. The normalized alternative service
offering model is applied to the normalized service usage dataset in order to
determine what the cost of a particular alternative service offering would be given the
user's service usage. For example, the normalized alternative service offering model
may be envisioned as a matrix 300. For example, in Fig. 3, an embodiment of a
model in the form of a matrix is shown. In this example and without limitation, the
model is for wireless plans and comprises a Weekday, 7 am - 8am rate, a Weekday, 1
pm - 2 pm, a Weekday, 11 pm - 12 am rate, a Saturday 7 am - 8am rate, a messaging
rate, a roaming rate, and a data rate. A person of skill in the art will understand that
the model may include any defined data types, such as data by the hour, by ranges of
time, by day, by weekend, and the like. Data may be acquired from each provider
with regard to what their rates are during the defined time periods. For example,
Provider A's Weekday, 7 am - 8am rate is $0.05/min while Provider D's is
                                              26

$0.07/min. The message rate for Provider A is $0.15/msg while Provider D's is
$0.05/msg.
         100112]    In an embodiment, determining if an alternative service offering is
better than the user's current service may comprise comparing the alternative service
offering normalized datasets to the normalized usage dataset. Applying the model to
the usage data may comprise the decision engine 108 multiplying the number of
minutes or messages used during the time period by the rate during the time period. If
the data normalization platform 118 determined that 100 calls were made during the
Weekday 7 am - 8 am time period and the user sent and/or received 100 text
messages, the cost for the Current Provider A, if only these two data types were
considered, would be $20 while Provider D would be $12. The decision engine 108
may determine that given the user's service usage, the service offering from Provider
D may be a better fit to the user given the lower cost. In an alternative embodiment,
the data engine 120 may have pulled additional information, such as the opportunity
to purchase an unlimited message plan, and placed it in the matrix 300. Therefore,
when the model is applied to the service usage data, the decision engine 108 may
perform an optimization with respect to messaging, calculating if it is cheaper to go
with the pay-as-you-go plan or getting unlimited messaging. Continuing with the
above example, if Current Provider A offered a flat rate for messaging of $5 per
month while Provider D only offered the pay-per-message rate structure, the decision
engine 108 optimization may result in Current Provider A offering the service
offering with the better fit to the user given the lower cost of Current Provider A's
service ($10) versus Provider D's service ($12). In this case, the user may be advised
to not change their service provider but perhaps ask the provider to add on the flat
message rate feature.
         [00113]    Cost may be only one component in determining if an alternative
service offering is better than the user's current service. User preference, signal
strength, terms and conditions, and the like may all be components of determining if
an alternative service offering is better than the user's current service. In an
embodiment, the decision engine 108 may perform a personalized impact analysis.
The decision engine 108 may compute an aggregate score for each alternative service
offering normalized dataset. For example, when the service offering is a wireless
                                             27

service, the aggregate score may include a normalization of the alternative service
offering savings and signal strength. In an example, the data engine 120 may extract
usage information then map the usage onto a wireless plan. In embodiments, the
wireless plan may also have optional add-on's and Term's & Condition's added into
the calculation for aggregate score. For any given service, the decision engine 108
may be able to select the best possible option from a range of service plans. Then, the
decision engine 108 may be able to select optimal add-on's to achieve the lowest
impact, or the best aggregate score. In embodiments, the user may be able to specify
what criteria to include in the aggregate score calculation. In the case of wireless
plans, wireless coverage or signal strength may also be a component of the aggregate
score. Individual scores attributed to components of the service may be added
together, often in a non-trivial formula, to weight them and come up with an
aggregate score. For example, a score may be assigned to term's and condition's, a
score may be assigned to signal strength, a score may be assigned to savings over a
current service plan, and the like. Users may be able to set the weighting, such as
with a slider or manually. Alternatively, certain assumptions may be made in
providing an automatic weighting. Assumptions may be provided and stored on the
business rules server 122.
         100114]    The aggregate score may include cost and at least one other
element. The other element may be selected from the group consisting of total cost,
per unit cost, savings, and service quality. The instruction may further include
collecting data points about the service offering and calculating the aggregate score
based on those data points. The data points may be identified in the terms and
conditions of the service offering. The data points may be in declarations related to
the service offering.
         [001151    In an embodiment, once an aggregate score is calculated, the
alternative service plans may be ranked, such as according to aggregate score,
according to savings, according to signal strength, according to a combination of the
above, and the like, in order to compare the various alternative service plans. In some
embodiments, the aggregate score may be plotted according to the overall cost of the
service plan. In some embodiments, comparing service plans includes ranking the
                                             28

alternative service offerings according to total costs, per unit costs, and service quality
or signal strength.
         100116]     In an embodiment, after comparing service plans, the user may
have the option to purchase a service plan or contact a current service provider in
order to modify their current service.
         100117]     In an embodiment, at any point during the process of collecting
202, analyzing 204, normalizing 208, applying 210 and comparing 212, an
advertisement may be presented to the user, wherein the advertisement is selected
based on an alternative service offering.
         100118]     In an embodiment, the system 100 may repeat 214 the steps of
collecting 202, analyzing 204, normalizing 208, applying 210 and comparing 212
periodically to determine on an updated basis which alternative service offering is
better than the user's current service. The user may be alerted when an alternative
service offering that is better than the user's current service is available, such as by
email, phone, SMS, MMS, and the like. The repetition interval may be set by the user
or may be a pre-determined system 100 interval. The user may also be alerted that the
repetition 214 is occurring.
         100119]     In an embodiment, the user may be a business entity.
         100120]     In an embodiment, when the service offering is a wireless service
offering, the service usage data and data related to the alternative service offering may
relate to at least one of plan definitions, add-on's, carrier coverage networks, cost,
included minutes, plan capacity, additional line cost, anytime minutes, mobile-to
mobile minutes, minutes overage, nights & weekends minutes, nights start, nights
end, roaming minutes, peak / off-peak minutes, data / downloads / applications
charges, data overages, data megabytes used / unused, most frequently called
numbers, most frequently called locations, networks / carriers called, calls per day,
time of day usage, day of week usage, day of month usage, overages, unused services,
carrier charges, messaging, messaging overage, activation fees, early termination fees,
payment preferences, carrier, current hardware, compatible hardware, hardware
availability, coverage area, signal strength, included services, caller ID block, call
waiting, call forwarding, caller ID, voicemail, visual voicemail, 3-way calling,
                                              29

insurance, at least one wireless service related item. and the like. Any of the
aforementioned service usage data types may be used to calculate an aggregate score,
in comparing service offerings, in ranking service offerings, and the like.
         100121]     In an embodiment, when the service offering is a credit card
service, the service usage data and data related to the alternative service offering may
relate to at least one of monthly spending, spending categories, credit rating, current
credit card, years of use of credit card, current balance, monthly pay-off amount,
current APR, pay off every month, carry a balance, sign-up bonus, bonus rewards,
base earning rate, maximum earning rate, earning limit, total value of rewards, earned
program promotions, spend program promotions, net asset promotions, annual fee,
late fee, balance transfer fee, cash advance fee, purchases APR, introductory APR,
regular APR, penalty APR, balance transfer APR, cash advance APR, typical
redemptions, redemption options, rewards type, credit card network, credit card
issuer, features and benefits, at least one credit card related item and the like. For
example, typical redemptions may include domestic airfare, international airfare, car
rentals, cash rebates, charitable donations, consumer electronics, cruises, hotel stays,
restaurants, shopping, and the like. The redemption may relate to an item of value, a
service, and a class of services. The class of services may be one of first class,
business class, coach class, and premium class.
         100122]     A user may weight the availability of domestic airfare redemption
options higher than the option of receiving a cash rebate, and the weighting may be
used to rank credit card offerings accordingly. In another example, the rewards type
may be at least one of cash, points, certificates, vouchers, discounts, and miles. In
another example, the features and benefits may include at least one of instant
approval, no annual fee, secured card, no fraud liability, 24 hr. customer service,
airport lounge access, auto rental insurance, concierge service, emergency
replacement, extended warranty, online account management, photo security, price
protection, purchase protection, return protection, roadside assistance, travel
insurance, and the like. Any of the aforementioned credit card data types may be used
to calculate an aggregate score, in comparing credit card offerings, in ranking credit
card offerings, and the like.
                                             30

         100123]    Referring now to Fig. 4, in embodiments, the service offering may
be a credit card offering. When the service offering is a credit card offering, a
preliminary classification of a user's credit card usage data 402 may be performed to
associate the user with a group of known characteristics 404. For example, the group
may be those that pay their credit cards off every month, those that carry a balance,
and the like. In an example, if the user pays off their balance every month, the credit
card usage data collected in subsequent steps may include monthly spending, credit
rating, categories of spending, current credit card, number of years holding current
credit card, and the like. In another example, if the user does not pay off their balance
every month, the credit card usage data collected may be monthly spending, credit
rating, categories of spending, current credit card, number of years holding current
credit card, existing balance, interest rate, late payments, monthly payment, and the
like. After associating the user with a group of known characteristics 404, credit card
usage data may be collected for a user's current credit card 408 using a computer
implemented facility according to the preliminary classification. The credit card
usage data may be analyzed to obtain a normalized credit card usage dataset 410.
Analyzing may include processing historical usage data to obtain an average
normalized usage dataset, processing a single time period's usage data to obtain a
normalized usage dataset for that time period, and the like. Data related to a plurality
of alternative credit cards may be normalized according to a normalized credit card
model 412. Normalizing data related to the plurality of alternative credit cards may
include defining a plurality of credit card usage-related data types, collecting
parameters related to a credit card usage using the computer implemented facility, and
normalizing the credit card parameters according to the defined credit card usage
related data types to generate a normalized alternative credit card model. Then, the
normalized credit card model may be applied to the normalized credit card usage
dataset to produce a plurality of alternative credit card normalized datasets 414. A
comparison of the alternative credit card datasets with the normalized credit card
usage dataset may reveal if an alternative credit card is better than the user's current
credit card 418. Comparing may include ranking the alternative credit cards
according to an aggregate score calculated for the alternative credit card normalized
dataset, an aspect of the alternative credit card normalized dataset, and the like. In an
embodiment of comparing, the aggregate score may be plotted against the cost for the
alternative credit card. The aspect may be the total card cost, a value of rewards, an
                                              31

additional earnings over the user's current credit card, a savings over the user's
current credit card, at least one of an introductory purchase APR, an introductory rate
period, a purchase APR, an annual fee, a balance transfer fee, and a credit level
required, at least one of a reward type, a rewards sign-up bonus, a base earning rate, a
maximum earning rate, and an earning limit, and the like. As described previously,
an aggregate score for each of the plurality of alternative credit card normalized
datasets may be calculated, where the score may be used for ranking. As described
previously, users may specify which components of the dataset or terms & conditions
to include in the calculation for the aggregate score and with what weighting to
include them. Credit card data, both usage and alternative credit cards, may be
obtained from public information sources, direct connections to credit card providers,
automatically, input manually by the user to a computer implemented facility for a
current card usage or predicted future credit card usage, chosen by a user from among
a sampling of standard credit card profiles, for multiple credit cards, and the like. In
some embodiments, credit card usage data may be obtained by the data engine 120 in
a computer readable format, such as in a billing record. The billing record may be for
a current bill only, may be historical billing data, may be a paper bill, an electronic
bill, and the like. Once the user may have compared various credit card offerings,
they may be provided the option of applying for a selected credit card, contact a
current credit card provider in order to modify their current credit card terms and
conditions, and the like.
         100124]    In an embodiment, at any point during the process of performing
402, associating 404, collecting 408, analyzing 410, normalizing 412, applying 414
and comparing 418, an advertisement may be presented to the user, wherein the
advertisement is selected based on an alternative service offering.
         [001251    In an embodiment, the system 100 may repeat the steps of
performing 402, associating 404, collecting 408, analyzing 410, normalizing 412,
applying 414 and comparing 418 periodically to determine on an updated basis which
alternative service offering is better than the user's current service. The user may be
alerted when an alternative service offering that is better than the user's current
service is available, such as by email, phone, SMS, MMS, and the like. The repetition
                                             32

interval may be set by the user or may be a pre-determined system 100 interval. The
user may also be alerted that the repetition is occurring.
         100126]     In an embodiment, the user may be a business entity.
         100127]     In an embodiment, the credit card usage data and data related to the
alternative credit card may relate to at least one of monthly spending, spending
categories, credit rating, current credit card, years of use of credit card, current
balance, monthly pay-off amount, current APR, pay off every month, carry a balance,
sign-up bonus, bonus rewards, base earning rate, maximum earning rate, earning
limit, total value of rewards, earned program promotions, spend program promotions,
net asset promotions, annual fee, late fee, balance transfer fee, cash advance fee,
purchases APR, introductory APR, regular APR, penalty APR, balance transfer APR,
cash advance APR, typical redemptions, redemption options, rewards type, credit card
network, credit card issuer, features and benefits, and the like. For example, typical
redemptions may be for domestic airfare, international airfare, car rentals, cash,
charitable donations, consumer electronics, cruises, hotel stays, restaurants, and
shopping. The rewards type may be one of cash, points, and/or miles. The features
and benefits may include at least one of instant approval, no annual fee, secured card,
no fraud liability, 24 hr. customer service, airport lounge access, auto rental insurance,
concierge service, emergency replacement, extended warranty, online account
management, photo security, price protection, purchase protection, return protection,
roadside assistance, travel insurance, and the like.
         100128]     In an alternative embodiment, credit card usage data may be
analyzed to obtain a value of rewards. For example, credit card usage data for a
user's current credit card may be collected 502, such as by using a computer
implemented facility. Then the data may be analyzed to obtain a value of rewards
504. An indication of a rewards redemption may be received 508. A user-specific
value of rewards may be calculated by multiplying a user-specific exchange rate by
the normalized value of rewards 510. In addition to the rewards program data
described herein, information related to calculating a value of rewards may also be
collected 502. Analyzing 504 may include processing historical usage data to obtain
an average value of rewards, processing a single time period's usage data to obtain a
value of rewards for that time period, and the like. The exchange rate may relate to
                                             33

the currency system of the user's country or a different country. The system 1000
may automatically compare the value of rewards in different currencies because the
system 100 may be able to convert the value of a reward point to a dollar in a
personalized way. The personalized exchange rate for you may depend on what the
user wants to redeem the points for. For example, redemption outside the user's
country might have much more value than redemption inside the user's country. In
the example, a user might get as much as 4 cents per point as compared to 0.5 cents
per point depending on what, and where, the user redeems the points. Certain
currencies, for example, may be more valuable to one user when compared to another
user.
         100129]     In an embodiment, the system 100 may repeat the steps of
collecting 502, analyzing 504, receiving 508, and calculating 510 periodically to
determine on an updated basis a user-specific value of rewards. The user may be
alerted when a reward of a different or particular value is available, such as by email,
phone, SMS, MMS, and the like. The repetition interval may be set by the user or
may be a pre-determined system 100 interval. The user may also be alerted that the
repetition is occurring.
         100130]     Referring to Fig. 6, when the service offering relates to an
insurance policy, data for a user's current insurance policy may be collected using a
computer implemented facility 602. The insurance policy may be at least one of life
insurance, auto insurance, health insurance, disability insurance, home insurance, and
renter's insurance. Then, the insurance policy data may be analyzed to obtain a
normalized insurance policy dataset 604. Analyzing may include processing
historical insurance policy data to obtain a normalized insurance policy dataset that
represents an average dataset, or processing a single time period's insurance policy
data to obtain a normalized insurance policy dataset for that time period. Data related
to a plurality of alternative insurance policy offerings may be normalized according to
a normalized insurance policy offering model 608. Normalizing data related to the
plurality of insurance policy offerings may include defining a plurality of insurance
policy-related data types, collecting parameters related to an insurance policy using
the computer implemented facility, and normalizing the insurance policy parameters
according to the defined insurance policy-related data types to generate a normalized
                                             34

alternative insurance policy offering model. The normalized insurance policy
offering model may be applied to the normalized insurance policy dataset to produce
a plurality of alternative insurance policy offering normalized datasets 610. Then, the
alternative insurance policy offering normalized datasets may be compared with the
normalized insurance policy dataset to determine if an alternative insurance policy
offering is better than the user's current insurance policy 612. Comparing may
include ranking the alternative insurance policy offerings according to cost, plotting
the cost versus an aggregate score calculated for the alternative insurance policy,
ranking the alternative insurance policy offerings according to an aspect of the
alternative insurance policy offering normalized dataset, ranking the alternative
insurance policy offerings according to cost and an aspect of the alternative insurance
policy offering normalized dataset, and the like. Insurance policy data may include at
least one of policy terms and conditions, policy cost, policy benefits, claims made
against existing or recent policies, location of residence, make, model, and age of
automobiles, driving records of insured parties, length of stay at current residence and
employment or school, desired automobile, preference for future residence, policy
features such as towing services property tax information, property value information,
a driving record, property tax information, and the like. Insurance policy data may be
input manually by the user to the computer implemented facility, may be a predicted
future usage, may be automatically collected by the computer implemented facility,
may include comprise billing records, may be automatically collected by the computer
implemented facility from at least one of an insurer and a government agency, and the
like. The billing records may be for a current bill only, historical billing data, a paper
bill, and the like. In an embodiment, the program instructions further include
analyzing the terms and conditions, calculating an aggregate score for the terms and
conditions, and adding the aggregate score to the aggregate score for the normalized
usage dataset or alternative insurance policy offering normalized dataset. In an
embodiment, the program instructions further include calculating an aggregate score
for each of the plurality of alternative insurance policy offering normalized datasets.
In an embodiment, the program instructions further include ranking the plurality of
alternative insurance policy offering normalized datasets based on the aggregate
score. The user may specify which aspects of the alternative insurance policy offering
normalized dataset to include in the aggregate score. In an embodiment, the system
100 may repeat the steps of collecting 602, analyzing 604, normalizing 608, applying
                                             35

610 and comparing 612 periodically to determine on an updated basis which
alternative insurance policy is better than the user's current insurance policy. The user
may be alerted when an alternative insurance policy that is better than the user's
current insurance policy is available, such as by email, phone, SMS, MMS, and the
like. The repetition interval may be set by the user or may be a pre-determined
system 100 interval. The user may also be alerted that the repetition is occurring. In
an embodiment, the user may be a business entity. After the program instructions
have been completed, the user may have the option to purchase a selected insurance
policy offering, contact a current insurance policy provider in order to modify their
current insurance policy, and the like. In an embodiment, an advertisement may be
presented to the user, wherein the advertisement is selected based on an alternative
insurance policy offering.
         100131]    In an embodiment, a data normalization platform 118 for
generating a normalized service usage model may include a business rules server 122
for storing the definitions of a plurality of service usage-related data types, a data
engine 120 for collecting service parameters related to a service usage using a
computer implemented facility, and a data normalization engine 124 for normalizing
the service parameters according to the defined service usage-related data types to
generate a normalized service usage model. In Fig. 10, a flow diagram of a process
for generating the normalized service usage model is shown. In the process, a
plurality of service usage-related data types are defined 1002. Then, service
parameters related to a service usage are collected using a computer implemented
facility 1004. The service parameters are then normalized according to the defined
service usage-related data types to generate a normalized service usage model 1008.
The entire process may be repeated periodically to update the normalized service
usage model. The data engine 120 and the data nonnalization engine 124 may repeat
said collecting and normalizing periodically to determine the normalized service
usage model on an updated basis. The parameters related to a service usage may be
obtained from public information sources. The public information source may be a
data feed file. The public information source may be a web crawl. The parameters
related to a service usage may be obtained through direct connections to utility service
providers, may be supplied, may be extracted, may be input manually by the user to
the computer implemented facility, and the like. The business rules server 122 may
                                             36

prioritize the service usage-related data types prior to normalizing. The service
parameter may be a user review. The service parameter may be an adoption rate.
         100132]     In an embodiment, estimating the cost of an alternative service may
include a decision engine 108 for applying a normalized alternative service offering
model to a normalized service usage dataset to produce a plurality of alternative
service offering normalized datasets, and a ranking facility 128 for comparing the
alternative service offering normalized datasets to the normalized usage dataset to
determine if an alternative service offering is better than the user's current service. In
embodiments, the ranking facility 128 may be an integral part of the decision engine
108. The ranking facility 128 may optionally consider weights of certain dataset
factors in comparing datasets. The ranking facility 128 may compare datasets based
on cost. The cost may be the cost of the service offering. The cost may be a monthly
savings over an existing service. The cost may be an annual savings over an existing
service. The ranking facility 128 may compare datasets based on cost plus another
factor. The factors may be weighted by a user. The factors may be assigned a score.
The score may be based on relevance to personal usage. The ranking facility 128 may
compare datasets based on a calculated score. The score may be based on relevance
to personal usage. The ranking facility 128 may compare datasets based on rewards
associated with a credit card offering.
         100133]     In an embodiment, the system may include a user-interface 102 for
performing a comparison of services, receiving input from a user regarding a user's
current service usage, wherein the service usage data may be analyzed to obtain a
normalized usage dataset, and enabling the user to review a plurality of alternative
service offering normalized datasets generated by application of a normalized
alternative service offering model to a normalized service usage dataset. The input
may be a usage history provided by a user manually. The input may be login
information required to automatically acquire a billing record from a service provider
or third-party billing agent.
         100134]     In an embodiment, comparing service offerings may include a
business rules server 122 for storing the definitions of a plurality of service usage
related data types, a data engine 120 for collecting service parameters related to a
service usage using a computer implemented facility, a data normalization engine 124
                                            37

for normalizing the service parameters according to the defined service usage-related
data types to generate a normalized service usage model for alternative service
offerings and a normalized service usage dataset for a user's current service, a
decision engine 108 for applying a normalized service usage model to the normalized
service usage dataset to produce a plurality of alternative service offering normalized
datasets, and a ranking facility 128 for comparing the alternative service offering
normalized datasets to the normalized usage dataset to determine if an alternative
service offering is better than the user's current service. A monitoring engine 104
may cause the system 100 to periodically compare service offerings to determine on
an updated basis which alternative service offering is better than the user's current
service. The normalized service usage model may be stored in a product database
110. The normalized service usage dataset may be stored in a user profile database
112. The results from comparing may be stored in a tracking database 114.
         100135]     In an embodiment, referring to Fig.7, the system 100 may collect
service usage data for a user's current service using a computer implemented facility
702, analyze the service usage data to perform a billing error analysis and obtain a
normalized service usage dataset 704, wherein the normalized service usage dataset
may be optionally corrected for any errors identified in billing 714, normalize data
related to a plurality of alternative service offerings according to a normalized
alternative service offering model 708, apply the normalized alternative service
offering model to the normalized service usage dataset to produce a plurality of
alternative service offering normalized datasets 710, and compare the alternative
service offering normalized datasets to the normalized usage dataset to determine if an
alternative service offering is better than the user's current service 712. A service
provider may be notified of an error in billing if an error is identified in analyzing the
service usage data.
         100136]     Referring to Fig. 8, the system 100 may provide a system, method,
and medium of detennining a personalized true cost of service offerings. A
personalized cost of a service offering may be calculated for an individual based on
your past and/or predicted usage data. The true cost, or impact, of ownership, such as
the net cost including rewards and the like, may be quantifiable and unique to each
offering. The system 100 may repeat the quantification periodically to alert users of a
                                              38

changed cost / impact when a new offer becomes available or when usage data
changes. The system 100 may collect at least one of predicted and past service usage
data as well as reward earnings data for a user's current service 802. The usage and
rewards earning data may be analyzed to obtain a normalized service usage and
rewards dataset 804. Optionally, data related to a plurality of alternative service
offerings may be normalized according to a normalized alternative service offering
model 808. Alternatively, the data normalized according to a normalized alternative
service offering model may be purchased from a third party data provider. The
normalized alternative service offering model may be applied to the normalized
service usage and rewards dataset to produce a plurality of alternative service offering
normalized datasets 810. Finally, the alternative service offering normalized datasets
may be compared to the normalized usage dataset according to at least one element of
the datasets to determine if an alternative service offering is better than the user's
current service 812. The system 100 may repeat the steps of collecting, analyzing,
normalizing, applying and comparing periodically to determine on an updated basis
which alternative service offering is better than the user's current service 814.
Additionally, if the system 100 determines that an alternative service offering is better
than the current one, the user may be alerted 818.
         100137]     Referring now to Fig. 11, a method of comparing wireless service
plans based on a user's wireless service usage data may include the steps of collecting
wireless service usage data for a user's current wireless service using a computer
implemented facility 1102, analyzing the wireless service usage data to obtain a
normalized wireless service usage dataset 1104, optionally, normalizing data related
to a plurality of alternative wireless service offerings according to a normalized
alternative wireless service offering model 1108, applying the normalized alternative
wireless service offering model to the normalized wireless service usage dataset to
produce a plurality of alternative wireless service offering normalized datasets,
wherein the dataset comprises at least the cost for the alternative service offering
1110, comparing the alternative wireless service offering normalized datasets to the
normalized usage dataset to determine if an alternative wireless service offering is
better than the user's current wireless service 1112, and optionally, repeating said
collecting, analyzing, normalizing, applying and comparing periodically to determine
                                             39

on an updated basis which alternative wireless service offering is better than the user's
current wireless service 1114.
         100138]     Referring now to Fig. 12, a method of comparing savings account
offerings based on a user's savings account usage data may include the steps of
collecting savings account usage data for a user's current savings account using a
computer implemented facility 1202, analyzing the savings account usage data to
obtain a normalized savings account usage dataset 1204, optionally, normalizing data
related to a plurality of alternative savings account offerings according to a
normalized alternative savings account offering model 1208, applying the normalized
alternative savings account offering model to the normalized savings account usage
dataset to produce a plurality of alternative savings account offering normalized
datasets, wherein the dataset comprises at least the cost for the alternative savings
account offering 1210, comparing the alternative savings account offering normalized
datasets to the normalized usage dataset to determine if an alternative savings account
offering is better than the user's current savings account 1212, and optionally,
repeating said collecting, analyzing, normalizing, applying and comparing
periodically to determine on an updated basis which alternative savings account
offering is better than the user's current savings account 1214.
         100139]     Referring now to Fig. 13, a method of comparing internet,
television, and telephone ("triple play") service plans based on a user's triple play
service usage data may include the steps of collecting service usage data for a user's
current triple play service using a computer implemented facility 1302, analyzing the
triple play service usage data to obtain a normalized triple play service usage dataset
1304, optionally, normalizing data related to a plurality of alternative triple play
service offerings according to a normalized alternative triple play service offering
model 1308, applying the normalized alternative triple play service offering model to
the normalized triple play service usage dataset to produce a plurality of alternative
triple play service offering normalized datasets, wherein the dataset comprises at least
the cost for the alternative triple play service offering 1310, comparing the alternative
triple play service offering normalized datasets to the normalized usage dataset to
determine if an alternative triple play service offering is better than the user's current
triple play service 1312, and optionally, repeating said collecting, analyzing,
                                              40

normalizing, applying and comparing periodically to determine on an updated basis
which alternative triple play service offering is better than the user's current triple play
service 1314.
         100140]      In an embodiment, the system may be a search engine that may
compare a plurality of product and service options according to the needs of the users.
On the basis of past and predicted service usage of the user, the system may suggest a
service plan to the user that may be appropriate for the user's requirements. In an
example, the system may suggest a service plan by comparing the costs of the service
plans. The costs may be the cost of the service offering. The costs may be a monthly
savings over an existing service. The costs may be an annual savings over an existing
service. Also, the system may periodically compare service offerings to determine on
an updated basis which alternative service offering is better than the user's current
service.
         100141]      A user reviewing their online financial account presents an
opportunity for delivery of offers, sales opportunities, and various other opportunities
based on the platform 100 of this disclosure or third party applications. An
executable script running on a client used to view a user financial account may enable
analysis of transaction data, including bill pay entries, from the user financial account
in order to provide offers or sales opportunities based on the transaction data. The
executable program may be called via a single line of JavaScript embedded in the user
financial account webpage. The single line of JavaScript may also be used to call, or
integrate, 3 rd party or other related applications. For example, a mapping interface
may leverage the capability of the executable program to analyze transaction data,
match offers from an offer database, and present the locations of the offers on a map.
Analyzing the transaction data may include automatically extracting merchant data,
such as merchant name, merchant category, transaction category, store name, zip
code, spending amounts, purchase frequency, product category, or the like.
Transaction entries may be analyzed and matched against a database of offers and
sales opportunities to interweave a related offer or sales opportunity. For example, in
the case of a transaction description, matching to an offer may be done using natural
language processing (NLP). If the transaction entry relates to a service, the analysis
may indicate that an alternative offering may be available upon a more detailed
                                              41

analysis. A link to an alternative offering assessment interface may be provided.
Alternatively, the executable program may integrate the functionality of the
alternative offering assessment interface and provide an indication of an improved
offering interweaved with the transaction. Analysis of the transaction data may be
limited to individual transactions or may encompass all transactions on a statement,
transactions from a particular period of time, transactions from a particular merchant
or merchant(s), transactions of a particular nature, and the like. By analyzing
transactions from a particular merchant, for example, that merchant may be able to
provide offers to the user during a subsequent transaction based on past transactions.
In effect, merchants can provide a merchant loyalty program implemented through the
use of a transaction card associated with the financial account. Merchants may be
able to track various indicia associated with this new kind of loyalty program, as well
as make, update track or fulfill offers and sales opportunities through use of a
merchant dashboard.
         100142]    In embodiments, the platform 100 may be enabled to specifically
target current customers or competitor customers as they review their recent
transactions via an online or paper account statement. The account statement may be
a bank statement, a credit card statement, a debit card statement, a stored value card
statement, a bill payment system, and any other system for managing transactions on
an account like a personal financial management system. Referring to Fig. 14, an
account statement of the user is illustrated in accordance with an embodiment of
integrated bill analysis. The account statement may include details and information
about various transactions done by the user. In examples, the transactions may be
provided for a specific period such as one month, three months, and the like. The
transactions may relate to purchases done by a user at different locations such as at a
departmental store, electronic store, gas station, and the like. The system of the
present invention may assign and categorize transactions done by the users. For
example, the system may categorize the stores which the user visits frequently, the
minimum amount spent by the user, and the like. Further, the system may analyze the
transactions done by the user.
         100143]    In an embodiment, the account statements may facilitate the system
to identify various merchants listed in the account statements. Thereafter, the
                                            42

identified merchants may be matched with their appropriate business type or category.
For example, the merchant may be automatically categorized as a telephone service
provider, gas station owner, a coffeehouse owner, and the like. In an embodiment, the
system may notify the user of a potential savings with an alternative service plan or
item. For example, the system may recommend alternative services such as wireless
plans, oil and gas services, and the like to the users as per their past and predicted
usage. In the statement, the user may be invited to interact with the consumer service
comparison shopping system 100 to investigate whether there are indeed savings to be
had with an alternative service plan or item.
         100144]    Figs. 15 - 17 provide an overview of the recommendations
provided by the system, in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
In the example shown here, the user is attempting to determine if there are better cell
phone plans available in terms of coverage, cost, quality, and any other desired
factors. It should be understood that the system may be enable the user to log into
any number of service plans to determine if there are better service plans available,
such as television services bundled services, and the like. Continuing with this
example, the system may request some information such as a mobile phone number,
password of the cell phone account of the user, and the like, from the user. This
information may be used for analyzing the account summary of the user. In an
example, the user may provide the required information after logging into the system.
Thereafter, the system may import the account summary of the user. Further, the
system may analyze the cell phone bill of the user based on various aspects such as
service plan currently in use by the user, calls made by the user, roaming charges
paid, text messages charges, MMS charges, and the like. The system may also
generate reports based on the analysis. Accordingly, in other examples, the system
may collect internet, television, and telephone service usage data from the user for
suggesting alternative service plans for optimizing usage by the user.
         100145]    In an embodiment, the system may provide
offers/recommendations based on analysis and identification of transactions made in a
single account.     Again referring to Fig. 16, the system may analyze a telephone bill
of a user. The analysis may include a list of contacts that may be frequently contacted
by the user, number of calls made, number of international calls made, number of text
                                             43

messages sent, and the like. In an embodiment, the system may provide
recommendations to the user after analyzing the transaction details of the user. The
recommendations may include different ways that may be suggested to the users for
saving money. Further, Fig. 17 illustrates various recommendations suggested by the
system, in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The
recommendations may include the various monthly costs of the service plans
suggested by the system along with the annual savings that the user may receive. In
an embodiment, the recommendations may be directed to reduce the expenses
incurred by the user, improve the coverage, improve the signal strength, and the like.
The account statement may include an entry for a cell phone bill. The system 100
may recommend a cheaper cell phone plan that may be provided by another service
provider. The offers may include discounts that may be offered by the service
providers. The discount may include unlimited talk time, some minutes of free talk
time, and the like. The system may also provide an estimate of average wireless
savings that may be done by the user over a period of time.
        100146]     Fig. 18 illustrates an account statement of a user, in accordance
with an embodiment of the present invention. The account statement of the user may
include an entry for a gasoline refill. The system may analyze the costs incurred by
the user for gasoline refilling and may provide an offer for recommending a cheaper
gasoline refilling station to the user along with the total savings that may done by the
user. The offer may be integrated in the account statement of the user.
        100147]     Figs. 19 and 20 illustrate a recommendation option that may be
selected by the user, in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The
user may click on the suggested recommendation to activate them. The system may
require some information such as home address, frequent destinations, and the like,
from the user. When the user enters the required information, a list of
recommendations may be provided to the user. Further, the recommendations may
include various gas stations that come on the way to the frequent destinations of the
users. The user may also view details of the recommendations by clicking on them.
The details may include the address of the gas station, cost of gasoline per gallon,
directions to the gas station, and the like.
                                             44

         100148]    Further, Figs. 21-23 illustrate saving recommendations provided by
the system, in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. In this
example, the system is integrated with a Bill Pay screen, such as in Fig. 21. The
system may provide saving options to the users such as how much the user may save,
which bank may offer reward points to the users, and the like along side the Bill Pay
options. In Fig. 22, the user has activated the option to 'Shrink this bill'. This may
launch a dialog box for logging into their wireless account to obtain the usage data
needed for analysis by the platform 100. Fig. 23 depicts a screen indicating
successful import of the usage data to the platform 100 and a graph showing analysis
of the bill for most popular contacts.
         100149]    Fig. 24 illustrates a reward being offered to the user, in accordance
with an embodiment of the present invention. The system may offer rewards to the
users based on the loyalty of the users. As shown in Fig. 24, an account statement of
the user may reveal that the user have done multiple purchases from a particular store.
In such cases, the store may make a loyalty-based offer to the user. For example, if a
user shops frequently from a store such as Starbucks, the system may automatically
enroll the user in a loyalty program. Thus, every time the users use their regular
transaction card such as a credit card, a debit card, and the like, at Starbucks, the user
may automatically earn loyalty points. The user may redeem the loyalty points for
free products or services from that store. For example, the store may offer some
discount to the user on a next purchase of the user. The system may not require
loyalty cards to redeem the loyalty offers. In another example, the system 2700 may
track the purchases at a particular retailer, such as STARBUCKS. Instead of having a
punch card to track coffee purchases, the system 2700 may analyze a user's
transactions to keep track of the purchases. The loyalty reward may be a free           1 2 th
coffee after 11 coffee purchases. When the user makes the          1 2 th coffee purchase, the
system 2700 may credit back the cost of the      1 21h coffee to the user. Thus, the    1 2 th
coffee is free and the user needed only to swipe a single financial account card to
effect payment and receive the loyalty reward.
         100150]    Fig. 25 illustrates a loyalty based offer made to the user, in
accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The loyalty based offer
may include a coupon with validity for a limited time period such as one month, three
                                             45

months, six months and the like. The user may receive a confirmation receipt on
accepting the offer. The offer may be available on a stored value or loyalty card, the
items of the offer may be delivered or may be available for pickup at a location, such
as upon presenting a receipt, and the like. Fig. 26 illustrates a confirmation receipt
that may be provided to the user, in accordance with an embodiment of the present
invention. The user may receive the coupon through mail and a corresponding receipt
may be sent to the e-mail address of the user.
         [001511    The system may match an offer based on identification and
analysis of the transactions made across multiple accounts. The offer shown to the
customer may be driven by a combination of three different rules: what the merchant
wants to show the customer, what the financial institutions want to show the
customer, and what the customer chooses to see. These rules may be stored in a rules
database of the system.
         100152]    Further, the system may provide an account aggregation and other
online financial services. Account aggregation may include compilation of
information from different accounts, which may include bank accounts, credit card
accounts, investment accounts, and other user or business accounts, into a single
place. The account aggregation may be provided by online banking solution
providers. The account aggregators may analyze the transaction summary of a user
and may categorize merchants from it. The merchants may be categorized such as Oil
& Gas, Grocery, Retail, and the like. In few cases, the merchants may not fall under
any of the pre-defined categories. In such cases, the account aggregators may assign
codes to such merchants.
         100153]    Further, the account statements of the different accounts may be
analyzed by the system. The account aggregators may analyze the transactions across
all the accounts. For example, a user may charge their Starbucks purchases to a
plurality of banks such as Citibank, Bank of America, and the like. The activity at
Starbucks across all accounts held by the user may be identified by the account
aggregator. Therefore, if a user makes a payment through any of the banks associated
with the account aggregator, the user may get loyalty-based offers from Starbucks
through the system. In an embodiment, the system may include a natural language
processing (NLP) technology. The NLP technology is a form of human-to-computer
                                            46

interaction where the elements of human language, spoken or written, may be
formalized so that a computer may perform value-adding tasks based on that
interaction. The NLP technology may match offers with relevant and targeted
transactions. For example, if a transaction statement is not clear, the system may get
details about the purchases using the NLP technology. The details may include, but
are not limited to, merchant, location of the store, and amount spent.
         100154]    In an embodiment, the system may provide anonymity of the users.
The identity of the user may not be provided to the system and the merchant. The
bank may be the only one that may know the identity, however, the bank may not be
provided with the information of the various offers that may be provided/ redeemed to
the users.
         [00155]    Fig. 27 illustrates a block diagram of the system, in accordance
with an embodiment of the present invention. The system may include a user
interface that may enable the users to access the system. The user interface may be
embodied in a website. For example, the system may be associated with a bank
having a user account. The bank may provide transaction cards such as a debit card, a
credit card, a pre-paid card, and the like. In such a scenario, the user interface may
be a web interface that may enable the users to access the system through the bank's
website. In another scenario, the system may be a standalone program that may be
used for enhancing an existing rewards system. In this scenario, the users may access
the system through the user interface.
         100156]    Once the users access the system, the users may enter their service
usage data and preference data through the user interface. The data may include a
current service provider, a current service cost, a current service usage, and the like.
In an alternative embodiment, the data may be gathered automatically from the user's
service provider by a transaction engine when the user logs into the user's service
account. Either a core transaction engine or one of a plurality of transaction engines,
such as one per merchant, may be used to gather a user's data. The service usage data
provided by the user may be compared with other service usage plans that may be
stored in a database of the system. Thereafter, a decision engine may suggest the
service usage plan to the user that may fit as per the preferences of the user.
                                             47

         100157]    The service usage plan may be suggested to the user by an alert
engine by sending an e-mail, a text message, an alert, and the like. Further, a
dashboard of the system may also include information about the present and
suggested service plans of the user. In an embodiment, if the user changes his/her
preferences about the service usage plan, the system may reflect those changes and
may suggest other plans as per the new preferences of the user. The system may
analyze the transactions carried out by a user and may verify the details of the
transactions.
         100158]    The system may include an API interface. This API interface may
enable users to interact with the raw and analyzed data stored in the system through
any number of applications.
         [00159]    Fig. 28 illustrates a block diagram for matching the transactions
carried out by a user, in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
The system may match the transactions that may be carried out by the users. The
system may include a description splitter that may segregate the information about the
transactions carried out. The information may include the date of purchase, amount
spent, merchant from which a product has been bought, and the like. The description
splitter may include a location tokenizer that may generate a sequence of tokens that
may relate to a location of the merchant. The sequence of tokens may be generated
by a merchant learning engine that may suggest similar locations. The location of the
merchant may be searched in a geolocation database of the system. Thereafter, a
location parser of the system may parse through the geolocation database. If the
location of the merchant is stored in the geolocation database, the system may match
the location in the transaction. However, if the location of the merchant is new, the
geolocation database may store that location for future reference.
         100160]    Further, the description splitter may include a merchant tokenizer
that may generate a sequence of tokens that may relate to a merchant. The sequence
of tokens may be generated by a merchant learning engine that may suggest similar
merchant names. The merchant may be searched in a merchant database of the
system. Thereafter, a merchant parser of the system may parse through the merchant
database. If the merchant is already stored in the merchant database, the system may
match the merchant in the transaction. However, if the merchant is new, the merchant
                                             48

database may store that merchant for future reference. Further, the system may
include architecture for offering rewards to the users.
         100161]    Fig. 29 illustrates a block diagram for delivering rewards to users,
in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. As mentioned herein, the
system may be accessed directly through an Application Programming Interface
(API) or may be accessed through a financial institution's website. For example, a
consumer may receive online account statement that may include some offers
suggested to the user. These offers may be integrated in the account statement, such
as through a JavaScriptTM code. Alternatively, the offers may be linked to the account
statement of the user by using a bookmarklet, a browser plug-in, and the like. The
user may click on the offers to activate them. In another embodiment, the user may
access the system through a user interface. The user may enter information about
service plans being used by the user. The system may, in turn, provide offers based
on the information entered by the user.An account server of the financial institution
where the user may have an account may be unable to determine some transaction
details. The account server may send such information to the system such as the
amount spent during that transaction, date on which the transaction was done, and the
like. The NLP technology of the system may enable the system to get details of the
transaction carried out by the user and may be sent back to the account server.
         100162]    The system of the present invention may provide automatic offer
redemption to the users. The users may be informed about the various offers that may
be applicable as per their account statements. Once the users have subscribed to the
services offered by the system, the system may automatically provide various saving
offers to the users. Further, the system may provide various offers to the users
through multiple channels such as through short message service (SMS), e-mails, and
the like. The banks may offer some rewards for the users for using their transaction
cards while shopping. Therefore, when a user purchases some items using a
transaction card, rewards may be automatically applied to the account associated with
the transaction card.
         [00163]    In an embodiment, an offer may be redeemed by clicking on a link
that takes the user to a special page that includes a discount for an online purchase. In
another embodiment of redemption, a user may use a coupon code, either one-time or
                                             49

multiple use, at an online or offline location to gain discount. In another embodiment
of redemption, a user may receive a prepaid instrument of some kind, such as a
prepaid debit card, prepaid credit card, gift card, and the like, that can be used to
redeem the discount. In another embodiment of redemption, the user may receive a
credit on the statement automatically post purchase. In this embodiment, the user
may receive an automated discount when a purchase is made or a discount that is
applied off of a prior pre-purchased amount.
         [00164]    In an exemplary embodiment, the offers may be included in the
account statements of the users. For example, if a user receives the account summary
of a bank as a paper statement, the paper statement may include offers that may be
printed below the expenses mentioned in the bank statement. In this example, if a
user has spent some amount for paying internet bills, the system may provide
information about other internet plans as per the requirement of the user.
         100165]    Further, the system may provide offers/suggestions integrated in an
electronic account statement of the user. The system may include a bookmarklet that
enables displaying offers/rewards in-line with the transaction history of the user. The
bookmarklet may be an applet that may be integrated with the browser to show in-line
offers when a bank website, that may have the user's account, may be accessed. The
applet may be a uniform resource locator (URL) of a bookmark in a web browser or
the applet may be a hyperlink on a web page. The bookmarklet may enable the
system to provide real-time analysis of the expenses incurred by the user. In an
example, a user may wish to compare other product and service options against the
analysis of the user's expenses. The real-time analysis may enable the user to find
whether the user is over spending on various expenses or not.
         100166]    In an embodiment, the services offered by the system of the present
invention may be accessed through a JavaScript code. The financial institutions that
may be associated with the system may include a single line of the JavaScript that
may be added as per their requirement into the account statement page of the user's
account. For example, the system may allow advertiser's to create targeted offers that
may be delivered through the user's online account statements. The advertiser's may
target the users based on many criteria such as zip code, store name, store category,
transaction description, purchase frequency, spending amount, and the like.
                                             50

         100167]     In embodiments, there may be multiple possibilities for delivery of
the rewards. For example, as mentioned herein, JavaScript integration may occur via
a financial institution, aka partner, adding JavaScript to online account pages targeted
for display of rewards. The system or the partner may host the JavaScript. In another
example, push API integration may be used. Here, the system exposes its API to a
partner that pushes transaction data to the system, keyed to specific user IDs. This
allows the option to push transactions at fixed intervals (batch mode) or preferably
upon event (real-time mode). In another example, pull API integration may be used.
In pull API integration, a partner may expose its API to the system. The system may
request transaction data associated with specific user IDs. The frequency of requests
per-user may be done at agreed-upon intervals. In another example, batch transfer,
where a partner pushes transaction files to a secure FTP area (hosted by the partner or
the system) may be used. The frequency of updates may occur at agreed-upon
intervals, such as hourly, daily, and the like. In yet another example, processor
integration may be used, where the system integrates directly via an issuer processor
to get real-time transactions via authorizations at the merchant processor. In any of
the integration methods, integration may provide just the user interface, just the
transaction data, or a combination thereof.
         100168]     In embodiments, there may be categories based on which the
advertisers target the users, in accordance with an embodiment of the present
invention. In an example, the advertiser's may send selected offers that may target
users who may spend around $500 on internet and cell phone bills. The advertiser's
may send offers that may provide more features within the limited budget. In another
example, the system may enable the advertiser's to track the users based on the
category of stores frequently visited by the users. The stores may be categorized as
grocery, retail, oil & gas, and the like. The advertiser's may give offers to existing
users of a store to increase loyalty and spending of the user. The users may click on
the offers made by the advertisers to activate the offers. In an embodiment, the
system may enable the advertiser's to track both online and in-store purchases for
measuring the results and optimizing the offers. The system tracks online and offline
redemptions and may report them to advertisers. The system may also send offers
through e-mails to various users. In an embodiment, in addition to the online account
statement, the system may include mobile abilities and may facilitate SMS
                                             51

notifications to the users. For example, the system may be embodied as a mobile
application, such as in Figs. 61 - 65. Fig. 61 A - D show an exemplary embodiment
of a mobile application. In Fig. 61A, a summary of a user financial account is
displayed showing current balance, an indication of account activity available,
available savings opportunities, potential savings, purchased offers, savings earned,
and the like. Fig. 62B depicts available savings opportunities which can be filtered by
which opportunities are in geographic proximity to the mobile device. Thus, certain
savings opportunities may be geo-enabled, that is, targeted by the financial history of
the user but filtered for presentation to the user by geographic location. Other savings
opportunities may be geo-targeted, that is, the savings opportunity is targeted to the
user via their location. Other savings opportunities may be geo-enhanced, that is, if a
user does not use the savings opportunity online, the merchant can choose to add an
incentive when the user is within geographic proximity to the merchant. The
merchant may determine the incentive, such as an additional percentage off, a dollar
amount discount, an additional savings opportunity, the opportunity to share the
savings opportunity, a related opportunity (such as meeting a personality at the
merchant location, etc.), and the like. The merchant can set the geographic area in
which to trigger the incentive. In any event, the mobile device may be used to accept
the offer, which may include auto-billing to a financial account associated with the
merchant or the system. Fig. 62C depicts selection of one of the savings opportunities
and Fig. 62D depicts redemption instructions, including a bar code for scanning, for
the purchased savings opportunity. Instead of a bar code, a QR code, a numeric or
alpha-numeric code, or a pin can be used. Fig. 62 A - B shows another exemplary
embodiment of a mobile application. In Fig. 62A, a summary of savings
opportunities is displayed showing nearby savings opportunities, purchased savings
opportunities, and all available savings opportunities.   In Fig. 62B, the purchased
savings opportunities are viewed. The user can switch the view between the unused
savings opportunities, shown here, and the used savings opportunities. In Fig. 63A,
one of the unused savings opportunities from Fig. 62B is shown in greater detail. The
user may indicate the intent to use the savings opportunity. In response, and referring
to Fig. 63B, the user may receive a code, such as a bar code, QR code, alphanumeric
code, PIN, or the like, to redeem in-store or online. Fig. 64 depicts the merchant on a
map.
                                             52

         100169]     Further, the system may offer a "deal-of-the-day", such as a
discount on a single type of product for 24 hours, wherein the product is chosen based
on a user's past transactions. In an embodiment, the various offers/suggestions
provided by the system may be available in the form of printed coupons that may be
used at a retail point of sale (POS) terminal. The offers may be delivered to the users
through mails, e-mails, gift vouchers, and the like. The users may take a print of the
offers sent through e-mails and may show at the POS terminal for redeeming the
offer.
         100170]     Referring to Fig. 52, a user's statement is displayed with various
rewards indicated in association with particular transactions. It should be understood
that this example uses an online credit card statement, but the statement could any one
of an online statement, an online graphical user interface associated with a user's
financial institution account, an online bill pay area, a dialog box associated with the
user's financial account, an ATM receipt, a teller receipt, a mobile statement, a paper
statement, and the like. The statement rewards indicated in Fig. 52 include a bill
analysis opportunity 5202, a savings opportunity 5204, 5208, 5210 and a future
reward 5212. A user may click on the various opportunities and rewards to expand
the description.
         100171]     Referring to Fig. 53, the savings opportunity 5204, 5208 elements
are shown in expanded form 5302, 5304, respectively. In this opportunity, a user's
prior transaction at Babies R Us triggered a savings opportunity to the store to be
offered. The opportunity is a $50 electronic gift card for only $35. The user can
indicate that they want that savings opportunity via clicking on a link 5308 and
obtaining the purchase screen in Fig. 59, can indicate that they like or dislike the
opportunity by clicking a sentiment button 5312, can share the opportunity with a
social network by clicking a share button 5310, and the like. Once the purchase of the
electronic gift card is complete, confirmation of the purchase may be given, such as
that shown in Fig. 60, along with redemption instructions.
         100172]     There is an indication of reward level 5314 in the savings
opportunity. Actions, such as sharing the opportunity, liking the savings opportunity,
accepting the savings opportunity and the like may improve the reward level 5314.
The savings opportunity may improve with reward level.
                                             53

         100173]    The reward levels may be tiered. A merchant or the financial
institution may set the reward level tiers. For example, one merchant may set reward
levels based on number of visits, another may set them on total spend, while yet
another may set levels based on a combination of the two. Via auditing and analyzing
transactions, the system 2700 can keep track of reward level status.
         [00174]    In some embodiments, in order for a user to share the savings
opportunity, such as by using the share button 5310, the savings opportunity must first
be social-enabled by the merchant. When the merchant social-enables a savings
opportunity, a shared savings opportunity is created. The shared savings opportunity
is designed for the user to share, and may not be subject to the same criteria that may
have triggered the offering of the original savings opportunity to the user. The system
may track redemption of the shared savings opportunity by individual user or in
aggregate. The system may track redemption of various shared savings opportunities
to determine which user might have broad influence. The system may then target the
influencer with improved, more frequent, or more exclusive savings opportunities.
         100175]    Referring to Fig. 54, a savings opportunity is shown in expanded
form. The savings opportunity depicted here is a future reward 5402. A future
reward may be given to a user if the user meets certain goals. For example, to receive
a 30% discount at the toy store in the example of Fig. 54, the user would have to
spend $150 during a particular time period at the store. The system automatically
tracks progress towards meeting the goal with a progress bar 5404 or some other
depiction, along with an indication of the actions needed to complete the goal. The
progress bar 5404 may be updated as new transactions at the toy store are made. As
with the other rewards, the future reward 5402 may improve as reward level
improves. The future reward 5402 may be shared with other users or a social
network.     The future reward 5402 may be liked or disliked. The future reward 5402
may be based on at least one of a past transaction and some future transaction
behavior.
         100176]    Using a user dashboard, the user may be able to view all of their
reward level statuses with each merchant, view all current rewards, view all future
rewards, and the like. Referring to Fig. 55, an embodiment of a user dashboard is
shown with additional detail regarding the future reward 5402, including the
                                            54

merchant, the future reward, the current reward level, the effective date, progress
towards an improved reward level, a total spend summary, and a total visit summary.
Other information available in the user dashboard includes an overview, available
rewards listing, purchased rewards listing, future rewards listing, a bill analyzer, past
rewards, and the like. Referring to Fig. 56, an exemplary user dashboard is shown
with the Available Rewards tab displayed. Information on the tab may include
merchant, reward level, reward, and the like. Referring to Fig. 57, an exemplary user
dashboard is shown with the Future Rewards tab displayed. Information on the tab
may include merchant, future reward, progress towards future reward, and the like.
        100177]      Referring to Fig. 58, the bill analysis opportunity 5202 is shown in
expanded form 5802. It too can be shared and liked or disliked.
        [00178]      The system of the present invention may include dashboards, such
as a merchant dashboard, financial institution dashboard, user dashboard, and the like.
Each dashboard may show the appropriate audience how users are doing with all the
offers being shown to them, such as opens, clicks, and purchases, as well as enable
them to edit and manage the rules governing offer presentation by interfacing to the
rules database.
        [00179]      In an embodiment, a user dashboard that may be used for hosting
various mini-applications. Users may click on a dashboard icon to activate the
dashboard. The dashboard may enable the users to edit the various mini-applications
of the dashboard. For example, the users may move the mini-application icons,
rearrange the icons on the dashboard, delete some of the mini-applications, recreate
the mini-applications so that more than one of the same mini-application is open at
the same time, and the like.
        100180]      In an embodiment, the system may include a merchant dashboard,
a financial institution dashboard, and a user dashboard. The merchant dashboard may
be used by the various merchants and advertisers for displaying various offers that are
being made by them. The various offers may be listed under a tab on the dashboard.
The users may click on the tab to view all the offers provided to them. Further, the
merchant dashboard may enable a merchant to display the offers in different
categories. For example, few offers may be in the form of discount coupons that may
                                             55

be redeemed if a user spends a pre-defined amount. The system may track the
activities of the users and may inform the merchants about the user activities. For
example, the dashboard may provide information about the number of users who have
viewed the offers listed by the merchants. The merchants may also get information
about the offers that may be redeemed by the users, and the like. Further, the
merchant dashboard may include a merchant re-categorization tool that may facilitate
the merchants to categorize themselves as per their business. For example, some
merchants may categorize themselves as a retail merchant, oil and gas merchants, and
the like.
         100181]     In an embodiment, the financial institution dashboard may allow
the financial institution to connect with the system for providing various offers to the
users. The financial institution dashboard may facilitate the financial institutions that
may be associated with the system to track the users. The financial institution
dashboard may allow the financial institutions to track the opted-in accounts by the
users. The opted-in accounts may be the accounts that may be majorly used by a user
and the account on which the user may wish to receive offers. Further, the financial
institution dashboard may accumulate preferences of the user for receiving the offers.
For example, the financial institutions may get information about the offers which the
user may wish to receive as a part of their account statement, and the like. Further,
the financial institution dashboard may enable the associated financial institutions to
re-categorize the merchants as per their convenience. The financial institutions may
change the categories in which the merchants may have classified themselves; the
financial institution dashboard may enable the financial institutions in doing so.
         1001821     In an embodiment, the user dashboard may include information
about all the offers that were redeemed by the users. The user dashboard may also
enable the users to view various transactions done by the users over a specific period
such as over a week, over a month, and the like. Further, the user dashboard may
include information about the various rewards that may be received by the user. For
example, the information may include the minimum amount that the user may need to
spend in a day for being eligible for a reward, the number of the times the user may
need to shop in a specific category of stores for being eligible for the reward, and the
                                            56

like. Further the user dashboard may also include a merchant re-categorization tool
that may enable the users to categorize the merchants as per their convenience.
         100183]    As mentioned earlier, the users may be provided offers through
their account statements and may also get rewarded on using the transaction cards
such as a credit card, a debit card, and a pre-paid card. In an embodiment of the
present invention, the financial institutions associated with the system may get paid
when a user redeems an offer provided by the financial institution. For example, if
the account statement of the user suggests a cheaper cell phone plan, the user may
compare his/her present plan and the suggested plan. If the user activates the
suggested plan, the financial institution may get revenues from the redemption.
However, if the user decides to continue with the earlier plan, the financial institution
may not get any revenue. In a similar scenario, the system may also generate revenues
if a user redeems an offer suggested by the system. The offer suggested by the system
may be sent to the user in the form of a text message, an e-mail, and the like.
         [00184     Fig. 30 illustrates an example of rewards redemption, including the
steps of activation, purchase, reward, and the like. In embodiments, some rewards
may be provided to the user after some period of time (e.g. credited in 90 days), the
next day, immediately, and the like. For example, a user may elect to take a credit
offer, make a purchase with the same card, and have a discount credited in 90 days.
In this example, when the user elects to take a credit, they must swipe the same card
at the store when they make their purchase and the credit is given automatically. In
another example, a user may prepay with an account, purchase with the same card,
and have the charge credited the next day. For example, if the pre-paid offer is $50
worth of merchandise for $40, the next time that the user goes to the merchant and
pays at least $50, the entire $50 will get credited back to them automatically. In
another example, the user may click on the coupon, and receive an immediate
discount. The coupon may be online only or a physical coupon that could be printed
or added to their mobile device for display or scan at a point of sale. In another
example, the user may prepay with an account for a 'prepon', receive a code that can
be stored on a mobile, print, card, and the like indicating that they have pre-paid, and
receive an immediate discount when the code is scanned.
                                             57

         100185]    The decision engine 108 may apply factors in matching a savings
opportunity to the user. For example, a financial institution may blacklist certain
merchants, merchant types, transactions, transaction types, and the like from being
used to match a purchase reward to the user. In another example, the financial
institution or the merchant may use a spend pattern to match an offer to the user. In
some embodiments, the offer may be made in conjunction with a display of spend
pattern metrics. The spend pattern may be used to send alerts to the user regarding
spend with a merchant, in a category, of a total amount, in a time period, and the like.
In another example, a merchant may use past spend, past spend in a category, past
purchase frequency, and the like to match a purchase reward to the user. In another
example, the user's likes/dislikes, expand/collapse behavior regarding obtaining more
information about an offer after seeing the offer headline, past purchase behavior, and
the like may be used to match a purchase reward to the user. In yet another example,
the system may use geographic proximity, location, inferences, seasonal adjustments,
and the like to match a purchase reward to the user. For example, with respect to
inferences, consumer traits may be identified by inference via transactional data, such
as merchants, transactions, transaction types, merchant types, spend total, spend at a
particular merchant, and the like. For example, based on transactional data, any of
gender, credit rating, age group, life events, income level, psychographic state,
demographics, and the like may be inferred. For example, a user suddenly spending
more during multiple transactions at a high-end baby store may be inferred to be a
high income, pregnant woman.
         [00186]    The spend pattern may be used to predict a store, restaurant,
transaction, service, good, or the like that the user might like based on transactions,
merchant, goods, services, and the like that appear on a user's statement. The
prediction may be based on what other people like the user did in terms of
transactions, merchant, goods, services, and the like. For example, referring to Fig.
65, a dialog box displaying purchase insights is shown. In embodiments, this dialog
box may be associated with a user's financial account. In this example, because the
user's prior merchant history 6502 indicates that the user is a customer of MACY'S,
JC PENNEY is the predicted merchant 6504 the user might enjoy because other users
who were customers of MACY'S also were customers of JC PENNEY'S.                In
embodiments, the decision engine 108 may be used to predict the predicted merchant
                                             58

6504. In embodiments, the merchant may present an offer 6508 to the user to entice
the user to shop.
         100187]    In some embodiments, the prediction may be based on a single
transaction, merchant, good, or service or may be based on a collection of such. For
example, soon-to-be moms may make purchases at a collection of merchants, such as
a baby store, maternity store, and bookstore. Past expectant mothers may have
frequented the collection of merchants as well as a spa. In this example, the spa would
likely not have been the predicted merchant based on only one of the common
merchants, such as the bookstore for example, but based on the collection of
merchants, the prediction of a spa may be made.
         100188]     Users may indicate whether they like or dislike the predicted
merchant 6504. These ratings may be used in subsequent predictions. For example,
if the user does not like the predicted merchant, it will be put on a blacklist and not
used in future predictions.
         [001891    One of the spend pattern metrics may be a spending chart, such as
the merchant level spending chart shown in Fig. 66. The merchant level spending
chart shows which merchants a user is spending at, as opposed to category-level
spending. A menu 6602 may be used to set various parameters for the spending chart.
For example, users may be able to set the view such as by merchant, by category, by
week, by month, by amount, by geographical location, and the like. Users may be
able to sort the data, such as by spend. Users may be able to set a time frame for the
spending chart. In this example, spending amounts for the third quarter are presented
for five merchants. Each of the bars may be interactive. That is, clicking on the bar
may pull up the underlying data. Recommendations 6604 for various merchants,
transactions, goods, services, offers or the like may be indicated by an icon presented
with the spending chart.
         100190]    Referring to Fig. 67, another example of a spending chart is shown
with the parameters 6702 set to show a geographical view, a sort by dollars, and a
timeframe of one month. The 'Breakdown by Proximity' chart 6704 shows spending
at merchants within 10 miles of the user's home, between 10 and 50 miles, outside the
user's metro area, outside the state, internationally, and online 6708. For each
                                             59

geographical category, a dollar amount is indicated. In other embodiments, a
percentage may be indicated. A 'Top Cities' chart 6710 may show the level of spend
for particular geographical locations, such as cities in this case.
         100191]    Referring back to Fig. 66, the spending amounts presented for each
merchant may be benchmarked against other users or known data. For example, a
benchmark menu 6608 is presented for the user to select a desired benchmark for their
data. In this case, the US average is selected. The benchmark data for the given
merchant may be presented alongside the merchant data in the spending chart. By
hovering or clicking on the data, a dialog box 6610 may pop up showing the user's
spend at the merchant and the spend for the benchmark category, which is the US
average in this case. In other embodiments, benchmarking may be done against a
national average, a city average, a state average, similar people as defined by either:
 a) similar spend patterns, or b) similar demographics, and a private group.
         100192]    To determine similar demographics, users may indicate certain
characteristics in a profile, such as gender, age range, household type, number of
children, household income, geographic location, and the like. In doing the
benchmarking against similar people, the user may choose to weight particular
characteristics over others, such as by assigning a relative priority to each
characteristic or a weighting factor. The user may choose to benchmark against those
with similar demographics but with one or more restrictions, such as users only in the
same state. In embodiments, the user's geographic location may be obtained by a
mobile device viewing the user's statement.
         100193]    In benchmarking against a private group, a user can create a group
of individuals, such as high school friends, family, neighbors, and the like to get
feedback on how the user compares in spending against that group without sharing
any personal information across the group. Likewise, users may accept invitations to
be part of other private groups. Certain security features may be built in to creating
and joining private groups. For example, users may be required to provide a
password in order to join a private group. In any event, users may be members of
multiple private groups and may select any of them to benchmark against.
Additionally, social features may allow users to share information with the private
                                             60

group. For example, users may be able to share information with private group
members by email, a social network, and the like.
         100194]     Transaction data may be augmented with third party data in order
to improve the matches. In an embodiment, census data may be used in addition to
the transaction data to make a match of a savings opportunity. Since the system
works with anonymized transaction data, the system knows only what it can infer
about the user or what is provided by the user. Based on the user's location, possibly
inferred by the system or manually input by the user, census data for the location,
such as ethnic makeup, population educational level, income levels, and the like, may
be used to provide a substitute demographic profile for the user. One or more of the
substitute demographic profile, transaction data, and inferred traits may be used to
match a savings opportunity to the user. In another embodiment, merchant data may
be accessed using a third party data source and used to improve targeting to the user.
For example, a restaurant may be searched on YELP.COM to obtain information
about the type of cuisine offered, type of atmosphere, price range and the like. These
data may be used as factors in the system's match of a savings opportunity to a user.
The 3 rd party data may or may not be displayed to the user along with the savings
opportunity. Continuing with the example, if the restaurant was detennined to be a
family-friendly place, a savings opportunity at the restaurant may not be matched to a
person who has been inferred to be single/dating based on transactions for flowers and
higher-end restaurants. In yet another embodiment, the savings opportunity may be
analyzed and   3 rd party data may be obtained to improve matching it. For example,      3 rd
party information about a product that is the subject of the savings opportunity may
be used to improve the match.
         100195]     Fig. 31 illustrates an example of an integrated bill analysis, such as
with a 'like-dislike button' 3202. In embodiments, the like-dislike button may
provide the user with the option to select an offer or not, that is, to accept as liking the
offer, or to decline as disliking the offer. In embodiments, a selection of dislike may
remove the offer, change some physical attribute of the offer (e.g. changing color,
hiding, minimizing, deleting). In embodiments, a selection of liking the offer may
send the user to a website managed by the present invention, performed
automatically, sent to a third-party site, and the like, where automatically performed
                                              61

may be implemented through an embedded block of code (e.g. Java code), and the
like. In embodiments, the user may be able to share offers, information about offers,
and the like, with other individuals, such as through a social network, and as a result
improve the value of their offer. Although the like-dislike button has been depicted in
an illustrated bill analysis, the like-dislike button may be applied to any user interface
disclosed herein where the user has an option to select a service, product, offer, and
the like.
         [00196]     Fig. 32 illustrates embodiment technology stacks, such as for
consumer facing, merchant facing, financial institution (FI) facing applications. For
instance, a consumer facing stack may include location aware offers, intent learning,
demographic interface, location extraction, merchant extraction, category extraction,
and the like. Merchant facing may include merchant reporting, redemption
techniques, revenue optimization, location targeting merchant targeting, category
targeting, and the like. Financial institution facing may include financial institution
custom reporting, integration techniques, multi-channel support, branding control,
merchant control, category control, and the like.
         100197      Figs. 33-44 illustrate embodiment windows for a bank dashboard,
including a welcome-login window, an administration tab (e.g. with administration
settings, reward controls, user interface settings, payment controls), a financial
institution tab (e.g. with pending registrations, active registrations, denied
registrations), a reporting tab (e.g. with prepaid reward purchases report in Fig. 40,
Coupon Reward Purchases report in Fig. 41, Bill Analyzer Metrics in Fig. 42,
revenue, active rates, performance graphics, key statistics, campaign performance), a
customer service tab (e.g. with user lookup, contacting customer service), and the
like. For example, in the dashboard shown in Fig. 35, the financial institution can set
a reward density by indicating the maximum number of rewards per statement. In this
embodiment, three options are given to the financial institution to customize reward
density: no maximum and auto-optimized, the maximum number of rewards per
statement, and maximum percentage of transactions matched to a reward. Finer
adjustments may be available in other embodiments. The financial institution can set
the maximum or any other reward density desired manually. Auto-optimization may
be run on a per-user basis. For example, the financial institution may offer three
                                               62

savings opportunities per statement. Depending on the user engagement with the
savings opportunities, the reward density may be optimized up or down.
Additionally, the reward type may also be changed in auto-optimization.
Optimization may be restricted to a time period, to a specific BIN/IIN number, and
the like. The dashboard may also be used to blacklist merchants, merchant types,
transactions, or transaction types from being included in the analysis for a savings
opportunity match.
         [00198]     Figs, 45 - 51 illustrate embodiment windows for a merchant
dashboard, including a campaign tab (e.g. with choosing a saved reward, creating a
reward, setting reward matching criteria, purchase limits, targeting merchants or
categories, targeting rewards by merchant, targeting geographies, date range,
campaign performance graphics), reporting tab (with performance graphics, key
statistics, business analytics, campaign summary, user feedback, campaign
performance, sale performance, transactions per customer, revenue per transaction,
revenue per customer, category spend, average monthly bill), 'My Account' tab, and
the like. The merchant dashboard may be white-labeled. The merchant dashboard
may be self-service.
         100199]         In an embodiment, the system of the present disclosure may
facilitate a conditional purchase by a user from a merchant of a good or service,
wherein the purchase may be conditioned on receiving a discount wherein the
discount may be provided based on various bidding offers that may be received from
the user. For example, the user may place a bid for a purchase amount and a discount
amount that they may wish to get. For example, a user interested in buying
merchandise worth $100 from a retail store may ask for a discount of 40% on that
merchandise as a pre-condition. In such cases, the merchant may decide whether or
not to accept the bid offer from the user. The merchant decision may be based on one
or more of an inventory, a production plan, a pricing strategy, and the like. The user
may have the opportunity to modify their bid offer. For example, if the merchant
does not accept the user's offer to purchase a $100 item at a 40% discount, after being
notified of the decline, the user may decrease the discount requested, increase the
quantity of items chosen, add additional items, modify the items, and the like and re
                                               63

submit the offer for consideration by the merchant. This cycle may continue until the
bid is accepted or the user stops bidding.
         100200]        In another embodiment, the bid offer may be automatically
incremented up until an amount indicated by the user or according to a rule. For
example, the user may offer to purchase a $100 item at a 40% discount but indicate
when they set their offer that if it may be declined by the merchant, it may
automatically be incremented to a next bid offer. The next bid offer may be explicitly
indicated by the user or may be determined by consulting one or more rules. For
example, the user may indicate that the offer should be decreased by 5% each time the
merchant declines the offer until reaching 20% where no further offers may be made.
         100201]        In another example, a user may commit to purchasing an item
of a particular value if a merchant is willing to sell that item at a lower cost. The
merchant may decide whether or not to accept the commitment from the user.
         100202]        In an exemplary embodiment, the merchant may accept or
decline the bid offer through preset rules. These preset rules may include types of bid
offers, types of discounts that the user may seek, and the like. These preset rules may
be defined by the merchant. Further, the preset rules may facilitate a merchant to
select bid offers to be accepted from the total bid offers received by the merchant.
The preset rule may also enable the merchant to decide on the volume and kind of
users from which the merchant may accept bid offers. In another embodiment, the
merchant may accept bid offers dynamically. In this embodiment, the merchant may
need to manually approve certain bid offers from a user from among the total bid
offers received by the merchant. It will be evident to a person skilled in the art that
merchants may accept bid offers through a combination of the preset rules and the
dynamic fashion.
         100203]        In an embodiment, once the user has placed a bid offer for a
good or service, an acceptance message of the bid offer may be delivered to the user
through one or more of an email, a text message, a message in their account
statement, or the like. The account statement may facilitate the system to identify
various merchants for which the user has placed a bid offer. Further, the account
statement may also provide information about the merchant who may have accepted
                                             64

the bid offer placed by the user. In another embodiment, the user may be approached
directly by the merchant who may have accepted the bid offer of the user. In such
cases, the merchant may send an e-mail, text message, or the like to the user to inform
them about the acceptance of their bid offer.
         100204]         In an embodiment, when reviewing an account statement, a
user may have the opportunity to present an offer for a future purchase to a merchant.
The merchant may be identified on the current statement or may be identified by the
system as an alternative good or service supplier. In any event, the statement may
include an integrated application to make the offer or may include a link to an
application for presenting offers. For example, as the user reviews their credit card
statement transactions, the application may be integrated to put an instance of an offer
window at each transaction line, somewhere on the statement, somewhere on the web
page, and the like.
         100205]     In an embodiment, the application may be a browser plug-in that is
active as the user is visiting various websites. For example, as the user visits
WALMART.COM and navigates various pages, the browser plug-in may deploy the
application in a banner, frame, or the like for the website. When the user sees an item
they would like to purchase, they can interact with the application to present an offer
to WALMART for the item.
         100206]     The methods and systems described herein may be deployed in part
or in whole through a machine that executes computer software, program codes,
and/or instructions on a processor. The processor may be part of a server, cloud
server, client, network infrastructure, mobile computing platform, stationary
computing platform, or other computing platform. A processor may be any kind of
computational or processing device capable of executing program instructions, codes,
binary instructions and the like. The processor may be or include a signal processor,
digital processor, embedded processor, microprocessor or any variant such as a co
processor (math co-processor, graphic co-processor, communication co-processor and
the like) and the like that may directly or indirectly facilitate execution of program
code or program instructions stored thereon. In addition, the processor may enable
execution of multiple programs, threads, and codes. The threads may be executed
simultaneously to enhance the performance of the processor and to facilitate
                                             65

simultaneous operations of the application. By way of implementation, methods,
program codes, program instructions and the like described herein may be
implemented in one or more thread. The thread may spawn other threads that may
have assigned priorities associated with them; the processor may execute these
threads based on priority or any other order based on instructions provided in the
program code. The processor may include memory that stores methods, codes,
instructions and programs as described herein and elsewhere. The processor may
access a storage medium through an interface that may store methods, codes, and
instructions as described herein and elsewhere. The storage medium associated with
the processor for storing methods, programs, codes, program instructions or other
type of instructions capable of being executed by the computing or processing device
may include but may not be limited to one or more of a CD-ROM, DVD, memory,
hard disk, flash drive, RAM, ROM, cache and the like.
         100207]     A processor may include one or more cores that may enhance
speed and performance of a multiprocessor. In embodiments, the process may be a
dual core processor, quad core processors, other chip-level multiprocessor and the like
that combine two or more independent cores (called a die).
         100208]     The methods and systems described herein may be deployed in part
or in whole through a machine that executes computer software on a server, cloud
server, client, firewall, gateway, hub, router, or other such computer and/or
networking hardware. The software program may be associated with a server that
may include a file server, print server, domain server, internet server, intranet server
and other variants such as secondary server, host server, distributed server and the
like. The server may include one or more of memories, processors, computer readable
media, storage media, ports (physical and virtual), communication devices, and
interfaces capable of accessing other servers, clients, machines, and devices through a
wired or a wireless medium, and the like. The methods, programs or codes as
described herein and elsewhere may be executed by the server. In addition, other
devices required for execution of methods as described in this application may be
considered as a part of the infrastructure associated with the server.
         100209]     The server may provide an interface to other devices including,
without limitation, clients, other servers, printers, database servers, print servers, file
                                             66

servers, communication servers, distributed servers and the like. Additionally, this
coupling and/or connection may facilitate remote execution of program across the
network. The networking of some or all of these devices may facilitate parallel
processing of a program or method at one or more location without deviating from the
scope of the invention. In addition, any of the devices attached to the server through
an interface may include at least one storage medium capable of storing methods,
programs, code and/or instructions. A central repository may provide program
instructions to be executed on different devices. In this implementation, the remote
repository may act as a storage medium for program code, instructions, and programs.
         100210]     The software program may be associated with a client that may
include a file client, print client, domain client, internet client, intranet client and other
variants such as secondary client, host client, distributed client and the like. The client
may include one or more of memories, processors, computer readable media, storage
media, ports (physical and virtual), communication devices, and interfaces capable of
accessing other clients, servers, machines, and devices through a wired or a wireless
medium, and the like. The methods, programs or codes as described herein and
elsewhere may be executed by the client. In addition, other devices required for
execution of methods as described in this application may be considered as a part of
the infrastructure associated with the client.
         100211]     The client may provide an interface to other devices including,
without limitation, servers, other clients, printers, database servers, print servers, file
servers, communication servers, distributed servers and the like. Additionally, this
coupling and/or connection may facilitate remote execution of program across the
network. The networking of some or all of these devices may facilitate parallel
processing of a program or method at one or more location without deviating from the
scope of the invention. In addition, any of the devices attached to the client through an
interface may include at least one storage medium capable of storing methods,
programs, applications, code and/or instructions. A central repository may provide
program instructions to be executed on different devices. In this implementation, the
remote repository may act as a storage medium for program code, instructions, and
programs.
                                             67

         100212]     The methods and systems described herein may be deployed in part
or in whole through network infrastructures. The network infrastructure may include
elements such as computing devices, servers, routers, hubs, firewalls, clients, personal
computers, communication devices, routing devices and other active and passive
devices, modules and/or components as known in the art. The computing and/or non
computing device(s) associated with the network infrastructure may include, apart
from other components, a storage medium such as flash memory, buffer, stack, RAM,
ROM and the like. The processes, methods, program codes, instructions described
herein and elsewhere may be executed by one or more of the network infrastructural
elements.
         100213]     The methods, program codes, and instructions described herein and
elsewhere may be implemented on a cellular network having multiple cells. The
cellular network may either be frequency division multiple access (FDMA) network
or code division multiple access (CDMA) network. The cellular network may include
mobile devices, cell sites, base stations, repeaters, antennas, towers, and the like. The
cell network may be a GSM, GPRS, 3G, EVDO, mesh, or other networks types.
         100214]     The methods, programs codes, and instructions described herein
and elsewhere may be implemented on or through mobile devices. The mobile
devices may include navigation devices, cell phones, mobile phones, mobile personal
digital assistants, laptops, palmtops, netbooks, pagers, electronic books readers, music
players and the like. These devices may include, apart from other components, a
storage medium such as a flash memory, buffer, RAM, ROM and one or more
computing devices. The computing devices associated with mobile devices may be
enabled to execute program codes, methods, and instructions stored thereon.
Alternatively, the mobile devices may be configured to execute instructions in
collaboration with other devices. The mobile devices may communicate with base
stations interfaced with servers and configured to execute program codes. The mobile
devices may communicate on a peer to peer network, mesh network, or other
communications network. The program code may be stored on the storage medium
associated with the server and executed by a computing device embedded within the
server. The base station may include a computing device and a storage medium. The
                                             68

storage device may store program codes and instructions executed by the computing
devices associated with the base station.
         100215]    The computer software, program codes, and/or instructions may be
stored and/or accessed on machine readable media that may include: computer
components, devices, and recording media that retain digital data used for computing
for some interval of time; semiconductor storage known as random access memory
(RAM); mass storage typically for more permanent storage, such as optical discs,
forms of magnetic storage like hard disks, tapes, drums, cards and other types;
processor registers, cache memory, volatile memory, non-volatile memory; optical
storage such as CD, DVD; removable media such as flash memory (e.g. USB sticks or
keys), floppy disks, magnetic tape, paper tape, punch cards, standalone RAM disks,
Zip drives, removable mass storage, off-line, and the like; other computer memory
such as dynamic memory, static memory, read/write storage, mutable storage, read
only, random access, sequential access, location addressable, file addressable, content
addressable, network attached storage, storage area network, bar codes, magnetic ink,
and the like.
         100216]    The methods and systems described herein may transform physical
and/or or intangible items from one state to another. The methods and systems
described herein may also transform data representing physical and/or intangible
items from one state to another, such as from usage data to a normalized usage
dataset.
         100217]    The elements described and depicted herein, including in flow
charts and block diagrams throughout the figures, imply logical boundaries between
the elements. However, according to software or hardware engineering practices, the
depicted elements and the functions thereof may be implemented on machines
through computer executable media having a processor capable of executing program
instructions stored thereon as a monolithic software structure, as standalone software
modules, or as modules that employ external routines, code, services, and so forth, or
any combination of these, and all such implementations may be within the scope of
the present disclosure. Examples of such machines may include, but may not be
limited to, personal digital assistants, laptops, personal computers, mobile phones,
other handheld computing devices, medical equipment, wired or wireless
                                              69

communication devices, transducers, chips, calculators, satellites, tablet PCs,
electronic books, gadgets, electronic devices, devices having artificial intelligence,
computing devices, networking equipments, servers, routers and the like.
Furthermore, the elements depicted in the flow chart and block diagrams or any other
logical component may be implemented on a machine capable of executing program
instructions. Thus, while the foregoing drawings and descriptions set forth functional
aspects of the disclosed systems, no particular arrangement of software for
implementing these functional aspects should be inferred from these descriptions
unless explicitly stated or otherwise clear from the context. Similarly, it will be
appreciated that the various steps identified and described above may be varied, and
that the order of steps may be adapted to particular applications of the techniques
disclosed herein. All such variations and modifications are intended to fall within the
scope of this disclosure. As such, the depiction and/or description of an order for
various steps should not be understood to require a particular order of execution for
those steps, unless required by a particular application, or explicitly stated or
otherwise clear from the context.
         100218]    The methods and/or processes described above, and steps thereof,
may be realized in hardware, software or any combination of hardware and software
suitable for a particular application. The hardware may include a general purpose
computer and/or dedicated computing device or specific computing device or
particular aspect or component of a specific computing device. The processes may be
realized in one or more microprocessors, microcontrollers, embedded
microcontrollers, programmable digital signal processors or other programmable
device, along with internal and/or external memory. The processes may also, or
instead, be embodied in an application specific integrated circuit, a programmable
gate array, programmable array logic, or any other device or combination of devices
that may be configured to process electronic signals. It will further be appreciated that
one or more of the processes may be realized as a computer executable code capable
of being executed on a machine readable medium.
         100219]    The computer executable code may be created using a structured
programming language such as C, an object oriented programming language such as
C++, or any other high-level or low-level programming language (including assembly
                                            70

languages, hardware description languages, and database programming languages and
technologies) that may be stored, compiled or interpreted to run on one of the above
devices, as well as heterogeneous combinations of processors, processor architectures,
or combinations of different hardware and software, or any other machine capable of
executing program instructions.
        [00220]     Thus, in one aspect, each method described above and
combinations thereof may be embodied in computer executable code that, when
executing on one or more computing devices, performs the steps thereof. In another
aspect, the methods may be embodied in systems that perform the steps thereof, and
may be distributed across devices in a number of ways, or all of the functionality may
be integrated into a dedicated, standalone device or other hardware. In another aspect,
the means for performing the steps associated with the processes described above may
include any of the hardware and/or software described above. All such permutations
and combinations are intended to fall within the scope of the present disclosure.
        [00221]     While the invention has been disclosed in connection with the
preferred embodiments shown and described in detail, various modifications and
improvements thereon will become readily apparent to those skilled in the art.
Accordingly, the spirit and scope of the present invention is not to be limited by the
foregoing examples, but is to be understood in the broadest sense allowable by law.
        100222]     All documents referenced herein are hereby incorporated by
reference.
                                            71

CLAIMS
 1.     A method, comprising:
        gathering, by an executable script embedded within a graphical user interface
of a user's financial account, transaction data from the user's financial account with at
least one computer, wherein the graphical user interface is presented on a mobile
device of the user, and the user's financial account is a financial institution account
that is maintained on behalf of the user;
        analyzing the transaction data with at least one computer for a spend pattern;
        comparing the spend pattern of the user to the spend patterns for other users
with the at least one computer;
        using the at least one computer, matching a merchant with the spend pattern of
the user based on at least one rationale including the spend patterns of other users that
have interacted with the merchant and an inferred customer trait;
        displaying the merchant and the at least one rationale for the matching nearby
the displayed merchant in the graphical user interface of the user's financial account;
         selecting an online savings opportunity with a decision engine to match to the
user;
        receiving, with the at least one computer, a response from the user indicating
that the user has rejected the online savings opportunity for the merchant presented to
the user;
        receiving, with the at least one computer, from the mobile device of the user,
location data indicating that the user has entered a geographic area, set by the
merchant, within which the online savings opportunity is provided; and in response to
receiving the response and the location data, transmitting a geo-enhanced savings
opportunity based on the online savings opportunity to the mobile device for display
in the graphical user interface of the user's financial account, the displayed geo
enhanced savings opportunity further comprising like and dislike icons for the user to
rate his or her opinion of the displayed geo-enhanced savings opportunity.
2.      The method of claim 1, further comprising displaying a share button for the
user to share the geo-enhanced savings opportunity with a social network by clicking
the share button.
                                            72

3.       The method of claim 1, wherein the step of analyzing comprises extracting at
least one of a merchant name, a merchant category, a merchant location, a store
number, a transaction amount, a transaction frequency, a zip code, a store category, a
transaction description, and a total spending amount.
4.       The method of claim 1, wherein the user's financial account is at least one of a
credit card account, a bank account, a checking account, a savings account, a personal
finance program account, and a loan account.
5.       The method of claim 1 further comprising presenting a map of a geographic
area in the graphical user interface, the map indicating the geographic area within
which the geo-enhanced savings opportunity is provided.
6.       The method of claim 1, wherein the step of displaying is accomplished with an
electronic display selected from the group consisting of a computer screen and a
mobile device of the user.
7.       A method, comprising:
         gathering, by an executable script embedded within a graphical user interface
of a user's financial account, transaction data from the user's financial account with at
least one computer, wherein the graphical user interface is presented on a mobile
device of the user, and the user's financial account is a financial institution account
that is maintained on behalf of the user;
         analyzing the transaction data from a plurality of merchants with the at least
one computer to determine an amount spent per merchant;
         generating a spending chart displaying the amount spent per merchant with the
at least one computer;
         matching a merchant with which the user is likely to interact based on at least
one rationale including other users with a similarity in an amount spent with the
merchant and an inferred customer trait;
         displaying the matched merchant and the at least one rationale for the
matching nearby the displayed merchant in the graphical user interface of the user's
financial account;
                                            73

         selecting an online savings opportunity with a decision engine to match to the
user;
        receiving, with the at least one computer, a response from the user indicating
that the user has rejected the online savings opportunity for the merchant presented to
the user;
        receiving, with the at least one computer, from the mobile device of the user,
location data indicating that the user has entered a geographic area, set by the
merchant, within which the online savings opportunity is provided; and
        in response to receiving the response and the location data, transmitting a geo
enhanced savings opportunity based on the online savings opportunity to the mobile
device for display in the graphical user interface of the user's financial account, the
displayed geo-enhanced savings opportunity further comprising like and dislike icons
for the user to rate his or her opinion of the geo-enhanced displayed savings
opportunity.
8.      A method, comprising:
        gathering, by an executable script embedded within a graphical user interface
of a user's financial account, transaction data of a user with a plurality of merchants
from a financial account of the user with at least one computer, wherein the graphical
user interface is presented on a mobile device of the user, and the financial account of
the user is a financial institution account that is maintained on behalf of the user;
        analyzing the transaction data of the user with the at least one computer to
determine an amount spent per a selected view type;
        generating with the at least one computer a spending chart of the user
displaying the amount spent per selected view type; and
        displaying the spending chart with a statement of the user's financial account,
wherein the spending chart includes data for a comparison of the total amount spent
by the user per merchant for each of the plurality of merchants, with a benchmark
amount for each of the plurality of merchants;
        matching a merchant with the spending chart of the user based on at least one
rationale including other users with a similarity in amounts spent that have interacted
with the merchant and an inferred customer trait;
                                             74

        displaying the merchant and the at least one rationale for the matching nearby
the displayed merchant in the graphical user interface;
         selecting an online savings opportunity with a decision engine to match to the
user;
        receiving, with the at least one computer, a response from the user indicating
that the user has rejected the online savings opportunity for the merchant presented to
the user;
        receiving, with the at least one computer, from the mobile device of the user,
location data indicating that the user has entered a geographic area, set by the
merchant, within which the online savings opportunity is provided; and
        in response to receiving the response and the location data, transmitting a geo
enhanced savings opportunity based on the online savings opportunity to the mobile
device for display in the graphical user interface of the user's financial account, the
displayed geo-enhanced savings opportunity further comprising like and dislike icons
for the user to rate his or her opinion of the geo-enhanced displayed savings
opportunity.
9.      The method of claim 8, wherein the selected view type is by merchant, by
category, by week, by month, by time period, by geographical location, and by
amount.
10.     The method of claim 8 further comprising presenting a map of a geographic
area in the graphical user interface, the map indicating the geographic area for a
location of the matched merchant.
11.     The method of claim 8, further comprising, sorting the data in the spending
chart.
12.     The method of claim 8, further comprising, setting a time period for display of
the data in the spending chart.
13.     The method of claim 8, further comprising, comparing the amount spent to a
benchmark.
                                             75

14.      The method of claim 8, wherein the benchmark is a national average, a city
average, a state average, similar people as defined by either a similar spend pattern or
similar demographics, and the private group.
15.      The method of claim 15, wherein similar demographics comprises a match of
at least one of a gender, an age range, a household type, a number of children, a
household income, and a geographic location.
16.      The method of claim 8, wherein the private group is at least one of created by
the user or created by another user.
17.      The method of claim 8, wherein the comparison data for each merchant is
presented side by side with the benchmark amount for each merchant.
18.      The method of claim 14, wherein the spending chart is interactive, and where
benchmark data are displayed in a dialog box when the user interacts with the data.
19.      The method of claim 8, wherein the statement is at least one of an online
statement, an online graphical user interface associated with the user's financial
account, an online bill pay area, a dialog box associated with the user's financial
account, an ATM receipt, a teller receipt, a mobile statement, and a paper statement.
20.      The method of claim 8, wherein the user's financial account is at least one of a
credit card account, a bank account, a checking account, a savings account, a personal
finance program account, and a loan account.
21.      A method according to claims 1, 7, or 8, wherein the at least one rationale
further includes an expand/collapse behavior regarding obtaining more information
about an offer after seeing an offer headline for the offer.
22.      A method according to claims 1, 7, or 8, wherein the inferred customer trait is
one selected from the group consisting of a gender, a credit rating, an age group, a life
event, an income level, a psychographic state, and a demographic trait.
                                            76

23.     A method according to claims 1, 7, or 8, further comprising:
        receiving, via the graphical user interface, a selection of the dislike icon by the
user; and
        in response to receiving the indication, placing the merchant onto a blacklist.
                                            77

                                                  <removed-apn>         <removed-date>
100
             USER INTERFACE                      MONITORING ENGINE
                   102                                  104
                              DECISION ENGINE
                                    108
                              RANKING FACILITY
                                    128
                                                                                    <U+2736> <U+2701><U+2702>
                PRODUCT        USER PROFILE       TRACKING
                DATABASE         DATABASE         DATABASE
                   110              112              114
          DATA                    DATA
      NORMALIZATION           NORMALIZATION
         ENGINE                 PLATFORM
           124                     118                    BUSINESS RULES
                                                              SERVER
                                                                122
                                DATA ENGINE
                                    120
                                                                           Fig. 1

                                              <removed-apn>       <removed-date>
200
               COLLECT USERS SERVICE USAGE DATA
                              202
      ANALYZE THE SERVICE USAGE DATA TO OBTAIN A NORMALIZED
                     SERVICE USAGE DATASET
                              204
          NORMALIZE ALTERNATIVE SERVICE OFFERING DATA
         ACOORDING TO A NORMALIZED ALTERNATIVE SERVICE
                        OFFERING MODEL
                              208
                                                                            <U+2737> <U+2701><U+2702>
        APPLY ALTERNATIVE SERVICE OFFERING MODEL TO THE
         NORMALIZED SERVICE USAGE DATASET TO OBTAIN AN
        ALTERNATIVE SERVICE OFFERING NORMALIZED DATASET
                               210
      COMPARE THE ALTERNATIVE SERVICE OFFERING NORMALIZED
          DATASET TO THE NORMALIZED USAGE DATASET TO
      DETERMINE IF AN ALTERNATIVE SERVICE OFFERING IS BETTER
                THAN THE USERS CURRENT SERVICE
                                212
       REPEAT COLLECTING, ANALYZING, NORMALIZING, APPLYING
         AND COMPARING PERIODICALLY TO DETERMINE ON AN
       UPDATED BASIS WHICH ALTERNATIVE SERVICE OFFERING IS
            BETTER THAN THE USER'S CURRENT SERVICE                 Fig. 2
                               214

                                                                         <removed-apn>            <removed-date>
300
                   Weekday, 7   Weekday,    Weekday,     Saturday, 7   Message     Roaming      Data Rate
                   am  8am     1 pm  2    11 pm  12   am  8am      Rate        Rate
                                pm          am
      Provider A   $0.05/min    $0.05/min   $0/min       $0min         $0.15/msg   $0.05/min    $0.05/Kb
      Provider B   $0.06/min    $0.06/min   $0.06/min    $0min         $0.05/msg   $0.10/min    $0.05/Kb
      Provider C   $0.05/min    $0.05/min   $0.01/min    $0/min        $0.05/msg   $0.05/min    $0.06/Kb
      Provider D   $0.07/min    $0.07/min   $0/min       $0/min        $0.05/msg   $0.15/min    $0.06/Kb     <U+2738> <U+2701><U+2702>
      Provider E   $0.05/min    $0.05/min   $0.05/min    $0min         $0.05/msg   $0.05/min    $0.06/Kb
                                                                                                    Fig. 3

                                              <removed-apn>      <removed-date>
        PERFORM A PRELIMINARY CLASSIFICATION OF A USERS
400                 CREDIT CARD USAGE DATA
                              402
           ASSOCIATE THE USER WITH A GROUP OF KNOWN
                       CHARACTERISTICS
                              404
      COLLECT CREDIT CARD USAGE DATA FOR A USERS CURRENT
                          CREDIT CARD
                              408
         ANALYZE THE CREDIT CARD USAGE DATA TO OBTAIN A
             NORMALIZED CREDIT CARD USAGE DATASET
                              410
                                                                            <U+2739> <U+2701><U+2702>
      NORMALIZE DATA RELATED TO A PLURALITY OF ALTERNATIVE
      CREDIT CARDS ACCORDING TO A NORMALIZED CREDIT CARD
                            MODEL
                              412
        APPLY THE NORMALIZED CREDIT CARD MODEL TO THE
      NORMALIZED CREDIT CARD USAGE DATASET TO PRODUCE A
       PLURALITY OF ALTERNATIVE CREDIT CARD NORMALIZED
                          DATASETS
                              414
      COMPARE THE ALTERNATIVE CREDIT CARD DATASETS TO THE
      NORMALIZED CREDIT CARD USAGE DATASET TO DETERMINE IF
       AN ALTERNATIVE CREDIT CARD IS BETTER THAN THE USERS
                       CURRENT CREDIT CARD                        Fig. 4
                               418

                                           <removed-apn>    <removed-date>
500
      COLLECT REWARDS PROGRAM USAGE DATA FOR A USERS
                    REWARDS PROGRAM
                           502
       ANALYZE THE REWARDS PROGRAM DATA TO OBTAIN A
               NORMALIZED VALUE OF REWARDS
                           504
       RECEIVE AN INDICATION OF A REWARDS REDEMPTION
                             508
                                                                       <U+273A> <U+2701><U+2702>
       CALCULATE A USER-SPECIFIC VALUE OF REWARDS BY
      MULTIPLYING A USER-SPECIFIC EXCHANGE RATE BY THE
                NORMALIZED VALUE OF REWARDS
                             510
                                                             Fig. 5

                                              <removed-apn>       <removed-date>
600
      COLLECT INSURANCE POLICY DATA FOR A USERS INSURANCE
                            POLICY
                              602
          ANALYZE THE INSURANCE POLICY DATA TO OBTAIN A
              NORMALIZED INSURANCE POLICY DATASET
                              604
      NORMALIZING DATA RELATED TO A PLURALITY OF ALTERNATIVE
           INSURANCE POLICY OFFERINGS ACCORDING TO A
          NORMALIZED INSURANCE POLICY OFFERING MODEL                        <U+2701> <U+2701><U+2702>
                               608
        APPLY THE NORMALIZED INSURANCE POLICY OFFERING
      MODEL TO THE NORMALIZED INSURANCE POLICY DATASET TO
      PRODUCE A PLURALITY OF ALTERNATIVE INSURANCE POLICY
                 OFFERING NORMALIZED DATASETS
                              610
       COMPARE THE ALTERNATIVE INSURANCE POLICY OFFERING
        NORMALIZED DATASETS TO THE NORMALIZED INSURANCE
          POLICY DATASET TO DETERMINE IF AN ALTERNATIVE
       INSURANCE POLICY OFFERING IS BETTER THAN THE USERS
                   CURRENT INSURANCE POLICY
                               612
                                                                   Fig. 6

                                                        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
700
        COLLECT SERVICE USAGE DATA FOR A USERS CURRENT
                           SERVICE
                              702
                                                                   CORRECT THE
       ANALYZE THE SERVICE USAGE DATA TO PERFORM A BILLING      NORMALIZED SERVICE
      ERROR ANALYSIS AND OBTAIN A NORMALIZED SERVICE USAGE      USAGE DATASET FOR
                            DATASET                            ANY ERRORS IDENTIFIED
                               704                                   IN BILLING
                                                                         714
      NORMALIZE DATA RELATED TO A PLURALITY OF ALTERNATIVE
         SERVICE OFFERINGS ACCORDING TO A NORMALIZED
             ALTERNATIVE SERVICE OFFERING MODEL
                              708                                                      <U+2702> <U+2701><U+2702>
       APPLY THE NORMALIZED ALTERNATIVE SERVICE OFFERING
       MODEL TO THE NORMALIZED SERVICE USAGE DATASET TO
      PRODUCE A PLURALITY OF ALTERNATIVE SERVICE OFFERING
                     NORMALIZED DATASETS
                              710
      COMPARE THE ALTERNATIVE SERVICE OFFERING NORMALIZED
          DATASETS TO THE NORMALIZED USAGE DATASET TO
      DETERMINE IF AN ALTERNATIVE SERVICE OFFERING IS BETTER
                THAN THE USERS CURRENT SERVICE
                                712
                                                                           Fig. 7

                                                         <removed-apn>          <removed-date>
       COLLECT AT LEAST ONE OF PREDICTED AND PAST SERVICE USAGE DATA AS
800      WELL AS REWARD EARNINGS DATA FOR A USERS CURRENT SERVICE
                                     802
        ANALYZE USAGE AND REWARDS EARNING DATA TO OBTAIN A NORMALIZED
                     SERVICE USAGE AND REWARDS DATASET
                                     804
         NORMALIZE DATA RELATED TO A PLURALITY OF ALTERNATIVE SERVICE
      OFFERINGS ACCORDING TO A NORMALIZED ALTERNATIVE SERVICE OFFERING
                                    MODEL
                                      808
         APPLY NORMALIZED ALTERNATIVE SERVICE OFFERING MODEL TO THE
         NORMALIZED SERVICE USAGE AND REWARDS DATASET TO PRODUCE A
        PLURALITY OF ALTERNATIVE SERVICE OFFERING NORMALIZED DATASETS
                                      810                                                  <U+273D> <U+2701><U+2702>
       COMPARE ALTERNATIVE SERVICE OFFERING NORMALIZED DATASETS TO THE
      NORMALIZED USAGE DATASET ACCORDING TO AT LEAST ONE ELEMENT OF THE
       DATASETS TO DETERMINE IF AN ALTERNATIVE SERVICE OFFERING IS BETTER
                       THAN THE USERS CURRENT SERVICE
                                       812
      REPEAT THE STEPS OF COLLECTING, ANALYZING, NORMALIZING, APPLYING AND
        COMPARING PERIODICALLY TO DETERMINE ON AN UPDATED BASIS WHICH
        ALTERNATIVE SERVICE OFFERING IS BETTER THAN THE USER'S CURRENT
                                   SERVICE
                                      814
      ALERT THE USER IF AN ALTERNATIVE SERVICE OFFERING IS BETTER THAN THE
                                  CURRENT ONE                                    Fig. 8
                                       818

                                             <removed-apn>      <removed-date>
900
        DEFINE A PLURALITY OF SERVICE USAGE-RELATED DATA
                              TYPES
                               902
          COLLECT SERVICE USAGE DATA USING A COMPUTER
                     IMPLEMENTED FACILITY
                              904
      SORT THE SERVICE USAGE DATA ACCORDING TO THE DEFINED                 <U+273E> <U+2701><U+2702>
                 SERVICE PLAN-RELATED DATA TYPES
                               908
                                                                 Fig 9

                                                <removed-apn>    <removed-date>
1000
         DEFINE A PLURALITY OF SERVICE USAGE-RELATED DATA
                               TYPES
                                1002
         COLLECT SERVICE PARAMETERS RELATED TO A SERVICE
           USAGE USING A COMPUTER IMPLEMENTED FACILITY
                              1004
                                                                            <U+2736><U+2736> <U+2701><U+2702>
          NORMALIZE SERVICE PARAMETERS ACCORDING TO THE
       DEFINED SERVICE USAGE-RELATED DATA TYPES TO GENERATE
                 A NORMALIZED SERVICE USAGE MODEL
                                1008
                                                                  Fig 10

                                               <removed-apn>          <removed-date>
1100          COLLECT USERS WIRELESS SERVICE USAGE DATA
                                 1102
          ANALYZE THE WIRELESS SERVICE USAGE DATA TO OBTAIN A
              NORMALIZED WIRELESS SERVICE USAGE DATASET
                                 1104
        NORMALIZE ALTERNATIVE WIRELESS SERVICE OFFERING DATA
       ACOORDING TO A NORMALIZED ALTERNATIVE WIRELESS SERVICE
                          OFFERING MODEL
                                1108
       APPLY ALTERNATIVE WIRELESS SERVICE OFFERING MODEL TO THE                  <U+2736><U+2736> <U+2701><U+2702>
        NORMALIZED WIRELESS SERVICE USAGE DATASET TO OBTAIN AN
       ALTERNATIVE WIRELESS SERVICE OFFERING NORMALIZED DATASET
                                  1110
          COMPARE THE ALTERNATIVE WIRELESS SERVICE OFFERING
        NORMALIZED DATASET TO THE NORMALIZED USAGE DATASET TO
        DETERMINE IF AN ALTERNATIVE WIRELESS SERVICE OFFERING IS
           BETTER THAN THE USERS CURRENT WIRELESS SERVICE
                                  1112
        REPEAT COLLECTING, ANALYZING, NORMALIZING, APPLYING AND
       COMPARING PERIODICALLY TO DETERMINE ON AN UPDATED BASIS
       WHICH ALTERNATIVE WIRLESS SERVICE OFFERING IS BETTER THAN
                 THE USER'S CURRENT WIRELESS SERVICE
                                  1114
                                                                      Fig. 11

                                                <removed-apn>    <removed-date>
            COLLECT USERS SAVINGS ACCOUNTUSAGE DATA
1200
                               1202
        ANALYZE THE SAVINGS ACCOUNTUSAGE DATA TO OBTAIN A
           NORMALIZED SAVINGS ACCOUNT USAGE DATASET
                               1204
       NORMALIZE ALTERNATIVE SAVINGS ACCOUNT OFFERING DATA
          ACOORDING TO A NORMALIZED ALTERNATIVE SAVINGS
                     ACCOUNT OFFERING MODEL
                               1208
       APPLY ALTERNATIVE SAVINGS ACCOUNT OFFERING MODEL TO
        THE NORMALIZED SAVINGS ACCOUNT USAGE DATASET TO                     <U+2736><U+2737> <U+2701><U+2702>
         OBTAIN AN ALTERNATIVE SAVINGS ACCOUNT OFFERING
                       NORMALIZED DATASET
                               1210
        COMPARE THE ALTERNATIVE SAVINGS ACCOUNT OFFERING
       NORMALIZED DATASET TO THE NORMALIZED USAGE DATASET
          TO DETERMINE IF AN ALTERNATIVE SAVINGS ACCOUNT
        OFFERING IS BETTER THAN THE USERS CURRENT SAVINGS
                              ACCOUNT
                                1212
        REPEAT COLLECTING, ANALYZING, NORMALIZING, APPLYING
          AND COMPARING PERIODICALLY TO DETERMINE ON AN
         UPDATED BASIS WHICH ALTERNATIVE SAVINGS ACCOUNT
        OFFERING IS BETTER THAN THE USER'S CURRENT SAVINGS
                             ACCOUNT
                                                                 Fig. 12
                               1214

                                                 <removed-apn>      <removed-date>
1300     COLLECT USERS INTERNET, TELEVISION, AND TELEPHONE
                 SERVICE (TRIPLE PLAY) USAGE DATA
                                1302
           ANALYZE THE TRIPLE PLAY USAGE DATA TO OBTAIN A
               NORMALIZED TRIPLE PLAY USAGE DATASET
                                1304
          NORMALIZE ALTERNATIVE TRIPLE PLAY OFFERING DATA
         ACOORDING TO A NORMALIZED ALTERNATIVE TRIPLE PLAY
                         OFFERING MODEL
                               1308
                                                                               <U+2736><U+2738> <U+2701><U+2702>
        APPLY ALTERNATIVE TRIPLE PLAY OFFERING MODEL TO THE
         NORMALIZED TRIPLE PLAY USAGE DATASET TO OBTAIN AN
        ALTERNATIVE TRIPLE PLAY OFFERING NORMALIZED DATASET
                                 1310
           COMPARE THE ALTERNATIVE TRIPLE PLAY OFFERING
       NORMALIZED DATASET TO THE NORMALIZED USAGE DATASET
       TO DETERMINE IF AN ALTERNATIVE TRIPLE PLAY OFFERING IS
        BETTER THAN THE USERS CURRENT TRIPLE PLAY SERVICE
                                1312
        REPEAT COLLECTING, ANALYZING, NORMALIZING, APPLYING
           AND COMPARING PERIODICALLY TO DETERMINE ON AN
       UPDATED BASIS WHICH ALTERNATIVE TRIPLE PLAY OFFERING IS
         BETTER THAN THE USER'S CURRENT TRIPLE PLAY SERVICE
                                1314
                                                                    Fig. 13

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2736><U+2739> <U+2701><U+2702>
                Fig. 14

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2736><U+273A> <U+2701><U+2702>
                Fig. 15

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2736><U+2701> <U+2701><U+2702>
                Fig. 16

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2736><U+2702> <U+2701><U+2702>
                Fig. 17

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                          <U+2736><U+273D> <U+2701><U+2702>
                Fig. 18

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2736><U+273E> <U+2701><U+2702>
                Fig. 19

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2737><U+2736> <U+2701><U+2702>
                Fig. 20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2737><U+2736> <U+2701><U+2702>
                Fig. 21

                    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
           AT & T
  AT & T
AT & T
                                               <U+2737><U+2737> <U+2701><U+2702>
                                    Fig. 22

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2737><U+2738> <U+2701><U+2702>
                Fig. 23

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2737><U+2739> <U+2701><U+2702>
                Fig. 24

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2737><U+273A> <U+2701><U+2702>
                Fig. 25

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                          <U+2737><U+2701> <U+2701><U+2702>
                Fig. 26

                                                                              <removed-apn>       <removed-date>
2700
       Site #1       Site #2      Site #3       Site #4      Site #5       Site #6
                                                                                      Change
       Format        Format       Format        Format       Format        Format
                                                                                      Detection
          A             B            C             B            D             A
         Vertical Specific          Vertical Specific            Vertical Specific    Validation
       Transaction Engine         Transaction Engine           Transaction Engine      System
                                                                                      Visibility
                                 Core Transaction Engine
                                                                                     Dashboard
                                                                                                                <U+2737><U+2702> <U+2701><U+2702>
                                            Database
                                    Decision Engine                                  Alert Engine
                 Web Interface                             API Interface             Email & Social
                                                                                                      Fig. 27

                                                             <removed-apn>      <removed-date>
0$5*'            Amount        Frequency          Merchant
                                                                      Rulebases
                                                  Category
                                                                      Merchant
                                                                      Processor
                  0*/#-+1%"&'213+4*-'                                     Issuer
                                                                                             <U+2737><U+273D> <U+2701><U+2702>
 !"#$%"&'(")*&+,*-''               Merchant Tokenizer
                                                                      Merchant
                                                                      Learning
                                                                       Engine
  !"#$%"&'.$-/*-'                    Merchant Parser
   Geolocation Database             Merchant Database
                                                                                   Fig. 28

                                                                        <removed-apn>            <removed-date>
                                   2       Alternate path via API
Bank Serverr
                                                  ifiable transaction
                              Non-personally identifiable
                               descriptions, amount and date sent
                                                               2
               Statements                                                                                   <U+2737><U+273E> <U+2701><U+2702>
                       1
                                                           Offers per description received
                                       Us
                                       User Browser
One-line BillShrink Javascript on                     On page lightbox overlays to complete
statement page or via bookmarklet or                  purchase
browser plugin
                                                                                                 Fig. 29

                                                                          <removed-apn>           <removed-date>
/.0%+1-(/.1.62#&'(
 F/*-'?@"-5'    !"#$%#&'(                          )*+",%-.(                        /.0%+1(
        4+.135(
                     ?3*#5'5"'5$)*'"@*-'     .9-#8$/*'7+58'/$:*'#$-;'
                                                 8     +58                0+/#"9&5'#-*;+5*;'+&'AB';$6/'
        )+.2%31(
                   .-*1$6'7+58'$##"9&5'      .9-#8$/*'7+58'/$:*'#$-;'
                                                 8     +58                   <8$-=*'#-*;+5*;'&*>5';$6'         <U+2738><U+2736> <U+2701><U+2702>
        4&*2&'(
                         <3+#)'3+&)'                 +58 58
                                           .9-#8$/*'7+58'58*'/$:*'#$-;'            ;+ 5 ;+
                                                                               C::*;+$5*';+/#"9&5'
                                                                                 :*;+$5* ;+/#
                                                                               C::*;+$5*';+/#"9&5'
        )+.2&'(
                   .-*1$6'7+58'$##"9&5'    2#$&'#";*'"&':"D+3*E1-+&5E#$-;'
                                                                                                     Fig. 30

                                                         <removed-apn>    <removed-date>
                                                    <U+2701>
7'5.8+%5.1(93::(!'%:;-3-<(035,( :3=.(>(13-:3=.(?*@&' (
                                                                                     <U+2738><U+2736> <U+2701><U+2702>
                                                                      3202
    Fig. 31

                                                <removed-apn>      <removed-date>
A.",'&:&8;(B5%"=C(
 !"#$%"&'I7$-*'J@*-/'     G*-#8$&5'K*1"-%&='         NC'<9/5":'K*1"-%&='
     C&5*&5'!*$-&+&='      K*;*:1%"&'(*#8M'           C&5*=-$%"&'(*#8M'
 0*:"=-$18+#'C&H*-*&#*'   K*L*&9*'J1%:+,$%"&'       G93%P<8$&&*3'2911"-5'
                                                                              <U+2738><U+2737> <U+2701><U+2702>
   !"#$%"&'?>5-$#%"&'      !"#$%"&'($-=*%&='          O-$&;+&='<"&5-"3'
  G*-#8$&5'?>5-$#%"&'      G*-#8$&5'($-=*%&='         G*-#8$&5'<"&5-"3'
   <$5*="-6'?>5-$#%"&'     <$5*="-6'($-=*%&='         <$5*="-6'<"&5-"3'
    <"&/9:*-'N$#+&='        G*-#8$&5'N$#+&='                 NC'N$#+&='
                                                                    Fig. 32

                                    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
9%'=(D%-,?&%+1(
 E.:"&6.(5&(5,.(/.0%+1-():%F&+6G(
           (8*'
                                                               <U+2738><U+2738> <U+2701><U+2702>
                                                    Fig. 33

                  <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
9%'=(D%-,?&%+1(
                                             <U+2738><U+2739> <U+2701><U+2702>
                                  Fig. 34

                  <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
9%'=(D%-,?&%+1(
                                             <U+2738><U+273A> <U+2701><U+2702>
                                  Fig. 35

                  <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
9%'=(D%-,?&%+1(
                                             <U+2738><U+2701> <U+2701><U+2702>
                                  Fig. 36

                  <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
9%'=(D%-,?&%+1(
                                             <U+2738><U+2702> <U+2701><U+2702>
                                  Fig. 37

                  <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
9%'=(D%-,?&%+1(
                                             <U+2738><U+273D> <U+2701><U+2702>
                                  Fig. 38

                  <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
9%'=(D%-,?&%+1(
                                             <U+2738><U+273E> <U+2701><U+2702>
                                  Fig. 39

                  <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
9%'=(D%-,?&%+1(
                                             <U+2739><U+2736> <U+2701><U+2702>
                                  Fig. 40

                  <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
9%'=(D%-,?&%+1(
                                             <U+2739><U+2736> <U+2701><U+2702>
                                  Fig. 41

                  <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
9%'=(D%-,?&%+1(
                                             <U+2739><U+2737> <U+2701><U+2702>
                                  Fig. 42

                               <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
9%'=(D%-,?&%+1(
    Contact Customer Service
                                                          <U+2739><U+2738> <U+2701><U+2702>
                                               Fig. 43

                                                    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
9%'=(D%-,?&%+1(
                  Customer Service
                               Customer Service
                  Customer Service Support Center
                                                                               <U+2739><U+2739> <U+2701><U+2702>
                                                                    Fig. 44

                      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
H.+",%'5(D%-,?&%+1(
                                                 <U+2739><U+273A> <U+2701><U+2702>
                                      Fig. 45

                      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
H.+",%'5(D%-,?&%+1(
                                                 <U+2739><U+2701> <U+2701><U+2702>
                                      Fig. 46

                      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
H.+",%'5(D%-,?&%+1(
                                                 <U+2739><U+2702> <U+2701><U+2702>
                                      Fig. 47

                      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
H.+",%'5(D%-,?&%+1(
                                                 <U+2739><U+273D> <U+2701><U+2702>
                                      Fig. 48

                      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
H.+",%'5(D%-,?&%+1(
                                                 <U+2739><U+273E> <U+2701><U+2702>
                                      Fig. 49

                      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
H.+",%'5(D%-,?&%+1(
                                                 <U+273A><U+2736> <U+2701><U+2702>
                                      Fig. 50

                      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
H.+",%'5(D%-,?&%+1(
                                                 <U+273A><U+2736> <U+2701><U+2702>
                                      Fig. 51

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    5202
                     5204
                            <U+273A><U+2737> <U+2701><U+2702>
                     5208
                     5210
                    5212
                Fig. 52

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    5302
             5308
                                  <U+273A><U+2738> <U+2701><U+2702>
                           5310
                    5304
  5314         5312
                     Fig. 53

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+273A><U+2739> <U+2701><U+2702>
  5404
                 5402
                Fig. 54

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+273A><U+273A> <U+2701><U+2702>
                Fig. 55

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+273A><U+2701> <U+2701><U+2702>
                Fig. 56

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+273A><U+2702> <U+2701><U+2702>
                Fig. 57

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
               5802
                           <U+273A><U+273D> <U+2701><U+2702>
                Fig. 58

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+273A><U+273E> <U+2701><U+2702>
                Fig. 59

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2736> <U+2701><U+2702>
                Fig. 60

        <removed-apn>       <removed-date>
                     B
    A
                                        <U+2701><U+2736> <U+2701><U+2702>
C                                   D
                              Fig
                              Fig.
                              Fig. 61

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
A   B
                                   <U+2701><U+2737> <U+2701><U+2702>
                        Fig. 62

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
A   B
                                   <U+2701><U+2738> <U+2701><U+2702>
                        Fig. 63

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2739> <U+2701><U+2702>
                Fig. 64

                               <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                        6510
       6508
                                                          <U+2701><U+273A> <U+2701><U+2702>
6504                                          6502
              Fig. 65

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                          6602
                        6604
                        6610
                                     <U+2701><U+2701> <U+2701><U+2702>
                       6608
Fig. 66

                 <removed-apn>    <removed-date>
                               6702
                              6704
6710
                                             <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2701><U+2702>
                                     6708
       Fig. 67

