                              ABSTRACT
A method for producing a beverage or foodstuff where a liquid flows through a
capsule, which comprises a wall and a bottom, and in so doing extracts coffee
powder or tea leaves, wherein the wall of the capsule is distorted prior to and
during production of the beverage and at the same time the beverage
substance/foodstuff substance is compressed by a predetermined folding point
in the wall being compressed.

                                            1
                    Capsule and method for producing a beverage
[0001]      The present application is a divisional application from Australian Patent
Application No. 2015238413, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by
this reference.
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002]      The present invention relates to a method for producing a beverage or
foodstuff where a liquid flows through a capsule and in so doing dissolves and/or
extracts a beverage substance/foodstuff substance. In addition, the present
invention relates to a capsule having a capsule body, the wall and bottom of which
delimit an interior in which is provided a beverage substance/foodstuff substance
which is dissolved and/or extracted by means of a liquid which is introduced into the
capsule.
BACKGROUND
[0003]      A reference herein to a matter which is given as prior art is not to be taken
as an admission that the matter was known or that the information it contains was part
of the common general knowledge as at the priority date of any of the claims.
[0004]      Capsules are used increasingly nowadays for the purpose of preparing
beverages or foodstuffs. To this end, the capsule is traversed by a liquid, in
particular hot water, and at the same time a beverage substance/foodstuff
substance which is present in the capsule is extracted and/or dissolved. The
resultant beverage, however, often does not have enough flavor.
[0005]      It is consequently desirable to provide a capsule which does not
comprise the disadvantages of the prior art.

                                              2
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0006]      Where the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or "comprising" are
used in this specification (including the claims) they are to be interpreted as specifying
the presence of the stated features, integers, steps or components, but not precluding
the presence of one or more other features, integers, steps or components, or group
thereto.
[0007]      The above mentioned desirable features amongst others are achieved
through the present invention which in one form provides a method for producing a
beverage or foodstuff where a liquid flows through a capsule which comprises a wall
and a bottom, and in so doing extracts coffee powder or tea leaves, wherein the wall
of the capsule is distorted prior to and during production of the beverage and at the
same time the beverage substance/foodstuff substance is compressed by a
predetermined folding point in the wall being compressed.
[0008]      The statements made with regard to said form of the present invention are
equally applicable to the other forms/embodiments of the present invention and vice
versa. Features of said form of the present invention can be combined with features
of other forms/embodiments of the present invention.
[0009]      The present invention relates to a method for producing a beverage or
foodstuff, where a liquid flows through a capsule and in so doing dissolves and/or
extracts a beverage substance/foodstuff substance. The capsule is provided with a
capsule body which comprises a wall, for example a cylindrical or conical wall, and a
bottom, which together delimit an interior. In said interior is provided a beverage
substance/foodstuff substance, with which, for example, tea, coffee, expresso but
also a foodstuff, such as, for example, soup, is able to be produced, by a liquid, in
particular hot water, which dissolves and/or extracts the beverage substance/foodstuff
substance, being directed through the capsule. The beverage substance/foodstuff
substance is, for example, coffee powder or tea leaves, but also dried milk or
chocolate powder.

                                               3
[0010]      According to the invention, the capsule is distorted prior to and/or during
production of the beverage and at the same time the beverage substance/foodstuff
substance is compressed. As a result, the substance is traversed in a more uniform
manner. As an alternative to this or in addition to it, the flow resistance of the
substance bulk is increased, as a result of which the quality of the resulting beverage
or foodstuff is enhanced.
[0011]      A liquid distributor, which distributes the liquid supply, which is introduced
into the capsule, as a rule, as a water jet, at least in part over the cross section of the
capsule, is preferably provided in the interior, in particular downstream of the liquid
supply and upstream of the beverage substance/foodstuff substance. As an
alternative to this, the liquid is supplied into the brewing chamber upstream of the
cover and is introduced in a pre-distributed manner into the capsule interior through
preferably several openings, in particular pierced openings, which are made in the
cover, in particular the cover foil, preferably by a piercing member, and is then
distributed additionally, where applicable, in a second stage by the liquid distributor at
least in part over the cross section of the capsule. The liquid distributor reduces the
speed at which the liquid contacts the beverage substance/foodstuff substance.
[0012]      According to a preferred embodiment, the liquid distributor is a plastics
material component which is able to be, for example, injected and/or deep-drawn.
[0013]      The axial extension of the capsule is preferably reduced. In particular,
when the two halves of the brewing chamber are joined together in their longitudinal
extension, i.e. parallel to the axis of rotational symmetry or parallel to the direction of
flow of the liquid which flows through the capsule, the capsule is pressed together, as
a result of which the volume of the capsule is reduced and at the same time the
beverage substance/foodstuff substance is compressed. In this case, the density of
the filling material of the beverage substance/foodstuff substance is changed and/or
the beverage substance/foodstuff substance is redistributed in the capsule. The
compression can be effected by means of a plastic and/or elastic deformation of the
capsule wall. For example, the wall of the capsule can comprise predetermined
folding points which preferably extend along the entire periphery of the wall of the

                                             4
capsule, but in a particularly preferred manner only extend in a part region of the axial
extension thereof, and which promote the deformation thereof.
[0014]      As an alternative to this or in addition to it, the radial extension of the
capsule is reduced at least in portions, i.e. is pressed together transversely with
respect to the axis of rotational symmetry or perpendicular to the direction of flow of
the liquid which flows through the capsule, as a result of which the volume of the
capsule is reduced and at the same time the beverage substance/foodstuff substance
is compressed. In this case, the density of the filling material of the beverage
substance/foodstuff substance is changed and/or the beverage substance/foodstuff
substance is redistributed in the capsule. The compression process can be effected
by means of a plastic and/or elastic deformation of the capsule wall. For example, the
wall of the capsule can comprise predetermined folding points which promote the
deformation thereof. The pressing together can be effected in a certain region of the
wall of the capsule or over the entire periphery thereof and/or over the entire height of
the wall of the capsule. For example, the wall of the capsule can comprise
predetermined folding points which preferably extend along the axial extension of the
wall of the capsule, but in a particularly preferred manner only extend in a part region
of the periphery thereof, and which promote the deformation thereof.
[0015]      In another form of the present invention there is provided a capsule having
a capsule body, a wall and a bottom of which delimit an interior in which is/are
provided coffee powder or tea leaves which is/are extracted by means of a liquid
which is introduced into the capsule, wherein the wall and/or the bottom are provided
so as to be compressible, wherein predetermined folding points are provided in the
wall.
[0016]      The statements made with regard to said form of the present invention are
equally applicable to the other forms/embodiments of the present invention and vice
versa. The features of the individual forms/embodiments of the present invention can
be combined together.

                                             5
[0017]     In another form of the invention there is provided a system consisting of a
brewing chamber, into which a capsule according to the invention is inserted, and of a
brewing piston which closes the brewing chamber and on which a piercing member,
by way of which the capsule is opened, is provided, wherein a means, by way of
which the volume of the capsule is reducible during or prior to the production of the
beverage or the foodstuff, is provided on the brewing chamber and/or the brewing
piston.
[0018]     The statements made with regard to said form of the present invention are
equally applicable to the other forms/embodiments of the present invention and vice
versa. The features of the individual forms/embodiments of the present invention can
be combined together.
[0019]     The brewing chamber, in particular the part which receives the capsule
body, is preferably provided in a segmented/divided manner, wherein the segments
are movable relative to one another such that they press the capsule body together in
a radial and/or axial manner. Once the capsules have been inserted into the brewing
chamber, the segments/parts are moved toward one another and, as a result, the
radial extent of the capsules and/or the axial extension of the capsules is/are reduced.
Once the brewing operation has been concluded, the segments/parts are able to be
moved apart from one another again and the capsules can be ejected.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0020]     The    inventions are explained below by way of the figures.             Said
explanations are simply as an example and do not restrict the general inventive
concept.
[0021]     Figures 1 - 3    each show an embodiment of the method according to the
                            invention, of the capsule according to the invention and of
                            the system according to the invention.

                                              6
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0022]      Figure 1 shows a first embodiment of the system according to the
invention which comprises a capsule 1 which consists of a capsule body, for example
a capsule body that has been injected or deep-drawn from a plastics material, and a
cover, in particular a cover foil, the cover foil preferably being provided, in particular
sealed-on, on a flange of the capsule body. In the interior of the capsule, in particular
in the capsule body, is situated the beverage substance/foodstuff substance which is
traversed and at the same time extracted to produce a beverage or foodstuff. For the
traversing, the cover foil is pierced, for example, by a piercing mandrel 28 and then a
liquid, in particular hot water, is introduced into the capsule, as a result of which the
beverage substance/foodstuff substance is extracted and/or dissolved. Once the
beverage substance/foodstuff substance has been traversed by the liquid, the
beverage or foodstuff produced in this manner leaves the capsule, for example
through the bottom of the capsule. A filter element 4, by way of which particles are
prevented from being washed out of the capsule, can be provided in the interior of the
capsule body. In addition, the system according to the invention comprises a brewing
chamber 25 in which, in the present case, the capsule body is received at least in
part. In addition, the system comprises a brewing piston 26 on which are provided
here the piercing mandrel 28 and in the present case a sealing ring 27 and which is
displaced in the direction of the brewing chamber 25, i.e. to the left here, for
producing the beverage. In the right-hand part of figure 1, the system is shown in its
closed state, in which the brewing piston 26 presses the flange of the capsule 1
against the brewing chamber 25, as a result of which the seals 27 seal the brewing
piston against the capsule. At the same time, the piercing mandrel has pierced
through the cover foil such that the liquid is able to flow into the capsule. As a
comparison between the left-hand and the right-hand part of figure 1 shows, the
capsule has been reduced from its original axial extension D to the axial extension D'
during the movement of the brewing piston, i.e. the wall of the capsule has been
compressed in the axial direction parallel to the axis of the rotational symmetry of the
capsule or parallel to the direction of flow of the liquid. At the same time, the beverage
substance/foodstuff substance, which          is  situated    in  the capsule,   was also
compressed, as a result of which, on the one hand, the beverage substance/foodstuff

                                              7
substance can be redistributed inside the capsule and/or the density of the beverage
substance/foodstuff substance is increased by the cavities between the individual
particles of the filling material being reduced. As a result, the flow resistance of the
filling material of the beverage substance/foodstuff substance increases, which
results, for example, in a better distribution of the liquid over the cross section of the
capsule and, as a result, in a better extracting and/or dissolving performance of the
beverage     substance/foodstuff      substance.   The    extraction   of  the   beverage
substance/foodstuff substance is improved by the high degree of flow resistance.
[0023]      Figure 2 shows a further embodiment of the present invention, it being
possible to refer at least in part to the statements according to figure 1. In the present
case, as an alternative to or in addition to compressing the capsule in an axial
manner, it is able to be compressed in a radial manner such that the capsule body 3
is reduced from its original radius R (left-hand representation) to the radius R' (right
hand representation). This is effected in the present case by segmenting the brewing
chamber, the parts of the brewing chamber which abut in particular against the radial
extent of the capsule chamber between the bottom and the flange, being able to be
moved toward or away from one another, as a result of which the capsule is pressed
together and the beverage substance/foodstuff substance is compacted again. The
movement can be a rotation or a linear movement or a combination of the two. The
capsule is inserted into the brewing chamber 25 in this case and the brewing piston is
moved to abut against the cover of the capsule. The movable segments/parts are
then moved toward one another until either a certain pressure is present and/or the
volume has been reduced by a certain proportion. The beverage and/or foodstuff to
be produced is then produced by a liquid, in particular hot water, flowing through the
capsule. Once the production of the beverage and/or the foodstuff has been finished,
the two parts are moved back again into their original position and the capsule can be
ejected.

                                             8
[0024]     Yet another embodiment of the system according to the invention is shown
in figure 3, it being possible essentially to refer to the statements according to figure
2. The brewing chamber 25 is also realized in two or multiple parts in the present
case, the two parts 25', 25" being provided at a certain spacing with respect to one
another, which can be seen in the left-hand representation in figure 3. As soon as the
capsule has been inserted into the brewing chamber and in particular after the
brewing piston has been moved in the direction of the brewing chamber 25 and abuts
against the flange of the capsule, the two parts 25', 25" of the capsule are moved
toward one another, in this case in a linear manner, as a result of which, once again,
the volume of the capsule is reduced and consequently the density and/or the position
of the beverage substance/foodstuff substance is changed.

                                          9
[0025]      List of references
    1   Capsule
   2    Cover, cover foil
   3    Capsule body
   3'   Capsule body pressed together
   4    Filter element
   5    Capsule bottom
   6    Crumple zone
   9    Capsule wall
    11  Beverage substance/foodstuff substance
    11' Compressed beverage substance/foodstuff substance
    12  Movable segment, part means
   25   Brewing chamber
   25' First part of the brewing chamber
   25" Second part of the brewing chamber
   26   Brewing piston
   27 Sealing ring on the brewing piston
   28   Piercing mandrel
    D   Axial extension of the capsule
    D' Shortened axial extension of the capsule
    R Radial extension of the capsule
    R' Reduced radial extension

                                           10
The Claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.    A method for producing a beverage or foodstuff where a liquid flows through a
      capsule, which comprises a wall and a bottom, and in so doing extracts coffee
      powder or tea leaves, wherein the wall of the capsule is distorted prior to and
      during production of the beverage and at the same time the beverage
      substance/foodstuff substance is compressed by a predetermined folding point
      in the wall being compressed.
2.    The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the axial extension of the capsule is
      reduced.
3.    The method as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein the radial extension of the
      capsule is reduced at least in portions.
4.    A capsule having a capsule body, a wall and a bottom of which delimit an
      interior in which is/are provided coffee powder or tea leaves which is/are
      extracted by means of a liquid which is introduced into the capsule, wherein
      the wall and/or the bottom are provided so as to be compressible, wherein
      predetermined folding points are provided in the wall.

              WO 2015/144730         PCT/EP2015/056306
                               1/3
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>

              WO 2015/144730         PCT/EP2015/056306
                               2/3
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>

              WO 2015/144730         PCT/EP2015/056306
                               3/3
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>

