                                                25
                                          ABSTRACT
       A system 10 for controlling operation of a vehicle 12 in a defined area 14 includes a
perimeter 16 defining a boundary of the defined area 14. A user interface 18 is provided for
at least one of controlling and monitoring movement of the vehicle 12 as it traverses the area
14 and monitoring the location of the vehicle 12 relative to the perimeter 16. The system 10
further includes a controller 26 to which the vehicle 12 is responsive, the vehicle 12 having a
plurality of modes of operation, one of which is an autonomous mode and another of which is
an operator controlled mode. The controller 26 is operative, when the vehicle 12 is operating
in the autonomous mode and the vehicle comes within a predetermined range of the
perimeter, to inhibit the vehicle 12 from crossing the perimeter 16 and, when the vehicle 12 is
operating in the operator controlled mode or is converted from autonomous mode to operator
controlled mode, to permit the vehicle 12 to cross the perimeter 16 under control of the
operator.

                     4z
    341
3o,
     24 FIG. 1 (S
        Fi2..2    36

                                         1
                            AUSTRALIA
                        Patents Act 1990
           TECHNOLOGICAL RESOURCES PTY LTD
                     COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                           STANDARD PATENT
Title:
   A systemfor, and a method of controllingoperation of a vehicle in a
                                  defined area
The following statement is a full description of this invention including the best
method of performing it known to us:-

                                                    2
Cross-Reference to Related Applications
[01]           The present application claims priority from Australian Provisional Patent
Application No 2012904004 filed on 13 September 2012. This application is a divisional from
Australian Patent Application No. 2013227999 filed on 11 September 2013. The disclosures of
both applications are incorporated by reference in their entirety to the extent that they do not
conflict with the present application.
Field
[02]           This disclosure relates, generally, to the control of vehicles and, more particularly,
to a system for, and a method of, controlling operation of a vehicle in a defined area. The
disclosure has particular, but not necessarily exclusive, application to mobile mining
machinery.
Background
[03]           One of the key tasks in open cut mining is the preparation of a drill bench and the
drilling of blast holes in the bench. Accurate drilling of the blast holes is important and can
have repercussions through downstream mining and processing operations. The accuracy of
drilling impacts scheduling, excavation, slope stability, material handling, beneficiation, ore
loss and final product blending.
[04]           The more accurately blast holes are drilled, the more effective the subsequent
blasting operation will be. Poor blast hole drilling and, consequently, blasting can result in sub
optimal size distributions for maximum crusher throughput leading to increased dilution and
ore loss. Conversely, under-blasting can create large blocks of material resulting in lower
productivity and increasing maintenance costs of heavy earth moving equipment.
[05]           The applicant has carried out a drill automation program. Automating drilling
activities have led to a number of advantages including providing a safer operating
environment for a drill operator ("driller"), producing a more stable hole with a more accurate
hole collar position, more accurate hole depths and angles, greater productivity and a longer
rotary bit life.
[06]           The applicant believes that further benefits can be obtained by controlling a
plurality of drills simultaneously. Such an initiative presents other challenges to be overcome.

                                                    3
[07]           While the above discussion references automating drills, it will be appreciated that
the technology is applicable, with the resultant advantages, to controlling other vehicles
involved in mining operations. For ease of reference, the disclosure will describe the
application of the technology to its use on automated drills but the scope of the disclosure
extends to other vehicles which are able to be controlled in an automated manner. In this
specification, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the term "vehicle" is to be
understood in a broad sense to include any suitable mobile machine. In addition, the term
"automated" (and related forms of the word) is to be understood to include an autonomous
mode of operation and a remote control mode of operation.
Summary
[08]           In a first aspect, there is provided a system for controlling operation of a mine
vehicle in a defined area of a mine site, the system including
               a perimeter defining an outer boundary of the defined area of the mine site;
               a user interface for at least one of controlling and monitoring movement of the
vehicle as it traverses the area and monitoring the location of the vehicle relative to the
perimeter; and
               a controller in communication with the user interface and to which the vehicle is
responsive, the vehicle having a plurality of modes of operation, one of which is an
autonomous mode and another of which is an operator controlled mode, and the controller
being operative, when the vehicle is operating in the autonomous mode and the vehicle comes
within a predetermined range of the perimeter, to cease autonomous mode operation to inhibit
the vehicle from crossing the perimeter and to notify an operator that the operator is to assume
operator controlled mode of operation to move the vehicle out of the predetermined range of
the perimeter, which action includes at least one of manoeuvring the vehicle, while within the
defined area, away from the perimeter and crossing the perimeter under control of the operator,
the user interface being configured to enable the operator to cause the controller to switch the
vehicle back from the operator controlled mode to the autonomous mode when conditions
again permit the vehicle to operate in autonomous mode.
[09]           The controller may be operative, when the vehicle is operating in the operator
controlled mode or is converted from autonomous mode to operator controlled mode, to permit
the vehicle to cross the perimeter under control of the operator.

                                                  4
[10]          The "predetermined range" may include touching the perimeter so that the vehicle
is unable to cross over the perimeter while in autonomous mode. The vehicle may be a mobile
drilling machine and may, particularly but not necessarily exclusively, be a drilling machine
operable to drill blast holes in a bench of an open cut mine. The defined area may therefore be
a surface area of the bench of the mine being drilled.
[11]          The user interface may be remotely located relative to the defined area and the
operator controlled mode of operation may be a remote control mode of operation, the vehicle
being controlled by the operator located at, and using, the user interface.
[12]          The user interface may include an operator console and at least one display screen.
The at least one display screen may be a haptic display responsive to touch commands from an
operator.
[13]          The perimeter may be displayed as a perimeter indicator overlying the defined
area on the at least one display screen. The perimeter indicator may have different
characteristics depending on which part of the boundary of the area the perimeter indicator is
demarcating. Thus, for example, the perimeter indicator may be displayed in different colours
with those colours highlighting a danger of crossing the perimeter (when the vehicle is
operating in remote control mode). An edge of the bench may be represented by a colour
signifying danger (such as red) whereas a border between the bench on which the vehicle is
operating and a neighbouring bench or a roadway may be demarcated in a different colour
signifying lower or no risk of crossing the perimeter.
[14]          The perimeter may be implemented as a virtual perimeter which is surveyed after
preparation of the defined area, the virtual perimeter being entered into the controller after
having been surveyed.
[15]          In a second aspect, there is provided a method of controlling operation of a mine
vehicle in a defined area of a mine site, the vehicle having a plurality of modes of operation, the
method including
              monitoring a position of the vehicle relative to a perimeter defining an outer
boundary of the defined area of the mine site as it traverses the area; and
              when the vehicle is operating in an autonomous mode of operation and the vehicle

                                                    5
comes within a predetermined range of the perimeter, disabling the vehicle by ceasing
autonomous mode operation to inhibit the vehicle from crossing the perimeter and notifying an
operator that the operator is to assume operator controlled mode of operation to move the
vehicle out of the predetermined range of the perimeter, which action includes at least one of
manoeuvring the vehicle, while within the defined area, away from the perimeter and crossing
the perimeter under control of an operator and causing the controller to switch the vehicle back
from the operator controlled mode to the autonomous mode when conditions again permit the
vehicle to operate in autonomous mode.
[16]           The method may include implementing the perimeter as a virtual perimeter and
storing it in a controller of the vehicle.
[17]           The method may include generating a discernible warning when the vehicle
crosses the perimeter.
[18]           The method may include providing a user interface including at least one display
screen and displaying the perimeter as a perimeter indicator overlying the area on the at least
one display screen. The user interface may be remotely located relative to the defined area and
the method may include, when the vehicle is in the operator controlled mode of operation,
operating the vehicle in a remote control mode of operation via the user interface.
[19]           The method may include displaying the perimeter indicator with different
characteristics depending on which part of the boundary of the area the perimeter indicator is
demarcating.
[20]           THIS PARAGRAPH INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
[21]           In a third aspect, there is provided a system for controlling operation of multiple
mine vehicles, each operating in a mine site, each vehicle having a plurality of modes of
operation, including an autonomous mode of operation and an operator controlled mode of
operation and each vehicle operating in a defined area of its mine site, a safety perimeter
defining an outer boundary of the defined area, the system including
               a controller associated with each vehicle, each controller being configured to
control operation of its associated vehicle in the defined area of it mine site, including a mode

                                                   6
of operation of its associated vehicle, the controller being operative to cause its associated
vehicle to cease autonomous mode of operation when that vehicle comes within a
predetermined range of the perimeter of the defined area; and
               a user interface in communication with each controller, the user interface being
accessible by an operator for enabling the operator at least to monitor movement of each
vehicle relative to the perimeter of its associated area and to monitor the location of each
vehicle relative to the perimeter of its associated area, the user interface further being
configured, when a selected one of the vehicles comes within the predetermined range of the
perimeter, to notify the operator that the selected one of the vehicles has ceased autonomous
mode of operation to permit the operator to issue operating instructions to the controller of the
selected one of the vehicles to convert the selected one of the vehicles to an operator controlled
mode of operation, which operating instructions includes at least one of manoeuvring the
selected one of the vehicles under control of the operator, while within the defined area, away
from the perimeter and permitting the selected one of the vehicles to cross the perimeter under
control of the operator, the user interface also being configured to enable the operator to cause
the controller to switch the selected one of the vehicles back from the operator controlled mode
to the autonomous mode when vehicle operating conditions again permit the selected one of the
vehicles to operate in autonomous mode.
[22]           The controller may be operative, when any one of the vehicles is operating in the
autonomous mode and that vehicle comes within a predetermined range of the perimeter, to
inhibit the vehicle from crossing the perimeter.
[23]           The user interface may include an operator console and at least one display screen,
the at least one display screen being a haptic display responsive to touch commands from the
operator.
[24]           The perimeter may be displayed as a virtual perimeter indicator overlying the
defined area on the at least one display screen.
[25]           THIS PARAGRAPH INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK.
[26]           The user interface may be remotely located relative to the defined area and the
operator controlled mode of operation may be a remote control mode of operation, each vehicle

                                                  7
being controllable by the operator located at, and using, the user interface when that vehicle is
operating in the operator controlled mode.
[27]          In a fourth aspect, there is provided a method of controlling operation of multiple
mine vehicles, each vehicle having a controller associated with it, each vehicle having a
plurality of modes of operation, including an autonomous mode of operation and an operator
controlled mode of operation, and each vehicle operating in a defined area of its mine site, a
safety perimeter defining an outer boundary of the defined area, the method including
              controlling operation of each vehicle in the defined area of its mine site via its
controller, including a mode of operation of each vehicle, the controller of each vehicle being
operative to cause its associated vehicle to cease autonomous mode of operation when that
vehicle comes within a predetermined range of the perimeter of the defined area;
              enabling an operator at least to monitor movement of each vehicle as it traverses
its associated area and to monitor the location of each vehicle relative to the perimeter of its
associated area; and
              when a selected one of the vehicles comes within a predetermined range of the
perimeter, notifying the operator that the selected one of the vehicles has ceased autonomous
mode of operation and permitting the operator to issue operating instructions to the controller
of the selected one of the vehicles to convert the selected one of the vehicles to an operator
controlled mode of operation, which operating instructions includes at least one of
manoeuvring the selected one of the vehicles under control of the operator, while within the
defined area, away from the perimeter and permitting the selected one of the vehicles to cross
the perimeter under control of the operator, and enabling the operator to cause the controller to
switch the selected one of the vehicles back from the operator controlled mode to the
autonomous mode when vehicle operating conditions again permit the selected one of the
vehicles to operate in autonomous mode.
[28]          The method may include, when any of the vehicles is operating in the autonomous
mode and that vehicle comes within a predetermined range of the perimeter, inhibiting the
vehicle from crossing the perimeter.
[29]          The method may include providing a user interface which includes an operator
console and at least one display screen, the at least one display screen being a haptic display

                                                    8
responsive to touch commands from the operator and in which the method includes displaying
the perimeter as a virtual perimeter indicator overlying the defined area on the display screen.
[30]           The user interface may be remotely located relative to the defined area and the
method may include, when the vehicle is in the operator controlled mode of operation,
operating the vehicle in a remote control mode of operation via the user interface.
[31]           THIS PARAGRAPH INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
[32]           In fifth aspect, there is provided a mine vehicle including a controller configured
to be responsive to a safety perimeter defining an outer boundary of a defined area of a mine
site in which the vehicle is operable, the mine vehicle having a plurality of modes of operation,
one of which is an autonomous mode and another of which is an operator controlled mode, and
the controller being operative, when the mine vehicle is operating in the autonomous mode and
the vehicle comes within a predetermined range of the perimeter, to cease autonomous mode
operation to inhibit the vehicle from crossing the perimeter and to notify an operator that the
operator is to assume operator controlled mode of operation to move the vehicle out of the
predetermined range of the perimeter, which action includes at least one of manoeuvring the
vehicle, while within the defined area, away from the perimeter and crossing the perimeter
under control of the operator, the user interface being configured to enable the operator to cause
the controller to switch the vehicle back from the operator controlled mode to the autonomous
mode when conditions again permit the vehicle to operate in autonomous mode.
[33]    In a sixth aspect, there is provided a controller for a mine vehicle operable in a defined
area of a mine site, the controller being configured to be responsive to a safety perimeter
defining an outer boundary of the defined area, the vehicle having a plurality of modes of
operation, one of which is an autonomous mode and another of which is an operator controlled
mode, and the controller being operative, when the mine vehicle is operating in the autonomous
mode and the vehicle comes within a predetermined range of the perimeter, to cease
autonomous mode operation to inhibit the vehicle from crossing the perimeter and to notify an
operator that the operator is to assume operator controlled mode of operation to move the
vehicle out of the predetermined range of the perimeter, which action includes at least one of
manoeuvring the vehicle, while within the defined area, away from the perimeter and crossing
the perimeter under control of the operator, the user interface being configured to enable the

                                                   9
operator to cause the controller to switch the vehicle back from the operator controlled mode to
the autonomous mode when conditions again permit the vehicle to operate in autonomous
mode.
Brief Description of Drawings
[34]   An embodiment of the disclosure is now described by way of example with reference to
the accompanying diagrammatic drawings in which:
[35]   Fig. 1 shows a schematic block diagram of an embodiment of a system for controlling
operation of a vehicle in a defined area;
[36]   Fig. 2 shows a diagrammatic representation of a user interface of the system;
[37]   Fig. 3 shows a schematic screen shot of the user interface during a first phase of an
autonomous mode of operation of the vehicle;
[38]   Fig. 4 shows a schematic screen shot of the user interface during a second phase of an
autonomous mode of operation of the vehicle;
[39]   Fig. 5 shows, on an enlarged scale, a part of the screen shot of Fig. 4;
[40]   Fig. 6 shows a schematic screen shot of the user interface during a remote control mode
of operation of the vehicle;
[41]   Fig. 7 shows a flow chart of the steps required to generate a perimeter defining a
boundary of the defined area in which the vehicle operates; and
[42]   Fig. 8 shows a flow chart of the control of the vehicle using the generated perimeter.
Detailed Description of Exemplary Embodiments
[43]   In Fig. 1 of the drawings, reference numeral 10 generally designates a system for
controlling operation of a vehicle in a defined area. The system 10 is described below with
reference to its application to a vehicle in the form of a mobile mining machine, in particular, a

                                                  10
mobile drill 12 operable in a defined area, the defined area being a defined surface area of a
drill bench 14 of an open-cut or surface mine. Those skilled in the art will, however, readily
appreciate that the system 10 is applicable to any other vehicle or mobile machine and the
description with reference to the drill 12 operating on a drill bench 14 is described as a
preferred but not exclusive embodiment.
[44]    The system 10 includes a perimeter in the form of a virtual safety perimeter (VSP) 16
defining a boundary of the defined area of the drill bench 14.
[45]    The system 10 further includes a user interface 18 (Fig. 2). The user interface 18
includes an operator console 20 and a plurality of display screens 22, 24, one of which is shown
at 22 in Fig. 1 of the drawings. While only two display screens 22, 24 are shown in Fig. 2, in
practice, where multiple drills 12 are to be controlled, more display screens are provided. The
operator console 20 mimics the controls of a manual drill which improves useability as a drill
operator ("driller") is familiar with the layout and the controls fall readily to hand.
[46]    The system 10 also includes a controller 26 to which the drill 12 is responsive and
which, in at least one mode of operation of the drill 12, inhibits the drill 12 from either touching
or approaching within a predetermined range of the perimeter 16, as will be described in greater
detail below.
[47]    The drill 12 comprises a wheeled chassis 28 supported on a pair of tracks 30. The
chassis 28 comprises a deck 31 supporting a drill mast 32 and a superstructure 34 arranged on
the deck 30. The drill 12 is operable in at least two modes of operation, being an operator
controlled mode and an autonomous mode. In the operator controlled mode, the drill 12 is
operated remotely, i.e. in a remote control mode.
[48]    In the remote control mode, the drill 12 is controlled remotely via the drill operator
located at the user interface 18 which is remotely located offsite. In the autonomous mode, the
drill 12 operates largely without user intervention under the direction of the controller 26.
However, when operating in the autonomous mode, it is possible for the driller to override the
autonomous mode and convert the drill 12 to the remote control mode of operation.

                                                    11
[49]    It is also possible for the drill 12 to operate in a further, operator controlled mode of
operation, being a manual mode, where a driller is positioned on the drill 12. In that case, the
superstructure 34 may include a cabin (not shown) for the driller. It will, however, be
appreciated that if the drill is only to be operated in remote control mode or autonomous mode,
the need for such a cabin and associated infrastructure is obviated.
[50]    The system 10 is intended for use in permitting one driller to control multiple drills 12.
For this purpose, the user interface 18 includes a plurality of display screens, two of which are
shown at 22 and 24 in Fig. 2 of the drawings. As described above, in practice, more than two
display screens 22, 24 are provided depending on the number of drills 12 being controlled, each
drill 12 having two display screens 22, 24 associated with it.
[51]    At least one of the display screens 22 is a touch screen or haptic display and the driller
can control operation of the drill 12 by touching the display screen 22. For example, the driller
can mark out a tramming path for the drill 12 or a blast hole drilling sequence by touching the
display screen 22. The information is then uploaded to the controller 26 for subsequent use by
the controller 26 in controlling movement of the drill 12 on the drill bench 14. In addition, or
instead, the user interface 18 can include other pointing devices such as a mouse 36, or the like.
[52]    When the driller is controlling multiple drills 12, it is not always possible for the driller
to devote complete attention to each of the drills. Hence, it is necessary that movement of the
drill 12 in the defined area of each drill bench 14 is controlled so that the drill 12 does not stray
outside that area. Hence, the system 10 includes the VSP 16 which defines a boundary of the
defined area of the drill bench 14 traversed by the drill 12. In use, as the drill 12 drills blast
holes 38 in the drill bench 14, it traverses the bench 14 and, when it comes within a
predetermined range of the VSP 16, the controller 26 is operable to disable the drill at least
when the drill 12 is operating in its autonomous mode so that the drill 12 does not breach the
VSP 16. The controller 26 disables the drill 12 by placing the drill 12 in an idling mode.
[53]    The "predetermined range" referenced above may vary according to circumstances, the
condition of the defined area, and various other factors. The "predetermined range" may
therefore be any distance from "virtual touching" of the VSP 16 to being within a
predetermined distance, for example, about 10cm to 100cm of the VSP 16. Examples of

                                                  12
suitable ranges are, therefore, about 0cm - 10 cm, 10cm - 20cm, 20cm - 30cm, 30cm - 40cm,
40cm - 50cm, 50cm - 60cm, 60cm - 70cm, 70cm - 80cm, 80cm - 90cm and 90cm - 100cm.
[54]    The drill 12 includes GPS devices 40 which determine the position of the drill 12 on the
drill bench 14. As illustrated, these GPS devices 40 are, in general, mounted atop the mast 32
and provide good satellite reception. However, the GPS devices 40 are thus susceptible to the
drill 12 swaying as it trams over the bench 14 reducing the accuracy of the positional
information provided by the GPS devices 40.
[55]    Thus, the drill 12 is modified to include a mast 42, lower than the drill mast 32, mounted
at a front or rear of the drill 12 which supports a further GPS device 44 in the form of a high
precision GPS (HPGPS) device 44. Typically the mast 42 is of a length to position the GPS
device 44 approximately 4m above the surface of the drill bench 14 on which the drill 12 is
located. Because this HPGPS device 44 is mounted lower on the deck 30 of the drill 12, it is
less susceptible to swaying during tramming. This, coupled with the higher update rate of the
HPGPS device, produces a better signal which improves the accuracy of the positional
information of the drill 12. This enables higher tramming speeds to be achieved and results in
improved productivity.
[56]    To ensure that the drill 12 does not breach the VSP 16, the VSP 16 is programmed into
the controller 26 of the drill 12. The VSP 16 is implemented as geographical coordinates
which define the position of the VSP 16 on the drill bench 14. The VSP 16 is determined by
surveying the bench 14 after bench preparation.
[57]    Thus, by using the data relating to the VSP 16 stored in the controller 26 and positional
data from the GPS device 44 and/or the GPS devices 40, it is possible to determine accurately
the position of the drill 12 relative to the VSP 16.
[58]    As shown in greater detail in Fig. 3 of the drawings, the position of the drill 12 from the
bench relative to the VSP 16 is displayed on the display screen 22. When the drill 12 is
operating in autonomous mode, as shown by a field 46 (Fig. 3) on the display screen 22, the
position of the drill 12 relative to the VSP 16 is displayed. Provided the drill 12 is within the
VSP 16, the drill 12 is able to tram over the drill bench 14 to enable the blast holes 38 to be
drilled by the drill 12 in the pre-arranged sequence. If, as shown in Figs. 4 and 5 of the

                                                   13
drawings, any part of the drill 12 comes within the predetermined range of the VSP 16, such as,
for example, "touching" the VSP 16, the controller 26 causes the drill 12 to be disabled and
places the drill in an idling mode.
[59]   An error message 48 (Fig. 4) is displayed on the display screen 22 and may be
accompanied by an audible warning. The driller is, therefore, alerted to the fact that the drill 12
has been disabled and is in an idling mode. The driller is able to take remedial action by
switching over to remote control mode 12 and manoeuvring the drill 12 away from the VSP 16.
[60]   In an embodiment, different parts of the VSP 16 have different characteristics, such as,
for example, different colours, depending on where that part of the VSP 16 is on the drill bench
14. Where the part of the VSP 16 is positioned relative to a part of the drill bench 14 where
crossing the VSP 16 would encounter danger, the VSP 16 may have a characteristic
highlighting such a danger.
[61]   As an example, the part of the VSP 16 demarcating an edge of the drill bench 14 may be
coloured red to highlight where the edge of the drill bench 14 is located. Where crossing the
VSP 16 would not have as serious consequences as would tramming over an edge of the drill
bench 14, the VSP 16 may have a different colour signifying a lower risk.
[62]   Instead of colour being the characteristic, the characteristics of the VSP 16 could adopt
other forms, such as lines of different thicknesses, dot-dash lines, or the like.
[63]   It will be appreciated that the drill 12 requires maintenance, whether routine or arising
due to unforeseen circumstances. In addition, the drill 12 needs to have consumables
replenished at regular intervals. For this purpose, the driller is able to convert the mode of
operation of the drill 12 to remote control mode. When the drill 12 is operating in remote
control mode, it is possible for the driller to cause the drill 12 to cross the VSP 16 as shown, for
example, in Fig. 6 of the drawings.
[64]   The fact that the drill 12 is operating in remote control mode is shown in a field 50
displayed on the display screen 22. In addition, when the drill 12 breaches the VSP 16, a
message 52 is displayed on the display screen 22 to warn that this has occurred. The message
52 may be accompanied by an audible warning as well to alert the driller to this event. The

                                                    14
driller, using the operator console 20, can disable the audible warning if the breaching of the
VSP 16 occurred as a result of a deliberate action.
[65]     In use, the system 10 is initially implemented by preparing the drill bench 14 as shown
at step 54 in Fig. 7 of the drawings. Once the drill bench 14 has been prepared, it is surveyed
as shown at step 56 to enable to the VSP to be generated as shown at step 58. The VSP 16 and
drill hole 38 pattern are uploaded to the controller 26 of the drill 12 either directly or via the
user interface 18. In this regard, it is noted that the user interface 18 communicates wirelessly
with the controller 26 of the drill 12, as shown schematically by antennas 62 and 64.
[66]     Once the VSP 16 and the drill hole 38 pattern have been loaded into the controller 26
and the drill 12 is operational, the drill 12 is monitored by the controller 26, when the drill 12 is
operating in autonomous mode, to determine the position of the drill 12 relative to the VSP 16.
This is shown at step 66 in Fig. 8 of the drawings. The controller 26 determines whether or not
the drill 12 is operating in an autonomous mode as shown at step 68. If so, the controller 26
continues to monitor where the drill 12 is in relation to the VSP 16 by using the positional
information of the drill 12 as shown at step 70.
[67]     Should the controller 26 determine that the drill 12 is within the predetermined range of
the VSP 16 while operating in autonomous mode, the controller 26 is operable to disable the
drill 12 as shown at step 72 and places the drill 12 in its idling state.
[68]     If the drill 12 is not within the predetermined range of the VSP 16, the controller 26
continues to monitor drill position and permits the drill 12 to tram to enable the following blast
hole 38 to be drilled.
[69]     Reverting to step 68, if the controller 26 determines that the drill 12 is in remote control
mode, it again queries whether the drill 12 is at the VSP 16 as shown at step 74. If not, the
controller 26 allows the drill to proceed, continues to monitor drill position and permits
tramming of the drill 12.
[70]     If the controller 26 determines that the drill is at the VSP 16 but that the drill 12 is
operating in a remote control mode, it allows the drill 12 to proceed across the VSP 16 and the
warning 52 is generated as shown at step 76.

                                                   15
[71]     The provision of the VSP 16 facilitates the task of a driller controlling multiple drills 12.
It will be appreciated that these drills 12 could be spaced far from each other on a mine site
and, hence be operating in different conditions and be operating at different speeds (both
tramming and drilling speeds) etc. The provision of the VSP 16 means that, while the drills 12
are operating in autonomous mode in particular, it is not necessary for the driller to be
continuously monitoring the position of the drill 12 on its drill bench 14.
[72]     Further, with multiple drills 12 being controlled, if the driller were required to approve a
planned tramming path to a selected blast hole 38 on each bench 14, queuing delays could
result. With the user interface 18 of the system 10, the driller is able to select several holes at
once on each of numerous benches 14. Thus, by selecting the plurality of blast holes 38 to be
drilled in one operation, these holes can each be drilled without intervention of the driller.
[73]     As indicated above, the drills 12 may be located at numerous locations on the mine site
and all need to communicate with the user interface 18. Further, each drill 12 communicates
with the user interface 18 wirelessly. Existing wireless networks have insufficient bandwidth
available for multi-drill communication. This is exacerbated by topology limitations with drills
operating in different parts of the mines simultaneously. As will be described below, part of
the data transmitted from each drill 12 comprise visual images which have greater bandwidth
requirements.
[74]     The system 10 employs automation communication trailers (not shown) placed at
specific locations about the mine. The system 10 also employs at least three radios and uses
8.1 lb/g protocol for communications. The system supports ad hoc mesh networks with nodes
on the drills and the automation communication trailers. The nodes on the trailers are
connected using a broadband wireless network to the location of the user interface 18, for
example, a mine office.
[75]     As indicated, part of the data fed to the user interface 18 comprise visual images which
are displayed on the display screen 24. In addition, the display screen 24, for example, displays
visual images generated by cameras (not shown) mounted on the drill 12. At least six fixed
cameras are used to allow the driller to gauge the performance and positional aspects of the
drill 12. CCTV pan-tilt zoom cameras are used. Each drill 12 uses four such cameras mounted
on the deck 30 and/or mast 32. In addition, two fixed under-deck cameras are used and are

                                                    16
placed near a drill string 86 (Fig. 1). These under deck cameras are used during drilling
operations to monitor the drilling procedure.
[76]     The vision system employed in the system 10 uses high compression and video-on
demand to reduce bandwidth requirements. The frame rate and resolution are able to be
configured by the driller via the user interface 18. As indicated above, the system 10 employs a
number of display screens 22, 24 to enable data relating to several drills 12 to be displayed at
once. For example, as shown on the display screens 22, 24 in Fig. 2 of the drawings, when the
drill 12 is undertaking a drilling operation, the drilling data are displayed on the display screen
22 at 88 and a graphical representation of analogue instrumentation of the drill 12 is displayed
at 90 on the display screen 22.
[77]     To further reduce bandwidth during periods of relatively easy drilling, such as through
shale, the video feed to the user interface 18 from the drill 12 is reduced to two cameras, one of
which provides a view of the drill deck 30 to monitor vibrations and the other is one of the
under deck cameras for monitoring cutting returns to inhibit drill bit bogging in the blast hole
being drilled.
[78]     Most of the time the drills 12 will be operating in autonomous mode. Because of this, a
further benefit of the system 10 is that the need for an operator console 20 for each drill is
obviated. Therefore, only a single operator console 20 is provided for multiple drills. A drill
section panel is added to the operator console 20. When a particular drill 12 is selected by the
driller, the remote control transmitter 64 is connected to the remote control receiver 62 on the
drill 12 and a remote control session of that drill 12 is commenced.
[79]     The standard practice is to start the drill 12 in remote control and perform a machine
check. If this is acceptable, the driller switches the drill 12 to autonomous mode via the user
interface 18. Further interaction with the drill 12, if any, is effected via the display screen 22.
This process is repeated until all drills 12 being controlled by that user interface 18 are
operational.
[80]     When it is necessary for the driller to convert the drill 12 from autonomous mode to
remote control mode, the relevant drill 12 is selected by the driller via the operator console 20

                                                    17
and the drill 12 is switched to remote control mode via a remote control switch on the operator
console 20. This procedure is seamless as the drill is switched to idle between modes.
[81]    The system 10 further employs an independent shut down using a programmable logic
controller (PLC) with an Ethernet gateway. This independent shut down allows multiple
locations to activate the system to shut down multiple drills 12 simultaneously. The
independent shut down is activated either by loss of communication heartbeat for a certain
period of time between the drills 12 and the user interface 18 or by active initiation by the
driller via the user interface 18. The independent shut down records how shut down was
carried out and why for later analysis.
[82]    As described, most of the data relating to the drill are displayed on the display screen 22,
including status and key performance indicators which are displayed in smaller windows (not
shown). It is possible to select one of the drills 12 to bring up a higher level of detail in a large
window on the relevant display screen 22, 24. This is normally done during path planning and
blast hole 38 selection or when drilling difficult ground. It is possible to have all the vision
systems of three drills on one large display screen such as a twenty four inch screen. However,
if only two drills 12 are being controlled, the driller may prefer to have a screen for each drill
12.
[83]    Previously, when a drill 12 has been remotely controlled, and autonomous operation of
the drill 12 is interrupted, the system required the driller to complete the function in remote
control mode. With the present system 10, the driller can switch back seamlessly at any stage
to autonomous mode using the user interface 18 and the drill 12 will complete the function in
autonomous mode. This is of particular benefit when drilling in difficult ground, where the
drill may be constantly bogging or when levelling on very uneven ground.
[84]    A further improvement made with the system is that levelling of the drill 12 has been
improved and this has resulted in increased reliability. In certain situations where the super
structure 34 includes a cabin, and the cabin is downhill on a sloping surface, levelling may
prove difficult as the drill 12 is on the limit of its operating curve to lift the extra weight.
[85]    As is known, percussion drilling requires finer control than rotary drilling. Automating
the drills 12 results in improvements relating percussion drilling. Other features added include

                                                  18
anti-bogging control and the ability to move the drill rod up and down the hole via the display
screen 22. The ability to move the rod up and down helps to clear cuttings caught behind the
drill bit and can be done using the display screen 22 rather than the operator console 20.
[86]     In addition to the benefits of automating drilling operations, the ability to control
multiple drills 12 simultaneously provides further benefits including: allowing a single operator
to control multiple drills 12, maintaining production during driller absenteeism, reducing the
training time to follow site drilling standards, increasing the availability of drills, increasing the
mean time between failures, improving blast outcomes, and ensuring all sensors are maintained
which aids rock recognition. In addition, drill automation generally causes less stress on the
drill mast 32 and chassis 28 of the drill 12.
[87]     It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that numerous variations and/or
modifications may be made to the above-described embodiments, without departing from the
broad general scope of the present disclosure. The present embodiments are, therefore, to be
considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive.

                                                    19
CLAIMS:
1.      A system for controlling operation of a mine vehicle in a defined area of a mine site, the
system including
         a perimeter defining an outer boundary of the defined area of the mine site;
         a user interface for at least one of controlling and monitoring movement of the vehicle
as it traverses the area and monitoring the location of the vehicle relative to the perimeter; and
         a controller in communication with the user interface and to which the vehicle is
responsive, the vehicle having a plurality of modes of operation, one of which is an
autonomous mode and another of which is an operator controlled mode, and the controller
being operative, when the vehicle is operating in the autonomous mode and the vehicle comes
within a predetermined range of the perimeter, to cease autonomous mode operation to inhibit
the vehicle from crossing the perimeter and to notify an operator that the operator is to assume
operator controlled mode of operation to move the vehicle out of the predetermined range of
the perimeter, which action includes at least one of manoeuvring the vehicle, while within the
defined area, away from the perimeter and crossing the perimeter under control of the operator,
the user interface being configured to enable the operator to cause the controller to switch the
vehicle back from the operator controlled mode to the autonomous mode when conditions
again permit the vehicle to operate in autonomous mode.
2.       The system of claim 1 in which the user interface is remotely located relative to the
defined area and in which the operator controlled mode of operation is a remote control mode
of operation, the vehicle being controlled by the operator located at, and using, the user
interface.
3.       The system of claim 1 or claim 2 in which the user interface includes an operator
console and at least one display screen.
4.       The system of claim 3 in which the at least one display screen is a haptic display
responsive to touch commands from an operator.
5.       The system of claim 3 or claim 4 in which the perimeter is displayed as a perimeter
indicator overlying the defined area on the at least one display screen.

                                                 20
6.      The system of any one of the preceding claims in which the perimeter indicator has
different characteristics depending on which part of the boundary of the area the perimeter
indicator is demarcating.
7.      The system of any one of the preceding claims in which the perimeter is implemented as
a virtual perimeter which is surveyed after preparation of the defined area, the virtual perimeter
being entered into the controller after having been surveyed.
8.      A method of controlling operation of a mine vehicle in a defined area of a mine site, the
vehicle having a plurality of modes of operation, the method including
        monitoring a position of the vehicle relative to a perimeter defining an outer boundary of
the defined area of the mine site as the vehicle traverses the area; and
        when the vehicle is operating in an autonomous mode of operation and the vehicle
comes within a predetermined range of the perimeter disabling the vehicle by ceasing
autonomous mode operation to inhibit the vehicle from crossing the perimeter and notifying an
operator that the operator is to assume operator controlled mode of operation to move the
vehicle out of the predetermined range of the perimeter, which action includes at least one of
manoeuvring the vehicle, while within the defined area, away from the perimeter and crossing
the perimeter under control of an operator and causing the controller to switch the vehicle back
from the operator controlled mode to the autonomous mode when conditions again permit the
vehicle to operate in autonomous mode.
9.      The method of claim 8 which includes implementing the perimeter as a virtual perimeter
and storing it in a controller of the vehicle.
10.     The method of claim 8 or claim 9 which includes generating a discernible warning when
the vehicle crosses the perimeter.
11.     The method of any one of claims 8 to 10 which includes providing a user interface
including at least one display screen and displaying the perimeter as a perimeter indicator
overlying the area on the at least one display screen.
12.     The method of claim 11 in which the user interface is remotely located relative to the
defined area and in which the method includes, when the vehicle is in the operator controlled

                                                  21
mode of operation, operating the vehicle in a remote control mode of operation via the user
interface.
13.     The method of claim 11 or claim 12 which includes displaying the perimeter indicator
with different characteristics depending on which part of the boundary of the area the perimeter
indicator is demarcating.
14.     A system for controlling operation of multiple mine vehicles, each operating in a mine
site, each vehicle having a plurality of modes of operation, including an autonomous mode of
operation and an operator controlled mode of operation, and each vehicle operating in a defined
area of its mine site, a safety perimeter defining an outer boundary of the defined area, the
system including
        a controller associated with each vehicle, each controller being configured to control
operation of its associated vehicle in the defined area of its mine site including a mode of
operation of its associated vehicle, the controller being operative to cause its associated vehicle
to cease autonomous mode of operation when that vehicle comes within a predetermined range
of the perimeter of the defined area; and
        a user interface in communication with each controller, the user interface being
accessible by an operator for enabling the operator at least to monitor movement of each
vehicle relative to the perimeter of its associated area and to monitor the location of each
vehicle relative to the perimeter of its associated area, the user interface further being
configured, when a selected one of the vehicles comes within the predetermined range of the
perimeter, to notify the operator that the selected one of the vehicles has ceased autonomous
mode of operation to permit the operator to issue operating instructions to the controller of the
selected one of the vehicles to convert the selected one of the vehicles to an operator controlled
mode of operation, which operating instructions includes at least one of manoeuvring the
selected one of the vehicles under control of the operator, while within the defined area, away
from the perimeter and permitting the selected one of the vehicles to cross the perimeter under
control of the operator, the user interface also being configured to enable the operator to cause
the controller to switch the selected one of the vehicles back from the operator controlled mode
to the autonomous mode when vehicle operating conditions again permit the selected one of the
vehicles to operate in autonomous mode.

                                                 22
15.     The system of claim 14 in which the controller is operative, when any of the vehicles is
operating in the autonomous mode and that vehicle comes within a predetermined range of the
perimeter, to inhibit the vehicle from crossing the perimeter.
16.     The system of claim 14 or claim 15 in which the user interface includes an operator
console and at least one display screen, the at least one display screen being a haptic display
responsive to touch commands from the operator.
17.     The system of any one of claims 14 to 16 in which the perimeter is displayed as a virtual
perimeter indicator overlying the defined area on the at least one display screen.
18.     The system of any one of claims 14 to 17 in which the user interface is remotely located
relative to the defined area and in which the operator controlled mode of operation is a remote
control mode of operation, each vehicle being controllable by the operator located at, and
using, the user interface when that vehicle is operating in the operator controlled mode.
19.     A method of controlling operation of multiple mine vehicles, each operating in a mine
site, each vehicle having a controller associated with it, each vehicle having a plurality of
modes of operation, including an autonomous mode of operation and an operator controlled
mode of operation, and each vehicle operating in a defined area of its mine site, a safety
perimeter defining an outer boundary of the defined area, the method including
        controlling operation of each vehicle in the defined area of its mine site via its
controller, including a mode of operation of each vehicle, the controller of each vehicle being
operative to cause its associated vehicle to cease autonomous mode of operation when that
vehicle comes within a predetermined range of the perimeter of the defined area;
        enabling an operator at least to monitor movement of each vehicle as it traverses its
associated area and to monitor the location of each vehicle relative to the perimeter of its
associated area; and
        when a selected one of the vehicles comes within a predetermined range of the
perimeter, notifying the operator that the selected one of the vehicles has ceased autonomous
mode of operation and permitting the operator to issue operating instructions to the controller
of the selected one of the vehicles to convert the selected one of the vehicles to an operator
controlled mode of operation, which operating instructions includes at least one of
manoeuvring the selected one of the vehicles under control of the operator, while within the

                                                23
defined area, away from the perimeter and permitting the selected one of the vehicles to cross
the perimeter under control of the operator, and enabling the operator to cause the controller to
switch the selected one of the vehicles back from the operator controlled mode to the
autonomous mode when vehicle operating conditions again permit the selected one of the
vehicles to operate in autonomous mode.
20.     The method of claim 19 which includes, when any of the vehicles is operating in the
autonomous mode and that vehicle comes within a predetermined range of the perimeter,
inhibiting the vehicle from crossing the perimeter
21.     The method of claim 19 or claim 20 which includes providing a user interface which
includes an operator console and at least one display screen, the at least one display screen
being a haptic display responsive to touch commands from the operator and in which the
method includes displaying the perimeter as a virtual perimeter indicator overlying the defined
area on the display screen.
22.     The method of claim 21 in which the user interface is remotely located relative to the
defined area and in which the method includes, when the vehicle is in the operator controlled
mode of operation, operating the vehicle in a remote control mode of operation via the user
interface.
23.     A mine vehicle including a controller configured to be responsive to a safety perimeter
defining an outer boundary of a defined area of a mine site in which the vehicle is operable, the
mine vehicle having a plurality of modes of operation, one of which is an autonomous mode
and another of which is an operator controlled mode, and the controller being operative, when
the mine vehicle is operating in the autonomous mode and the vehicle comes within a
predetermined range of the perimeter, to cease autonomous mode operation to inhibit the
vehicle from crossing the perimeter and to notify an operator that the operator is to assume
operator controlled mode of operation to move the vehicle out of the predetermined range of
the perimeter, which action includes at least one of manoeuvring the vehicle, while within the
defined area, away from the perimeter and crossing the perimeter under control of the operator,
the user interface being configured to enable the operator to cause the controller to switch the
vehicle back from the operator controlled mode to the autonomous mode when conditions
again permit the vehicle to operate in autonomous mode.

                                                24
24.     A controller for a mine vehicle operable in a defined area of a mine site, the controller
being configured to be responsive to a safety perimeter defining an outer boundary of the
defined area, the vehicle having a plurality of modes of operation, one of which is an
autonomous mode and another of which is an operator controlled mode, and the controller
being operative, when the mine vehicle is operating in the autonomous mode and the vehicle
comes within a predetermined range of the perimeter, to cease autonomous mode operation to
inhibit the vehicle from crossing the perimeter and to notify an operator that the operator is to
assume operator controlled mode of operation to move the vehicle out of the predetermined
range of the perimeter, which action includes at least one of manoeuvring the vehicle, while
within the defined area, away from the perimeter and crossing the perimeter under control of
the operator, the user interface being configured to enable the operator to cause the controller to
switch the vehicle back from the operator controlled mode to the autonomous mode when
conditions again permit the vehicle to operate in autonomous mode.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
