Abstract
The present invention relates to a device for sealing a wooden barrel containing a fermentable or
fermented food or beverage comprising: a cover for sealing engagement with an aperture present
in the barrel, wherein the cover is provided with at least one fitting for placing and/or maintaining
the contents of the barrel under pressure. In a preferred aspect the at least one fitting for placing
and/or maintaining the contents of the barrel under pressure increases, maintains or decreases the
pressure in the barrel. The present invention further relates to a process of treating a fermentable
or fermented food or beverage comprising: placing the fermentable or fermented beverage into a
wooden barrel including an aperture; sealing the aperture with a device for sealing a wooden barrel
and placing and/or maintaining the contents of the barrel under pressure by means of the at least
one fitting provided in the cover.

FIGURE 2
                                             12          4
            3                                     8
                          CLEAR PERSPEXr
                      BARRELL STAVE
              T.                                T
                 I          CLEAR PERSPEX
                        FOODGRADE RUBBERSEAL
          1N               FOOGRE RUBBER
      2       3                                 6   65
         11   2    13                           5      5
                                  10
                          2/5

Title of the Invention: VBarrel Door
Background of the Invention
[01]     The present invention relates to the field of fermentation and in particular to the fermentation
and/or aging of food or beverages using wooden barrels.
[02]     When fermenting or aging wine, beer, cider, spirits or other food or beverages in wooden
barrels or when collecting tasting or laboratory samples, oxidation and product losses occur,
particularly through evaporation of       liquid from the barrel and  air entering the barrel.   There is
nothing in the wine-making industry which addresses these issues fully.
[03]     Losses may occur through bungs provided on the wine barrels. Traditional bungs made of
wood, silicone or rubber on wooden barrels do not provide a 100% seal due to differences between
the outside pressure, temperature and humidity compared with the inside of the barrel. With the
varying pressure, temperature, and humidity, oxidation within and evaporation losses from the
barrel continuously occur. Oxidation is undesirable as it reduces the quality of the wine.
[04]     Macro and micro-oxidation may be partly controlled by the anti-oxidative effects of sulphur
dioxide (SO2 ) which is added to the product inside the barrel and the SO2 level periodically checked
and adjusted as required. Evaporation may be partly controlled by controlling the temperature and
humidity of the cellar in which the barrels are stored. It is also known for brewers, wine makers and
distillers to top up barrels periodically.
[05]     There is a need in the industry to provide a device and method which addresses the
problems associated with oxidation and evaporation and most notably product losses which occur
during fermentation and aging in wooden barrels or at the very least ameliorate one or more
disadvantages or limitations associated with the prior art.
[06]     It is to be appreciated that any discussion of documents, devices, acts or knowledge in this
specification is included to explain the context of the present invention. Further, the discussion
throughout this specification comes about due to the realisation of the inventor and/or the
identification of certain related art problems by the inventor. Moreover, any discussion of material
such as documents, devices, acts or knowledge in this specification is included to explain the
context of the invention in terms of the inventor's knowledge and experience and, accordingly, any
such discussion should not be taken as an admission that any of the material forms part of the prior
art base or the common general knowledge in the relevant art in Australia, or elsewhere, on or
before the priority date of the disclosure and claims herein.
                                                      -1-

Brief summary of the invention
[07]    In a first aspect, the present invention provides a device for sealing a wooden barrel
containing a fermentable or fermented food or beverage comprising:
        a cover for sealing engagement with an aperture present in the barrel, wherein the cover is
provided with at least one fitting for placing and/or maintaining the contents of the barrel under
pressure.
[08]    It is presently impossible to control the pressure in a wine barrel fitted with a bung and
because little wine travels into the staves, a long aging process is required.           Surprisingly the
inventor has found that by using the device of the present invention a wooden barrel, such as a
wine barrel, can be, at least in one embodiment, substantially or completely sealed thereby creating
a sealed confined space within the barrel. When a barrel is empty and under positive or negative
pressure, the wood channels are dry and may leak. In one embodiment, when the barrel contains
a liquid under positive pressure, the liquid fills the wood channels, thereby locking them and
creating a substantially 100% sealed confined space. In another embodiment, when the barrel
contains liquid under negative pressure, the liquid is drawn away from the wood channels also
creating a substantially 100% sealed confined space. In one or more embodiments, the device
may suitably include a self-release (or self-relief) valve allowing for safe operation in the
pressurised environment by controlling the pressure in the barrel.
[09]    In at least one embodiment, oxidation may be substantially or 100% controlled by pushing
any air (or oxygen) out of the barrel and replacing it with a blanket of neutral (or inert) gas or gases.
In at least one embodiment, this may be achieved using a sparger.                   In at least another
embodiment, oxidation may be substantially or 100% controlled by decreasing the pressure in the
barrel by pumping any oxygen out of the barrel, for example by using a vacuum pump. In one or
more embodiments, no preservatives, such as sulphur dioxide, are required.
[10]    In at least one embodiment, evaporation may be substantially or from 90% to 100%
controlled by placing and/or maintaining the contents of the barrel under pressure (depending on
the product specific gravity (SG) and the technological process in place, for example, fermentation
or aging).    In at least one embodiment, no topping up of a barrel is required.          In at least one
embodiment, by use of pressure in accordance with the invention, it is also possible to control the
temperature inside the barrel.
[11]    In a second aspect, the invention provides a process of treating a fermentable or fermented
food beverage comprising:
        placing the fermentable or fermented food or beverage into a wooden barrel including an
aperture;
        sealing the aperture with a device according to the first aspect;
                                                  -2-

         placing and/or maintaining the contents of the barrel under pressure by means of the at
least one fitting provided in the cover.
Brief description of the Drawings
[12]     The invention will now be described with reference to the following non-limiting drawings.
[13]     Figure 1 is a photograph of a wooden wine barrel including an aperture for use in the
process of the present invention.
[14]     Figure 2 is a cross-section of the device of the invention shown in place on the wooden wine
barrel.
[15]     Figure 3 is a photograph of a wine barrel including the device of the invention fixed onto the
wooden wine barrel.
[16]     Figure 4 is a photograph of parts of another device of the invention.
[17]     Figure 5 is a photograph of another device of the invention.
Detailed description of the Invention
[18]     The present invention relates to a device for sealing a wooden barrel, such as a wine barrel,
containing a fermentable or fermented food or beverage comprising a cover for sealing
engagement with an aperture present in the barrel, wherein the cover is provided with at least one
fitting for placing and/or maintaining the contents of the barrel under pressure.         The present
invention also relates to a process of treating a fermentable or fermented food or beverage,
wherein the method comprises placing the fermentable or fermented food or beverage into a
wooden barrel including an aperture; sealing the aperture with the device for sealing the wooden
barrel; and placing and/or maintaining the contents of the barrel under pressure by means of the at
least one fitting provided in the cover. The wooden barrel may be an oak barrel, for example a
300L oak barrel (having a bilge diameter of about 0.77m). The aperture may be a factory hole
already present in the barrel, such as a bung hole or alternatively, the aperture may be a hole
drilled into the barrel or a modified bung hole. The aperture may have a diameter of up to 5 inches.
[19]     In one or more embodiments, the fitting for placing and/or maintaining the contents of the
barrel under pressure increases, maintains or decreases the pressure in the barrel. Pressure can
be controlled continuously or non-continuously. In one or more embodiments, fittings provided in
the cover for placing and/or maintaining the contents of the barrel under pressure may include at
least one of (i) a self-release valve (safety-relief valve), (ii) a sparger for the introduction of
pressurised gas or a mixture of gases into the barrel or (iii) a vacuum outlet for connection to a
vacuum pump for sucking gases out of the barrel. The sparger suitably includes a one way valve
                                                   -3-

inside the barrel. Suitable gases which can be introduced include compressed air, oxygen, carbon
dioxide, nitrogen, and/or argon. The gases may be filtered.             It will be appreciated that carbon
dioxide, nitrogen and argon may also function as a preservative. Other gases can also be used
provided they are permitted by the food industry. By use of certain gases, an aerobic or anaerobic
environment or a mixture of aerobic and anaerobic environments can be created in the barrel. It
will be appreciated that increasing or positive pressure can be achieved by introduction of
gases/liquids under pressure. Decreasing or negative pressure can be achieved by pumping gases
and/or liquid out of the barrel. It will be appreciated that a suitable fitting for decreasing pressure
may be a vacuum pump set at various negative pressures (for example, -0.1 to -1 bar, e.g., -0.3
bar).
[20]      In one or more embodiments, the pressure within the vessel can be continuously controlled
by releasing pressure using the self-release valve as required. In use, suitably the self-release
valve is set to a value of 0.1 to 1 bar, e.g., 0.6 or 1 bar.
[21]      Whilst the cover may comprise a sparger for introduction of at least one pressurized gas
into the barrel, it will be appreciated that gases, such as carbon dioxide, can be generated in the
reactions occurring in the barrel, for example during fermentation. Reactions occurring within the
barrel can be oxidative or reductive. The barrel may be rotated as desired.
[22]      The process can be used for treating wine, cider, vinegar, beer or spirits or other food or
beverage suitable for fermentation in a wooden barrel.          For example, the barrel may contain fruit
berries, whole-bunch grapes, grape berries, grape juice, apple pulp, apple juice or barley. The
grapes may be red or white grapes which have been destemmed, crushed and sorted (for example
using an harvester such as an optical harvester). The process can be conducted during one or
more of maceration (including post-fermentation maceration), fermentation (including malolactic
fermentation), post-fermentation, aging (including storage on lees), clarification, stabilisation and/or
fining.
[23]      The cover of the device may include additional fittings mounted therein.           The additional
fittings can be mounted in holes provided in the cover. For example there may be 4 or 6 or more
holes provided in the cover. As additional fittings, the cover may further comprise one or more of
(a) a sensor for determining temperature inside the barrel; (b) a pressure sensor for determining
pressure inside the barrel; (c) an additions and sampling tap; (d) a cooler inlet and a cooler outlet;
(e) a filter outlet and/or (f) a cleaning inlet. It will be appreciated that a fitting may serve more than
one purpose.        For example, the fitting may function as both an addition port and a sparger.
Additives may include yeast and preservatives such as sulphur dioxide. Other potential sensors
which may be provided include one or more of oxygen sensors, carbon dioxide sensors, pH
sensors, sugar sensors, turbidity sensors, conductivity sensors, level sensors and/or biosensors.
The various sensors may be wireless. In one embodiment the process the various sensors can be
                                                       -4-

monitored and data forwarded to a computer or phone application for processing.                    In one
embodiment, the additional fittings enable product to be removed from the barrel and additives
added to the barrel without oxygen contact.
[24]     The invention will now be better understood with reference to the drawings which should not
be construed as limiting on the invention. Turning to Figure 1, this Figure shows a wooden barrel
(1) suitable for performing the process of the present invention.       In this embodiment, the wooden
barrel (1) is a wine barrel. The barrel (1) includes an aperture (2) for sealing by the device of the
invention (not shown). An external frame or collar (3), suitably made of Perspex@, is fixed onto the
outside of the barrel (1) by means of nuts (4) rotated onto screws/bolts (5) provided through the
barrel staves forming the barrel (1).   A food grade rubber seal (6) surrounding the aperture (2) can
be seen inside the barrel (1) and is fixed to the barrel staves by means of the screws/bolts (5).
[25]     Figure 2 shows a cross-section of a device (10) in accordance with one embodiment of the
invention in place on the wooden wine barrel (1).      Further details regarding the frame/collar (3) can
be seen in this drawing. In this regard, the inside of the barrel (1) is provided with an additional
flexible frame/collar (8) (which can also be made of clear Perspex@) adjacent a barrel stave (9)
forming an internal wall of the barrel (1) and which is joined with the previously described rubber
seal (6) surrounding the aperture (2). The previously described screws/bolts (5) attach this internal
frame/collar (8) (and its associated rubber seal (6)) to the stave (9) on tightening of the nuts(4) onto
the screws/bolts (5).    The reason for inclusion of these internal and external frames/collars is to
provide an additional seal as most of the time the staves inside of the barrel are uneven and the
barrel is curved. In addition, the frames/collars protect the wooden staves from being damaged
during tightening of the device of the present invention onto the barrel. Turning to the device (10)
of the invention, it can be seen in the drawing that the cover (11) of the device (10) on the invention
is placed into the aperture (2) so that it covers the aperture (2) and provides a seal (the cover (11)
has dimensions closely approximating the aperture(2)).         The cover (11)     includes a handle (12)
enabling a user to tighten the device (10) onto the barrel (1).     Sealing engagement is achieved by
means of the pressure created between the rubber seal (6) provided inside the barrel (1) and a
food grade rubber seal (13) which is provided on the cover (11) of the device (10) of the invention.
The cover (11) when placed in the aperture (2) provides a door enabling various fittings (1 2 3, 4 5
6) to be attached to the cover (11) for direct communication with the contents of the barrel (1), such
as a self-release valve and a sparger referred to below.
[26]     Figure 3 is a photograph showing the device (10) of the invention in place on the wine barrel
(1).  The cover (11) is suitably made from a suitable metal and includes a handle (12) as shown. In
this regard, for tightening the cover (11) onto the barrel (1), the cover (11)        is provided with an
upstanding screw (part of which can be seen in the photograph) (13) onto which two purpose built
fasteners (14, 15) (a lower one (15) with side wings) can be rotated. During tightening, the wings of
                                                   -5-

the lower fastener (15) push onto the outside frame/collar (3).       Various fittings are fitted onto the
cover (11) including a pressure gauge (16) with self-release valve (17), another self-release valve
(18) and a sparger (19). Only partially seen in the photograph is a temperature gauge (20).
[27]    It will be appreciated that the invention can be implemented in different ways.           Figure 4
shows parts of alternate device of the invention.       In this regard, a cover (100) includes a bung
portion (101) which can be fitted into an aperture or bung hole in a wine barrel (not shown). The
cover (100) includes a connection (A) for a safety release valve (102).         The safety release valve
(102) includes a connection for a gas inlet (103) to clean the bung if blocked. The cover (100) also
includes a connection (B) for connection to a pressure or temperature sensor (not shown). Other
connections in the cover (C), (D) connects through the cover (100) to a sparger (104) and filter
(105) and appropriate gas supply or pump (not shown).             An internal frame member (106) is
connected to the cover by a cord (107) and retains the device in place during use by tightening the
cord (107). In use, a food-grade rubber seal (not shown) may be provided around the bung portion
(101).
[28]    Another alternate device of the invention is shown in Figure 5. In this embodiment the cover
includes a bulbous portion (200) which is screwed onto a hexagonal (or round) nut (201) and
includes a bung portion (202) provided with a food grade seal. The bulbous portion includes
various connection points (A, B, C, D and E) including a connection to a pressure release valve
(203), to gas supply or pump (not shown) and through the cover to a filter/sparger (204). In use, an
external frame in the form of bung having a food-grade seal and an internal hole is placed in the
bung hole of the barrel (not shown).      The external frame includes external ribs onto which the
device of the invention can be mounted.         Seated in the internal hole of the external frame is an
internal collar (not shown) including a downward portion (205) onto which an internal frame
member (206) is rotatably mounted which retains the device in place on the barrel during use.
[29]    The present invention provides a device to safely increase (for example creating a positive
pressure), maintain and decrease pressure (for example by creating a negative pressure or a
vacuum) inside a wooden barrel, such as wine barrel. The invention has the advantage that by
placing and/or maintaining the contents of the barrel under pressure, product losses by evaporation
are reduced, particularly during aging time and it is not necessary to top up the barrel. There is
also more extraction out of the barrel staves into the beverage during aging, especially when
pressure control is used in the presence of higher temperatures during maceration and
fermentation.    By use of the invention, it is possible to control evaporation and macro and micro
oxidation or reductive processes during fermentation and aging.            It is possible to control the
environment in each individual barrel and there is no requirement to store the barrel with
temperature or humidity control.
                                                    -6-

[30]      Other advantages of the invention include that by conducting the process anaerobically, for
example using carbon dioxide, nitrogen or argon under pressure, it is possible to reduce the
amount of preservatives added (by adding at a lower rate) or even conducting the process
preservative free resulting in high quality products.     In addition, labour, waste and equipment
requirements are minimised (no temperature or humidity control is required). In addition, lees can
be mixed inside the barrel and samples can also be removed from the barrel without oxygen
contact. The process is more sustainable than previous processes for example, by extending the
life of old barrels.
[31]      From the foregoing, it will be observed that numerous modifications and variations can be
effected without departing from the true spirit and scope of the novel concept of the present
invention.    It is to be understood that no limitation with respect to the specific embodiment
illustrated herein is intended or should be inferred.    The disclosure is intended to cover, by the
appended claims, all such modifications as fall within the scope of the claims.
[32]      Throughout this specification and the claims that follow, unless the context requires
otherwise the words "comprise", "comprises", "comprising" will be understood to mean the inclusion
of the stated integer, step or group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any of other integer,
step or group of integers or steps.
                                                   -7-

Claims
    1.  A device for sealing a wooden barrel containing a fermentable or fermented food or
        beverage comprising:
        a cover for sealing engagement with an aperture present in the barrel, wherein the cover
        is provided with at least one fitting for placing and/or maintaining the contents of the
        barrel under pressure.
    2.  The device according to claim 1 wherein the at least one fitting for placing and/or
        maintaining the contents of the barrel under pressure increases, maintains or decreases
        the pressure in the barrel.
    3.  The device according to claim 2, wherein a pressure increase is created by a positive
        pressure and the pressure decrease is created by a negative pressure or a vacuum
        inside the barrel.
    4.  The device according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the cover comprises at least
        one self-release valve
    5.  The device according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the cover comprises a
        sparger for introduction of at least one pressurised gas into the barrel and/or the cover
        comprises a vacuum outlet for connection to a vacuum pump.
    6.  The device according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the cover further comprises a
        sensor for determining temperature within the barrel.
    7.  The device according to any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the cover further comprises a
        pressure sensor for determining pressure inside the barrel.
    8.  The device according to any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein the cover further comprises
        an additions and sampling tap.
    9.  The device according to any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the cover further comprises a
        cooler inlet and a cooler outlet.
    10. A process of treating a fermentable or fermented food or beverage comprising:
        placing the fermentable or fermented beverage into a wooden barrel including an
        aperture;
        sealing the aperture with a device according to any one of claims 1 to 9; and
        placing and/or maintaining the contents of the barrel under pressure by means of the at
        least one fitting provided in the cover.
    11. The process according to claim 10, wherein placing and/or maintaining the contents of
        the barrel under pressure is by increasing, maintaining or decreasing the pressure in the
        barrel.
                                                -8-

12. The process according to claim 11, wherein the pressure is increased by creating a
    positive pressure and the pressure is decreased by creating a negative pressure or a
    vacuum inside the barrel.
13. The process according to any one of claims 10 to 12 comprising controlling the pressure
    within the barrel by releasing pressure using at least one self-release valve as required.
14. The process according to claim 13, wherein the self-release valve is set to release at a
    value of 0.1 to 1 bar.
15. The process according to any one of claims 10 to 14, wherein the barrel is a wine barrel.
16. The process according to any one of claims 10 to 15, wherein the beverage is wine,
    cider, beer or spirits.
17. The process according to any one of claims 10 to 16, wherein the process is conducted
    during one or more of maceration, fermentation, post-fermentation, aging, clarification,
    stabilisation and/or fining.
18. The process according to any one of claims 10 to 17, comprising introducing gas or a
    mixture of gases into the barrel.
19. The process according to claim 18, wherein the gas or mixture of gases is compressed
    air, oxygen, carbon dioxide, nitrogen and/or argon.
20. The process according to claim 18 or claim 19, wherein the gas or mixture of gases is
    added using a sparger.
21. The process according to any one of claims 10 to 20, wherein an aerobic and/or
    anaerobic environment is created in the vessel.
                                          -9-

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
1/5

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
2/5

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
3/5

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
4/5

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
5/5

