1002202646
                                          ABSTRACT
         Touch sensor panel configurations for reducing wobble error for a stylus translating
on a surface over and between electrodes of the touch sensor panel are disclosed. In some
examples, electrodes with more linear signal profiles are correlated with lower wobble error.
In some examples, diffusing elements formed of floating segments of conductive materials
can diffuse signal from a stylus to a plurality of electrodes, thus, making the signal profiles
associated with the electrodes more linear. In addition, diffusing elements can be configured
to improve the optical uniformity of the touch sensor panel. In some examples, the diffusing
elements can be formed on the same layer as floating dummy pixels and resemble a plurality
of merged floating dummy pixels.

1002202646
             MERGED FLOATING PIXELS IN A TOUCH SCREEN
                           Cross-Reference to Related Application
[0001]      This application relates to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62/152,787,
filed April 24, 2015, the contents of which are incorporated by reference herein in its entirety
for all purposes.
[0001A]      This application is also a divisional application of Australian Patent Application
No. <removed-apn>, filed on 12 April 2016, which is also incorporated by reference herein in its
entirety.
                                    Field of the Disclosure
[0002]      This relates generally to touch sensing, and more particularly, to improving
position calculation for objects touching a touch sensor panel.
                                Background of the Disclosure
[0003]      Touch sensitive devices have become popular as input devices to computing
systems due to their ease and versatility of operation as well as their declining price. A touch
sensitive device can include a touch sensor panel, or in some examples, a touch screen, which
can be a clear panel with a touch sensitive surface, and a display device, such as a liquid
crystal display (LCD), that can be positioned partially or fully behind the panel or integrated
with the panel so that the touch sensitive surface can cover at least a portion of the viewable
area of the display device. The touch sensitive device can allow a user to perform various
functions by touching the touch screen using a finger, stylus, or other object at a location
often dictated by a user interface (UI) being displayed by the display device. In general, the
touch sensitive device can recognize a touch event and the position of the touch event on the
touch screen, and the computing system can then interpret the touch event in accordance with
the display appearing at the time of the touch event, and thereafter can perform one or more
actions based on the touch event.
[0004]      As touch sensing technology continues to improve, touch sensitive devices are
increasingly being used to compose and mark-up electronic documents. In particular, styli
                                                  1

1002202646
have become popular input devices as they emulate the feel of traditional writing instruments.
The effectiveness of a stylus, however, can depend on the ability to accurately calculate the
position of the stylus on a touch sensor panel.
[0004a]          Reference to any prior art in the specification is not, and should not be taken
as, an acknowledgment or any form of suggestion that this prior art forms part of the common
general knowledge in any jurisdiction or that this prior art could reasonably be expected to be
understood, regarded as relevant and/or combined with other pieces of prior art by a person
skilled in the art.
                                  Summary of the Disclosure
[0004b]          As used herein, except where the context requires otherwise, the term
"comprise" and variations of the term, such as "comprising", "comprises" and "comprised",
are not intended to exclude further additives, components, integers or steps.
[0005]       A stylus can be used as an input device for some capacitive touch panels. In some
examples, the touch sensor panel can have errors in position detection, referred to herein as
wobble error, when a stylus is positioned between two of a plurality of sense electrodes. In
some cases, wobble error can correlate to the signal profile between the stylus and electrodes
within the touch sensor panel. Specifically, signal profiles which are narrower (i.e., less
linear) can correlate to higher wobble error, while signal profiles which are widened within a
range (i.e., to be more linear) can correlate to lower wobble error. Accordingly, in some
examples, electrodes can be configured such that the signal profile associated with each
electrode is spread to be wider, and thus, more linear. In some examples, floating segments
of conductive material can form diffusing elements configured to diffuse signals from a
stylus to two or more electrodes, thus spreading the signal profile. In addition to improving
signal profiles, some diffusing elements can improve the optical uniformity of the touch
sensor panel by bridging visible areas between electrodes where no conductive material is
formed. In some examples, diffusing electrodes can be formed on the same layer as dummy
pixels and resemble a plurality of merged dummy pixels.
                                Brief Description of the Drawings
                                                  2

1002202646
[0006]      Fig. 1 illustrates an exemplary computing system capable of reducing wobble
error and improving optical uniformity of a touch sensor panel according to examples of the
disclosure.
[0007]      Figs. 2A and 2B illustrate exemplary mutual capacitance touch sensor panels that
can be used to detect touch or hover (proximity) events according to examples of the
disclosure.
[0008]      Figs. 3A-3B illustrate examples of the disparity between actual position and
calculated position as a stylus moves along one axis of a touch sensor panel according to
examples of the disclosure.
[0009]      Figs. 4A and 4B illustrate exemplary signal profiles for a stylus proximate to a
touch sensor panel according to examples of the disclosure.
[0010]      Fig. 5 illustrates an exemplary touch sensor panel having a diffusing element
according to examples of the disclosure.
[0011]      Figs. 6A-6E illustrate a comparison of example signal distributions and signal
profiles associated with electrodes in exemplary touch sensor panels according to examples
of this disclosure.
[0012]      Figs. 7A-7D illustrate exemplary configurations of diffusing elements according
to examples of the disclosure.
[0013]      Figs. 8A-8D illustrate exemplary touch sensor panel configurations which include
one or more diffusing elements according to examples of the disclosure.
[0014]      Figs. 9A-9D illustrate an example touch sensor panel implementing diffusing
elements and dummy pixels to improve optical uniformity according to examples of the
disclosure.
[0015]      Figs. 10A-10C illustrate an improvement in reflectance in an exemplary touch
sensor panel, which includes a diffusing element to improve optical uniformity according to
examples of the disclosure.
[0016]      Figs. 11 A-1 ID illustrate example systems in which diffusing elements can be
implemented according to examples of the disclosure.
                                                3

1002202646
                                        Detailed Description
[0017]       In the following description of examples, reference is made to the accompanying
drawings which form a part hereof, and in which it is shown by way of illustration specific
examples that can be practiced. It is to be understood that other examples can be used and
structural changes can be made without departing from the scope of the disclosed examples.
[0018]       A stylus can be used as an input device for some capacitive touch panels. In some
examples, the touch sensor panel can have errors in position detection, referred to herein as
wobble error, when a stylus is positioned between two of a plurality of sense electrodes. In
some cases, wobble error can correlate to the signal profile between the stylus and electrodes
within the touch sensor panel. Specifically, signal profiles which are narrower (i.e., less
linear) can correlate to higher wobble error, while signal profiles which are widened within a
range (i.e., to be more linear) can correlate to lower wobble error. Accordingly, in some
examples, electrodes can be configured such that the signal profile associated with each
electrode is spread to be wider, and thus, more linear. In some examples, floating segments
of conductive material can form diffusing elements configured to diffuse signal from a stylus
to two or more electrodes, thus spreading the signal profile. In addition to improving signal
profiles, some diffusing elements can improve the optical uniformity of the touch sensor
panel by bridging visible areas between electrodes where no conductive material is formed.
In some examples, diffusing electrodes can be formed on the same layer as dummy pixels and
resemble a plurality of merged dummy pixels.
[0019]       Fig. 1 illustrates an exemplary computing system capable of reducing wobble
error and improving optical uniformity of a touch sensor panel according to examples of the
disclosure. Computing system 100 can include one or more panel processors 102, peripherals
104, and panel subsystem 106. Peripherals 104 can include, but are not limited to, random
access memory (RAM) or other types of memory or storage, watchdog timers and the like.
Panel subsystem 106 can include, but is not limited to, one or more sense channels 108,
channel scan logic (analog or digital) 110 and driver logic (analog or digital) 114. In mutual
capacitance touch sensor panel examples, the panel can be driven and sensed using separate
drive and sense lines, as shown in Fig. 1. However, in self capacitance touch sensor panel
examples, the sense electrodes can be driven and sensed using the same lines. Channel scan
logic 110 can access RAM 112, autonomously read data from sense channels 108 and
provide control for the sense channels. In addition, channel scan logic 110 can control driver
                                                  4

1002202646
logic 114 to generate stimulation signals 116 at various phases that can be simultaneously
applied to touch sensor panel 124. In some examples, panel subsystem 106, panel processor
102 and peripherals 104 can be integrated into a single application specific integrated circuit
(ASIC).
[0020]      In mutual capacitance sensing examples, touch sensor panel 124 can include a
capacitive sensing medium having a plurality of drive lines and a plurality of sense lines,
although other sensing media can also be used. The drive and sense lines can be formed from
a transparent conductive medium such as Indium Tin Oxide (ITO) or Antimony Tin Oxide
(ATO), although other transparent and non-transparent materials such as copper can also be
used. The drive and sense lines can be formed on a single side of a substantially transparent
substrate, on opposite sides of the substrate, or on two separate substrates separated by
dielectric material. Each intersection of drive and sense lines can represent a capacitive
sensing node and can be viewed as picture element (pixel) 126, which can be particularly
useful when touch sensor panel 124 is viewed as capturing an "image" of touch. (In other
words, after panel subsystem 106 has determined whether a touch event has been detected at
each touch sensor in the touch sensor panel, the pattern of touch sensors in the multi-touch
panel at which a touch event occurred can be viewed as an "image" of touch (e.g., a pattern
of fingers touching the panel).) The capacitance between the drive and sense lines and local
system ground can appear as a stray capacitance Cstray, and the capacitance at the
intersections of the drive and sense lines, i.e., the touch nodes, can appear as a mutual signal
capacitance Csig between the drive and sense lines when the given drive line is stimulated
with an alternating current (AC) signal. The presence of a finger or other object (such as a
stylus) near or on the touch sensor panel can be detected by measuring changes to a signal
charge present at the nodes being touched, which can be a function of Csig. Each sense line
of touch sensor panel 124 can be coupled to a sense channel 108 in panel subsystem 106.
Touch sensor panel 124 can cover a portion or substantially all of a surface of a device.
[0021]      In self capacitance sensing examples, touch sensor panel 124 can include a
capacitive sensing medium having a plurality of sense electrodes. The sense electrodes can
be formed from a transparent conductive medium such as ITO or ATO, although other
transparent and non-transparent materials such as copper can also be used. The sense
electrodes can be formed on a single side of a substantially transparent substrate, on opposite
sides of the substrate, or on two separate substrates separated by dielectric material. In some
                                                   5

1002202646
examples, the sense electrodes can be pixelated and viewed as picture element (pixel) 126,
which can be particularly useful when touch sensor panel 124 is viewed as capturing an
"image" of touch. In other examples, the sense electrodes can be configured as elongated
sense rows and/or sense columns. The capacitance between the sense electrodes and system
ground can represent the self capacitance of those electrodes. The presence of a finger or
other object (such as a stylus) near or on the touch sensor panel can be detected by measuring
changes to the self capacitance of nearby sense electrodes. Each sense electrode of touch
sensor panel 124 can be coupled to a sense channel 108 in panel subsystem 106. Touch
sensor panel 124 can cover a portion or substantially all of a surface of a device.
[0022]      In some examples, computing system 100 can also include a stylus as an input
device. In some examples, the stylus can actively capacitively couple with the drive and/or
sense lines of touch sensor panel 124 by, for example, transducing a signal from the stylus to
the drive and/or sense lines. In some examples, the stylus can act as a passive input device in
a mutual capacitance system, as described above. In some examples, the touch sensor panel
124 can include a conductive sensing media having a plurality of sense rows and a plurality
of sense columns, or a plurality of sense electrodes. In these examples, a stylus can
capacitively couple with the sense rows, sense columns, or sense electrodes.
[0023]      Computing system 100 can also include host processor 128 for receiving outputs
from panel processor 102 and performing actions based on the outputs that can include, but
are not limited to, moving one or more objects such as a cursor or pointer, scrolling or
panning, adjusting control settings, opening a file or document, viewing a menu, making a
selection, executing instructions, operating a peripheral device coupled to the host device,
answering a telephone call, placing a telephone call, terminating a telephone call, changing
the volume or audio settings, storing information related to telephone communications such
as addresses, frequently dialed numbers, received calls, missed calls, logging onto a computer
or a computer network, permitting authorized individuals access to restricted areas of the
computer or computer network, loading a user profile associated with a user's preferred
arrangement of the computer desktop, permitting access to web content, launching a
particular program, encrypting or decoding a message, and/or the like. Host processor 128
can also perform additional functions that may not be related to panel processing, and can be
coupled to program storage 132 and display device 130 such as an LCD display for providing
                                                 6

1002202646
a UI to a user of the device. Display device 130 together with touch sensor panel 124, when
located partially or entirely under the touch sensor panel, can form an integrated touch screen.
[0024]       Note that one or more of the functions described above can be performed by
firmware stored in memory (e.g., one of the peripherals 104 in Fig. 1) and executed by panel
processor 102, or stored in program storage 132 and executed by host processor 128. The
firmware can also be stored and/or transported within any non-transitory computer-readable
storage medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system, apparatus,
or device, such as a computer-based system, processor-containing system, or other system
that can fetch the instructions from the instruction execution system, apparatus, or device and
execute the instructions. In the context of this document, a "non-transitory computer
readable storage medium" can be any medium (excluding a signal) that can contain or store
the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system, apparatus, or
device. The non-transitory computer readable medium storage can include, but is not limited
to, an electronic, magnetic, optical, electromagnetic, infrared, or semiconductor system,
apparatus or device, a portable computer diskette (magnetic), a random access memory
(RAM) (magnetic), a read-only memory (ROM) (magnetic), an erasable programmable read
only memory (EPROM) (magnetic), a portable optical disc such a CD, CD-R, CD-RW,
DVD, DVD-R, or DVD-RW, or flash memory such as compact flash cards, secured digital
cards, USB memory devices, memory sticks, and the like.
[0025]       The firmware can also be propagated within any transport medium for use by or in
connection with an instruction execution system, apparatus, or device, such as a computer
based system, processor-containing system, or other system that can fetch the instructions
from the instruction execution system, apparatus, or device and execute the instructions. In
the context of this document, a "transport medium" can be any medium that can
communicate, propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the
instruction execution system, apparatus, or device. The transport readable medium can
include, but is not limited to, an electronic, magnetic, optical, electromagnetic or infrared
wired or wireless propagation medium.
[0026]       Fig. 2A symbolically illustrates an exemplary mutual capacitance touch sensor
panel that can be used to detect touch or hover (proximity) events according to examples of
the disclosure. In some mutual capacitance examples, touch sensor panel 200 can include an
array of touch nodes 206 formed at the crossing points of row electrodes (e.g., drive lines)
                                                 7

1002202646
201a and column electrodes (e.g., sense lines) 202a, although as discussed above, it should be
understood that other drive and sense configurations can be used. A stylus can include an
electrode configured to alter the capacitive coupling between a crossing row electrode and
column electrode. Each of the column electrodes 202 can output its capacitance readings to
one or more touch sensing circuits, which can be used to detect a touch or hover event.
[0027]      The distance between each adjacent touch node in the same row can be a fixed
distance, which can be referred to as the pitch P1 for column electrodes. The distance
between each adjacent touch node in the same column can be a fixed distance, which can be
referred to as the pitch P2 for row electrodes. In some examples, the pitch for row electrodes
and column electrodes can be the same, but in other examples, P1 and P2 can be different.
[0028]      During a mutual capacitance scan, one or more drive rows 201a can be stimulated
to drive the touch sensor panel 200. Touch nodes 206 can have a mutual capacitance Cm at
the touch nodes 206 when there is no object touching or hovering over touch nodes 206.
When an object touches or hovers over the touch node 206 (e.g. a stylus), the mutual
capacitance Cm can be reduced by ACm, i.e., (Cm - ACm), corresponding to the amount of
charge shunted through the object to ground. This mutual capacitance change can used to
detect a touch or hover event and its location.
[0029]      Fig. 2B symbolically illustrates an exemplary mutual capacitance touch sensor
panel operable with an active stylus according to examples of the disclosure. In some mutual
capacitance examples, an active stylus can generate stimulation signals (effectively operating
as a drive electrode), and column electrodes 202b and row electrodes 201b can effectively
operate as sense electrodes. During a stylus scan, one or more stimulation signals can be
injected by stylus 208 into the touch sensor panel and can cause mutual capacitive coupling
Cmr between the stylus 208 and the row traces 20 lb and capacitive coupling Cmc between
the stylus 208 and the column traces 202b. The capacitance Cmr and Cmc can be transmitted
to one or more touch sensing circuits for processing. In some examples, row traces 201b and
column traces 202b can correspond to row electrodes 201a and sense columns 202a,
however, during the stylus scan, stimulation signals are not applied to row electrodes 201
apart from signals generated by the active stylus. Additionally, in some examples, the touch
sensor panel can include a stylus scan, a row scan, and a column scan, which can each
operate as set forth above.
                                                8

 1102M
100301      In some selfcapacitance examples, touch sensor panel 200 can include a plurality
of sense electrodes (touch nodes). In some examples, the sense electrodes can be configured
as elongated sense rows 201 and/cr sense columns 202. In other examples each sense
electrode can be electrically isolated from the other sense electrodes and configured to
represent a particular X-Y location (eg. touch node 206) on the paneL A stylus can include
an electrode configured to capacitively couple to a sense electrode. Each ofthe sense
electrodes can output its capacitance readings to one or more touch sensing circuits, which
can be used to detect a touch or hover event.
100311      In some cases, an object, such as a stylus, may touch or hover at a position not
directly over a touch node 206, but in between two touch nodes 206. For example, a stylus
may touch or hover at a position between two ow electrodes 201, between two column
electrodes 202, or both. In these examples, the signal sensed at a plurality of touch nodes 206
may be used to estimate the location of the touch or hover event. In some examples, a
centroid estimation algorithm can calculate the location of the touch or hover event using the
signal sensed at the plurality of touch nodes 206. For example, the position of a stylus on a
touch sensor panel along an x-axis can be calculated by computing a weighted centroid
defined in equation (1):
        where x... can be the calculated position along the x-axis, Si can be the signal
measured at the id electrode, such as a sense electrode, along the x-axis, and x, can be the
position of the i electovde along the x-axis. It is to be understood that the centroid
estimation algorithm defined in equation (1) is given only as an example, and the
configurations described herein need not be limited to such examples. Instead, the
calculation of a touch or hover location of an object can be accomplished using any
appropriate method.
100321      Ideally, as an object such as a stylus traverses between two touch nodes, the
calculated position of the stylus on the touch screen and the actual position of the stylus
should be the same. In reality, the calculated position may be different from the actual
position due to limitations in the circuit configuration and the position estimation algorithms
                                                 9

1002202646
used. Errors resulting from the disparity between calculated position and actual position as
an object moves along a touch sensor panel can be referred to as wobble error.
[0033]       It can be useful to consider wobble error in the context of a stylus moving along a
single axis of a touch sensor panel without diffusing elements. This concept is illustrated by
example in Figs. 3A and 3B. Figs. 3A and 3B illustrate examples of the disparity between
actual position and calculated position as an object, such as a stylus, moves along an x-axis of
a customary touch sensor panel (e.g., a touch panel without diffusing elements) according to
examples of the disclosure. Fig. 3A illustrates a plot of the calculated position of the stylus
versus the actual position of the stylus when calculating position by using a weighted centroid
algorithm including a subset of the electrodes (e.g., five electrodes) along an x-axis. In an
ideal case, where calculated position and actual position are the same, the plot can be a
straight line at a 45 degree angle. However, because of non-idealities in the coupling
between the stylus and the touch sensor panel and the algorithm used to calculate stylus
position, there can be non-ideal results that can appear as a wobble in the plot of Fig. 3A as
the stylus moves between electrodes along the x-axis. In other words, the signal coupling
between the stylus and touch sensor panel and the calculated position metric can introduce an
error in calculated position (discrepancy with actual position) that can cause a wobble to be
displayed when plotting the actual versus calculated position.
[0034]       Fig. 3B illustrates a plot of the error in position calculation versus the actual
position when calculating position by taking a weighted centroid including a subset of the
electrodes (e.g., five electrodes) along an x-axis. The oscillation of the error plot can be
representative of the wobble due to remaining error in the position calculation in a customary
touch panel (e.g., a touch panel without diffusing elements).
[0035]       It should be noted that the scope of this disclosure can extend beyond the context
of an active stylus coupling to sense electrodes, however, the examples of this disclosure
focus on a stylus-sense electrode configuration for ease of description. Figs. 3A and 3B
relate to calculating position using a subset of the electrodes, however, it should be
understood that the position could be calculated using any number of electrodes, including all
of the electrodes in a touch sensor panel. Moreover, although Figs. 3A and 3B are described
with reference to the x-axis, in some examples, similar effects can be observed when moving
the stylus across the touch sensor panel along the y-axis.
                                                   10

1002202646
[0036]      It can be useful for the purposes of this disclosure to discuss the concept of signal
profiles. This concept is explained by example with reference to Figs. 4A and 4B. Figs. 4A
and 4B relate to exemplary signal profiles in an x-axis corresponding to example electrodes
421 and 422 in a configuration not having a diffusing element. As shown in Fig. 4A, an
object, such as a stylus 408, can be at a distance D1 above an electrode 411 and moved in an
x-direction across electrodes 421 and 422. At each point along the x-axis, a signal coupling
Cs exists between the stylus and the electrode, which varies as the stylus moves from the
midpoint M of each electrode. Fig. 4B illustrates example signal profiles 431 and 432
correlating to the signals Csi and Cs 2 measured on electrodes 421 and 422, respectively. The
x-axis of the plot in Fig. 4B can correlate to the position of the stylus in the x-direction, and
the y-axis of the plot can correlate to a normalized signal measurement at each x-position
along the x-axis. For clarity, the positions of electrodes 421 and 422, including respective
midpoints M1 and M2 along the x-axis are shown below the x-axis in Fig 4B. As shown in
Figs. 4A and 4B, the signal profiles 431 and 432 can have a maximum at the midpoints M1
and M2 of the electrodes, and the signal profile can decrease as stylus 408 traverses along the
x-axis away from the midpoints.
[0037]      In some examples, the signal profile between a stylus and an electrode in a touch
sensor panel without diffusing elements can be very non-linear. In some cases, this non
linearity can correlate with higher wobble error in the touch sensor panel. More specifically,
position estimation algorithms (e.g., equation (1) above) can produce more errors in position
estimation at regions between electrode midpoints (e.g., between M1 and M2) if the signal
profile associated with each electrode drops sharply as a stylus moves away from these
midpoints.
[0038]      Because non-linearity in signal profiles can correlate with higher wobble error, it
can be beneficial to spread the signal profiles as to be more linear. In some examples, the
signal profiles between a stylus and electrodes in a touch sensor panel can be spread by
adding segments of floating (i.e., electrically disconnected from voltage or ground)
conductive material over the electrodes. In these examples, signal from a stylus can be
diffused through the floating conductors and diffused to one or more of the electrodes. These
floating conductors, hereinafter referred to as "diffusing elements," can be implemented in a
multitude of configurations. The operation and exemplary configurations of diffusing
elements will now be described.
                                                 11

1002202646
[0039]       Fig. 5 illustrates a simplified side view of an exemplary touch sensor panel 500
including a diffusing element 510. As shown in Fig. 5, diffusing element 510 can be formed
on a first side of a substrate 506 of a conductive material, and a plurality of electrically
isolated electrodes 520 can be formed on a second side of substrate 506. The touch sensor
panel shown in Fig. 5 can be a double-sided ITO (DITO) substrate 506 with ITO patterned on
both sides; however, other examples may use a different touch sensor panel stackup
configuration. Substrate 506 can be made of any transparent substrate material, such as
plastic, glass, quartz, or a rigid or flexible composite. As shown, electrodes 520 can be
electrically separated by a gap 507 in conductive material M2. In some examples, the touch
sensor panel can further include a cover 504 (e.g., a glass cover in a touch screen
configuration), which can be formed from glass, acrylic, sapphire, and the like. One or more
diffusing elements can be formed such that a single diffusing element (e.g., diffusing element
510) can cover at least a portion of two separate electrodes (e.g., electrodes 521 and 522),
including the gap 507 between the electrodes. For simplicity, other elements have been
omitted in Fig. 5 that may be present in the touch sensor panel 500, for example, adhesive
layers and elements for conductive routing. Fig. 5 is presented only as one example of a
touch sensor panel with diffusing elements. Different touch sensor panel configurations with
diffusing elements will be discussed in detail later in this disclosure; however, it should be
noted here that the scope of the disclosure is not limited to the configuration illustrated in Fig.
5.
[0040]       The operation of an example diffusing element will now be described with
reference to Figs. 6A-6E. Figs. 6A-6D compare the distribution of signals from a stylus to
electrodes 620 in two example touch sensor panel configurations according to examples of
this disclosure. Figs. 6A-6B correspond to a touch sensor panel without diffusing elements,
and Figs. 6C-6D correspond to a touch sensor panel with diffusing elements. Fig. 6E
compares the signal distributions of Figs. 6B and 6D in the context of signal profiles between
the stylus and electrodes 620, as will be explained in more detail below. As will become
apparent, diffusing elements 610 can diffuse signal S from a stylus 608, thus spreading the
signal profile associated with electrodes 620.
[0041]       Fig. 6A illustrates an exemplary touch sensor panel without a diffusing element.
As shown, a stylus 608 can be separated from electrodes 620 by a substrate 606. In some
examples, substrate 606 can be formed of a dielectric material. In some examples, the stylus
                                                   12

1002202646
can be further separated from electrodes 620 by a cover 604 (e.g., a glass cover in a touch
screen configuration). The stylus 608 can be positioned at a point 609 over a central
electrode 621 (i.e., the electrode most proximate to the stylus) and a distance D3 from the
midpoint M2 of adjacent electrode 622, as shown. Stylus 608 can be capacitively coupled to
one or more electrodes 620, thus distributing a capacitive signal S to one or more electrodes.
Signal couplings Si and S2 are conceptually represented in both Figs. 6A and 6C as field lines
extending from the stylus, where the number of field lines coupled to an electrode
corresponds to the strength of the signal S received at that electrode. It should be noted that,
although the field lines shown in Fig. 6A extend in a direction away from the stylus, in some
examples, field lines may extend from the stylus, to the stylus, or both. In some examples,
the signal Si coupled to the central electrode 621 (the electrode most proximate to stylus 608)
is much stronger than the signal S 2 coupled to adjacent electrodes.
[0042]      Fig. 6B illustrates an example signal distribution 630 for the touch sensor panel
600 in the configuration shown in Fig. 6A (e.g., a touch sensor panel having a diffusing
element 610). Electrodes 620 in Fig. 6B can correspond to electrodes 620 in Fig. 6A. Each
portion of signal S shown in Fig. 6B can corresponds to the amplitude of the signal S detected
at each electrode 620. As shown, the signal Si detected at central electrode 621 has the
highest amplitude, and the amplitude S2 drops sharply at adjacent electrode 622.
[0043]      Fig. 6C illustrates an exemplary touch sensor panel 600 having a diffusing
element 610. The attributes and position of electrodes 620 can be analogous to electrodes
620 described with reference to Fig. 6A. As shown, a diffusing element 610 can be formed
from a floating segment of conductive material such that stylus 608 can be separated from
electrodes 620 by the cover 604, diffusing element 610, and substrate 606. Like Fig. 6A,
stylus 608 can be positioned at a point 609 over a central electrode 621 at a distance D3 from
the midpoint M2 of adjacent electrode 622. However, unlike Fig. 6A, stylus 608 can also be
capacitively coupled to diffusing element 610, which in turn is capacitively coupled to
electrodes 621 and 622. In these configurations, electrodes can receive signal from stylus
608 through direct capacitive coupling with stylus 608 and/or through intermediate capacitive
coupling with diffusing element 610.
[0044]      Fig. 6D illustrates an example signal distribution 631 for the touch sensor panel
600 in the configuration shown in Fig. 6C (e.g., a touch sensor panel having a diffusing
element 610). Electrodes 620 in Fig. 6D can correspond to electrodes 620 in Fig. 6C. Each
                                                13

1002202646
portion of signal S shown in Fig. 6D corresponds to the amplitude of the signal S detected at
each electrode 620. Like in Fig. 6B, the signal Si detected at central electrode 621 still has
the highest amplitude. However, in contrast to Fig. 6B, when the signal is diffused through
diffusing element 610, the amplitude drops less sharply for adjacent electrode 622. In other
words, the signal distribution to each electrode is more linearly proportional to the distance
each electrode is from the stylus 608.
[0045]      It can be useful to consider the signal distributions 630 and 631 in the context of
the signal profiles between a stylus and electrodes within each configuration. Fig. 6E
compares an example signal profile 650 of an electrode in a non-signal-diffusing
configuration to an example signal profile 651 of an electrode in a signal-diffusing
configuration. For example, signal profiles 651 and 652 can correspond to the signal profiles
associated with electrode 622 in the configurations of Figs. 6A and 6C, respectively.
Moreover, signal profiles 650 and 651 can correspond to signal distributions 630 and 631.
For example, in Fig. 6E, point 662 on signal profile 651 at a distance D3 can correspond to
the amplitude S 2 shown in Fig. 6B when the stylus is a distance D3 from midpoint M2. As
shown in Fig. 6E, electrodes bridged by a diffusing element 610 can have a wider, and thus
more linear, signal profile. As discussed above, a more linear signal profile, within certain
ranges, can correlate to a lower wobble error of the touch sensor panel. It should be
understood that the scope of the disclosure is not limited to the mutual capacitance
configurations shown in Figs. 5, 6A, and 6C, but can include any configuration in which the
signal profile is spread, including self capacitance configurations and mutual capacitance
configurations wherein the stylus acts as a passive input device.
[0046]      As discussed above, it can be beneficial in reducing wobble error to diffuse
capacitive signal using one or more diffusing elements. Various configurations implementing
one or more diffusing elements will now be described in detail with reference to Figs. 7-9
according to examples of this disclosure.
[0047]      Figs. 7A-7D illustrate exemplary configurations of diffusing elements according
to examples of this disclosure. In some examples, diffusing elements can be configured to
cover specific touch nodes 706. In some examples, touch nodes 706 can be analogous to the
touch nodes discussed with reference to Figs. 2A-2B above, wherein each node 706
represents an intersection of a drive line 701 and a sense line 702. In other examples, touch
nodes 706 may correspond to self-capacitance touch nodes. Accordingly, although this
                                                 14

1002202646
disclosure discusses diffusing elements in terms of diffusing signal to touch nodes, it is
understood that each touch node may represent different combinations of one or more
electrodes.
[0048]      Fig. 7A shows a configuration 700a, wherein diffusing elements 710 can be
configured to diffuse signal capacitance in a single dimension. For example, the diffusing
elements 710 in configuration 700a may diffuse a signal across two drive electrodes (e.g.,
two drive lines 701), while not diffusing the signal across sense electrodes (e.g., two sense
lines 702). Fig. 7B shows a configuration 700b, wherein diffusing elements 710 can be
configured to diffuse signal capacitance in two dimensions. In some examples, it can be
beneficial to restrict the diffusion of signal to a selected group of touch nodes 706. In the
example of Fig. 7B, each diffusing element 710 is configured to cover four touch nodes
arranged in a square, though other shapes are contemplated within the scope of this
disclosure. In some examples, different diffusing elements can cover different numbers of
touch nodes. Fig. 7C shows a configuration 700c, wherein a first group of diffusing elements
711 can be configured to each diffuse signal capacitance in a first dimension to three touch
nodes 706 A second group of diffusing elements 712 can be configured to each diffuse signal
capacitance in a first dimension to only two touch nodes 706. A third group of floating
conductive segments 713 can be configured as to only cover a single touch node. In some
examples, floating conductors covering only a single touch node (e.g., not diffusing signal
capacitance between electrodes) can be included as dummy pixels for optical purposes, as
will be discussed in detail with reference to Figs. 9-10 below. Moreover, as will be discussed
in more detail below, in some configurations a floating conductive segment can form a
diffusing element covering only a portion of a touch node, or in other words, the diffusing
element may cover only a portion of the electrodes forming the touch node. In some
examples, diffusing elements may be non-rectangular. Fig. 7D shows an example
configuration 700d, wherein diffusing elements 710 can be configured to diffuse signal
capacitance to touch nodes 706 in an X formation. In some examples, as shown in Fig. 7D,
the shape of diffusing elements 710 can be rounded. Figs. 7A-7D are presented only as
examples of possible signal-diffusing configurations. It should be understood that this
disclosure is not limited to any particular pattern or shape, but includes any shape that can be
formed from floating conductive material.
                                                  15

1002202646
[0049]       In some examples, attributes of a touch sensor panel including a diffusing element
can be selected such that a desired signal profile is achieved between the stylus and one or
more electrodes. Referring back to Fig. 5, a diffusing element 510 can have a width WI.
The diffusing element can separated from electrodes 520 by a distance D1. In some
examples, as in Fig. 5, distance D1 can include the thickness of a substrate 506.
Additionally, a stylus (not shown) above cover 504 can be separated from electrodes 520 by a
distance D2. In some cases, the diffusing element width WI and the distance between
diffusing element and electrodes D1 can influence the signal profile shape, however, it should
be noted that a variety of additional factors can also contribute to the signal profile shape; for
example, the shape and pitch of electrodes, the conductivity of the materials, and the power
of the signal itself.
[0050]       As discussed above, electrodes associated with signal profiles that are more linear
can correlate to less wobble error in a touch sensor panel. However, in some examples,
increasing the linearity of signal profiles can simultaneously reduce the maximum signal
capacitance detected at each electrode, thus, decreasing the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of the
touch sensor panel. Therefore, in some examples, the width WI of a diffusing element and/or
the distance D1 between electrodes and diffusing element can be selected as to strike an
acceptable balance between the linearity of the signal profiles and the maximum signal
capacitance detected by the electrodes, where some designs may value one attribute over the
other. In some examples, the optimal diffusion element width can be expressed as a function
of the ratio between electrode pitch P and diffusion element width W, that is, W:P. For
example, in the configuration shown in Fig. 5, the optimal ratio Wi:P1 can be between 1:5
and 1:3. However, it should be understood that the optimal ratio may vary greatly depending
on design goals and attributes of the touch sensor panel. For example, in configurations
where a diffusing element is formed directly above an electrode layer (i.e., not separated from
the electrodes by a substrate), the distance D1 between the diffusing element and the
electrodes can be much smaller, and the ratio may be different to reflect this. Moreover, the
selection of diffusing element attributes can be further influenced by other factors, such as
efforts to maintain optical uniformity of the touch sensor panel, and the interaction of the
diffusing elements with other circuit elements in the touch sensor panel. For example, in
cases where diffusing elements are formed on the same layer as electrodes, the physical and
electrical properties of electrodes can constrain the design of diffusion elements formed in the
same layer. It should be noted that although diffusing element 510 is shown as being
                                                 16

1002202646
positioned symmetrically over electrodes 521 and 522 in Fig. 5, other configurations are
contemplated in which diffusing elements are positioned asymmetrically, for example, to
spread a signal profile in one direction or to compensate for irregularities in the touch sensor
panel.
[0051]       Diffusing elements can be implemented touch sensor screens in a variety of
configurations. Figs. 8A-8D illustrate examples of touch sensor panels 800 having at least
one diffusing element according to examples of this disclosure. Each of the configurations in
Figs. 8A-8D includes at least a cover 804 (e.g., a touch screen cover glass), a diffusing
element 810, a substrate 806, and a first electrode layer 820. For clarity, only one diffusing
element is shown in each configuration of Figs. 8A-8D, however, in some examples, a
plurality of diffusing elements 820 can be patterned adjacent to one another. Further, in some
cases, floating conductive segments can be patterned as dummy pixels, as explained in more
detail below with reference to Figs. 9A-9D. Fig. 8A shows a touch sensor panel, including a
diffusing element 810. In this configuration, diffusing element 810 can be formed in a layer
over electrodes 820. In some examples, this configuration can correspond to a self
capacitance system or a mutual-capacitance system wherein both drive and sense electrodes
can be formed on a single layer. Fig. 8B shows a touch sensor panel including a diffusing
element 810. In this configuration, diffusing element 810 can be formed on a substrate 806.
Diffusing element 810 can be formed in a same layer as a second set of electrodes 821. In
some examples, a first set of electrodes 820 can be formed on the opposite side of a double
sided ITO (DITO) substrate 806. This configuration can correspond, in some cases, to a
mutual capacitance system where sense electrodes can be formed in the same first layer as
diffusing element 810, drive electrodes can be formed in a second layer, and diffusing
element 810 can diffuse capacitance to drive electrodes in the second layer. Fig. 8C shows a
touch sensor panel, including a diffusing element 810. In this configuration, the diffusing
element 810 can be formed on a layer (shown in dashed lines), which includes a second set of
electrodes 821 (not visible), but diffusing element 810 is not formed directly over the second
set of electrodes. The first set of electrodes 820 can be formed on a separate layer. In some
examples, this configuration can correspond to a mutual capacitance system where the
diffusing element can be formed above areas between the sense electrodes, drive electrodes
820 can be formed in a second layer, and the diffusing element 810 is configured to diffuse
signal capacitance to drive electrodes 821. Fig. 8D illustrates a touch sensor panel including
a diffusing element 810. This configuration can be similar to that shown in Figs. 8A-8C,
                                                 17

1002202646
however, in this configuration the diffusing element 810 can be deposited onto the underside
of cover 804 (e.g., a glass touch screen cover). It should be noted that the scope of this
disclosure is not limited to the configurations shown here, but includes any touch sensor
panel wherein diffusing elements 810 can be used to diffuse signal capacitance between
electrodes according to examples of the disclosure. Moreover, for simplicity, other elements
have been omitted in Figs. 8A-8C that may be present in the touch sensor panel, including for
example, additional conductive and dielectric layers.
[0052]       Some examples of this disclosure relate to further using floating conductive
segments to reduce the visibility of conductive material (e.g., ITO) patterns in a touch sensor
panel. The details of these configurations will now be discussed below with reference to
Figs. 9-10.
[0053]       Figs. 9A-9B illustrate an exemplary touch sensor panel 900 not having diffusing
elements, but which can include floating conductive segments forming dummy pixels 910.
As shown in Fig. 9B, the touch sensor panel 900 can comprise electrodes 920 formed on a
first layer 901 by patterning a transparent or semi-transparent conductive material, such as an
ITO material. On a second layer 902, a transparent or semi-transparent substrate 906 can be
formed, for example, from plastic, glass, quartz, or a rigid or flexible composite. On a third
layer 903, a group of second electrodes 923 (not visible in Fig. 9B) can be formed by
patterning another semi-transparent conductive material such as an ITO material. Third layer
903 can also include a plurality of floating conductive segments forming dummy pixels 910.
In the configuration shown in Fig. 9A, electrode 923 can include branches 924. For ease of
correlation between Fig. 9A and Fig. 9B, a stylus 908 is shown at a position 909 along with a
directional arrow. For purposes of discussion, areas of the touch sensor panel 951, 952, and
953 are shown in dashed boxes in Figs. 9B and 9D. In this configuration, the floating
conductive segments configured solely for optical purposes are referred to as dummy pixels
as to distinguish them from floating conductive segments forming diffusing elements.
However, as will be explained below, floating conductive segments forming diffusing
elements can also be configured for optical purposes.
[0054]       In some examples, electrodes in a touch sensor panel can be formed by depositing
an ITO material over a substrate surface, and then etching away portions of the ITO layer in
order to form electrode segments. As should be appreciated, within each layer, areas with
ITO tend to have lower transparency than the areas without ITO. For example, in the
                                                18

1002202646
configuration shown in Fig. 9B, the areas of first layer 901 where electrodes 921 and 922 are
formed can have lower transparency than, for example, the area of gap 907 between the
electrodes. Likewise, it should be appreciated that, when layers 901, 902, and 903 are
stacked up, double-ITO areas with two layers of ITO (e.g., area 952) have less transparency
than single-ITO areas with one layer of ITO (e.g., area 953), which have still less
transparency than no-ITO areas with no ITO (e.g., area 951).
[0055]      Because of the disparity in transparency, it can be beneficial to pattern the ITO in
layers 901 and 903 as to reduce the visibility of the ITO patterns to the touch sensor panel
user. In some examples, dummy pixels 910 can be formed on the third layer 903 such that
single-ITO areas (e.g., area 953) can be formed in a grid pattern. For example, referring to
Fig. 9A, areas where electrode 923 is formed over electrode 921 can be double-ITO areas,
however, areas between the branches 924 of electrode 923 can be single-ITO areas (e.g., the
ITO layer forming electrode 921). In order to make the touch sensor panel 900 more
optically uniform, dummy pixels 910 having a width substantially the same as the branches
924 of electrode 923 can be formed in between the branches 924 of electrode 923. In some
examples not shown, slits orthogonal to the branches of electrode 923 can be formed in layer
901 at areas under branches 924 of electrode 923. The slits can be spaced such that the area
bordered by two slits and a branch 924 resembles a dummy pixel 910. This configuration can
be conceptualized as a uniform single-ITO grid formed among double-ITO areas, wherein
double-ITO areas correspond to areas where ITO is formed on both layer 901 and layer 903,
and single-ITO areas correspond to areas where ITO is formed on only one of layer 901 or
layer 903.
[0056]      Figs. 9C-9D illustrate an exemplary touch sensor panel 900 in a signal-diffusing
configuration, which can include floating conductive segments forming both dummy pixels
911, 912, and 913 and a diffusing elements 915. Referring back to Figs. 9A-9B, the single
ITO grid configuration can reduce the visibility of ITO patterns, however, portions of the
touch sensor panel can still have no-ITO areas (e.g., area 951 including gap 907). Because
no-ITO areas can be less transparent than the areas in the single-ITO grid, non-uniformities in
the ITO pattern can still be visible to a touch sensor panel user. Fig. 9C illustrates a touch
sensor panel configuration similar to the configuration discussed with reference to Figs. 9A
9B above. However, unlike the configuration of Figs. 9A-9B, the touch sensor panel shown
in Fig. 9C can include a floating conductive segment forming a diffusing element 915, which
                                                 19

1002202646
can have portions over both electrodes 921 and 922. In this example, diffusing element 915
can diffuse signal capacitance between electrodes 921 and 922, as set forth in preceding
examples.
[0057]      As discussed in detail above, using diffusing elements to diffuse signal
capacitance among electrodes can be beneficial to reduce wobble error in a touch sensor
panel. However, as shown in Figs. 9C-9D, diffusing elements can also be configured to
improve the optical uniformity of the touch sensor panel. By bridging gap 907 with diffusing
element 915, substantially all of the touch sensor panel can comprise either double-ITO areas
or single-ITO areas. Further, in some examples, diffusing element 915 can be configured
such that the single-ITO and double-ITO areas formed by diffusing element 915 can appear
consistent with a single-ITO grid configuration, as described with reference to Fig. 9A above.
In some configurations, diffusing element 915 can have a shape resembling multiple
"merged" dummy pixels. For example, diffusing element 915 shown in Fig. 9C has a width
substantially equal to one dummy pixel and a length substantially equal to the distance D4
between an edge of a first dummy pixel and an opposing edge of an adjacent dummy pixel.
Thus, diffusing element 915 can resemble the shape of two merged dummy pixels. It is to be
understood that in other examples, diffusing elements 915 can resemble the shape of any
plurality of merged dummy pixels. Moreover, as explained with reference to Figs. 7A-7D,
diffusing element 915 can diffuse signal capacitance in multiple dimensions, need not be
uniform, and need not be rectangular. In some examples, the dimensions of diffusing
element 915 can be selected in accordance with the information set forth above with regards
to Fig. 5. For example, referring back to the discussion relating of Fig. 5, in examples where
diffusing elements 915 are configured to resemble merged dummy pixels, the width WI of
diffusing elements 915 can be selected as to be the nearest values to an optimal ratio W1 :P 1,
while still maintaining properties of optical uniformity. The index of refraction of both ITO
layers 903 and 901 can be substantially the same as to reduce ITO pattern visibility. In some
examples, the ITO layer forming floating conductive segments (e.g., dummy pixels 911-913
and diffusing elements 915) can be of the same material as the ITO layer that forms
electrodes 920 in order to provide the best optical index matching to the ITO. In other
examples, index matching materials may be applied to the ITO layer forming floating
conductive segments to better match the optical index of the ITO layer forming electrodes.
                                                20

1002202646
[0058]       Although the configurations of Figs. 9A-9D have been described in terms of
floating conductive segments being formed on the same layer as electrodes, in other
examples, the floating conductive segments, including dummy pixels and diffusing elements,
can be formed on a layer different than the electrode layer, as discussed above with reference
to Figs. 9A-9D. In some configurations where floating conductive segments are formed on a
third layer of ITO (e.g., the configurations shown in Figs. 9C and 9D), some portions of the
touch sensor panel may have triple-ITO areas, double-ITO areas, single-ITO areas, and/or no
ITO areas. In these configurations, floating conductive segments can operate similar to the
configurations discussed in Figs. 9A-9D. For example, diffusing elements can be configured
to create areas of double-ITO as to match a double-ITO grid among a triple-ITO area.
[0059]       Figs. 10A-10C illustrate the improvement in light reflectance in an exemplary
touch sensor panel, which includes a diffusing element to improve optical uniformity
according to examples of this disclosure. Light reflectance is represented conceptually as
arrows having different line weights, the heaviest line weight corresponding to the strongest
light. Fig. 10A illustrates a touch sensor panel 1000a having a layer stackup 100 1a, including
a double-ITO area 1052 and a no-ITO area 1051. As light enters the layer stackup 1001a, a
percentage of light 1002 is reflected back from the stackup. As shown in Fig. 10A, light
reflected in the double-ITO area 1052 is less than that in the no-ITO area 1051. The light
reflected back from the stackup is collectively represented by a reflectance RI. In some
cases, this reflectance RI can evidence itself as visibility in the ITO pattern of the touch
sensor panel to a touch sensor panel user. Fig. 1OB illustrates a touch sensor panel 1000b
having a layer stackup 1001b including a double-ITO area 1054 and a single-ITO area 1053,
wherein the single-ITO area is formed by a diffusing element 1010. As shown in Fig. 10B,
when a touch sensor panel includes diffusing element 1010, less light can be reflected back
from the stackup 100 1b. Specifically, as in Fig. 10A, less light can be reflected off the
double-ITO area 1054, and less light can be reflected off the single-ITO area 1053. The light
reflected back from the stackup in this configuration is collectively represented by reflectance
R2. As indicated by Figs. 10A-10B, the reflectance R2 of a touch sensor panel including
diffusing element 1010 can be less than the reflectance RI of a touch sensor panel without the
diffusing element. Fig. 1OC illustrates a chart showing a quantitative comparison of
reflectances RI and R2. As shown, a touch sensor panel including one or more diffusing
elements can reduce reflectance by approximately 40% in areas where the diffusing element
bridges an area of no-ITO.
                                                21

1002202646
[0060]       Figs. 1 A- I1D illustrate example systems in which diffusing elements can be
implemented according to examples of the disclosure. Fig. 1 A illustrates an example
mobile telephone 1136 that includes a touch screen 1124 that can include diffusing elements
according to various examples. Fig. 1 B illustrates an example digital media player 1140
that includes a touch screen 1126 that can include diffusing elements according to various
examples. Fig.     IC illustrates an example    personal computer 1144 that includes a touch
screen 1128 that can include diffusing elements according to various examples. Fig. 1 ID
illustrates an example tablet computing device 1148 that includes a touch screen 1130 that
can include diffusing elements according to various examples. The touch screen and
computing system blocks that can implement diffusing elements for reducing stylus tip
wobble can be implemented in other devices including in wearable devices.
[0061]       Thus, the examples of the disclosure provide various configurations to diffuse
signal capacitance using diffusing elements, thereby making the signal profile for the sense
electrode more linear, thus reducing stylus tip wobble and increasing touch sensor panel
performance.
[0062]       According to a first aspect of the invention there is provided a touch sensor panel
comprising: a first layer of a first conductive material including a plurality of electrically
isolated electrodes, including a first electrode and a second electrode; a second layer of a
second conductive material including a first floating conductor, the first floating conductor
including: a first portion of the first floating conductor formed over a portion of the first
electrode; and a second portion of the first floating conductor formed over a portion of the
second electrode. Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the examples disclosed
above, in some examples, the first electrode is configured to be capacitively coupled to the
first floating conductor; and the second electrode is configured to be capacitively coupled to
the first floating conductor. Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the examples
disclosed above, in some examples, the first conductive material comprises a transparent or
semi-transparent conductive material; the second conductive material comprises a transparent
or semi-transparent conductive material; and an index of refraction of the second conductive
material is substantially the same as an index of refraction of the first conductive material.
Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the examples disclosed above, in some
examples, the second layer of second conductive material is disposed on a glass substrate of
the touch sensor panel. Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the examples
disclosed above, in some examples, the second conductive material is the same as the first
                                                   22

1002202646
conductive material. Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the examples disclosed
above, in some examples, the first floating conductor comprises a mesh pattern of the second
conductive material. Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the examples disclosed
above, in some examples, the second layer of second conductive material further includes a
second plurality of electrically isolated electrodes. Additionally or alternatively to one or
more of the examples disclosed above, in some examples, the second layer of the second
conductive material further includes a plurality of floating conductors, the plurality of
floating conductors including the first floating conductor; and the plurality of floating
conductors further includes a set of floating dummy pixels disposed on the second layer of
the second conductive material in one or more repeating patterns. Additionally or
alternatively to one or more of the examples disclosed above, in some examples, the second
layer of second conductive material further includes a second plurality of electrically isolated
electrodes; and each of the plurality of floating conductors has substantially a same width.
Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the examples disclosed above, in some
examples, the width of each of the plurality of floating conductors is substantially the same as
a width of each of a plurality of branches of the second plurality of electrically isolated
electrodes. Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the examples disclosed above, in
some examples, the first floating conductor has a length substantially equal to a combined
length of a number of floating dummy pixels and the spaces between the number of floating
dummy pixels. Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the examples disclosed above,
in some examples, the number of floating dummy pixels having the combined length is
greater than three. Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the examples disclosed
above, in some examples, the first electrode and the second electrode have a pitch; the first
floating conductor has a length; and a ratio between the pitch and the length of the first
floating conductor is greater than 3. Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the
examples disclosed above, in some examples, the ratio between the pitch and the length of
the first floating conductor is less than 5. Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the
examples disclosed above, in some examples, the touch sensor panel further comprises a third
electrode of the plurality of electrically isolated electrodes, wherein the first floating
conductor further includes a third portion of the first floating conductor formed over a portion
of the third electrode. Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the examples disclosed
above, in some examples, the second electrode is proximate to the first electrode in a first
direction; and the third electrode is proximate to the first electrode in a second direction
orthogonal to the first direction.
                                                  23

1002202646
[0063]       According to a second aspect of the invention there is provided a method for
detecting an object proximate to a touch sensor panel, comprising: capacitively coupling the
object to a first electrode and a second electrode through a first segment of conductive
material electrically isolated from the first electrode and the second electrode; detecting a
first portion of a signal indicative of a proximity of the object on the first electrode; and
detecting a second portion of the signal on the second electrode. Additionally or alternatively
to one or more of the examples disclosed above, in some examples, the method further
comprises disposing the first segment of conductive material between the object and the first
and second electrodes. Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the examples disclosed
above, in some examples, the method further comprises capacitively coupling the object to
the first and second electrodes through the first segment of conductive material by locating
the first segment of conductive material over at least a portion of both the first and second
electrodes. Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the examples disclosed above, in
some examples, the method further comprises capacitively coupling the object to a third
electrode; disposing the first and second electrodes between the third electrode and the first
segment of conductive material; and detecting a third portion of the signal on the third
electrode.   Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the examples disclosed above, in
some examples, the method further comprises disposing the first segment of conductive
material adjacent to the third electrode. Additionally or alternatively to one or more of the
examples disclosed above, in some examples, the method further comprises capacitively
coupling the object to a third electrode through the segment of conductive material; and
detecting a third portion of the signal on the third electrode. Additionally or alternatively to
one or more of the examples disclosed above, in some examples, the second electrode is
adjacent to the first electrode in a first direction and the third electrode is adjacent to the first
electrode in a second direction orthogonal to the first direction.
[0064]       Although the disclosure and examples have been fully described with reference to
the accompanying drawings, it is to be noted that various changes and modifications will
become apparent to those skilled in the art. Such changes and modifications are to be
understood as being included within the scope of the disclosure and examples as defined by
the appended claims.
                                                   24

1002202646
                                               CLAIMS
         What is claimed is:
              1. A touch sensor panel including:
         a substrate;
         a first layer of a first conductive material including a plurality of electrodes connected
to sensing circuitry, including a first electrode and a second electrode disposed on a first side
of the substrate; and
         a second layer of a second conductive material disposed on a second side of the
substrate including:
                  a third electrode including a plurality of electrically connected strips; and
                  a first floating conductor, the first floating conductor disposed between a first
         strip and a second strip of the plurality of electrically connected strips of the third
         electrode.
         2.       The touch sensor panel of claim 1 wherein a first portion of the first floating
conductor overlaps the first electrode and a second portion of the first floating conductor
overlaps the second electrode.
                                                    25

                                               <U+2736> <U+2736><U+2701>
<removed-date>
              <U+271C><U+2722><U+2722>
                                         P<U+2706><U+271E><U+2720>P<U+260E><U+2706><U+271E><U+2746><U+271F><U+2759>       <U+271C><U+2727><U+2722>            <U+2749><U+2720><U+2759>P<U+271F><U+2746><U+2768>
                                              <U+271C><U+2722><U+2723>                         <U+2749><U+2706><U+261B><U+2720><U+2704><U+2706>
                                                           <U+271C><U+2724><U+2726>
                               <U+271C><U+2722><U+2724>       P<U+2746><U+271D><U+2706><U+271F>                             <U+260E><U+2756><U+2759><U+275A>
<removed-apn>
                                       P<U+271E><U+2756><U+2704><U+2706><U+2759><U+2759><U+2756><U+271E>                         P<U+271E><U+2756><U+2704><U+2706><U+2759><U+2759><U+2756><U+271E>
                     <U+271C><U+2722><U+2725>                                   <U+271C><U+2727><U+2724>            P<U+271E><U+2756><U+2721><U+271E><U+2746><U+261E>
                                                                          <U+2759><U+275A><U+2756><U+271E><U+2746><U+2721><U+2706>
                                     <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2712><U+2715><U+2712><U+2716><U+270F><U+2717>
                               <U+271C><U+271C><U+2724>
                                           <U+271E><U+2746><U+261E>
                       <U+271C><U+2722><U+2726>               <U+271C><U+271C><U+2722>                       <U+271C><U+271C><U+2723>
                     <U+2746><U+271D><U+2746><U+271F><U+2756><U+2721>             <U+2704><U+260E><U+2746><U+271D><U+271D><U+2706><U+271F>                  <U+2749><U+271E><U+2720><U+261B><U+2706><U+271E>
                    <U+2704><U+260E><U+2746><U+271D><U+271D><U+2706><U+271F><U+2759>           <U+2759><U+2704><U+2746><U+271D> <U+271F><U+2756><U+2721><U+2720><U+2704>                <U+271F><U+2756><U+2721><U+2720><U+2704>
                                                                                       <U+271C><U+2724><U+2723>
                             <U+2704><U+2756><U+271D><U+275A><U+271E><U+2756><U+271F>
                             <U+2759><U+2720><U+2721><U+271D><U+2746><U+271F><U+2759>
                                                        <U+275A><U+2756><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2759><U+2706><U+271D><U+2759><U+2756><U+271E> P<U+2746><U+271D><U+2706><U+271F>
                                                                                <U+2704><U+2759><U+2720><U+2721>
                                                                          <U+271C><U+2724><U+2725>
                                               <U+274B><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A> <U+271B>

                                                 <U+2737>   <U+2736><U+2701>
<removed-date>
                                                                      <U+2724><U+2722><U+2722>
                             <U+2724><U+2722><U+2724><U+2704>
                                                                      <U+275A><U+2756><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>
                                                            <U+2724><U+2722><U+271C><U+2704>
                        <U+261B><U+2759><U+275A><U+2720><U+261E>                                         P<U+2746><U+271D><U+2706><U+271F>
                                        <U+2724><U+2722><U+2725>
                              <U+2704><U+261E>
<removed-apn>
                         P<U+2724>
                                       <U+2720><U+2721>
                         <U+2704><U+261E><U+2732><U+2749><U+2704><U+261E>          <U+275A><U+2756>
                                       <U+2759><U+260E><U+2706><U+2759><U+260E>
                                      <U+2748><U+271D><U+271E><U+2706><U+2706><U+260E><U+271F>
                                                <U+274B><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+2702>
                  <U+2724><U+2722><U+2726>           <U+2704><U+261E><U+2704>
              <U+2759><U+275A><U+2768><U+271F><U+2702><U+2759>                    <U+2724><U+2722><U+2724><U+261B>
                                                               <U+2724><U+2722><U+271C><U+261B>
                        <U+2704><U+261E><U+271E>
                                        <U+2724><U+2722><U+2725>
                        P<U+2724>                                            <U+275A><U+2756> <U+275A><U+2756><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>
                                                                      <U+2704><U+2720><U+271E><U+2704><U+2702><U+2720><U+275A><U+271E><U+2768>
                                       <U+2720><U+2721>
                                       <U+261E><U+270C> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270E><U+2711><U+2712><U+270E><U+270D><U+2711><U+261E><U+2712><U+2768>
                                              <U+274B><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2701>

                                                 <U+2736><U+2701>
<removed-date>
                                             <U+2738>
                              <U+270D><U+2746><U+2716><U+2713><U+270D><U+2711> <U+2771><U+2712>   <U+2746><U+270D><U+2711><U+2746><U+2713><U+2711><U+270D><U+2716><U+270F><U+270C>        <U+270C><U+270D><U+2712><U+270E><U+2716><U+270E><U+270D><U+270E>
                              <U+2773>
                      <U+261E>
                      <U+261B>
                      <U+261B>
                      <U+272D>
                      <U+2721>
                      <U+271E>
                      <U+2720>
<removed-apn>
                      <U+275A>
                      <U+2720>
                      <U+271F>
                      <U+271E>   <U+2773> <U+2701>
                      P
                      <U+271D>
                      <U+2706>
                      <U+275A>
                      <U+2702>
                      <U+2704>
                      <U+260E>
                      <U+2748>
                      <U+2704>
                      <U+2702>
                      <U+2748>
                              <U+2735>
                                  <U+2735>           <U+2773> <U+2701>              <U+2773>
                                      <U+270D><U+2746><U+2716><U+2713><U+270D><U+2711> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2712><U+270E><U+2716><U+270E><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2711><U+2717><U+2717><U+2712>
                                            <U+274B><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A>    <U+2713>   <U+2702>
                                  <U+2746><U+270D><U+2711><U+2746><U+2713><U+2711><U+270D><U+2716><U+270F><U+270C>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+2712><U+270E><U+2716><U+270E><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+270F><U+270F><U+270D><U+270F>
              <U+261E>
              <U+261B>
              <U+261B>
              <U+272D>
                  <U+274A>
              <U+271E>
              <U+275A>
              <U+2702>
              <U+2704>
              <U+260E>
              <U+2748>
              <U+2704>
              <U+2702>
              <U+2748>
                          <U+2735>
              <U+2721>
              <U+271E>
              <U+2720>
              <U+275A>
              <U+2720>
              <U+271F>
              <U+271E>
              P
              <U+2721>
              <U+2720>
                  <U+274A>
              <U+271E>
                  <U+274A>
                  <U+274A>
              <U+2706>
                              <U+2735>                <U+2773> <U+2701>                 <U+2773>
                                      <U+270D><U+2746><U+2716><U+2713><U+270D><U+2711> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2712><U+270E><U+2716><U+270E><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2711><U+2717><U+2717><U+2712>
                                            <U+274B><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A>    <U+2713>   <U+2701>

                                                        <U+2736><U+2701>
<removed-date>
                                               <U+2723><U+2722><U+2726>
<removed-apn>          <U+2759>
                    <U+2749>
                                   <U+2704><U+2759>      <U+2759>                     <U+2704><U+2759><U+2701>
              <U+2723><U+2724><U+271C>                                                             <U+2723><U+2724><U+2724>
                                   <U+2759>
                                   <U+261E>                                     <U+261E><U+2701>
                                                     <U+274B><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+2739><U+2702>
                               <U+2759>
                              <U+2704><U+2759>                                   <U+2704><U+2759><U+2701>
                        <U+2723><U+2727><U+271C>                                  <U+2723><U+2727><U+2724>
                                   <U+261E>   <U+2759>                                 <U+261E><U+2701>
                                                     <U+274B><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+2739><U+2701>

                                      <U+2702> <U+2736><U+2701>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                             <U+2772><U+2759>
                        <U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2722><U+2723>
                                                         <U+2749><U+2701>
                                                    <U+2749><U+2759>
                   <U+2722><U+2725>        <U+2724><U+271C>   <U+2724><U+2722> <U+2722><U+2701>   <U+2724><U+2722>   <U+2724><U+2724>
                                      <U+274B><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A> <U+273A>

                                     <U+2701> <U+2736><U+2701>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>                     <U+2725><U+2722>
                                               <U+2749><U+2749>
                                             <U+2725><U+2722><U+2726>
                                                                   <U+2725><U+2722><U+2723>
                               <U+2759><U+2759>                  <U+2759><U+2701>
                                                                   <U+2725><U+2722><U+2725>
              <U+2725><U+2724><U+2722>
                    <U+2725><U+2724><U+271C>   <U+261E><U+2759>                            <U+261E><U+2701>   <U+2725><U+2724><U+2724>
                                    <U+274B><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A> <U+273B><U+2702>

                                            <U+273C> <U+2736><U+2701>
<removed-date>
                                                      <U+2749><U+2749>
                                <U+2725><U+2722>
                                                    <U+2725><U+2722><U+2726>
<removed-apn>
                                                      <U+2725><U+271C><U+2722>
                                                                            <U+2725><U+2722><U+2723>
                           <U+2759><U+2759>                               <U+2759><U+2701>
                                                                            <U+2725><U+2722><U+2725>
              <U+2725><U+2724><U+271C>         <U+261E><U+2759>                                     <U+261E><U+2701>   <U+2725><U+2724><U+2724>
                                           <U+274B><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A> <U+273B><U+2701>
                                            <U+2725><U+2722>
                    <U+2725><U+2727><U+2722>
                                     <U+2759><U+2759>                   <U+2759><U+2701>
                     <U+2725><U+2724><U+2722>             <U+273B><U+2701><U+2759>                  <U+273B><U+2701><U+2701>
                                           <U+274B><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A> <U+273B>

                                            <U+273D> <U+2736><U+2701>
<removed-date>
                                            <U+2725><U+2722>
                             <U+2725><U+2727><U+271C>
<removed-apn>                           <U+2759><U+2759>              <U+2759><U+2701>
                              <U+2725><U+2724><U+2722>    <U+273B><U+2701><U+2759>             <U+273B><U+2701><U+2701>
                                           <U+274B><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A> <U+273B><U+273B>
              <U+2704>
              <U+2702>
              <U+2721>
              <U+2759><U+2720>                    <U+2725> <U+271C>
              <U+271F>
                       <U+2725> <U+2722>
                             <U+2725><U+2725><U+2724>
                        <U+2749><U+2749>           <U+2712><U+2716><U+2715><U+2711><U+2713><U+2712> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2712><U+270E><U+2716><U+270E><U+270D><U+270E>
                   <U+261E>
                                           <U+274B><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A> <U+273B>

                                       <U+273E>    <U+2736><U+2701>
<removed-date>
              <U+2701><U+2722><U+2722><U+2704>              <U+2701><U+2722><U+2724>   <U+2701><U+2722><U+2724>
                      <U+2701><U+2722><U+271C>
                          <U+2701><U+271C><U+2722>
                      <U+2701><U+2722><U+271C>
<removed-apn>
                     <U+2701><U+2722><U+2725>
                                      <U+274B><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+273C><U+2702>
                      <U+261B>
                    <U+2701><U+2722><U+2722>
                          <U+2701><U+271C><U+2722>
                                                  <U+2701><U+2722><U+2725>
                                      <U+274B><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+273C><U+2701>

                                 <U+2736><U+2736> <U+2736><U+2701>
<removed-date>
              <U+2701><U+2722><U+2722><U+273C>
                     <U+2701><U+271C><U+271C>
<removed-apn>           <U+2701><U+271C><U+2727>
                                                   <U+2701><U+271C><U+2724>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>   <U+274B><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+273C>
              <U+2701><U+2722><U+2722>
                    <U+2701><U+271C><U+2722>
                                 <U+274B><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+273C><U+273B>   <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

                    <U+2736><U+2736> <U+2736><U+2701>
<removed-date>
                     <U+2726><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2726><U+2722><U+2723>
              <U+2726><U+2724><U+2722>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2726><U+2722><U+2725>
                    <U+274B><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+273D><U+2702>
                     <U+2726><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2726><U+2722><U+2723>
              <U+2726><U+2724><U+271C>
              <U+2726><U+2722><U+2725>
              <U+2726><U+2724><U+2722>
                    <U+274B><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+273D><U+2701>
                     <U+2726><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2726><U+2722><U+2723>
              <U+2726><U+2724><U+271C>
              <U+2726><U+2722><U+2725>
              <U+2726><U+2724><U+2722>
                    <U+274B><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+273D>

                              <U+2736><U+2737> <U+2736><U+2701>
<removed-date>                       <U+2726><U+271C><U+2722>
              <U+2726><U+2722><U+2723>
<removed-apn>
                                                            <U+2726><U+2724><U+271C>
              <U+2726><U+2722><U+2725>
                                                      <U+2726><U+2724><U+2722>
                              <U+274B><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A>      <U+273D><U+273B>
                              <U+2724><U+2727>                      <U+271C><U+2727>
                <U+2722><U+2722>       <U+2724><U+2723>             <U+2724><U+2723>       <U+2722><U+2701>
                    <U+2724><U+2724>                                       <U+271C><U+2723>
               <U+2722><U+2701>                                                 <U+2722><U+2726>
                <U+2724><U+271C>
                                             <U+2722>
                              <U+274B><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A>      <U+273E><U+2702>

                                               <U+2736><U+2738> <U+2736><U+2701>
<removed-date>
              <U+2722><U+2722>             <U+2722><U+2726>
                    <U+2722>                                                <U+271C><U+2723>         <U+271C>
                   <U+271C><U+2722>
                                                                                          <U+2722><U+2727>
<removed-apn>
                                                   <U+271C><U+2727>
                                                                                         <U+2722><U+2724>
                   <U+2724><U+2722>
                                                                                          <U+2722><U+271C>
                                                                          <U+2722><U+2725>
                        <U+2724><U+271C>                                  <U+2722><U+2701>                      <U+2724><U+2724>
                                  <U+2727>   <U+2724>                          <U+271C>
                                          <U+274B><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A>      <U+273E><U+2701>
                                          <U+2724><U+2727>
                                                                 <U+271C>
              <U+2722><U+2722>
                                                                               <U+2722><U+2726>
              <U+2724><U+2724>                                                                                        <U+2722><U+2701>
                                                                                               <U+2749><U+2701>
              <U+2724><U+271C>
                                                                                                    P
                                                             <U+2722>
                                               <U+274B><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A>     <U+273E>

                                                <U+2736>    <U+2736><U+2701>
<removed-date>                <U+2722><U+2726>
                                          <U+271C><U+2724>                    <U+271C>
                       <U+2722>
                      <U+271C><U+271C>
<removed-apn>           <U+2724><U+2722>
                                         <U+2724><U+271C>
                                                                       <U+2724><U+2724>
                                                     <U+271C>
                                               <U+274B><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A>      <U+273E><U+273B>
                                                         <U+271C><U+2722><U+2722><U+2724>
                                          |<U+271C>                                |<U+271C>
              <U+271C><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2704>
                                <U+271C><U+2722><U+2722><U+2724>                |<U+271C>
                                       <U+2720><U+275A><U+2756>
                                                                                 <U+271C><U+2722><U+2722><U+271C><U+2704>
                                        <U+2720><U+275A><U+2756>
                                        <U+271C><U+2722> <U+2724>                        <U+271C><U+2722> <U+271C>
                                               <U+274B><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2736>    <U+2702>

                                                  <U+2736><U+2702> <U+2736><U+2701>
<removed-date>
                                       |<U+2724>                  <U+271C><U+2722><U+2722><U+2724>
                                                                              |<U+2724>
                 <U+261B>
              <U+271C><U+2722><U+2722><U+2722>
                          <U+271C><U+2722><U+2722><U+2724>
                                                   |<U+2724>
                                                                                   <U+271C><U+2722><U+271C><U+2722>
<removed-apn>
                                 <U+2720><U+275A><U+2756>
                                                                                    <U+271C><U+2722><U+2722><U+271C>  <U+261B>
                                 <U+2720><U+275A><U+2756>
                                  <U+271C><U+2722> <U+2723>
                                                                       <U+271C><U+2722> <U+2727>
                                                 <U+274B><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2736>   <U+2701>
                         <U+2735><U+260E>
                         <U+2735><U+2704>
                         <U+2735><U+273B>
                         <U+2735><U+2702>
                     |
                         <U+2735><U+2701>
                     <U+274A>
                         <U+2735><U+2749>
                         <U+2735><U+2701>
                         <U+2735><U+2759>
                          <U+2735>
                                            <U+271E><U+2759>                    <U+271E><U+2701>
                                                 <U+274B><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A> <U+271B><U+2736>

                                           <U+2736><U+2701> <U+2736><U+2701>
<removed-date>
                                  <U+275A><U+2756><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>
                                  <U+2759><U+2704><U+271E><U+2706><U+2706><U+271D>                    <U+275A><U+2756><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>
                                    <U+271C><U+271C><U+2724><U+2723>                    <U+2759><U+2704><U+271E><U+2706><U+2706><U+271D>
                                                              <U+271C><U+271C><U+2724><U+2725>
                                              <U+261E><U+2706><U+2749><U+2720><U+2746>
                    <U+25BC>
                 <U+261E><U+2756> <U+2720><U+271F><U+2706>                      P<U+271F><U+2746><U+2768><U+2706><U+271E>
              <U+275A><U+2706><U+271F><U+2706>P<U+260E><U+2756><U+271D><U+2706>                          <U+271C><U+271C><U+2723><U+2722>
                     <U+271C><U+271C><U+2727><U+2725>
<removed-apn>
                                <U+274B><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A> <U+271B><U+271B><U+2702>                <U+274B><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A> <U+271B><U+271B><U+2701>
                                                             <U+275A><U+2756><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>
                                                             <U+2759><U+2704><U+271E><U+2706><U+2706><U+271D>
                                                               <U+271C><U+271C><U+2727><U+2722>
                                                <U+25BC>
                                             <U+275A><U+2746> <U+271F><U+2706><U+275A>
                  <U+275A><U+2756><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>                    <U+2704><U+2756><U+261E>P<U+2702><U+275A><U+2706><U+271E>
                                                 <U+271C><U+271C><U+2723><U+2726>
                  <U+2759><U+2704><U+271E><U+2706><U+2706><U+271D>
                      <U+271C><U+271C><U+2724><U+2726>
              P<U+2706><U+271E><U+2759><U+2756><U+271D><U+2746><U+271F>
              <U+2704><U+2756><U+261E>P<U+2702><U+275A><U+2706><U+271E>
                    <U+271C><U+271C><U+2723><U+2723>
                             <U+274B><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A> <U+271B><U+271B>                      <U+274B><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A> <U+271B><U+271B>  <U+273B>

