                                      Abstract of the Invention
          The invention is directed to compositions and methods for stimulating, enhancing or
  modulating the immune system of a patient before or after infection by a pathogen, and in
  particular multidrug resistant (MDR) MTB and extremely drug resistant (XDR) MTB.
5 Compositions of the invention contain non-naturally occurring antigens that generate an effective
  cellular and/or humoral immune response to MTB and/or antibodies that are specifically reactive
  to MTB antigens. The greater activity of the immune system generated by a vaccine of the
  invention increases generation of memory T cells that provide for a greater and/or extended
  response to an MTB infection. Responses involve an increased generation of antibodies that
0 enhance immunity against MTB infection and promote an enhanced phagocytic response.
  Monoclonal antibodies produced by the non-naturally occurring antigens enhance phagocytosis
  and killing of mycobacteria by phagocytic cells, enhance clearance of MTB from the blood and
  modulate immunity and cytokine responses.

                ANTIBODIES THAT MODULATE IMMUNITY TO DRUG RESISTANT
                                    AND LATENT MTB INFECTIONS
   Reference to Related Applications
            This application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. Application No. 15/275,813 entitled
 5 "Monoclonal Antibodies that Modulate Immunity to MTB and Enhance Immune Clearance" filed
   July 26, 2016, which is a continuation-in-part of U.S. Application No. 14/473,322 entitled
   "Enhancing Immunity to Tuberculosis" filed August 29, 2014, which claims priority to U.S.
   Provisional Application No. 61/872,391 filed August 30, 2013, and claims priority to U.S.
   Provisional Application No. 62/232,117 filed September 24, 2015, the entirety of each of which is
 0 specifically incorporated by reference.
   Sequence Listing
            The instant application contains a Sequence Listing which has been submitted electronically
   in ASCII format and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Said ASCII copy, created on
   August 28, 2014, is named 3022.035.PCTSL.txt and is 3,775 bytes in size.
 5 Background
        1. Field of the Invention
            The present invention is directed to compositions and methods for treating a disease or
   disorder and/or enhancing the immune system of a patient and, in particular, vaccines of non
   naturally occurring substances and vaccination methods for treating and/or enhancing the immune
 0 system against infection by multidrug resistant (MDR) MTB, extremely drug resistant (XDR), and
   latent Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
        2. Description of the Background
            Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB) is a pathogenic bacterial species in the family
   Mycobacteriaceae and the causative agent of most cases of tuberculosis (TB). Another species of
25 this genus is M. leprae, the causative agent of leprosy. MTB was first discovered in 1882 by Robert
   Koch, M. tuberculosis has an unusual, complex, lipid rich, cell wall which makes the cells
   impervious to Gram staining. Acid-fast detection techniques are used to make the diagnosis instead.
   The physiology of M. tuberculosis is highly aerobic and requires significant levels of oxygen to
   remain viable. Primarily a pathogen of the mammalian respiratory system, MTB is generally inhaled
30 and, in five to ten percent of individuals, will progress to an acute pulmonary infection. The
   remaining individuals will either clear the infection completely or the infection may become latent.
   It is not clear how the immune system controls MTB, but cell mediated immunity is believed to play
                                                        I

   a critical role (Svenson et al., Human Vaccines, 6-4:309-17, 2010). Common diagnostic methods for
   TB are the tuberculin skin test, acid-fast stain and chest radiographs.
            Well over ninety percent of individuals infected with MTB remain outwardly healthy with no
   demonstrable symptoms. These individuals are classified as latently infected and are a reservoir
 5 from which active MTB cases continue to develop ("reactivation tuberculosis"). Latent infection is
   generally defined as the absence of clinical symptoms of TB in addition to a delayed hypersensitivity
   reaction to the purified protein derivative of MTB used in tuberculin skin test or a T-cell response to
   MTB-specific antigens. The absence of an understanding of latency and thereby reliable control
   measures for treatment, makes latent tuberculosis infections a serious problem.
 0          M. tuberculosis requires oxygen to proliferate and does not retain typical bacteriological
   stains due to high lipid content of its cell wall. While mycobacteria do not fit the Gram-positive
   category from an empirical standpoint (i.e., they do not retain the crystal violet stain), they are
   classified as acid-fast Gram-positive bacteria due to their lack of an outer cell membrane.
            M. tuberculosis has over one hundred strain variations and divides every 15-20 hours, which
 5 is extremely slow compared to other types of bacteria that have division times measured in minutes
   (Escherichia coli can divide roughly every 20 minutes). The microorganism is a small bacillus that
   can withstand weak disinfectants and survive in a dry state for weeks. The cell wall of MTB
   contains multiple components such as peptidoglycan, mycolic acid and the glycolipid
   lipoarabinomannan. The role of these moieties in pathogenesis and immunity remain controversial.
 0 (Svenson et al., Human Vaccines, 6-4:309-17, 2010).
            MTB infection is spread by airborne droplet nuclei, which contain the pathogen expelled
   from the lungs and airways of those with active TB. The infectious droplet nuclei are inhaled and
   lodge in the alveoli and in the alveolar sac where M. tuberculosis is taken up by alveolar
   macrophages. These macrophages invade the subtending epithelial layer, which leads to a local
25 inflammatory response initiating formation of the granuloma, the hallmark of tuberculosis disease.
   That results in recruitment of mononuclear cells from neighboring blood vessels, thus providing
   fresh host cells for the expanding bacterial population. However, these macrophages are unable to
   digest the bacteria because the cell wall of the bacteria prevents the fusion of the phagosome with a
   lysosome. Specifically, M. tuberculosis blocks the bridging molecule, early endosomal autoantigen
30  1 (EEAI); however, this blockade does not prevent fusion of vesicles filled with nutrients. As a
   consequence, bacteria multiply unchecked within the macrophage. The bacteria also carry the UreC
                                                        2

   gene, which prevents acidification of the phagosome, and also evade macrophage-killing by
   neutralizing reactive nitrogen intermediates.
            With the arrival of lymphocytes, the granuloma acquires a more organized, stratified
   structure. Development of an immune response takes about 4-6 weeks after the primary infection is
 5 indicated by a positive DTH (delayed type hypersensitivity) reaction to Tuberculin. The balance
   between host immunity (protective and pathologic) and bacillary multiplication determines the
   outcome of infection. An encounter with MTB is classically regarded to give rise to three possible
   outcomes. The first possible outcome, which occurs in a minority of the population, is the rapid
   development of active TB and associated clinical symptoms. The second possible outcome, which
 0 occurs in the majority of infected individuals, do not include disease symptoms. These individuals
   develop an effective acquired immune response and are considered to have a "latent infection." A
   portion of latently infected individuals over time will reactivate and develop active TB. Roughly ten
   percent of these infected individuals (mainly infants or children) will develop progressive clinical
   disease referred to as primary active TB. Primary TB usually occurs within 1-2 years after the
 5 initial infection. This results from local bacillary multiplication and spread in the lung and/or blood.
   Spread through the blood can seed bacilli in various tissues and organs. Post-primary, or secondary,
   TB can occur many years after infection owing to loss of immune control and the reactivation of
   bacilli. The immune response of the patient results in a pathological lesion that is characterized by
   localized, often extensive tissue damage, and cavitations. The characteristic features of active post
 0 primary TB can include extensive lung destruction with cavitation, positive sputum smear (most
   often), and upper lobe involvement, however these are not exclusive. Patients with cavitary lesions
   (i.e., granulomas that break through to an airway) are the main transmitters of infection. In latent TB,
   the host immune response is capable of controlling the infection but falls short of eradicating the
   pathogen. Latent TB is defined on solely on the evidence of sensitization by mycobacterial proteins
25 that is a positive result in either the Tuberculin skin test (TST) reaction to purified protein derivative
   of MTB or an in vitro interferon-gamma (IFN-y) release assay to MTB-specific antigens, in the
   absence of clinical symptoms or isolated bacteria from the patient.
            The BCG vaccine (Bacille de Calmette et Gu6rin) against tuberculosis is prepared from a
   strain of the attenuated, but live bovine tuberculosis bacillus, Mycobacterium bovis. This strain lost
30 its virulence to humans through in vitro subculturing in Middlebrook 7119 media. As the bacteria
   adjust to subculturing conditions, including the chosen media, the organism adapts and in doing so,
                                                         3

   loses its natural growth characteristics for human blood. Consequently, the bacteria can no longer
   induce disease when introduced into a human host. However, the attenuated and virulent bacteria
   retain sufficient similarity to provide immunity against infection of human tuberculosis. The
   effectiveness of the BCG vaccine has been highly varied, with an efficacy of from zero to eighty
 5 percent in preventing tuberculosis for duration of fifteen years, although protection seems to vary
   greatly according to geography and the lab in which the vaccine strain was grown. This variation,
   which appears to depend on geography, generates a great deal of controversy over use of the BCG
   vaccine yet has been observed in many different clinical trials. For example, trials conducted in the
   United Kingdom have consistently shown a protective effect of sixty to eighty percent, but those
 0 conducted in other areas have shown no or almost no protective effect. For whatever reason, these
   trials all show that efficacy decreases in those clinical trials conducted close to the equator. In
   addition, although widely used because of its protective effects against disseminated TB and TB
   meningitis in children, the BCG vaccine is largely ineffective against adult pulmonary TB, the single
   most contagious form of TB.
 5          A 1994 systematic review found that the BCG reduces the risk of getting TB by about fifty
   percent. There are differences in effectiveness, depending on region due to factors such as genetic
   differences in the populations, changes in environment, exposure to other bacterial infections, and
   conditions in the lab where the vaccine is grown, including genetic differences between the strains
   being cultured and the choice of growth medium.
 0          The duration of protection of BCG is not clearly known or understood. In studies showing a
   protective effect, the data are inconsistent. The MRC study showed protection waned to 59% after
    15 years and to zero after 20 years; however, a study looking at Native Americans immunized in the
    1930s found evidence of protection even 60 years after immunization, with only a slight waning in
   efficacy. Rigorous analysis of the results demonstrates that BCG has poor protection against adult
25 pulmonary disease, but does provide good protection against disseminated disease and TB
   meningitis in children. Therefore, there is a need for new vaccines and vaccine antigens that can
   provide solid and long-term immunity to MTB.
            The role of antibodies in the development of immunity to MTB is controversial. Current data
   suggests that T cells, specifically CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, are critical for maximizing macrophage
30 activity against MTB and promoting optimal control of infection (Slight et al, JCI 123(2):712, Feb.
   2013). However, these same authors demonstrated that B cell deficient mice are not more
                                                        4

   susceptible to MTB infection than B cell intact mice suggesting that humoral immunity is not
   critical. Phagocytosis of MTB can occur via surface opsonins, such as C3, or nonopsonized MTB
   surface mannose moieties. Fc gamma receptors, important for IgG facilitated phagocytosis, do not
   seem to play an important role in MTB immunity (Crevel et al., Clin Micro Rev. 15(2), April, 2002;
 5 Armstrong et al., J Exp Med. 1975 Jul 1; 142(1):1-16). IgA has been considered for prevention and
   treatment of TB, since it is a mucosal antibody. A human IgA monoclonal antibody to the MTB heat
   shock protein HSPX (HSPX) given intra-nasally provided protection in a mouse model (Balu et al, J
   of Immun. 186:3113, 2011). Mice treated with IgA had less prominent MTB pneumonic infiltrates
   than untreated mice. While antibody prevention and therapy may be hopeful, the effective MTB
 0 antigen targets and the effective antibody class and subclasses have not been established (Acosta et
   al, Intech, 2013).
            Cell wall components of MTB have been delineated and analyzed for many years.
   Lipoarabinomannan (LAM) has been shown to be a virulence factor and a monoclonal antibody to
   LAM has enhanced protection to MTB in mice (Teitelbaum, et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 95:15688
 5  15693, 1998, Svenson et al., Human Vaccines, 6-4:309-17, 2010). The mechanism whereby the
   MAB enhanced protection was not determined and the MAB did not decrease bacillary burden. It
   was postulated that the MAB possibly blocked the effects of LAM induced cytokines. The role of
   mycolic acid for vaccines and immune therapy is unknown. It has been used for diagnostic
   purposes, but has not been shown to have utility for vaccine or other immune therapy approaches.
 0 While MTB infected individuals may develop antibodies to mycolic acid, there is no evidence that
   antibodies in general, or specifically mycolic acid antibodies, play a role in immunity to MTB.
            Antibiotic resistance is becoming more and more of a problem for treating MTB infections.
   Beginning with the first antibiotic treatment for TB in 1943, some strains of the TB bacteria
   developed resistance to the standard drugs through genetic changes. The BCG vaccine against TB
25 does not provide protection from acquiring TB to a significant degree. In fact, resistance accelerates
   if incorrect or inadequate treatments are used, leading to the development and spread of multidrug
   resistant TB (MDR-TB). Incorrect or inadequate treatment may be due to use of the wrong
   medications, use of only one medication (standard treatment is at least two drugs), not taking
   medication consistently or for the full treatment period (treatment is required for several months).
30 Treatment of MDR-TB requires second-line drugs (e.g., fluoroquinolones, aminoglycosides, and
   others), which in general are less effective, more toxic and much more expensive than first-line
                                                       5

   drugs. If these second-line drugs are prescribed or taken incorrectly, further resistance can develop
   leading to extreme-drug resistant TB (XDR-TB). Resistant strains of TB are already present in the
   population, so MDR-TB and XDR-TB are directly transmitted from an infected person to an
   uninfected person. Thus, a previously untreated person can develop a new case of MDR-TB or
 5 XDR-TB absent prior infection and/or treatments. This is known as primary MDR-TB or XR-TB
   and is responsible for up to 75% of new TB cases. Acquired MDR-TB and XR-TB develops when a
   person with a non-resistant strain of TB is treated inadequately, resulting in the development of
   antibiotic resistance in the TB bacteria infecting them. These people can in turn infect other people
   with MDR-TB.
 0         Drug-resistant TB caused an estimated 480,000 new TB cases and 250,000 deaths in 2015,
   and accounts for about 3.3% of all new TB cases worldwide. These resistant forms of TB bacteria,
   either MDR-TB or rifampin-resistant TB, cause 3.9% of new TB cases and 21% of previously
   treated TB cases. Globally, most drug-resistant TB cases occur in South America, Southern Africa,
   India, China, and areas of the former Soviet Union.
 5         Treatment of MDR-TB requires treatment with second-line drugs, usually four or more anti
   TB drugs for a minimum of 6 months, and possibly extending for 18-24 months if rifampin
   resistance has been identified in the specific strain of TB with which the patient has been infected.
   Under ideal program conditions, MDR-TB cure rates can approach 70%. XR-TB infection requires
   even more-robust and prolonged treatment regiments.
 0         Thus there is a strong need to provide or improve products and approaches to prevent and
   treat drug-resistant MTB.
   Summary of the Invention
           The present invention overcomes the problems and disadvantages associated with current
   strategies and designs and provide new tools and methods for enhancing the immune system.
25         One embodiment of the invention is directed to an immunological composition comprising
   antibodies and preferably monoclonal antibodies for the treatment or prevention of infection of drug
   resistant Mvcobacterium tuberculosis (MTB) in a mammal. Preferably, antibodies of the invention
   induce opsinization and/or killing of microorganisms and in particular MTB. Antibodies of the
   invention are specifically reactive and bind one or more MTB epitopes that may be chemically or
30 physically altered. Antibodies may be produced through recombinant techniques, such as
   humanization of murine antibodies preferably including a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
                                                        6

   Preferably the antibody-reactive antigen comprises an MTB surface secreted or intracellular antigen.
   Preferably the antigen comprises one or more of an MTB surface antigen, a synthetic MTB peptide,
   a synthetic composite peptide, or a combination thereof. Preferably the antibodies are specifically
   reactive against an MTB antigen wherein the MTB has been alcohol-killed, such as with ethanol,
 5 heat-killed, or gluteraldehyde-killed. The alcohol for example denatures the proteins and
   disassociates the lipid structures in the cell wall producing new and altered (non-natural) molecules.
   Preferably the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier comprises water, oil, fatty acid, carbohydrate,
   lipid, cellulose, or a combination thereof. Preferably peptides and antigen targets may be conjugated
   to proteins and other moieties and delivered with adjuvants such as alum, squaline oil in water
 0 emulsion amino acids, proteins, carbohydrates and/or other adjuvants.
            Another embodiment of the invention is directed to methods for treating or preventing drug
   resistant MTB infection comprising administering an immunological composition containing
   antibodies and preferably monoclonal antibodies of the invention to a mammal. Preferably the
   antibodies are administered to a patient orally, intramuscularly, intravenously or subcutaneously and
 5 generates a humoral response in the mammal that comprises generation of antibodies specifically
   reactive against MTB moieties that impede host immunity or induce antibodies that enhance host
   immunity.
            Another embodiment of the invention is directed to an immunological composition
   comprising antibodies and preferably monoclonal antibodies for the treatment or prevention of a
 0 latent infection of Mycobacteriuin tuberculosis (MTB) in a mammal. Mammals with latent infection
   may otherwise appear healthy, but still retain an MTB infection that often, although not always, is
   infectious to others. Antibodies of the invention are specifically reactive and bind one or more MTB
   epitopes that may be chemically or physically altered. Antibodies may be produced through
   recombinant techniques, such as humanization of murine antibodies preferably including a
25 pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Preferably the antibody-reactive antigen comprises an MTB
   surface secreted or intracellular antigen. Preferably the antigen comprises one or more of an MTB
   surface antigen, a synthetic MTB peptide, a synthetic composite peptide, or a combination thereof.
   Preferably the antibodies are specifically reactive against an MTB antigen wherein the MTB has
   been alcohol-killed, such as with ethanol, heat-killed, or gluteraldehyde-killed. The alcohol for
30 example denatures the proteins and disassociates the lipid structures in the cell wall producing new
   and altered (non-natural) molecules. Preferably the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier comprises
                                                         7

   water, oil, fatty acid, carbohydrate, lipid, cellulose, or a combination thereof. Preferably peptides
   and antigen targets may be conjugated to proteins and other moieties and delivered with adjuvants
   such as alum, squaline oil in water emulsion amino acids, proteins, carbohydrates and/or other
   adj uvants.
 5         Another embodiment of the invention is directed to methods for treating or preventing latent
   MTB infection comprising administering an immunological composition containing antibodies and
   preferably monoclonal antibodies of the invention to a mammal. Preferably the antibodies are
   administered to a patient orally, intramuscularly, intravenously or subcutaneously and generates a
   humoral response in the mammal that comprises generation of antibodies specifically reactive
 0 against MTB moieties that impede host immunity or induce antibodies that enhance host immunity.
           Another embodiment of the invention is directed to methods for treating or preventing
   infection of drug-resistant Mycobacteriun tuberculosis (MTB) or latent MTB infection in a mammal
   comprising administering to the mammal polyclonal or monoclonal antibodies that are specifically
   reactive against MTB moieties, such as mycolic acid that stimulate cellular phagocytic activity and
 5 destruction of MTB by phagocytes, enhances cytokine induced immunity to MTB or neutralizes
   toxic MTB substances, and/or cocktails of two or more monoclonal antibodies (MABs) that enhance
   immunity to MTB. Preferably, the anti-MTB antibodies are polyclonal antibodies or monoclonal
   antibodies and react against one or more MTB moieties.
           Another embodiment of the invention is directed to monoclonal antibodies that are
 0 specifically reactive against mycolic acid of drug-resistant MTB. Preferably the monoclonal
   antibody is an IgA, IgD, IgE, IgG or IgM, and may be derived from most any mammal such as, for
   example, rabbit, guinea pig, mouse, human, fully or partly humanized, chimeric or single chain of
   any of the above. The DNA encoding the antibodies may be utilized in any appropriate cell line to
   produce the encoded MABs. Another embodiment comprises hybridoma cultures that produce the
25 monoclonal antibodies. Another embodiment of the invention comprises non-naturally occurring
   polyclonal antibodies that are specifically reactive against mycolic acid of MTB.
           Another embodiment of the invention is directed to methods for treating or preventing latent
   and/or drug-resistant MTB infection by administering a monoclonal or polyclonal antibody that is
   specifically reactive against mycolic acid of MTB.
30         Another embodiment of the invention is directed to methods for treating or preventing latent
   and/or drug-resistant MTB infection by administering to a patient an effective amount of BCG
                                                         8

   vaccine and further enhancing the effectiveness and/or the length of protection by also administering
   an effective amount of the vaccine of the invention that induces humoral immunity and provides
   enhanced phagocytic function. Enhanced phagocytic function by vaccine or antibody is defined as
   stimulated cellular phagocytic activity and enhanced destruction of the MTB bacillus inside the
 5 phagocyte.
           Another embodiment of the invention is directed to methods of identifying one or more
   antibodies that activate phagocytizing cells, comprising: providing a microbe; generating antibodies
   that are specifically responsive to the microbe: incubating the generated antibodies with the
   phagocytizing cells; determining an activity of the phagocytizing cells after incubation with the
 0 antibodies; and selecting the one or more antibodies that increase the activity of the phagocytizing
   cells as compared to a control. Preferably the microbe is live or killed MTB and optionally, the
   microbe can be treated with one or more chemical and/or physical agents. Preferably the chemical
   agent is ethanol or gluteraldehyde. Also preferably, the antibodies generated from a mouse and
   preferably monoclonal antibodies. Phagocytizing cells include, but are not limited to macrophages,
 5 neutrophils, monocytes, mast cells, white blood cells, dendritic cells, phagocytic cell lines, HL-60
   cells, U-937 cells, PMA treated cells, PMA treated U-937 cells, and combinations thereof. The
   activity of the cells can be determined, for example, by visual inspection, by antigen uptake, or
   fluorescent based microscopy assay of the phagocytizing cells. Preferably the phagocytizing cells
   show activity only on incubation with the one or more selected antibodies. Suitable controls include,
 0 for example, the phagocytic activity of the cells that have not been treated with any antibodies, the
   phagocytic activity of the cells after incubation with antibodies provided against untreated antigen,
   or the phagocytic activity of the cells after treatment with an agent that does not generate phagocytic
   activity. Preferably the one or more antibodies selected treat or prevent microbe infection of a
   mammal. Also preferable, the one or more antibodies selected are mouse antibodies that have been
25 humanized for the prevention and/or treatment of a disease or disorder.
           Other embodiments and advantages of the invention are set forth in part in the description,
   which follows, and in part, may be obvious from this description, or may be learned from the
   practice of the invention.
   Description of the Drawings
30 Figure 1        Antisera titers from M3 1319-1324 (Immunized with MTB non-natural surface
   antigens on the altered surface of EtOH-k TB) on EtOH-k TB coating @ 1:1000.
                                                        9

   Figure 2        Antisera titers from M3 1325-1330 (Immunized with MTB non-natural surface
   antigens on the surface of Glut-k TB) on EtOH-k TB coating @ 1:1000.
   Figure 3        Antisera titers from M3 1331-1336 (Immunized with MTB non-natural antigens from
   Son. Glut-k TB) on EtOH-k TB coating @ 1:1000.
 5 Figure 4        Antisera titers from M3 1337-1342 (Immunized with MTB non-natural antigens from
   Son. Glut-k TB + adjuvant) on EtOH-k TB coating @ 1:1000.
   Figure 5        High level binding of isolated TB Pep01 (SEQ ID NO 1) at I pg/ml and 10 pg/mI to
   MS 1124 sera at 42 days, 112 days and prefusion.
   Figure 6        Hybridoma productivity from MS 1143 and 1147 fusion as measured on whole MTB
 0 (ethanol killed) and mycolic acid.
   Figure 7        Binding profiles of purified M1438 FEl 111 B3 (alpha-TB Pep 02) to various antigens
   (SEQ ID NO. 7).
   Figure 8        Opsonophagocytic Mycobacterial killing assay; effect of MAB with HL60 cells and
   Clq.
 5 Figure 9        Blood clearance of MTB in Balb/c mice; effect of anti-MAB monoclonal antibodies.
   Figure 10       Absorbance values for 1417 spleen cell supernatants (1:5 dilution) treated with EtOH
   killed TB ±10 pg/ml of MAb AB9 1A5 in IFN-gamma assay.
   Figure 11       Absorbance values for 1418 spleen cell supernatants (1:5 dilution) treated with EtOH
   killed TB ±10 pg/ml of MAb AB9 1A5 in IFN-gamma assay.
 0 Figure 12       Effect of Mab AB9 lA5 (10 pg/ml) on induction of IL-4 in 1417 spleen cells by
   EtOH-killed TB.
   Figure 13       Effect of Mab AB9 lA5 (10 pg/ml) on induction of IL-4 in 1418 spleen cells by
   EtOH-killed TB.
   Description of the Invention
25         Approximately one third of the world population is infected with Mycobacteriun
   tuberculosis (MTB). Current treatment includes a long course of antibiotics and often requires
   quarantining of the patient. Resistance is common and an ever increasing problem, as is the ability
   to maintain the quarantine of infected patients. Present vaccines include BCG which is prepared
   from a strain of attenuated (virulence-reduced) live bovine tuberculosis bacillus, Mycobacterium
30 bovis, and live non-MTB organisms. BCG carries substantial associated risks, especially in immune
   compromised individuals, and has proved to be only modestly effective and for limited periods. It is
                                                      10

   generally believed that a humoral response to infection by MTB is ineffective and optimal control of
   infection must involve activation of T cells and macrophages.
            It has been surprisingly discovered that certain regions of MTB when chemically or
   physically altered from their natural state generate an enhanced immune response against MTB in
 5 mammals and, preferably, drug-resistant and/or latent MTB infections. Preferred alterations are
   created when the MTB is treated with chemicals such as, for example, ethanol, gluteraldehyde or
   another chemical that inactivates or kills the organisms. In contrast, antigens of or antibodies
   generated against these regions without alteration (e.g. BCG vaccine) do not produce a protective
   response even in adults with a robust immune system. These regions or epitopes that are created
 0 after treatment are referred to as immunity enhancing antigens (IEAs). These IEAs are recognized
   by the immune system of the host when administered to treat or prevent infection, by generating a
   cellular and/or humoral immune response to the infection. Without limiting the invention, the non
   naturally occurring IEAs of the invention are believed to be unrecognized by the mammalian
   immune system due to physical changes created to the chemical structure of the antigen and/or by
 5 removal of one or more chemical moieties that otherwise block recognition of the epitope of the
   whole non-altered MTB or even of a degradation product of the MTB organism. On the isolation of
   an IEA, the physical or chemical alteration of one or more new epitopes are revealed to the host
   immune system generating a protective response against infection that is not otherwise available
   from a vaccine using whole or partial untreated organisms. Preferably, the IEAs of the invention are
 0 created from chemically killed organisms, such as ethanol killed, or degradation products of ethanol
   killed organisms. IEAs of MTB include, but are not limited to epitopic regions of the surface of
   MTB, and various selected regions and sequences of the MTB components including, but not limited
   to MTB heat shock protein, peptidoglycan, mycolic acid and lipoarabinomannan (LAM). Preferred
   amino acid and nucleic acid sequences of the invention contain or encode one or more epitopes of an
25 IEA for MTB, and/or additional epitopes specific for other infections such as, for example, a viral
   infection (e.g. influenza). Preferred IEAs of the invention include altered portions of peptidoglycan,
   mycolic acid and LAM, which are useful as peptide vaccines and/or peptide adjuvants. Nucleic acid
   sequences of the invention are preferably recombinantly produced and/or synthetically
   manufactured. Also preferred are nucleic acid aptamers and peptide aptamers and other molecules
30 that mimic the structure and/or function of the non-natural antigens or antibodies of the invention.
   Also preferred are peptide and/or nucleic acid sequences that contain or encode one or more epitopes
                                                       11

   of an IEA antigen of another pathogen, such as, for example, a viral (DNA or RNA), bacterial,
   fungal or parasitic pathogen that is the causative agent of a disease (e.g., influenza, HIV/AIDS,
   hepatitis, lower respiratory infections, measles, tetanus, cholera, malaria, viral and/or bacterial
   meningitis, infections of the digestive tract, pertussis, syphilis). Combinations of epitopes from both
 5 MTB and other pathogens include, for example, peptide conjugates of MTB and influenza or another
   viral epitope, peptide conjugates of MTB with Diphtheria toxin (e.g. CRM), Clostridium tetani toxin
   and peptides and proteins, or another bacterial epitope, or peptide conjugates of MTB with
   Plasmodiumftdciparun or another parasitic epitope. Preferably, the peptide sequences of the
   invention (e.g. see Table 3, which includes peptide composites of MTB, peptide composites of
 0 influenza, and combined MTB-influenza composite peptides) are synthetic peptide vaccines that
   generate and/or enhance an immune response to a pathogenic infection such as, for example, MTB,
   influenza virus, or the etiological agents of cholera, malaria, leprosy, AIDS, and/or another
   infectious disease, and prevent and/or treat the disease and infection. Also preferably, the immune
   response generated is protective against the infection that shields individuals from infection outside
 5 of the geographical or time period of the limits of protection, for example, associated with the
   various BCG vaccines presently in use. Preferably, vaccines of the invention provide protection to
   the patient for greater than about one year, more preferably greater than about two years, more
   preferably greater than about three years, more preferably greater than about five years, more
   preferably greater than about seven years, more preferably greater than about ten years, and more
 0 preferably greater than about fifteen or twenty years.
           Preferably the immune response generated upon the administration of a vaccine of the
   invention is protective against multi-drug resistant and/or latent TB or another infection and enhance
   and/or prime the immune system of the patient to be immunologically responsive to an infection
   such as by promoting recognition of the pathogen, a greater and/or more rapid immunological
25 response to an infection, phagocytosis of the pathogen or killing of pathogen-infected cells, thereby
   promoting overall immune clearance of the infection, including latent TB infection and reactivation
   TB. Preferably, a vaccination of an infected mammal with an IEA of the invention promotes the
   activation of a humoral and/ or cellular response of the mammalian immune system. For example,
   administering an IEA of the invention to an infected mammal promotes the sensing of the infection
30 and then clears the infection, including latent infection, from the mammalian system by inducing or
   increasing phagocytic activity. Preferably this sensing and clearance activity is effective to clear the
                                                        12

   body of both active organisms and latent or dormant organisms and thereby prevent a later
   resurgence of the infection.
           One embodiment of the invention is directed to vaccines of antibodies and/or antigens that,
   upon administration to a patient, provide for protection against infection of a pathogen. Vaccines
 5 containing IEAs are effective to stimulate a cellular and/or humoral response in a patient.
   Alternatively, the vaccine may stimulate a humoral response that will stimulate an enhanced cellular
   or phagocytic cell response to any invading pathogen such as MTB. Preferably the vaccines of the
   invention contain an MTB EIA such as, for example, one or more epitopes of altered peptidoglycan,
   mycolic acid, lipoarabinomannan (LAM), or a combination of one or more of these altered epitopes.
 O Preferred MTB epitopes include MTB sequences and composites of MTB sequences plus other
   epitope sequence, such as those listed in Table 3.
           Vaccines of the invention may contain one or multiple sequences and/or portions that are
   derived from the same or from different source materials or organisms. Source materials include, for
   example, proteins, peptides, toxins, cell wall components, membrane components, polymers,
 5 carbohydrates, nucleic acids including DNA and RNA, lipids, fatty acids, and combinations thereof.
   Vaccines with multiple portions derived from different sources are referred to herein as conjugate
   vaccines and may include portions derived from, for example, proteins and lipids, peptides and fatty
   acids, and lipids and nucleic acids. Vaccine conjugates may contain portions derived from distinct
   organisms, such as, for example, any combination of bacteria (e.g. MTB, Strep, Staph,
 0 Pseudomonas, Clostridium), virus (e.g., RNA or DNA viruses, influenza, HIV, RSV, Zika,
   poliomyelitis), fungal or mold, and parasite (e.g. malaria). These conjugates may be composed of,
   for example, a portion of mycolic acid of MTB coupled to serum albumin (e.g. bovine serum
   albumin or BSA). Exemplary conjugate vaccines include, but are not limited to conjugates of a
   surface protein of MTB, peptidoglycan, mycolic acid, or LAM with a protein such as tetanus toxin
25 or diphtheria toxin.
           Also preferred are vaccines of the invention that include one or more of a pharmaceutically
   acceptable carrier, diluent, excipient, adjuvant and/or other medicinal or pharmaceutical agent or
   preparation known to those skilled in the art. Preferred pharmaceutically carriers include one or
   more of water, fatty acids, lipids, polymers, carbohydrates, gelatin, solvents, saccharides, buffers,
30 stabilizing agents, surfactants, wetting agents, lubricating agents, emulsifiers, suspending agents,
   preservatives, antioxidants, opaquing agents, glidants, processing aids, colorants, sweeteners,
                                                       13

   perfuming agents, flavoring agents or an immunological inert substance, and especially preferred are
   carriers designated as generally recognized as safe (GRAS) by the U.S. Food and Drug
   Administration or another appropriate authority.
           Although the peptides of the invention may be complete vaccines against an infection in and
 5 of themselves, it has also been discovered that the peptide vaccines of the invention enhance the
   immune response when administered in conjunction with other vaccines against the same or a
   similar infection such as, for example, BCG against a TB infection. As a secondary vaccine or
   adjunctive treatment in conjunction with an existing primary vaccine treatment, secondary vaccines
   (which may be antibodies or antigens) of the invention provide a two punch defense against
 0 infection which is surprisingly effective to prevent or extend the period of protection available from
   the conventional primary vaccine. The primary vaccine (i.e., conventional vaccine) and secondary
   vaccines (vaccines of the invention) may be administered about simultaneously, or in staggered
   fashion in an order determined empirically or by one skilled in the art. Preferably the peptide
   vaccine is administered in advance of an attenuated or killed whole cell vaccine, but may also be
 5 administered after or simultaneously (e.g., collectively as a single vaccination or as separate
   vaccination compositions). Preferably the peptide vaccine is administered from between about two
   to about thirty days in advance or after administration of the whole cell vaccine, and more preferably
   from between about four to about fourteen days in advance or after. Without being limited as to
   theory, it is currently believed that the first vaccine primes the immune system of the subject and the
 0 second vaccine provides the boost to the immune system creating a protective immunological
   response in the patient.
           Another embodiment of the invention comprises one or more antibodies that binds to one or
   more specific targets or pathogens, preferably one or more MTB epitopes that are IEAs of the
   invention optionally including one or more previously known epitopes. These antibodies, which
25 may be either monoclonal or polyclonal, have surprisingly demonstrated antigen binding in ELISA
   assays to non-natural target MTB antigens, such as ethanol altered MTB, and demonstrate enhanced
   immune response to MTB and promote or enhance opsinization, phagocytic clearance, and/or killing
   of microorganisms such as MTB. Antibodies of the current invention that stimulate phagocytic
   function promote phagocyte activity to identify MTB, engulf the organism and then destroy the
30 MTB bacilli. Antibodies enhance treatment, for example, by promoting phagocytosis of bacteria and
   clearance of the MTB from the blood. Antibodies of the invention have been developed to a number
                                                         14

   of antigen targets, including but not limited to mycolic acid of the surface of MTB, heat-shock
   proteins and other MTB antigens (e.g., 16 KD MTB heat-shock protein of SEQ ID NO 1).
            Antibodies of the invention can be distinguished from naturally occurring antibodies by those
   of ordinary skill in the art. A number of techniques are available to distinguish existing from new
 5 antibodies and/or antigens. By way of example, antibodies of the invention can be reacted with an
   antigenic mix from, for example, MTB infected cell that had been previously bound with naturally
   occurring antibodies. What remains that becomes bound are the non-naturally occurring antibodies
   and the new antigens and epitopes. The newly bound antibodies can be isolated, identified, and
   characterized. The antibodies may bind to chemically or structurally altered epitopes or epitopes
 0 that become exposed after the chemical treatment. For example, natural MTB possesses biological
   material that prevents a host innnune system from immunologically seeing and recognizing certain
   MTB antigens such as, for example, MTB proteins and lipids, peptides, fatty acids, polysaccharides,
   lipids and nucleic acids. Protein or peptide examples include, but are not limited to the heat-shock
   proteins, peptidoglycan, mycolic acid and lipoarabinomannan (LAM). Antibodies to one or more of
 5 these biological materials induce opsinization and/or killing on MTB microorganisms.
            Another embodiment of the invention is directed to multiple antibodies of the invention
   (polyclonal, monoclonal or fractions such as Fab fragments, amino acid sequences of the variable
   binding antibody regions, single chains, etc.) that are combined or combined with conventional
   antibodies (polyclonal, monoclonal or fractions such as Fab fragments, single chains, etc.) into an
 0 antibody cocktail for the treatment and/or prevention of an infection. Combinations can include two,
   three, four, five or many more different antibody combinations with each directed to a different
   antigen including IEAs of the invention.
            Antibodies to one or more different antigens or IEAs of the invention may be monoclonal or
   polyclonal and may be derived from any mammal such as, for example, mouse, rabbit, pig, guinea
25 pig, rat and preferably human. Polyclonal antibodies may be collected from the serum of infected or
   carrier mammals (e.g., typically human, although equine, bovine, porcine, ovine or caprine may also
   be utilized) and preserved for subsequent administration to patients with existing infections.
   Administration of antibodies for treatment against infection, whether polyclonal or monoclonal, may
   be through a variety of available mechanisms including, but not limited to inhalation, ingestion,
30 and/or subcutaneous (SQ), intravenous (IV), intraperitoneal (ID), and/or intramuscular (IM)
   injection, and may be administered at regular or irregular intervals, or as a bolus dose.
                                                       15

           Monoclonal antibodies to one or more IEAs of the invention may be of one or more of the
   classes IgA, IgD, IgE, IgG, or IgM, containing alpha, delta, epsilon, gamma or mu heavy chains and
   kappa or lambda light chains, or any combination heavy and light chains including effective
   fractions thereof, such as, for example, single-chain antibodies, isolated variable regions, isolated
 5 Fab or Fc fragments, isolated complement determining regions (CDRs), and isolated antibody
   monomers. Monoclonal antibodies to IEAs may be created or derived from human or non-human
   cells and, if non-human cells, they may be chimeric MABs or humanized. Non-human antibodies
   are preferably humanized by modifying the amino acid sequence of the heavy and/or light chains of
   peptides to be similar to human variants, or genetic manipulation or recombination of the non-coding
 0 structures from non-human to human origins. The invention further comprises recombinant
   plasmids and nucleic acid constructions used in creating a recombinant vector and a recombinant
   expression vector the expresses a peptide vaccine of the invention. The invention further comprises
   hybridoma cell lines created from the fusion of antibody producing cells with a human or other cell
   lines for the generation of monoclonal antibodies of the invention.
 5         Antibodies to IEAs and other substances when recognized by the immune system, promote
   phagocytosis and clearing of an infection caused by that microorganism prevent the establishment of
   a disease process. Pretreatment or simultaneous treatment of MTB with certain antibiotics exposes
   immune enhancing antigens of the microorganism to cell killing mechanisms of the immune system
   including, but not limited to phagocytosis, apoptosis, macrophage and natural-killer cell activation,
 0 cytokine and T-cell modulation and complement-initiated cell lysis.
           Another embodiment of the invention is directed to methods for administering to a patient a
   composition containing antibodies of the invention and, preferably, with a pharmaceutically
   acceptable carrier. Antibodies to lEAs of a microorganism, either or both as polyclonal antibodies
   or monoclonal antibodies or cocktails of one or more antibodies, may be administered individually
25 and/or in combinations with each other and/or other vaccines and/or treatments or preventions of the
   microorganism infection. Antibodies to immune enhancing antigens or other targets may be
   administered prophylactically prior to possible infection, or to treat an active or suspected MTB
   infection. Many MTB strains are or are becoming multi-drug resistant (MDR) or extensively drug
   resistant (XDR). MABs of the invention can be used to promote immune clearance and killing of
30 MTB strains that are resistant to antibiotics.
                                                      16

           Another embodiment of the invention is directed to the prophylactic administration of MTB
   antibodies, or antigen in the form of a vaccine, to protect health care workers who administer to TB
   patients and, in particular, patients with multi or extreme drug resistant MTB infections. At present,
   a health care professional, or most anyone, who treats or cares for a patient infected with multi-drug
 5 resistant or extreme-drug resistant TB is at extreme risk for acquiring the same infection as those he
   or she cares for. There is also a substantial risk to all persons within a general health care facility
   that such a TB infection will be acquired by other health care workers at the facility or visitor who
   otherwise have no contact or interaction with such patients. With the prophylactic administration of
   antibodies or vaccines of the invention to health care workers, they are able to care for and attend
 0 these patients. With the administration of immunogenic compositions of the invention, preferably
   monoclonal antibodies or vaccines, a health care worker may be protected from nosocomial and
   occupationally acquired TB infection for weeks, months and longer.
           Preferably the vaccine of immune enhancing antigens and/or antibodies to immune
   enhancing antigens of the invention is administered in conjunction with conventional vaccines
 5 against MTB (e.g., BCG) or as a Prime Boost with another vaccine such as, for example BCG. This
   combined vaccine of the invention provides an enhancement of the immune response generated
   and/or extends the effectiveness and/or length of period of immunity. Enhancement is preferably an
   increase in the immune response to MTB infection such as an increase in the cellular or humoral
   response generated by the host's immune system. An effective amount of vaccine, adjuvant and
 0 enhancing antigen of the invention is that amount which generates an infection clearing immune
   response or stimulates phagocytic activity. Upon administration of the combined vaccine, an
   increase of the cellular response may include the generation of targeted phagocytes, targeted and
   primed natural killer cells, and/or memory T cells that are capable of maintaining and/or promoting
   an effective response to infection for longer periods of time than the conventional vaccine would
25 provide alone. An increase in the humoral response may include the generation of a more diverse
   variety of antibodies including, but not limited to different IgG isotypes or antibodies to more than
   one microbe or more than one MTB molecule that are capable of providing an effective response to
   prevent infection by MTB and/or another microbe as compared to the humoral response that would
   be generated from just a conventional MTB vaccine. Administration preferably comprises
30 combining BCG vaccine and a vaccine antigen that generates a humoral response in the patient to a
   surface antigen of MTB. Preferably the response is to mycolic acid, peptidoglycan,
                                                        17

   lipoarabinomannan and/or another component of the microorganism, preferably one that presents or
   is otherwise exposed on the surface of MTB or secreted during infection. Some substances produced
   by MTB may be toxic to the host immune system or impede immune function. Antibodies that clear
   or neutralize these toxic substances (such as released or free mycolic acid components) can further
 5 act to enhance and improve host immunity.
           Exposure of these MTB antigens to the antibodies of the invention or of the immune system
   of the patient may be augmented or substantially increased by prior or about simultaneous treatment
   with individual or combinations of antibiotics, cytokines and other bactericidal and/or bacteriostatic
   substances (e.g., substances that inhibit protein or nucleic acid synthesis, substances that injury
 0 membrane or other microorganism structures, substances that inhibit synthesis of essential
   metabolites of the microorganism), and preferably one or more antibiotic or substance that attacks
   the cell wall structure or synthesis of the cell wall of the microorganism. Preferably, the antibiotics
   do not cause the release of cell surface antigens, but expose antigens that are not otherwise exposed
   or easily accessible to the immune system. Effective amounts of antibiotics are expected to be less
 5 than the manufacture recommended amount or higher dose, but for short periods of time (e.g. about
   one hour, about 4 hours, about 6 hours, less than one or two day). Examples of such antibiotics
   include, but are not limited to one or more of the chemical forms, derivatives and analogs of
   penicillin, amoxicillin, augmentin, polymyxin B, cycloserine, autolysin, bacitracin, cephalosporin,
   vancomycin, and beta lactam. Antibiotics work synergistically with the immune enhancing antigens
 0 of the invention to provide an efficient and effective preventative or treatment of an infection. The
   antibiotics are not needed in bacteriostatic or bactericidal quantities, which is not only advantageous
   with regard to expense, availability and disposal, these lower dosages do not necessarily encourage
   development of resistance to the same degree, together a tremendous benefit of the invention.
   Preferably, the antibiotic is administered initially to damage and alter the pathogen cell wall and
25 epitopes (for example to produce a non-natural surface and expose cell wall components such as
   mycolic acid non-natural epitopes and other moieties that can be recognized by the patient's immune
   system), followed a short time later with the antibody treatment, so that the IEA is more fully
   accessible to the antibody when administered. The period of time between treatment may be one
   hour or more, preferably 4 hours or more, preferably 8 hours or more, or preferably 12 or 24 hours or
30 more.
                                                         18

            Antibodies to immune enhancing antigens of the invention may be administered directly to a
   patient to treat or prevent infection of MTB via inhalation, oral, SQ, IM, IP, IV or another effective
   route, often determined by the physical location of the infection and/or the infected cells. Treatment
   is preferably one in which the patient does not develop or develops only reduced symptoms (e.g.,
 5 reduced in severity, strength, period of time, and/or number) associated with MTB infection and/or
   does not become otherwise contagious. Antibodies used alone or in conjunction with anti-MTB
   antibiotics will increase the clearance of MTB from the blood or other tissues, or inactivate
   substances that impede immunity as measured by a more rapid reduction of symptoms, more rapid
   time to smear negativity and improved weight gain and general health. In addition, treatment
 0 provides an effective reduction in the severity of symptoms, the generation of immunity to MTB,
   and/or the reduction of infective period of time. Preferably the patient is administered an effective
   amount of antibodies to prevent or overcome MTB infection alone or as adjunctive therapy with
   antibiotics.
            Another embodiment of the invention is directed to methods of identifying one or more
 5 antibodies that promote phagocytosis and killing of mycobacteria. These methods comprise
   screening a population of antibodies and selected the one or more antibodies of those screened that
   are the effective in the activation of phagocytizing cells. As a first step, microbes of interest are
   provided and may be purified, isolated or both. The microbes may be killed, attenuated or live
   microorganisms. Preferred microbes include MTB Mycobacterium smegmatis (MS), or another
 0 microorganism. Optionally, the microbe may be treated with a chemical or physical agent and
   preferred treatment include, for example, exposure to a chemical such as ethanol or gluteraldehyde
   that alters the chemical structure of one or more antigens of the microbe, or physical that alters the
   microbe structure. Alteration can involve a chemical change, such as, for example, removal or
   alteration of a specific chemical moiety, or physical such for example a shifting of a moiety so that a
25 new region or epitope appears. The antibodies to be screened in the methods of the invention can be
   created or generated, or commercially provided. Preferably the antibodies are polyclonal antibodies,
   antibody fragments such as, for example, Fab, Fc and single chain antibodies, or monoclonal derived
   from humans, mice or another mammal. The antibodies are next incubated with deleted
   phagocytizing cells under conditions whereby the activity of the cells can be measured during or
30 after a set period of incubation. Activity can be any cellular activity such as, for example,
   proliferation, the presence or absence of a marker, oxygen uptake or utilization, or determining any
                                                       19

   cellular activity such as, cytokine secretion or preferably, phagocytosis and killing of the microbe.
   Phagocytizing and cytokine secreting cells include many cells for example, macrophages,
   neutrophils, monocytes, mast cells, white blood cells, spleen cells, dendritic cells, phagocytic cell
   lines, HL-60 cells, U-937 cells, DMSO or PMA treated cells, PMA treated U-937 cells, and
 5 combinations thereof. The measurement of activity can be performed by any technique known to
   those skilled in the art and is preferable by observation of the cells, by the appearance of cell
   vacuoles, by microbe or antigen uptake assays, or by measurement of phagocytizing markers.
   Preferably the measurement of activity is performed using a fluorescent-based microscopy assay or
   microbial killing by the phagocyte. Upon determining activity of phagocytizing cells incubated with
 0 the antibodies, one or more of the antibodies that showed activity or an increased activity as
   compared to a control are selected. Controls include, for example, phagocytic activity of the cells
   that have not been treated with any antibodies, the phagocytic activity of the cells after incubation
   with antibodies provided against untreated antigen, or the phagocytic activity of the cells after
   treatment with an agent that does not generate phagocytic activity. Preferably the activity is
 5 enhanced after incubation with antibodies that specifically bind to the microbe or a microbial
   substance. Selected antibodies are preferably useful for the treatment and/or prevent of infection of
   the microbe. Preferably, when the microbe is MTB, the one or more antibodies that show increased
   activity of phagocytizing cells, such as phagocytosis and microbial killing as compared to a control
   can be used to treat and/or prevent MTB infection in a human or other mammal.
 0          Although the invention is generally described in reference to human infection by
   Mycobacteriun tuberculosis,as is clear to those skilled in the art the compositions including many
   of the antibodies, tools and methodology is generally and specifically applicable to the treatment and
   prevention of many other diseases and infections in many other subjects (e.g., cats, dogs, pets, etc.)
   and most especially diseases wherein the causative agent is of viral, bacterial, fungal and parasitic
25 origins.
            The following examples illustrate embodiments of the invention, but should not be viewed as
   limiting the scope of the invention.
   Examples
   Example 1
30          Mice bleeds: Female Balb/c mice were acquired at 3-4 weeks of age; 7-14 days prior to the
   commencement of the study to allow them acclimate to the facility. Thereafter, the mice were tagged
                                                       20

   with ear tags for identification, and bled at the orbital lobe prior to immunization to have a reference
   point. The mice were bled at days 20, 29, 63, and prior to fusion. About 150pL-200ptL of blood was
   collected at each bleed. Antisera Titers for MS 1319-1342 Immunized with Washed Battelle Bugs
   (Batch III @ OD 600nM=1.000).
 5         Sera processing: At each bleed, blood was collected in micro-centrifuge tubes and stored in
   cryo-vials at from 2-8'C overnight. On the next day, samples were centrifuged at 2000 rpm for 10
   minutes at 22'C. The top layer of sera was carefully collected, avoiding red blood cells (RBC), and
   stored in new micro-centrifuge tubes at minus 20'C. In the event that the sera could not be processed
   the next day, sera samples were processed on the same day as the bleed. Sera samples were placed in a
 0 37'C incubator for 30 minutes, and then placed at 2-8'C for 15 minutes. Afterwards, sera samples
   were centrifuged and processed in the manner indicated above. Sera processing was performed on the
   bench-top.
           Killed MTB organisms: M. tuberculosis were grown in Middlebrook broth, washed three times
   in PBS and then suspended in either 70% ethanol or 2% glutaraldehyde activated with sodium
 5 bicarbonate. A third antigen preparation was sonicated (Son), glutaraldehyde killed MTB. Washed
   ethanol-killed and glutaraldehyde-killed MTB were obtained from Battelle at a concentration of
   5.0x10 8CFU/mL. TB Pep 01 was produced by Pi Proteomics at a purity of over 90%.
   Mice Immunizations:
           Whole Bug Immunizations:        Tuberculosis bacterial, strain Battelle (Batch III), killed with
 0 ethanol (EtOH-k) or glutaraldehyde (Glut-k), were washed in PBS to remove potential toxic
   substances. One mL of antigen at original concentration was centrifuged at 12,000 rpm for 10 minutes.
   900pL of the supernatant was discarded and the pellet re-suspended 900pL of PBS by centrifugation at
    12000rpm for 10 minutes. This was repeated two more times for a total of three washes. PBS was
   used because it is isotonic to blood and does not cause hardship to the mice.
25         Adjuvant Immunizations: 50% Alum and Titer-Max Gold (adjuvant).             For the groups with
   adjuvant Titer-Max Gold, the adjuvant comprised 60% of the injection. Antigen was added to the
   adjuvant in a double plunger glass syringe where the emulsion was prepared.             The mice were
   immunized at day 0 and boosted on Day-22, and within the week prior to fusion. Each mouse was
   immunized with 200pL of antigen at varying concentrations to assess immunogenicity.                  The
30 immunizations were delivered subcutaneously, and then intravenously prior to fusion.
                                                       21

   Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA): The sera and supernatants (from hybridoma cells)
   were tested by ELISA to determine antisera and hybridoma titers.
           Fusion and Hybridoma Production: Post-Day 63, mice that had been identified by ELISA for
   high antisera titers were sacrificed and their spleens harvested. The spleen cells were fused to SP2/0
 5 myeloma cells using ethylene glycol, and 100pl seeded and grown in sterile, 96-well culture plates as
   adhesion cells. The fused cells were stored in a 37'C humidified 5% CO2 incubator. The fusion was
   performed in a sterile laminar flow hood.
           Cell Culture: On Day 1, the day after fusion, 1X HAT selection media was introduced to select
   for hybridoma cells. The cells were incubated at 37'C in a humidified 5% CO2 incubator. On Day 9
 0 or 10, they hybridoma supernatants were tested for antibody production. Afterwards, cells were fed
   twice a week, on Mondays and Fridays with hybridoma media that consisted of 15% FBS, 1% L
   Glutamine, 0.1% Gentamycin, 1% Protein-free hybridoma media, and 1X HT media in DMEM. For
   each re-feed; 60pl of supernatant were discarded and 100pl of media added to each well. This process
   was performed using aseptic techniques in a sterile hood. Refer to SOP-1005-00 Basic Cell Culture
 5 Techniques.
           Mycolic Acid-BSA Conjugation:
           Reagents: Mycolic acid from mycobacterium tuberculosis, Sigma Cat: M4537. N-hexane,
   Sigma Cat: 296090. 1-(3-Dimethylaminopropyl) -3-ethylcarbodiimide Hydrochloride, TCI Cat:
   D1601. DMSO, Sigma Cat: D2650. Bovine serum albumin, Sigma Cat: A9418.
 0         Method: 1.2 mg of mycolic acid was dissolved into 25pL of n-hexane. 1.7 mg of BSA was
   dissolved into 1.2 mL of 0. 1M MES buffer pH 6, and 0.06 mL of DMSO was added with vortexing.
   The mycolic acid solution was added slowly to the BSA solution with vortexing. 14 mg of EDC was
   added as dry powder with stirring. The pH was recorded to be 5.5 after all additions and the reaction
   proceeded overnight at 4'C. The following day the conjugate solution was dialyzed against PBS-T
25 in 14k MWCO tubing.
           TB Peptide - Conjugation:
   CRM-Flu Peptide 5906 (NS0243), CRM-TB peptide I (Pep01) (NS0245), CRM-TB peptide 2
   (Pep02) (NS0246) (see Table 1): CRM was brought to 6mg/mL in 0.1M HEPES pH 8 + 0.1%
   Tween 80. A 30 fold excess of 0.2M SBAP in DMSO was added while vortexing and incubated at
30 room temperature for 1 hour. Following incubation, the CRM was dialyzed against PBS-EDTA pH
   7.7. All peptides were dissolved in 0.IM HEPES pH 8 at 10mg/mL. A two fold molar excess of
                                                       22

   0.2M SATA in DMSO was added while vortexing and the solutions incubated at room temperature
   for one hour. The solutions were brought to pH 6 with IM sodium acetate and 1M NH 2OH was
   added to a final concentration of 50mM. The CRM-SBAP was taken out of dialysis and divided into
   3 x 3mg aliquots. The peptides were added to the CRM-SBAP while vortexing and the pH brought
 5 to 8 with IM HEPES pH 8. The conjugates were allowed incubate overnight at 4'C. The
   conjugates were dialyzed against PBS pH 8, put through a 0.2pm filter, and the A28O was read for
   concentration using 1.07 as the 0.1% extinction coefficient of CRM. CRM-Mycolic acid (NS0244):
   CRM was brought to 6mg/mL in 0.1M HEPES pH 8 + 0.1% Tween 80. 5mg of mycolic acid
   dissolved in 100pL of n-hexane. The CRM (3mg) and 2mg of mycolic acid were mixed and 50mg
 0 of EDC was added. The solution had a final pH of 7.9 and incubated overnight at 4'C. The
   conjugate dialyzed into PBS pH 8, filtered to 0.2pm, and the concentration was determined by A280.
                                                   Table 1
                                  NS0243         NS0244        NS0245        NS0246
         CRM Used                 3 mg           3 mg          3 mg          3 mg
         Peptide Used             3.6 mg         2 mg          4.5 mg        3.2 mg
         Final OD                 2.3            0.64          2.4           1.84
         Final Concentration      2.15 mg/mL     0.6 mg/mL     2.24 mg/mL    1.72 mg/mL
           Reagents: Tetanus toxoid obtained from the Serum Institute, Batch 031L1006. Diphtheria
   toxoid (CRM) was obtained from Fina Biosolutions, Rockville, MD. DMSO, Sigma Cat: D2650.
 5 N-Succinimidyl 3-(2-pyridyldithiol)-propionate (SPDP), Molecular BioSciences Cat: 67432. 4
   Maleimidobutyric aced NHS-ester (GMBS), Molecular BioSciences Cat: 98799. TB Peptide,
   PiProteomics, Name Peptide 1 (SEQ ID NO 1; the 16 KD heat-shock MTB antigen "Promiscuous
   Peptide") (Gowthaman et al., JID 204: 1328-1338, 1 November 2011). Dithiothreitol, Spectrum Cat:
   D1184. 0.8 mg of peptide was diluted into 8OpL of 0.1M HEPES pH 8 and 19pL of 0.1M SPDP in
20 DMSO was added with vortexing. In a separate vial, 5 mg of BSA was diluted into 0.48 mL of
   0.1M HEPES pH 7.4 and 7pL of 0.1M GMBS in DMSO was added with vortexing. Both solutions
   were incubated at room temperature for 1 hour. The BSA-GMBS was dialyzed against 2L of PBS
   EDTA pH 6.8. 1M DTT in NaOAc was added to the peptide solution to a final concentration of
    15mM and incubated for 1 hour. The peptide was desalted on a P2 column with PBS-EDTA pH 6.8
25 and 0.2 mL fractions were collected. The fractions were checked for 280nm absorbance and the first
   half of the curve with 280 OD were pooled and added to the BSA-GMBS. The solution was allowed
   to react overnight at 4'C, followed by dialysis into PBS.
                                                      23

   Example 2: Induction of Humoral Immunity
           Mice immunized with MTB killed with ethanol (Figure 1) or glutaraldehyde (Figure 2)
   developed a strong humoral antibody response with good binding to MTB. In addition, mice
   immunized with ethanol-killed MTB had a higher and more rapid rise in antibody titers than did
 5 mice immunized with Glut-killed MTB and SQ was superior to the IV route of immunization. Mice
   immunized SQ with sonicated MTB (Figure 3) had increased antibody responses compared to IV
   and adjuvant, Alum and Tmax (squalene, water oil emulsion) (Figure 4), enhanced antibody to MTB
   in some mice. A summary of the results from these experiments is provided in Table 2.
                                          Table 2 ELISA Results
 0 Sample         Route Mouse ID         Prelim          Day 21         Day 42         Day 63
   EtOH + TB      SQ     1319            0.076           0.276          4.000          4.000
                  SQ     1320            0.074           0.763          3.812          4.000
                  SQ     1321            0.076           0.519          4.000          4.000
                  IV     1322            0.063           1.553          3.346          3.611
 5                IV     1323            0.066           1.857          4.000          4.000
                  IV     1324            0.072           0.164          0.834          1.578
   Glu + TB       SQ     1325            0.072           0.074          0.840          3.051
                  SQ     1326            0.062           0.060          0.272          0.588
                  SQ     1327            0.076           0.102          1.751          2.573
 0                IV     1328            0.064           0.071          0.907          1.481
                  IV     1329            0.094           0.081          0.106          0.135
                  IV     1330            0.086           0.240          0.561          0.915
   Son/Glu+ TB SQ        1331            0.085           0.193          1.722          2.752
                  SQ     1332            0.077           0.094          0.190          0.155
 5                SQ     1333            0.090           0.210          0.854          1.037
                  IV     1334            0.068           0.077          0.152          0.127
                  IV     1335            0.080           0.077          0.097          0.096
                  IV     1336            0.062           0.070          0.085          0.135
   Son/Glu + TB SQ       1337            0.064           0.112          0.628          2.128
30 + Adjuvant     SQ     1338            0.078           0.067          0.169          0.280
                  SQ     1339            0.071           0.096          0.356          2.422
                  IV     1340            0.092           0.101          0.185          0.149
                  IV     1341            0.087           0.086          0.299          2.843
                  IV     1342            0.066           0.308          0.156          0.134
35         Mice immunized with ethanol killed TB had the best response and there was little difference
   observed between immunizations SQ or IV. At day 21 there was a significant difference in titers of
   SQ and IV immunizations. By day 42 and day 63, there was little to no difference. Glutaraldehyde
   killed TB mice developed titers, but not until day 42 as there appeared to be a delay to the immune
   response. Sonication was thought to increase the availability of epitopes, but only 1331 and 1333
                                                      24

   (both SQ) developed titers at day 42 with an increase at day 63. Although adjuvant is supposed to
   increase activity of the immune system, the group with adjuvant had only modestly elevated titers at
   day 63. One possibility is that the epitopes did not respond effectively with this type of adjuvant.
            A strong binding to mycolic acid was demonstrated in post immunization sera and further
 5 studies showed that when spleen cells were fused, the majority of MABs bound to MTB and mycolic
   acid. Mycolic acid impedes opsonophagoctosis and vaccines that induce humoral immunity to this
   cell wall component or antibodies that bind to this lipid would be useful to prevent or treat TB. A
   mycolic acid subunit vaccine or conjugate vaccine that induces humoral immunity to MTB would be
   useful to prevent or mitigate TB infections.
 0          Peptide conjugate vaccine
            Mice immunized with a small TB peptide conjugate vaccine (SEQ ID NO 1) developed
   humoral immunity to this 16 KD heat shock protein. These antibodies to an important TB moiety
   provide another method for humoral immune induction to mitigate against TB infection, either alone
   or with other antibodies raised against one or more other key targets, such as mycolic acid. The
 5  16KD heat shock protein maybe critical for MTB persisting in phagocytes and a vaccine or passive
   IgG therapy might prevent or treat latent TB.
   Example 3: Immunizations
            Mouse 1124 was immunized with TB heat shock peptide-BSA conjugate vaccine (100 pg) on
   days 0, 21, 42 and 112. On day 152 (3 days before sacrifice for splenic fusion), 6 logs of MTB that
 0 were ethanol killed were injected IV. Priming with MTB peptides followed by whole MTB
   challenge elicits a rapid rise to the priming peptide that can be detected within 3 days (Figure 5).
            It is surprising that the titers were higher within 3 days of challenge with whole killed MTB.
   Also, although small, priming with MTB peptides followed by whole MTB challenge elicited a rapid
   rise to the priming peptide that could be detected within 3 days.
25 Example 4: Hybridomas
            Mice immunized with unwashed, ethanol killed MTB (as above), produced numerous
   hybridomas producing antibodies that bound to whole ethanol killed MTB (Figure 6). Surprisingly
   there was a close correlation between serum binding to Mycolic acid and MTB bacilli. This killed
   MTB immunization produced a humoral immune response to mycolic acid and MTB, thus
30 demonstrating that the polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies to mycolic acid, prepared according to
   the invention, can be useful for prevention and also treatment of MTB infections.
                                                         25

   Example 5: Peptide Sequences
           All peptides were synthetically manufactured. A listing of the sequences and the epitopes
   contained within each peptide is shown in Table 3 (Flu = influenza virus).
                                 Table 3 Sequences of Peptides of Vaccines
 5 SEQ ID NO 1 SEFAYGSFVRTVSLPVGADE - TB Pep01
   SEQ ID NO 2 GNLFIAP (Flu HA epitope)
   SEQ ID NO 3 HYEECSCY (Flu NA epitope)
   SEQ ID NO 4 WGVIHHP (Flu HA epitope)
   SEQ ID NO 5 GNLFIAPWGVIHHPHYEECSCY (composite of Flu HA plus NA sequences)
 0 SEQ ID NO 6 WGVIHHPGNLFIAPHYEECSCY (composite of Flu HA plus NA sequences)
   SEQ ID NO 7 SEFAYGSFVRTVSLPVGADEGNLFIAPWGVIHHPHYEECSCY - TB Pep02
           (composite of HSPX with Flu HA, HA and NA sequences)
   SEQ ID NO 8 GNLFIAPWGVIHHPHYEECSCYSEFAYGSFVRTVSLPVGADE
            (composite of Flu sequences of HA HA and NA with HSPX
 5 SEQ ID NO 9 HYEECSCYSEFAYGSFVRTVSLPVGADE (composite of Flu NA with HSPX)
   SEQ ID NO 10 SEFAYGSFVRTVSLPVGADEHYEECSCY (composite of Flu NA with HSPX)
           Mice were immunized with ethanol killed MTB and MTB conjugate vaccine CRM-TB
   PepO1 according to standard protocol. The mice developed brisk antibody titers to TB PepO1,
 0 mycolic acid, and other surface antigens as measured by ELISA (see Figures). Monoclonal
   antibodies were produced according to protocol, characterized and purified. Isolated MABs from
   mice immunized with ethanol killed MTB were generally type IgG I while the conjugate CRM
   Pep01 vaccine MABs were each IgG2 (Table 4). Hybridomas LD7 and CA6 were deposited with
   ATCC (10801 University Boulevard, Manassas, Virginia 20110) as Deposit Numbers        ____  and
 5 _____,    respectively, on November 21, 2017.
           The vaccines induced good serum titers to their respective immunogens. Both mycolic acid
   binding MABs and MTB surface binding MABs were induced by whole killed MTB. MABs to one
   or more immunity enhancing antigens are believed to useful for preventing and/or treating MTB or
   other infections. TB Pep02 induced serum titers to influenza and influenza peptide (SEQ ID NO 5)
30 and MABs were produced to the influenza peptide sequence (Table 4).
                            Table 4. Isolated and Purified Monoclonal Antibodies
              Vaccine             Mouse         MAB         Isotype              Binding
         CRM-TB PepO1              1435      LD7 I BB2       IgG2a              TB PepO1
         CRM-TB PepO1              1435      CA6 II GA8      IgG2b              TB PepO1
    EtOH Killed MTB Lot 3          1323       JG7 III D3      IgG1             MTB Surface
                                                       26

                                  1420       AB9 I A5        IgGI              MTB Surface
     EtOH killed MTB Lot 4                  GG9 II F2        IgG I     Mycolic Acid - MTB Surface
                                            GG9 II F4        IgGI          Mycolic Acid - Free
                                            GG9 II G2        IgGI      Mycolic Acid - MTB Surface
         CRM-TB Pep02             1438      FE111 A5         IgGI        Influenza Peptide (Seq 5)
         CRM-TB Pep02             1438      FE11 II B3       IgGI        Influenza Peptide (Seq 5)
   Example 6
           Phagocytic cells (HL60) differentiated according to standard protocol were incubated with
   ethanol killed MTB according to standard protocol. MTB were rapidly taken into the cells, but
 5 remained unchanged. In addition, the phagocytic cells did not react. In marked contrast, the
   addition of a MAB (purified AB9IA5) that binds to the surface of MTB caused a rapid and profound
   response in the phagocyte. Hybridoma cell lines that express MABs AB9 (designated in the
   examples as subclone IA5), GG9 (designated in the examples as subclone IIG2), and JG7
   (designated in the examples as subclone 11ID3) were deposited with the ATCC (Manassas, Virginia)
 0 on August 15, 2017. Hybridoma AB9 was assigned Accession No. PTA-124418, hybridoma GG9
   was assigned Accession No. PTA-124417, and hybridoma JG7 was assigned Accession No. PTA
    124416. The MTB was engulfed in vacuoles and the organism morphology was rapidly destroyed.
   A fluorescent-based microscopy assay was developed to examine functional antibody activity
   against inactivated Mycobacteriun tuberculosis (MTB) using differentiated HL60 cells in the
 5 presence and/or absence of human complement. Bacteria: Inactivated Mycobacterium tuberculosis
   was obtained from Battelle (West Jefferson, Ohio). Stock MTB: 1mL bacterial suspensions fixed in
   EtOH or glutaraldehyde at a concentration between 1 and 10 x 108 CFU/ml (OD600nM = 1.000).
   Fixative removal: Ethanol and glutaraldehyde fixatives in MTB were removed prior to staining
   and/or mixing with differentiated HL60 cells to prevent damage to macrophages. Centrifugation:
20 Fixative removal, staining, destaining and washing steps were done using centrifugation at
    12000rpm for 5min, unless noted otherwise. The location of the bacterial pellet was noted post
   centrifugation. Using a pipette, ~ 1,000ul of supernatant from the tube was removed without
   disrupting the pellet. The MTB pellet was resuspended with a maximum volume of 1.2mL per
   reagent and gently mixed by pipetting up and down 4-5 times.
25 Procedure for Auramine 0 Staining of MTB
           One ml of stock MTB was pelleted by centrifugation, washed 3 times with sterile tissue
   culture grade water to remove fixative. The MTB pellet was resuspended with 1mL of TB
                                                     27

   Auramine 0 and stained for 15 minutes at room temperature and then washed once with
   demineralized water using centrifugation. The MTB pellet was resuspended with 1mL TB
   Decolorizer (Truant-Moore) for 2-3 minutes then washed once with demineralized water, again
   using centrifugation. The MTB pellet was resuspended with 1mL TB Potassium Permanganate for
 5 2-4 minutes and washed three times with demineralized water using centrifugation. The MTB pellet
   was resuspended in 1mL sterile TC water. Growth and Differentiation of HL60 cells: Cells from the
   HL60 cell line (promyelocytic human leukemia cells: Ass# 98070106, Lot I1D009; Sigma) were
   conditioned before use. Stock HL60s: A frozen stock vial was thawed and expanded into a T-25
   flask to a density of 5x 105 cells/mL in RPMI-1640 media containing 1% L-Glutamine supplemented
 0 with 10% Fetal Bovine Serum (FBS). No antibiotics were added into the culture media.
   Undifferentiated HL60s were conditioned for microscopy studies as follows: Cells were grown in
   200mL suspensions at 371C in a 5% C0 2 humidified atmosphere. The cells were passaged every 3-4
   days at 1-1.5 x 105 cells/mL in RPMI-1640 media containing 1% L-Glutamine and 10% FBS with
   no antibiotics. Differentiated HL60s: Cells were differentiated once a week at 2 x 105 cells/mL in
 5 RPMI-1640 media containing 1% L-Glutamine, 20% FBS, 1.25% Dimethyl Sulfoxide (DMSO) with
   no antibiotics. These cells were ready for use in the assay at day 5 or 6 post induction with DMSO.
   Aseptically, one mL of differentiated HL60 cells at day 5 or 6 was aliquoted into a microcentrifuge
   tube for use in the fluorescent-based microscopy assay. ActinRed 555 Staining of Differentiated
   H160 cells: Differentiated HL60 cells were stained with ActinRed 555 Ready Probes reagent (Cat#
 0 R37112, Life Technologies). Two drops of ActinRed 555 dye were added per mL of media/cells
   which were then gently vortexed and incubated for 5-15 minutes. Antibody Test Samples: Neat
   serum or purified MAB samples were stored at minus 20'C before use, thawed and diluted in
   Phosphate Buffered Saline, pH 7.4 (Cat# 100049, Life Technologies). The test samples selected had
   antibodies against MTB with titers and/or binding activity confirmed by enzyme-linked
25 immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Serum Dilution: Neat serum was diluted to a 1:100 test sample by
   adding 990pL of PBS into a microcentrifuge tube followed with lOuL of neat serum into the 990pL
   PBS. All was vortexed gently to mix. Purified MAB Dilution: One mL of MAB sample was
   prepared by diluting the stock MAB to 100pg/mL in PBS. The 100pg/mL sample was further
   diluted to a lOpg/mL by adding 45p L of PBS into a microcentrifuge tube and adding 1OpL of
30 purified MAB into the 90pL PBS, again vortexing gently to mix. Complement: Human
   Complement was obtained from Thermofisher Scientific, Cat NC988107; Lot 908634 and was
                                                      28

    aliquoted and stored at minus 80 0C until use. Stored sample was diluted in cold DMEM F-12 media
    (Cat# D8062, Sigma) supplemented with Hepes Buffer (Cat# H0887, Sigma). Complement was
    diluted into a 1:16 sample by thawing in an ice bath followed by the addition of 150pL of cold
    media into a microcentrifuge tube with 1OpL of human complement placed into the 150pL of cold
 5  media which was repeatedly pipetted to mix and kept in the ice bath until use. With a Nikon Eclipse
    E600 Fluorescent Microscope, various combinations of test samples were examined that included:
    (1) ActinRed stained differentiated cells, (2) Auramine 0 stained MTB, (3) anti-MTB antibodies and
    (4) Human Complement. Individual or combinations of samples were placed in labeled tubes as
    with the rations (see Table 5): lOOpL HL60s: 100pL MAB/Serum: 10pL MTB: 1OpL C'. With a
 0  pipette, 20ptL of sample were deposited into the middle of a micro slide and examined using 1OOX
    magnification with emersion oil. The Nikon Eclipse E600 Fluorescent Microscope Camera used a
    professional image acquisition software to process and manages images.
                                           Table 5 - FluMic 001 & 002
   Slide / Tube Number                       Test Sample                     Time point
    TS01                      HL60s only + ActinRed 555                     0 min
    TS02                      Inactivated MTB + Auramine 0 Stain            0 min
    TS03                      Differentiated HL60s + Inactivated MTB        3 - 60 min
    TS04                      Differentiated HL60s + Inactivated MTB        3 - 60 min
                              anti-MTB/MAB AB9IA5
    TS01                      Differentiated HL60s only + ActinRed 555      0 min
    TS02                      Inactivated MTB + Auramine 0 Stain            0 min
    TS03                      Differentiated HL60s + Inactivated MTB        3 - 60 min
    TS04                      Differentiated HL60s + Inactivated MTB +      3 - 60 min
                              anti-MTB MAB GG9IIF2
15  Example 7: Antibody Stimulated Enhanced Phagocytic Activity
             Studies were performed using HL 60 phagocytic cells to evaluate the ability of antibodies to
    specific MTB target molecules to enhance phagocytic activity against MTB. Parallel studies using
    Group B Streptococci (GBS) demonstrated that antibodies directed against GBS capsule could
    facilitate rapid phagocytosis and killing of GBS by HL 60 cells. Ethanol killed MTB was incubated
20  in the absence of antibody with the same conditioned HL 60 phagocytic cells. While the MTB was
                                                        29

   taken inside the phagocyte, the Bacillus remained normal in size and morphology and the HL 60
   cells were not stimulated and did not change appearance. The MTB bacilli and HL 60 cells were
   both unchanged despite having the MTB in the cell cytoplasm. This has been considered to be a
   problem for TB latency that MTB can persist unharmed inside phagocytic cells.
 5         To analyze the ability of antibodies to specific MTB substances to stimulate phagocytes and
   enhance phagocytic activity, cloned and purified mouse monoclonal antibodies (MAB) were used to
   various MTB targets and epitopes (Table 4). Incubating MAB AB9 IA5 (Table 4) with MTB alone
   did appear to alter the shape or morphology of the bacillus. The halo zone around the bacillus (cell
   wall/surface matrix) was unchanged. When HL 60 phagocytic cells were added to MTB and the
 0 MAB the cells were rapidly stimulated to engulf and phagocytize the bacilli, which appeared in
   vacuoles not in the cytoplasm. Over 3-10 minutes the vacuoles enlarged and bacillus morphology
   deteriorated. These changes continued to progress over time with large blebs and protrusions
   appearing throughout the cell. The MTB antibody enhanced phagocytosis and the bacillus up take
   and destruction visualized are consistent with the phagocytosis and killing data demonstrated with
 5 antibody and GBS. The MAB AB9IA5 is an IgG I antibody that binds to an unidentified MTB
   surface antigen as determined by ELISA.
           To further determine the ability of antibodies to stimulate phagocytes to engulf and destroy
   MTB, a different purified MAB GG9 II G2 (Table 4) was utilized that binds to a mycolic acid
   surface epitope as measured by ELISA binding to both MTB bacilli and the mycolic acid moiety.
 0 Surprisingly when this MAB was incubated with MTB alone, the morphology changed and the
   bacillus enlarged, with the cell wall/surface matrix halo increasing in size. When HL 60 phagocytic
   cells were incubated with the MTB and the MAB the phagocytes were markedly stimulated and
   extended pseudopods that bound and engulfed the MTB. The pseudopods were actively moving to
   bring the bacilli into vacuoles and over 5-15 minutes the MTB was deformed and degraded. This
25 anti-mycolic acid antibody promoted active phagocytic engagement of MTB and stimulated
   profound up-take of MTB and vacuole formation. Over the next several minutes the bacilli were
   degraded and destroyed. Mycolic acid is a major component of the surface matrix of MTB and
   considered to enable the MTB to be able to avoid effective phagocytosis and killing. Not all mycolic
   acid antibodies bind to the MTB bacillus (Table 4) and therefore will not stimulate phagocytes to
30 engulf and kill MTB. This method of producing MABs that detect binding to whole MTB and target
   molecules and then analyzing the ability of the MAB to stimulate phagocytic HL 60 cells using
                                                      30

   fluorescent-based microscopy is useful for detecting MABs for preventing or treating TB. In
   addition, this method is useful for validating vaccine targets designed to induce antibodies to MTB.
   Example 8
           Purified MAB M1438 FE1I II B3 was induced in a mouse by immunization with non
 5 natural, synthetically produced, MTB and Influenza (Flu) combined peptide antigen (SEQ ID NO 7)
   that was conjugated to the CRM protein. This combined peptide sequence contains 5 Flu peptides
   and one MTB peptide. Peptide 3 and Peptide 6 are non-natural Flu peptide composite epitopes of
   HA that combine the sequences of different Flu serotypes (SEQ ID NOs 2 and 4). Pep 9 is a
   combined peptide of 3 and 6. Flu Pep 10 is a NA peptide that when synthesized with Pep 3 and 6 is
 0 sequence Pep 11 (SEQ ID NOs 5 and 6). TB Pep 02 is a combination of TB Pep 01 (SEQ ID NO 1)
   and Flu Pep 2, 3 and 4 (SEQ ID NO 7). The MAB binding to various epitopes and antigens was
   analyzed by ELISA according to protocol (Figure 7). The MAB bound well to TB Pep 02 at both I
   and 10 pg/ml and at 10pg/ml to Flu Pep II and surprisingly to gluteraldehyde killed MTB (Glut-K
   TB). Binding to Glut-K TB, but not to ethanol killed TB (EtOH-K TB) demonstrates that each type
 5 of microbial inactivation changes the normal antigens of the organism differently producing a
   variety of non-natural antigens or epitopes and in this case ethanol and gluteraldehyde each alter the
   surface moieties of MTB differently thereby creating new and non-natural structures that are
   recognized by the immune system.
   Example 9
 0 Monoclonal antibodies to MTB Enhance Mycobacterial Phagocytosis and Killing
   Opsonophagocytic Assay with complement:
           To assess the ability of anti-MTB MABs to enhance phagocytosis and killing of
   mycobacteria an opsonophagocytic killing assay was performed. HL60 cells were passed every 3-4
   days at I x 105 cells/ml in a T-225 flask with 400 pl of culture media. Cells were differentiated prior
25 to the assay at 2 x 105 in T-225 flask with 400 pl of differentiation media containing 1.25% DMSO.
   Assays were conducted in 96-well plates using HL60 cells in the presence of Clq. Briefly, 40 pl of
   antibody/serum, with appropriate controls, followed by 40 pl of cells at 5x10 7 cells/ml were added to
   each well with selected wells receiving 10 pl of Clq as complement. M. sinegnatiswas cultured
   overnight and percent transmission was read using a Spectronic 20D+. The bacteria were initially
30 diluted to 50% T in 7H9 broth and diluted again with 7H9 broth to 1:500. 10 pl of the final bacterial
   dilution were added to each well of the 96-well plates. Plates were incubated at 36-38'C on a
                                                      31

   shaker. After 4 hours of incubation, 10 pl from each well were transferred to a second 96-well plate
   containing 190 pl of a 0.1% BSA solution and thoroughly mixed. Next 100 pl from each well was
   transferred to a blood agar plate and incubated inverted overnight at 36-38'C. After incubation,
   colony which developed were counted using an AccuCount 1000 colony counter and the results
 5 recorded.
           In the presence of Clq (complement) and MABs that bound to MTB"...HL60 cellsHL60
   cells phagocytized and killed MS (50-58%) compared to control (0%). Further studies injecting
   ethanol killed MTB in mice showed that MTB MABs enhanced clearance of MTB from the blood of
   mice compared to PBS one MAB CC9 II F2 cleared MTB from the blood in 4 hrs. Another MTB
 0 MAB cleared in MTB from the blood in 24 hrs. At 24 hrs, mice given PBS control did not clear the
   MTB (see Figures 8 and 9).
   Example 10
   Opsonophagocytic Assay without complement:
           To assess the ability of anti-MTB MABs to enhance phagocytosis and killing of
 5 mycobacteria an opsonophagocytic killing assay was performed. U-937 cell line was conditioned
   for 3-4 days in media containing PMA. For PMA treatment, U-937 cells were seeded into six flasks
   at 2.5 x10 5 cells/ml or wells of a 96-well plate at 2 x 106 cells/well, either in 200 pl of differentiation
   media containing 0.005% PMA. 24 hours post-differentiation, PMA-containing media was replaced
   with cell culture media. Assays were conducted in 96-well plates using U-937 cells without
 0 complement. Briefly, 40 pl of antibody/serum, with appropriate controls, followed by 40 pl of cells
   at 5x10 7 cells/ml were added to each well with selected wells receiving 10 pl of Clq as complement.
   M. smegmatis was cultured overnight and percent transmission was read using a Spectronic 20D+.
   The bacteria were initially diluted to 50% T in 7H9 broth and diluted again with 7H9 broth to 1:500.
    10 pl of the final bacterial dilution were added to each well of the 96-well plates. Plates were
25 incubated at 36-38'C on a shaker. After 4 hours of incubation, 10 p1 from each well were
   transferred to a second 96-well plate containing 190 pl of a 0.1% BSA solution and thoroughly
   mixed. Next 100 p1 from each well was transferred to a blood agar plate and incubated inverted
   overnight at 36-38'C. After incubation, colonies which developed were counted using an
   AccuCount 1000 colony counter and the results recorded.
30         The analysis of the ability of MABs to MTB to enhance phagocytosis and killing of
   mycobacteria in macrophages was conducted with conditioned U937 cells incubated with MS and
                                                        32

   monoclonal antibodies to MTB. Without antibody MS was not killed, however, in marked contrast,
   U937 with G691 1G2 demonstrated enhanced killing at 67% (OP064 2015).
   Example 11
           Anti-TB MABs modulate IL4 and IFNT cytokine induction in the presence of MTB. Spleen
 5 cells from mice previously injected with ethanol killed MTB were incubated with ethanol killed
   MTB to induce cytokines. Monoclonal antibodies to MTB were pre-incubated with the ethanol
   killed MTB to determine if MABs could modulate cytokine production by pre-sensitized spleen
   cells. Mouse spleen cells from mice previously injected with ethanol killed MTB were incubated
   with MTB. There was a brisk production of both IL4 and IFNT by spleen cells in the absence of
 0 antibody to MTB. MAB to MTB was able to modulate both IL4 and IFNT production (see, Figures
    10-13) and decrease the cytokine responses for ThI and Th2 immunity.
   Example 12
   MABs that Modulate Immunity
           A first step for anti-microbial opsonic MABs is binding to the organism that is to be treated.
 5 Opsonic MABs disclosed herein are useful for prevention or treatment of MTB infections. To be
   maximally therapeutic, MABs have the capability to bind to susceptible, multidrug resistant (MDR)
   MTB and extremely drug resistant (XDR) MTB. As MTB becomes more drug resistant, surface
   structures are altered and MABs that enhance MTB opsonization and phagocytic killing bind drug
   sensitive and highly resistant strains and are the most useful.
 0         Preparation of bacteria for live binding assay: PBS/BSA solution was prepared by diluting
   670 pl of 30% BSA (Sigma-Aldrich life science, Chemie GmBH) in 200 ml of PBS (pH 7.2-7.4).
   PBS-T/BSA solution was prepared by diluting 670 p1 of 30% BSA in 200 ml PBS-T (pH 7.4).
   Susceptible M. tuberculosis strains were diluted after OD measurement, by adding I ml of the
   bacteria in 14 ml PBS/BSA, centrifuging the resulting mixture for 10 minutes at room temperature
25 (2600 rpm) using a Heraeus multifuge (Thermo Fisher Scientific, Waltham, MA) and discarding the
   supernatant. The pellet was re-suspended in 4 ml PBS/BSA, re-centrifuged and the supernatant was
   discarded. A final re-suspension was made in 1.5 ml PBS/BSA solution and the bacteria were
   serially diluted.
           Addition of purified MABs and detection antibody to bacteria: The MABs were diluted from
30 stock concentrations (according to the plate map) in calculated volumes of PBS-T and 60 pl of each
   resulting dilution was dispensed in each well of a round-bottom dilution plate (Sigma-Aldrich life
                                                       33

   science, Chemie GmBH) according to the designed plate map. Fifty microliters (50 pl) of the diluted
   MABs were taken from the first dilution plate and introduced into the wells containing the bacteria.
   The wells without MAB had an equivalent volume of PBS/BSA solution. The plates were sealed and
   incubated for 1 hr at 37'C in a shaking incubator (Thermostar, BMG Labtech, Ortenberg, Germany)
 5 (250 rpm). After incubation, the plates were centrifuged at 250C for 5 - 10 minutes (2600 rpm). The
   entire solution (150 pl) was pipetted out and 200 pl of PBST/BSA solution was dispensed into all
   the wells and re-centrifuged.     This step was repeated once and the solution was pipetted out
   completely. A 100 p1 volume of diluted goat anti-mouse IgG1 detection antibody was dispensed into
   each well of the plate, sealed and incubated in a shaking incubator at 37'C for 30 minutes (250 rpm).
 0 The plate was re-centrifuged for 10 minutes at 25'C (2600 rpm) and washed three times with 200 pl
   PBS-T/BSA.
           After the final wash, the solution was pipetted out completely, 100 pl of TMB substrate
   solution was dispensed into the wells and mixed thoroughly by pipetting the solutions up and down.
   The plate was incubated in the dark for 15 minutes at room temperature without sealing. One
 5 hundred microliters (100 pl) of TMB stop solution was added into the wells after the incubation and
   centrifuged for 5 minutes at 25"C (2600 rpm). A 180 p1 volume of the supernatant was carefully
   taken out (without the pellet) per well, and transferred onto corresponding wells of the ELISA
   NUNC Maxisorp flat-bottom plate. The NUNC plate was read immediately at either 450 nm or 630
   nm, depending on the TMB STOP solution used.
 0         Both GG9 and JG7 bound to live and alcohol fixed MTB including susceptible, MDR and
   XDR strains (Elisa OD >1.0 @ 450 nm). At 10 pg/ml both MABs bound to XDR strains at OD 3.0,
   while binding activity at lower concentrations showed that MAB binding was different between the
   XDR strains and JG7 or GG9. Combinations of different MABs might be useful to treat MTB
   especially MDR and XDR strains.
25 Example 13
           The 16 KD heat shock protein (HSP) is important for MTB to persist in cell sand tissues in a
   latent state. Studies have shown that IgA MABs can provide passive protection against MTB in
   mice and that IgA not IgG is important for this activity. (Lopez et al., J Med Micro 299:447, 2009)
   IgG MABs have been developed to the 16KD HSP using CRM-peptide vaccine. Both active and
30 passive IgG provide an effective method for treating or preventing MTB latency.
                                                      34

          Other embodiments and uses of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from
  consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. All references cited
  herein, including all publications and U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications, are
  specifically and entirely incorporated by reference including U.S. Patent Application Publication No.
5 2014/20150064198 entitled "Enhancing Immunity to Tuberculosis" filed August 29, 2014, U.S.
  Patent Application Publication No. 2013/0195909 entitled "Composite Antigenic Sequences and
  Vaccines" filed January 25, 2013, U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2011/0281754 entitled
  "Compositions andMethod for Detecting, Identifying and QuantitatingMycobacterial-Specific
  Nucleic Acid " filed April 26, 2011, U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2009/0081202 entitled
0 "Immunogenic Compositions and Methods" filed August 27, 2008, and U.S. Provisional Application
  No. 61/746,962 entitled "Multipurpose Ciompositionsfor Collecting, Transportingand Storing
  Biological Samples" filed December 28, 2012. The term comprising, where ever used, is intended to
  include the terms consisting and consisting essentially of. Furthermore, the terms comprising,
  including, containing and the like are not intended to be limiting. It is intended that the specification
5 and examples be considered exemplary only with the true scope and spirit of the invention indicated
  by the following claims.
                                                     35

   Claims
   1. An immunogenic composition comprising an antibody that binds to drug-resistant MTB.
   2. The immunogenic composition of claim 1, wherein the antibody binds to an antigen of MTB
       wherein the MTB has been killed by chemical treatment, heat treatment, alcohol treatment,
 5     glutaraldehyde treatment, sonication, or a combination thereof.
   3. The antibody of claim 2, wherein the antigen comprises a surface antigen, an internal
       antigen, a heat shock protein, a composite peptide, a fusion peptide, a CRM-MTB peptide
       conjugate, or synthetic peptide sequence.
   4. The antibody of claim 1, that promotes phagocytosis and killing of multi-drug resistant MTB
 0     infected cells.
   5. The antibody of claim 1, that promotes phagocytosis and killing of extremely drug resistant
       MTB infected cells.
   6. The antibody of claim 1, which is an IgA, IgD, IgE, IgG or IgM, or isolated Fab or Fc
       portions.
 5 7. The antibody of claim 1, which is an IgA.
   8. The antibody of claim 1, which comprises a monoclonal or a polyclonal antibody.
   9. The monoclonal antibody of claim 8, which is, is derived from, or is a recombinant form of a
       human antibody, a mouse antibody, a mouse-human chimera, or a fully or partly humanized
       from a non-human antibody.
 0 10. A hybridoma that expresses the monoclonal antibody of claim 9.
   11. A vaccine for the treatment of drug-resistant MTB comprising the immunogenic composition
       of claim 1.
   12. A method for treating or preventing infection of drug-resistant MTB in a mammal
       comprising providing an immunological composition containing an antibody that binds to an
25     antigen of MTB, wherein the antigen is or is derived from chemically killed MTB, heat
       killed MTB, alcohol-killed MTB, glutaraldehyde-killed MTB, sonication-killed MTB, or a
       combination thereof, and promotes phagocytosis and killing of MTB infected cells; and
       administering a therapeutically-effective dose of the composition to a mammal in need
       thereof.
                                                    36

   13. The method of claim 12, wherein the phagocytosis and killing is enhanced in the presence of
       the composition as compared to the phagocytosis and killing of mycobacteria in the absence
       of the composition.
   14. The method of claim 12, wherein the composition comprises polyclonal antibodies,
 5     monoclonal antibodies, or both polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies.
   15. The method of claim 12, wherein the antibodies are specifically reactive against an epitope of
       peptidoglycan, mycolic acid, lipoarabinomannan, or a combination thereof.
   16. The method of claim 13, wherein the epitope is chemically or physically altered as compared
       with the naturally occurring epitope.
 0 17. The method of claim 12, wherein the immunological composition is an adjunctive therapy in
       combination with administration of an antibiotic.
   18. The method of claim 12 wherein the immunological composition clears MTB from the blood
       of an MTB infected mammal.
   19. The method of claim 12 wherein the immunological composition modulates immunity to
 5     drug-resistant MTB.
   20. A method for treating or preventing an MTB infection in a mammal comprising
       administering a cocktail comprising an immunological composition containing two or more
       different monoclonal antibodies at least one of which comprises the antibody of claim 1.
   21. The method of claim 20, wherein at least one monoclonal antibody of the cocktail is specific
 0     for one or more of a heat shock protein, a peptidoglycan, a mycolic acid, a
       lipoarabinomannan, a peptidoglycan, a mycolic acid, a lipoarabinomannan, or a combination
       thereof.
   22. The method of claim 20, wherein the cocktail contains multiple different monoclonal
       antibodies, each different monoclonal antibody specifically reactive against a different MTB
25     antigen.
   23. An MTB antigen that comprises an epitope that is an altered form of a naturally occurring
       MTB epitope.
   24. The antigen of claim 23, wherein the epitope comprises or is derived from chemically killed
       MTB, heat-killed MTB, alcohol-killed MTB, glutaraldehyde-killed MTB, sonicated MTB, or
30     a combination thereof.
   25. A vaccine comprising the antigen of claim 23.
                                                    37

  26. The vaccine of claim 25, which is administered before or after a primary vaccine.
  27. The vaccine of claim 26, which is administered from about 2 to about 30 days in advance of
      the primary vaccine.
  28. The vaccine of claim 26, wherein the primary vaccine is BCG, a killed whole-cell or
5     attenuated MTB vaccine.
  29. The vaccine of claim 25, which generates a humoral or cellular immune response in the
      mammal.
  30. The vaccine of claim 29, wherein the humoral immune response comprises generation of
      antibodies specifically reactive against mycolic acid of the surface of MTB.
0 31. The vaccine of claim 29, wherein the humoral immune response comprises generation of
      antibodies to one or more MTB antigens which promote phagocytosis and killing of
      mycobacteria.
  32. The vaccine of claim 29, wherein the cellular immune response comprises generation of
      memory T cells.
5
                                                  38

<removed-date>
                                                                           <U+2736><U+2704><U+2736><U+260E>
                         <U+2727>    <U+2605><U+271E>        <U+270E>         <U+2726><U+2711>        <U+270C><U+2711>   <U+2711><U+2711>         <U+270D><U+2711>       <U+2712><U+2711>
                         <U+271F><U+2725>   <U+2725>         <U+270C><U+270D>        <U+270D>         <U+270D>    <U+270D>          <U+270D>        <U+270D>
                              <U+2720>         <U+270C>         <U+270C>         <U+270C>    <U+270C>          <U+270C>        <U+270C>
                         <U+2720>    <U+2706><U+271E>
                         <U+2706><U+271E>   <U+2749>         <U+271F>         <U+271F>         <U+271F>    <U+271F>          <U+271F>        <U+271F>
<removed-apn>
                         <U+2749>    <U+271D>         <U+261E>         <U+261E>         <U+261E>    <U+261E>          <U+261E>        <U+261E>
                         <U+2716>    <U+2718>
                         <U+2720>    <U+2723><U+271E>
                         <U+271D>    <U+2746>
                         <U+271D>    <U+2721>
                         <U+261B>    <U+271D>
                         <U+2716>    <U+271F>
                                                                                                                 <U+2726>
                                                                                                                 <U+273C>
              <U+271C>
              <U+271B>                                                                                                  <U+2726>
              <U+271D>                                                                                                  <U+273B>
              <U+271A><U+270F>
              <U+2718>
              <U+261B><U+2719>
              <U+2720>
              <U+2718>
              <U+271E><U+271D>                                                                                                 <U+2726>
              <U+2717>                                                                                                  <U+273A>
              <U+2716>     <U+2726>
              <U+2720>     <U+2726>
              <U+271E><U+2715>    <U+2726>
                    <U+270C><U+2725>
              <U+2706>     <U+270C>
              <U+2714>                                                                                                      <U+271C><U+272B>
              <U+261E>     <U+2724>                                                                                                     <U+272A><U+2729>
              <U+271E><U+261E><U+2713>   <U+2723>                                                                                            <U+2726>
                                                                                                                 <U+2712>   <U+2716><U+2713>
              <U+2712><U+2711>    <U+2706><U+271E>                                                                                                         <U+2702>
                    <U+271D>                                                                                                <U+2749>
              <U+270D>     <U+2746>                                                                                                <U+2746>
              <U+270F><U+270C><U+270E>   <U+261B>                                                                                                <U+2605>
                                                                                                                     <U+2721>
                                                                                                                               <U+2733>
              <U+270C><U+270D>    <U+2722>                                                                                                <U+2720>
                    <U+271B>                                                                                                <U+271D>         <U+2701>
              <U+270C>     <U+271D>                                                                                                <U+2706><U+271E>
              <U+271F>     <U+271A><U+270F>                                                                                           <U+2726>
              <U+261E>     <U+2718>                                                                                            <U+270D>   <U+2720>
              <U+261E>     <U+261B><U+2719>                                                                                               <U+271E><U+261E>        <U+274B>
              <U+261B>     <U+2720>                                                                                                <U+271D>
              <U+2721>     <U+2706>
              <U+275A>     <U+261B>
              <U+271F>
              <U+2721>                                                                                                  <U+2726>
              <U+2720>                                                                                                  <U+2711>
              <U+271E><U+271D>
              <U+271D>
              <U+2746>
              <U+2721>
              <U+2720>
              <U+271F><U+271E>
              <U+271D>
              <U+2706>                                                                                                  <U+2726>
              <U+2746>                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                 <U+2726>
                                   <U+2726>         <U+2726>         <U+2726>              <U+2726>          <U+2726>        <U+2726>   <U+2726>   <U+2726>    <U+2726>    <U+2726>
                                   <U+273A><U+2739>        <U+2726><U+2739>        <U+273A><U+2739>              <U+273A><U+2739>
                                                                      <U+2726><U+2739>     <U+2726><U+2739>   <U+273A><U+2739>              <U+2726><U+2739>   <U+273A><U+2739>   <U+2726><U+2739>
                                   <U+2712>         <U+2712>         <U+270D>         <U+270D>     <U+2711>     <U+2711>    <U+270C>               <U+270C>    <U+2726>    <U+2726>
                                                                 <U+273E><U+273D><U+2738><U+2737><U+2735><U+2734> <U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272E><U+272C><U+272D><U+272C>

                                                                                           <U+2737><U+2704><U+2736><U+260E>
<removed-date>
                             <U+2727>
                             <U+271F>
                                  <U+2605><U+271E>
                                  <U+2725>
                                                <U+273A><U+2711>            <U+273B><U+2711>   <U+273C><U+2711>            <U+25BC><U+2711>         <U+270E><U+2711>        <U+2726><U+270D>
                             <U+2725>    <U+2720>             <U+270D>             <U+270D>    <U+270D>             <U+270D>          <U+270D>         <U+270D>
                             <U+2720>    <U+2706><U+271E>            <U+270C>             <U+270C>    <U+270C>             <U+270C>          <U+270C>         <U+270C>
                             <U+2706><U+271E>   <U+2749>             <U+271F>             <U+271F>    <U+271F>             <U+271F>          <U+271F>         <U+271F>
                             <U+2749>    <U+271D>             <U+261E>             <U+261E>    <U+261E>             <U+261E>          <U+261E>         <U+261E>
<removed-apn>
                             <U+2716>    <U+2718>
                             <U+2720>    <U+2723><U+271E>
                             <U+271D>    <U+2746>
                             <U+271D>    <U+2721>
                             <U+261B>    <U+271D>
                             <U+2716>    <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                <U+273C>
              <U+271C>
              <U+271B>                                                                                                                                 <U+2726>
              <U+271D>                                                                                                                                 <U+273B>
              <U+271A><U+270F>
              <U+2719>
              <U+2723>
                    <U+275A>
              <U+2718>
              <U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+2717>                                                                                                                                 <U+2726><U+273A>
              <U+2716>
              <U+2720>         <U+2726><U+2726>
              <U+2715><U+271E>        <U+2726>
              <U+2706>         <U+270C><U+2725>
              <U+2714>         <U+270C>                                                                                                                            <U+271C><U+272B>
              <U+261E>         <U+2724>                                                                                                                                 <U+272A><U+2729>
              <U+271E><U+261E><U+2713>                                                                                                                               <U+2726>
              <U+2726><U+270D>
                        <U+2723>
                        <U+2706><U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                <U+2712>    <U+2716><U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                     <U+2749>             <U+2733>
              <U+270D>         <U+271D>                                                                                                                            <U+2746>
              <U+270F><U+270C><U+273A>       <U+2746>                                                                                                                            <U+2605>         <U+2733>
                        <U+261B>                                                                                                                            <U+2721>
              <U+2711>         <U+2722>                                                                                                                            <U+2720>
              <U+270D>         <U+271B>                                                                                                                            <U+271D>         <U+2701>
              <U+270C>         <U+271D>                                                                                                                       <U+2726><U+270D>   <U+2706><U+271E>
              <U+271F>         <U+271A><U+270F>                                                                                                                           <U+2720>
              <U+261E>         <U+2718>                                                                                                                            <U+261E><U+271E>
              <U+261E>         <U+261B><U+2719>                                                                                                                           <U+271D>         <U+274B>
              <U+261B>         <U+2720>
              <U+2721>         <U+2706>
              <U+275A>
              <U+271F>         <U+261B>                                                                                                                       <U+2726>
              <U+2721>                                                                                                                                 <U+2711>
              <U+2720>
              <U+271E><U+271D>
              <U+271D>
              <U+2746>
              <U+2721>
              <U+2720>
              <U+271F><U+271E>                                                                                                                                <U+2726>
              <U+271D>                                                                                                                                 <U+270C>
              <U+2706>
              <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                <U+2726>
                                       <U+2726><U+273A>            <U+2726><U+2726>                 <U+2726><U+273A>            <U+2726><U+2726>         <U+2726><U+273A>        <U+2726><U+2726>   <U+2726><U+273A>   <U+2726><U+2726>       <U+2726><U+273A>       <U+2726><U+2726>
                                            <U+2739>             <U+2739>                  <U+2739>          <U+2739>     <U+2739>     <U+2739>    <U+2739>                <U+2739>        <U+2739>        <U+2739>
                                       <U+2712>             <U+2712>                  <U+270D>             <U+270D>     <U+2711>     <U+2711>    <U+270C>             <U+270C>        <U+2726>        <U+2726>
                                                                                      <U+273E><U+273D><U+2738><U+2737><U+2735><U+2734> <U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272E><U+272C><U+272D><U+272C>

<removed-date>
                                                                                        <U+260E><U+2704><U+2736><U+260E>
                             <U+2727>     <U+2605><U+271E>                     <U+270C><U+270D>        <U+2711>    <U+270D>         <U+2712><U+270D>         <U+273A>    <U+273B><U+270D>
                             <U+271F><U+2725>    <U+2725>                                <U+270D><U+270D>   <U+270D><U+270D>                   <U+270D><U+270D>
                                   <U+2720>                      <U+270D>                        <U+270D>               <U+270D>
                             <U+2720>     <U+2706><U+271E>                     <U+270C>         <U+270C>    <U+270C>         <U+270C>          <U+270C>    <U+270C>
                                   <U+2749>                      <U+271F>         <U+271F>    <U+271F>         <U+271F>          <U+271F>    <U+271F>
                             <U+271E><U+2706><U+2749>   <U+271D>                      <U+261E>         <U+261E>    <U+261E>         <U+261E>          <U+261E>    <U+261E>
                                   <U+2718>
<removed-apn>
                             <U+2716>
                             <U+2720>     <U+271E><U+2723>
                             <U+271D>     <U+2746>
                             <U+271D>     <U+2721>
                             <U+261B>     <U+271D>
                             <U+2716>     <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                         <U+2726><U+273C>
              <U+271C>
              <U+271B>
              <U+271D>
              <U+270F><U+271A><U+2719>
              <U+2723>                                                                                                                          <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                         <U+273B>
                    <U+275A>
                    <U+2739>
              <U+271F>
                    <U+275A>
              <U+2718>
              <U+271E><U+271D>
              <U+2717>         <U+2726>                                                                                                                <U+2726>
              <U+2716>         <U+2726><U+2726>                                                                                                               <U+273A>
              <U+2720>         <U+270C><U+2725>
              <U+271E><U+2715>        <U+270C>
              <U+2706>
              <U+2714>         <U+2724>
              <U+261E>                                                                                                                               <U+271C><U+272B>
              <U+261E><U+271E>        <U+2723>                                                                                                                          <U+272A><U+2729>
              <U+2713>         <U+2706><U+271E>                                                                                                               <U+2726>
              <U+273B><U+270D>        <U+271D>                                                                                                                <U+2712>    <U+2716><U+2713>
                        <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+2733>
              <U+270D>         <U+261B>
              <U+270C><U+270F>        <U+2722>                                                                                                                     <U+2746>         <U+2733>
              <U+270C><U+270D>        <U+271B>                                                                                                                     <U+2605>
                        <U+271D>                                                                                                                     <U+2721>
              <U+270D>         <U+271A><U+270F>                                                                                                                    <U+2720>         <U+2701>
              <U+270C>                                                                                                                               <U+271D>
              <U+271F>         <U+2718>                                                                                                                <U+2726><U+270D>   <U+271E><U+2706>
              <U+261E>         <U+261B><U+2719>                                                                                                                    <U+2720>
              <U+261E>         <U+2720>                                                                                                                     <U+271E><U+261E>        <U+274B>
              <U+261B>         <U+2706>                                                                                                                     <U+271D>
              <U+2721>         <U+261B>
              <U+275A>
              <U+271F>
              <U+2721>
              <U+2720>                                                                                                                          <U+2726>
              <U+271D><U+271E>                                                                                                                         <U+2711>
              <U+271D>
              <U+2746>
              <U+2721>
              <U+2720>
              <U+271F><U+271E>
              <U+271D>
              <U+2706>                                                                                                                          <U+2726>
              <U+2746>                                                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                         <U+2726>
                                        <U+2726><U+273A>       <U+2726><U+2726>            <U+2726><U+273A>             <U+2726><U+2726>         <U+2726><U+273A>             <U+2726><U+2726>   <U+2726><U+273A>       <U+2726><U+2726>       <U+2726><U+273A>   <U+2726><U+2726>
                                             <U+2739>        <U+2739>        <U+270D><U+2739>             <U+270D><U+2739>         <U+2711><U+2739>             <U+2711><U+2739>        <U+2739>        <U+2739>
                                        <U+2712>        <U+2712>                                                           <U+270C>        <U+270C>        <U+2726><U+2739>   <U+2726><U+2739>
                                                                                   <U+273E><U+273D><U+2738><U+2737><U+2735><U+2734> <U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272E><U+272C><U+272D><U+272C>

                                                                                          <U+2739><U+2704><U+2736><U+260E>
<removed-date>
                             <U+2727>     <U+271E><U+2605>                     <U+273C>
                                                          <U+270D><U+270D>   <U+270D><U+270D>
                                                                         <U+270E>
                                                                         <U+270D><U+270D>
                                                                                   <U+2726>
                                                                                   <U+2712><U+270D>
                                                                                           <U+270C>
                                                                                           <U+2712><U+270D>
                                                                                                     <U+2711>
                                                                                                     <U+2712><U+270D>
                             <U+271F>     <U+2725>
                                                               <U+25BC>
                             <U+2725>     <U+2720>                      <U+270C>    <U+270C>         <U+270C>         <U+270C>       <U+270C>         <U+270C>
                             <U+2720>     <U+271E><U+2706>                     <U+271F>    <U+271F>         <U+271F>         <U+271F>       <U+271F>         <U+271F>
                             <U+271E><U+2706><U+2749>   <U+2749>
                                   <U+271D>                      <U+261E>    <U+261E>         <U+261E>         <U+261E>       <U+261E>         <U+261E>
                             <U+2716>     <U+2718>
                                   <U+2723><U+271E>
<removed-apn>
                             <U+2720>
                             <U+271D>     <U+2746>
                             <U+271D>     <U+2721>
                             <U+261B>     <U+271D>
                             <U+2716>     <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                           <U+2726>
              <U+271C>                                                                                                                            <U+273C>
              <U+271D>
              <U+2706>
              <U+2746>
              <U+2605>
              <U+2714>
              <U+2716>
              <U+2746>
              <U+271B>
                    <U+275A>                                                                                                                      <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                           <U+273B>
              <U+271D>
              <U+270F><U+271A><U+2719>
              <U+2723>
                    <U+275A>
                    <U+2739>
              <U+271F>                                                                                                                            <U+2726>
                        <U+2726><U+2726>                                                                                                                 <U+273A>
                    <U+275A>
              <U+2718>         <U+2726>
              <U+271E><U+271D>        <U+270C><U+2725>
              <U+2717>         <U+270C>
              <U+2716>         <U+2724>                                                                                                                       <U+271C><U+272B>
              <U+2720>
              <U+271E><U+2715>
              <U+2706>
              <U+2714>
                        <U+2723>
                        <U+2706><U+271E>
                        <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                           <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                           <U+2712>    <U+2716><U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                     <U+272A><U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2733>
              <U+261E>         <U+2746>                                                                                                                       <U+2749>
              <U+261E><U+271E>        <U+261B>                                                                                                                       <U+2746>         <U+2733>
              <U+2713>         <U+2722>                                                                                                                       <U+2605>
              <U+2711>         <U+271B>                                                                                                                       <U+2721>         <U+2701>
              <U+2712><U+270D>        <U+271D>                                                                                                                       <U+2720>
                        <U+271A><U+270F>                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
              <U+270C><U+270F>                                                                                                                                <U+271E><U+2706>
              <U+273C>         <U+2718>                                                                                                                  <U+2726><U+270D>
              <U+270D><U+270D>        <U+2719><U+261B>                                                                                                                      <U+2720>         <U+274B>
              <U+270C>         <U+2720>                                                                                                                       <U+261E><U+271E>
              <U+271F>         <U+2706>                                                                                                                       <U+271D>
              <U+261E>         <U+261B>
              <U+261E>
              <U+261B>
              <U+2721>                                                                                                                            <U+2726><U+2711>
              <U+275A>
              <U+271F>
              <U+2721>
              <U+2720>
              <U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+271D>
              <U+2746>
              <U+2721>                                                                                                                            <U+2726>
              <U+2720>                                                                                                                            <U+270C>
              <U+271F><U+271E>
              <U+271D>
              <U+2706>
              <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                           <U+2726>
                                        <U+2726><U+273A>       <U+2726><U+2726>                 <U+2726><U+273A>        <U+2726><U+2726>                <U+2726><U+273A>        <U+2726><U+2726>   <U+2726><U+273A>       <U+2726><U+2726>       <U+2726><U+273A>   <U+2726><U+2726>
                                             <U+2739>        <U+2739>             <U+270D><U+2739>        <U+270D><U+2739>             <U+2711><U+2739>     <U+2711><U+2739>              <U+2739>        <U+2739>
                                        <U+2712>        <U+2712>                                                             <U+270C>        <U+270C>        <U+2726><U+2739>   <U+2726><U+2739>
                                                                                        <U+273E><U+273D><U+2738><U+2737><U+2735><U+2734> <U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272E><U+272C><U+272D><U+272C>

                                                   <U+273A><U+2704><U+2736><U+260E>
<removed-date>
                                                               <U+271D><U+2706><U+2763> <U+271D><U+2706><U+2763><U+2660>
                                                                         <U+2749>
                                                          <U+2749>
<removed-apn>
                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                  <U+2660> <U+2726>    <U+270C>
                                                          <U+2724>              <U+2724>
                                                          <U+270C><U+2726>
                                                               <U+2701> <U+270C><U+2726><U+2701>
                                                          <U+271B>
                                                               <U+275A> <U+271B><U+275A>
                                                          <U+271D>              <U+271D>
                       <U+271C>
                       <U+2706>
                       <U+261B><U+271E>
                       <U+271F>
                       <U+2714>
                       <U+275A>
                       <U+2720>
                       <U+2721>
                       <U+270F>
                            <U+275A>                                                                              <U+2706>
                       <U+271F>                                                                                   <U+271E><U+261B>
                       <U+2723>                                                                                   <U+271F>
                       <U+2714>                                                                                   <U+2714>
                       <U+271B>                                                                                   <U+275A>
                                                                                                           <U+2720>
              <U+270C><U+2726>
                   <U+2701>
                       <U+271B>
                       <U+271D>                                                                                   <U+2721>
                                                                                                                <U+275A>
              <U+271B>
                   <U+275A>   <U+271A><U+270F>
                       <U+2718>
                       <U+261B><U+2719>
              <U+271D>        <U+2720>
              <U+2706>
              <U+261B>
              <U+2726><U+2726>
                       <U+2716>
                       <U+2720>
                       <U+2718>
                                                                                                                    <U+2733>
              <U+270C><U+2725>       <U+271F>                                                                                            <U+2733>
                       <U+2746>
              <U+270C>        <U+2717>
              <U+2724>        <U+273B>    <U+2725>                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                           <U+270C><U+270C>       <U+2701>
              <U+2746>
              <U+2721>
              <U+2720>
                       <U+2726>
                       <U+270C>
                       <U+2718>                                                                                   <U+2746>
                                                                                                             <U+2768>
              <U+271F>        <U+271E><U+271D>                                                                                  <U+2716>        <U+274B>
              <U+2712><U+2711>       <U+2717>
              <U+270C><U+270C>       <U+273A>
                       <U+273A>
              <U+271F>
              <U+261E>
                       <U+270C>
                       <U+2746>
                            <U+2768>
                       <U+2716>
                       <U+2706>
                       <U+261B>
                       <U+271D>
                       <U+271F>
                       <U+261B>                                                                                   <U+2711>
                       <U+261B>
                       <U+271B>
                       <U+2749>
                                                                                                           <U+2712>
                                                                                                           <U+2746>
                                                                                                                <U+2768>
                       <U+2746>                                                                                   <U+2716>
                       <U+271E><U+2706>
                       <U+2713><U+275A>
                                <U+2726>        <U+2726>    <U+2726>      <U+2726>              <U+2726>          <U+2726>        <U+2726>        <U+2726>    <U+2726>
                                <U+2726><U+2726>       <U+2726><U+273A>   <U+2726><U+2726>     <U+2726><U+273A>             <U+2726><U+2726>         <U+2726><U+273A>       <U+2726><U+2726>       <U+2726><U+273A>   <U+2726><U+2726>
                                     <U+2739>   <U+270D><U+2739>   <U+270D><U+2739>     <U+2711><U+2739>             <U+2711><U+2739>              <U+2739>        <U+2739>
                                <U+2712>                                              <U+270C>        <U+270C>        <U+2726><U+2739>   <U+2726><U+2739>
                                                     <U+260E>
                                                    <U+273E> <U+2738><U+2737><U+2735><U+2734><U+2730>              <U+2704><U+2702><U+2746>

                                                                          <U+273B><U+2704><U+2736><U+260E>
<removed-date>
                                                    <U+2716><U+271E>
                                                    <U+2722>
                                                    <U+2746>
                                          <U+271B>         <U+2722><U+271E>
                                          <U+271D>         <U+2749>
                                          <U+271A><U+270F>
                                          <U+2718>         <U+261B>
                                                    <U+2722>
                                          <U+2719><U+261B>
                                          <U+2720>         <U+261E>
                                                         <U+2768>
                                          <U+2706>         <U+2706>
                                          <U+261B>         <U+261B>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2716><U+271E>
              <U+2722>
              <U+2746>
              <U+2722><U+271E>                                                                                                       <U+273A>
              <U+2749>                                                                                                        <U+2720>
              <U+261B>                                                                                                        <U+261E>
              <U+2722>                                                                                                        <U+2711>
                                                                                                                       <U+270C>
                                                                                                                       <U+271B>
              <U+261E>
                <U+2736>                                                                                                      <U+275A>
                   <U+2768>
                       <U+271F>                                                                                               <U+2726>
              <U+271F>        <U+2720>                                                                                               <U+270C>
                       <U+271D>                                                                                               <U+2722>
              <U+2723>        <U+2746>                                                                                               <U+275A>
              <U+2714>        <U+2749>
              <U+271B>                                                                                                        <U+273C>
                       <U+2720>                                                                                               <U+2722>
                            <U+275A>
              <U+2720>                                                                                                        <U+275A>
              <U+2749>        <U+2716>
              <U+261B>        <U+2746>                                                                                               <U+270C>
              <U+2718>        <U+2721>                                                                                               <U+2723>
              <U+2717>        <U+2723>                                                                                               <U+275A>
              <U+2706>        <U+261B>
                       <U+2721>                                                                                               <U+2711>
              <U+261B>        <U+2716>                                                                                               <U+270C>
              <U+271F>                                                                                                        <U+2718>
              <U+2706>        <U+2718>
                            <U+2768>
                                                                                                                       <U+2720>
                       <U+270F>                                                                                               <U+270C><U+270C>
              <U+271E><U+261B>       <U+271C>                                                                                               <U+2718>
              <U+271F>        <U+271B>                                                                                               <U+2720>
              <U+2714>        <U+271D>
              <U+275A>        <U+271A><U+270F>                                                                                              <U+273A>
              <U+273C>
              <U+2712>
              <U+270C><U+270C>
                       <U+2718>
                       <U+261B><U+2719>
                                                                                                                       <U+2723>
                                                                                                                       <U+2720>    <U+2716><U+271E>
                                                                                                                                 <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                     <U+2733>
              <U+270D>
                <U+2736>      <U+2720>
                       <U+2717>
                            <U+2739>                                                                                          <U+273B>
                                                                                                                       <U+2718>
                                                                                                                       <U+2716>
                                                                                                                            <U+2746>
                                                                                                                            <U+261E>        <U+2733>
              <U+2712><U+270C>                                                                                                            <U+261B>
              <U+270C>        <U+2714>                                                                                               <U+273B>    <U+2716><U+271E>
                       <U+2718>                                                                                               <U+2723>    <U+2721>        <U+2701>
              <U+271F>        <U+271D><U+271E>                                                                                              <U+2716>    <U+271B>
              <U+261E>
                       <U+2717>                                                                                                    <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                 <U+2768>
              <U+261E>                                                                                                        <U+2718>
                                                                                                                       <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                     <U+274B>
              <U+261B>        <U+2716>                                                                                               <U+2706>
              <U+2721>        <U+2720>
              <U+275A>        <U+2715><U+271E>                                                                                              <U+2712>
                       <U+2706>                                                                                               <U+2718>
              <U+271D><U+271E>       <U+2714>                                                                                               <U+2706>
                   <U+2768>
              <U+2605><U+271E>       <U+261E>                                                                                               <U+270C><U+270C>
              <U+271D>        <U+261E><U+271E>
              <U+2722>        <U+2720>                                                                                               <U+271B><U+271E>
              <U+2714>        <U+2722><U+271E>
              <U+2716>                                                                                                        <U+2712>
              <U+261B>        <U+261E><U+2713>                                                                                              <U+271E><U+2716>
              <U+2721>
              <U+2746>
                   <U+275A>
                                                                                                                       <U+270C><U+270C>
              <U+261E>                                                                                                        <U+2746>
              <U+261B>                                                                                                        <U+2716>
              <U+2716><U+271E>                                                                                                       <U+270D>
              <U+2721>                                                                                                        <U+275A>
              <U+271B>                                                                                                        <U+2716>
              <U+2718>
                   <U+2768>
                                                                                                                       <U+270C>
                                                                                                                       <U+2716>
                                                                                                                       <U+271B>
                                                                                                                       <U+2726>
                                                                                                                       <U+270C>
                                                                                                                       <U+2746>
                                                                                                                       <U+2746>
                                <U+2726>    <U+2726>         <U+2726>                 <U+2726>         <U+2726>                  <U+2726>         <U+2726>    <U+2726>    <U+2726>
                                <U+2726><U+2739>   <U+273A><U+2739>        <U+2726><U+2739>                <U+273A><U+2739>        <U+2726><U+2739>                 <U+273A><U+2739>        <U+2726><U+2739>   <U+273A><U+2739>   <U+2726><U+2739>
                                <U+2712>    <U+270D>         <U+270D>
                                                             <U+260E>
                                                                 <U+2711>
                                                             <U+273E> <U+2738><U+2737><U+2735><U+2734> <U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272E>
                                                                          <U+2711>
                                                                                <U+2746>   <U+2746><U+2702>
                                                                                         <U+272F><U+2731>
                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                              <U+270C>
                                                                                                   <U+2702><U+2746>
                                                                                                        <U+270C>    <U+2726>    <U+2726>

                                                                        <U+273C><U+2704><U+2736><U+260E>
<removed-date>
                                      <U+271F>
                                      <U+2723>            <U+271F>
                                      <U+2706>            <U+2723>
                                      <U+2718>            <U+2706>
                                      <U+271D><U+271E>           <U+2718>
                                      <U+2717>            <U+271E><U+271D>
                                      <U+2716>            <U+2717>
                                      <U+2720>
                                      <U+2722>
                                        <U+270E> <U+2716><U+2720><U+270E>
                                      <U+261B>    <U+2722>
                                      <U+2749>            <U+261B><U+2749>
                                      <U+271B><U+2725>           <U+271B>
                                      <U+271B>            <U+2725>
                                      <U+2746>            <U+271B>
                                                   <U+2746>
                                      <U+2749>
                                           <U+271D>
                                                   <U+2749>
<removed-apn>
                                                        <U+271D>
                                           <U+271D>
                                           <U+2706>
                                                        <U+271D>
                                           <U+2763>
                                                        <U+2706>
                                      <U+2726>                 <U+2763>
                                      <U+270C>            <U+270C>
                                                                                                     <U+2732><U+272E><U+272C> <U+2731>    <U+2746>       <U+2746>   <U+2701>
              <U+271F>
                                                                                                     <U+2746><U+2746>
                                                                                                              <U+271F><U+2701><U+270D><U+270C> <U+270C><U+2701> <U+274B>
                                                                                                                      <U+2746>
              <U+2706>
              <U+2720>
              <U+271E><U+2723>
              <U+271D>
              <U+2706>
                                                                                                     <U+2732><U+272D>       <U+2746>
                                                                                                                  <U+272D> <U+2731>         <U+25BC>   <U+260E>
              <U+2746>
              <U+271F>
              <U+2714>
              <U+261B><U+271E>                                                                                     <U+2702>
                                                                                                          <U+272C>   <U+2721><U+2720><U+274A><U+261E><U+261B><U+25CF>
              <U+2721>
              <U+2746>
              <U+2605>
              <U+2706>
              <U+261B>
                                                                                                     <U+2702>
                                                                                                          <U+272C>   <U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+2731><U+274A><U+272E>                           <U+2733>
              <U+271C><U+2711>
              <U+2726>
                   <U+2701>
                                                                                                     <U+271E><U+2737> <U+275A><U+271D><U+2702>       <U+2702>
                                                                                                                      <U+272C>               <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                           <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2720>    <U+2701>
              <U+271B>                                                                                                                       <U+2723><U+271E>
                   <U+275A>
              <U+275B><U+2713>
              <U+270F><U+271D>                                                                                     <U+2706><U+2737> <U+275A><U+271D><U+275A>       <U+2702>
                                                                                                                   <U+272C>                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2706>    <U+274B>
              <U+270D>                                                                                                                       <U+2746>
              <U+271B><U+271E>
              <U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270C>                                                                                     <U+2706><U+2706> <U+2702><U+272E><U+2702> <U+2701> <U+274B>
              <U+2720>
              <U+275A>
              <U+270D>
              <U+25BC>
              <U+2712>
                                                                                                     <U+2737>    <U+2706> <U+2702><U+272E><U+2702> <U+2701> <U+274B>
              <U+270C>
              <U+261E>
              <U+2716>
              <U+2720>
              <U+2722><U+271E>
                                                                                                     <U+260E> <U+2702><U+272E><U+2702> <U+2701> <U+274B>
              <U+275A><U+271E>
              <U+2721>
              <U+2714>
                   <U+275A>
                                                                                                     <U+2704> <U+2702><U+272E><U+2702> <U+2701> <U+274B>
                                                                                                     <U+2725> <U+2702><U+272E><U+2702> <U+2701> <U+274B>
                       <U+2726><U+2726>   <U+2726><U+2726>   <U+2726><U+2726>                         <U+2726><U+2726>   <U+2726><U+2726>              <U+2726><U+2726>        <U+2726><U+2726>   <U+2726><U+2726>   <U+2726><U+2726>
                       <U+2726><U+2739>   <U+273A><U+2739>   <U+2726><U+2739>                         <U+273A><U+2739>   <U+2726><U+2739>              <U+273A><U+2739>        <U+2726><U+2739>   <U+273A><U+2739>   <U+2726><U+2739>
                       <U+2712>    <U+270D>    <U+270D>                 <U+2711>        <U+2711>                    <U+270C>         <U+270C>    <U+2726>    <U+2726>
                                               <U+273E> <U+2738><U+2737><U+2735><U+2734> <U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272E>
                                               <U+260E>                      <U+2746><U+2746><U+2702>
                                                                            <U+272F><U+2731>
                                                                             <U+2704>        <U+2702><U+2746>

                                                                   <U+273D><U+2704><U+2736><U+260E>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                <U+2716>                <U+271C>
                                <U+2720>
                                <U+2749>
                                                      <U+275A>
                                <U+2749><U+271E>
                                                      <U+271D>
                                                      <U+2706>
                                                      <U+2763>
                                <U+271F>                <U+273A><U+2711>
                                     <U+270E>
                                <U+2714>
                                <U+271D>
                                <U+2746>
                                                 <U+270F><U+2726>
                                                 <U+270C><U+2713>       <U+272A><U+273A>         <U+272A><U+273A><U+273A>           <U+272A><U+2726><U+273A>       <U+272A><U+2712><U+273A>       <U+272A><U+2712><U+273A>
              <U+2725>                 <U+261E>                <U+2711>                                                              <U+273A><U+2726>
                                                          <U+25BC>
              <U+2746>
                   <U+2768>
                                <U+2723>                <U+275A><U+271E>                                                             <U+2726><U+2711>
              <U+271F>                 <U+2720>                <U+271E>
              <U+271F>
              <U+2746>
              <U+2723>        <U+270C>
                            <U+2746>   <U+261E>
                                <U+271F><U+2739>
                                                 <U+270E>
                                                 <U+2723>
                                                 <U+2723>
                                                                                                                <U+2706>
                                                                                                                <U+2714>
              <U+2706><U+271E>       <U+2722>        <U+261E>                                                                               <U+261E>
              <U+2749>        <U+2716>                                                                                        <U+261E><U+271E>
              <U+2749><U+271E>       <U+2706>                                                                                        <U+271B>
                       <U+2746>                                                                                        <U+2746>
              <U+2749>        <U+271F><U+2749>                                                                                       <U+2749>
                   <U+270E>
              <U+2746><U+271E>       <U+2749>                                                                                        <U+2723>
              <U+2721>        <U+2720>                                                                                        <U+271E><U+2746>
              <U+2720>        <U+2722>                                                                                        <U+2716>
              <U+271D>        <U+2726>                                                                                        <U+2716>
              <U+2722>        <U+273B><U+2749>                                                                                       <U+2706>
              <U+2746>
              <U+271B>
              <U+261B>
                       <U+2718>                                                                                        <U+2746>
                                                                                                                <U+271E><U+2706><U+2749>
                                                                                                                              <U+2733>
              <U+2722>
              <U+261E>
                       <U+2718>
                       <U+271E><U+271D>
                       <U+2717>                 <U+270C>
                                             <U+2746>                                                         <U+2735><U+2726>       <U+2722>         <U+2733>
                                                          <U+2726>                <U+2726>       <U+2726>         <U+2726>
                   <U+2768>
                                         <U+2722>                                                                      <U+2749><U+2739>
              <U+271E><U+2722>
              <U+271D>
                       <U+271B>
                       <U+2746>
                       <U+261E>
                                         <U+272A>                                                                      <U+2746>
                                                                                                                <U+271D>
                                                                                                                          <U+2701>
              <U+2722>
                   <U+2768>
                       <U+275A>                                                                                        <U+2720>
              <U+261B>        <U+261B>                                                                                                  <U+274B>
              <U+2723>        <U+271D>                                                                                        <U+2722>
                                                                                                                      <U+270E>
              <U+2746>        <U+2722>                                                                                        <U+2720>
              <U+2718>        <U+2720>                                                                                        <U+2749>
                       <U+275A>                                                                                        <U+275A>
              <U+261B>        <U+275A>                                                                                        <U+2746>
                   <U+275A>
              <U+2706>        <U+2720>                                                                                        <U+271B>
              <U+261B>
              <U+271F>                                                                                                 <U+261B>
                                                                                                                      <U+275A>
              <U+261B>
                   <U+275A>
                                                                                                                <U+2721>
                                                                                                       <U+2720>        <U+261B>
                                                                                                       <U+2723>        <U+275A>
                                                          <U+2711>          <U+2711>             <U+2711>         <U+270E>         <U+2746>        <U+2723>
                                                          <U+270C>          <U+2711>             <U+2711>         <U+2711>         <U+2721>        <U+2706><U+271E>
                                                          <U+2712>    <U+2706>
                                                                     <U+273A>         <U+2706>
                                                                                   <U+273A>     <U+2706>
                                                                                             <U+273A>     <U+2706>
                                                                                                       <U+2720>        <U+2749><U+2749>
                                                                                                       <U+2605>        <U+271E>
                                                                                                       <U+2746>
                                                                                                                <U+272A><U+2726><U+273A>
                                                                                                                      <U+270E>
                                                                                                             <U+2774> <U+2735><U+272F>

                                                               <U+273E><U+2704><U+2736><U+260E>
<removed-date>
                                                <U+2711>         <U+273A>
                                                <U+275A><U+271E>        <U+2746><U+271E>
                                                <U+271E>
                                                <U+270E>         <U+270E>         <U+271F>
                                                <U+2723>         <U+271B>         <U+271B>
                                                <U+2723>         <U+2746>             <U+275A>
<removed-apn>
                             <U+2712><U+2711>
                   <U+271F>         <U+2711>
                   <U+271E><U+2720>        <U+2711>
                   <U+2716>
                   <U+261B>
                   <U+271B><U+271E>
                   <U+271D>
                   <U+2706>
                   <U+2746>         <U+2726>
                   <U+2749>         <U+2711>
                   <U+2746>
                   <U+2706>
                   <U+261B><U+2749>
                   <U+2722>
                   <U+261B>         <U+270C>
                   <U+2706>
                             <U+25BC>
                   <U+261B>                                                                                              <U+271B>
                   <U+261E>                                                                                              <U+271D>
                   <U+271B>                                                                                              <U+261E>
                   <U+271D>                                                                                              <U+2716>
                   <U+261E><U+270F>        <U+273B><U+270C>                                                                                   <U+2720><U+2749>
                   <U+271E>
                   <U+271D>                                                                                              <U+271E><U+2749>
              <U+2720>    <U+2706>
                   <U+2746>                                                                                              <U+270F>
              <U+2722>
                                                                                                                               <U+2733>
                                                                                                                       <U+270E>
              <U+2706>    <U+275A>                                                                                              <U+2718>
              <U+2746>    <U+261B>                                                                                              <U+261B><U+2719>
              <U+2721>    <U+271D>         <U+2712><U+270C>                                                                                   <U+2720>
              <U+2746>    <U+2722>                                                                                              <U+275A>        <U+2733>
              <U+2720><U+2749>   <U+2720>                                                                                              <U+261B>
                   <U+275A>
              <U+2722>    <U+275A>                                                                                              <U+2706>        <U+2701>
              <U+2716>    <U+2720>                                                                                              <U+271E><U+261B>
                   <U+2725>         <U+2711>                                                                                    <U+271D>
              <U+261B>    <U+2720>         <U+270C>
              <U+261B><U+2749>   <U+2722><U+271E>                                                                                             <U+2722>
                                                                                                                  <U+2720>        <U+274B>
              <U+271B>    <U+261E>
                        <U+2747><U+2729>
                        <U+2706>
                        <U+275A>
                                                                                                                  <U+271E><U+2706>
                                                                                                                  <U+271E><U+2605>
                   <U+271B>         <U+2726>                                                                                    <U+271D>
                             <U+270C>                                                                                    <U+271F>
                   <U+271E><U+2706>                                                                                             <U+261B>
                   <U+271B>                                                                                              <U+271C>
                   <U+271D>
                                                                                                                       <U+275A>
                   <U+261E>                                                                                              <U+271F>
                   <U+275A>                                                                                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                  <U+2718><U+2713>
                   <U+261B>         <U+25BC>
                   <U+2720>                                                                                              <U+2720>
                   <U+2722>                                                                                              <U+261E><U+271E>
                   <U+2706>                                                                                              <U+271D>
                   <U+2746>
                   <U+2721>
                   <U+2746>         <U+273B>
                   <U+2720>
                   <U+2749>
                   <U+2722>
                   <U+2716>
                   <U+261B>
                   <U+261B><U+2749>        <U+2712>
                   <U+271B>
                             <U+2711>
                             <U+2726>
                                      <U+270E><U+2711>   <U+2726><U+270D>        <U+270C><U+270D>        <U+2711><U+270D>            <U+270D><U+270D>  <U+2712><U+270D>   <U+273A><U+270D>   <U+273B><U+270D>   <U+273C><U+270D>       <U+270E><U+270D>   <U+2726>
                                  <U+2711>                                                                  <U+270D>        <U+2712>
                                  <U+25BC>                                                                  <U+25BC>
                                                                            <U+272E> <U+272F><U+2731> <U+272C>
                                                                                <U+2704>

                                                                <U+2736><U+2704><U+2736><U+260E>
<removed-date>
                                                            <U+2736>
                                                                                 <U+273A>
                                                                                 <U+2746><U+271E>
                                                                    <U+2716>
                                                                         <U+2768>
                                                                    <U+261B>            <U+270E>
                                                                    <U+271B><U+271E>           <U+271B>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                 <U+2746>
                                                                    <U+271D>
                                                                    <U+2706>
                                                                                      <U+275A>
                                                                    <U+2746>
                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                      <U+2706>
                                                                    <U+271D>
                                                                                      <U+2763>
                                                                    <U+2714>            <U+2726>
                                                                    <U+261B>            <U+270C>
              <U+2718>                                                     <U+2718>            <U+2718>
              <U+271D><U+271E>                                                    <U+271E><U+271D>           <U+271E><U+271D>
              <U+2717>                                                     <U+2717>            <U+2717>
              <U+2716>
              <U+2720>
              <U+271D>
              <U+2746>
              <U+2720>
              <U+2721>
              <U+271D>
              <U+271C>                <U+2746>
              <U+2706>
                                    <U+2768>
                               <U+271F>
              <U+271E><U+261B>               <U+271F>
              <U+271D>                <U+2746>
              <U+2714>                <U+2746>                                                                                          <U+2726><U+2726>
              <U+271E><U+2749>               <U+261E>
              <U+2716>                <U+261E>                                                                                          <U+270C>
              <U+2725><U+273A>               <U+2746>
              <U+2713><U+270C>               <U+270F><U+2723>
              <U+271F>                <U+2706>
              <U+271D>                <U+275A><U+271E>
              <U+2706>                <U+2706><U+271E>
              <U+2746><U+271D>                                                                                                               <U+271B>
                               <U+273A>                                                                                               <U+271D>
              <U+2746>
              <U+2706>
              <U+2721>
              <U+2720>
                               <U+2746><U+271E>
                               <U+270E>
                                                                                                                               <U+2716>
                                                                                                                               <U+2720>
                                                                                                                               <U+2749>            <U+2733>
                               <U+271B>                                                                                               <U+271E><U+2749>
              <U+2714>
                   <U+275A>
                               <U+2746>                                                                                               <U+270F>    <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                        <U+2702>
              <U+271F>                <U+2746>                                                                                               <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                        <U+2733>
                                    <U+2747>
              <U+2749>                <U+261E>                                                                                               <U+261B><U+2719>
              <U+2749>                                                                                                                <U+2720>
              <U+2720>                <U+275A>                                                                                          <U+2726><U+273A>
              <U+2722>                <U+261B>                                                                                               <U+275A>        <U+2701>
              <U+2706>                     <U+275A>
                                                                                                                               <U+261B>
              <U+2720>                                                                                                                <U+2706>
              <U+2720><U+2749>
                                    <U+271D>
                                                                                                                               <U+271E><U+261B>
                                    <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                        <U+274B>
                                    <U+2763>
                               <U+2726>                                                                                               <U+271D>
              <U+271F>                <U+270C>                                                                                               <U+2714>
                                                                                                                               <U+271E><U+2749>
                   <U+275A>
              <U+273C>                                                                                                                <U+2716>
              <U+270C>
                       <U+2774>
                           <U+275A>
              <U+2712><U+270C>               <U+271B>
                               <U+271D>
              <U+2721>                <U+2716>
              <U+261B>                <U+2720><U+2749>
              <U+275A>                <U+2749><U+271E>
              <U+271F>
              <U+2720>                <U+270F>
              <U+2714>
                                    <U+270E>
              <U+2749>                <U+2718>
              <U+2746>                <U+2719><U+261B>                                                                                     <U+273A>
              <U+2605>                <U+2720>                                                                                      <U+2711>
              <U+2720>
              <U+2722>
              <U+2706>
              <U+2746>
              <U+271B>
              <U+2721>
              <U+261B>
              <U+271F>
              <U+271B>
              <U+2746>
                                        <U+2726>    <U+2726>    <U+2726>    <U+2726>                                  <U+2726>        <U+2726>        <U+2726>    <U+2726>
                                        <U+2726><U+273A>   <U+2726><U+2726>   <U+2726><U+273A>   <U+2726><U+2726>                                 <U+2726><U+273A>       <U+2726><U+2726>       <U+2726><U+273A>   <U+2726><U+2726>
                                        <U+270D><U+2739>   <U+270D><U+2739>   <U+2711><U+2739>   <U+2711><U+2739>                                      <U+2739>        <U+2739>
                                                                                          <U+270C>        <U+270C>        <U+2726><U+2739>   <U+2726><U+2739>
                                                       <U+273D><U+2738> <U+2737><U+2735><U+2734>   <U+2720>            <U+2746>   <U+2746>

<removed-date>
                                                    <U+2736><U+2736><U+2704><U+2736><U+260E>
                                                                                 <U+273A>
                                                                                 <U+2746><U+271E>
                                                               <U+2716>
                                                                    <U+2768>
                                                               <U+261B>                 <U+270E>
                                                               <U+271B><U+271E>                <U+271B>
                                                                                 <U+2746>
                                                               <U+271D>
                                                               <U+2706>
                                                                                      <U+275A>
<removed-apn>
                                                               <U+2746>
                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                      <U+2706>
                                                               <U+271D>
                                                                                      <U+2763>
                                                               <U+2714>                 <U+2726>
                                                               <U+261B>                 <U+270C>
              <U+2718>                                                <U+2718>                 <U+2718>
              <U+271D><U+271E>                                               <U+271E><U+271D>                <U+271E><U+271D>
              <U+2717>                                                <U+2717>                 <U+2717>
              <U+2716>
              <U+2720>
              <U+271D>
              <U+2746>
              <U+2720>
              <U+2721>
              <U+271D>
              <U+271C>                <U+2746>
              <U+2706>
                                    <U+2768>
                               <U+271F>
              <U+271E><U+261B>               <U+271F>
              <U+271D>                <U+2746>
              <U+2714>                <U+2746>                                                                                         <U+2726><U+2726>
              <U+271E><U+2749>               <U+261E>
              <U+2716>                <U+261E>                                                                                         <U+270C>
              <U+273A><U+2725>               <U+2746>
              <U+270C><U+2713>               <U+2723><U+270F>
              <U+271F>                <U+2706>
              <U+271D>                <U+271E><U+275A>
              <U+2706>                <U+2706><U+271E>
              <U+2746><U+271D>                                                                                                              <U+271B>
                               <U+273A>                                                                                              <U+271D>
              <U+2746>                <U+2746><U+271E>                                                                                             <U+2716>
              <U+2706>                                                                                                               <U+2720>
              <U+2721>                <U+270E>                                                                                              <U+2749>
              <U+2720>                <U+271B>                                                                                              <U+271E><U+2749>
                               <U+2746>                                                                                              <U+270F>        <U+2702>
              <U+2714>
                   <U+275A>
                               <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                   <U+270E>
              <U+271F>                <U+2746>                                                                                              <U+2718>        <U+2702>
              <U+2749>                <U+261E>                                                                                              <U+261B><U+2719>
              <U+2749>                                                                                                               <U+2720>
              <U+2720>                <U+275A>                                                                                         <U+2726><U+273A>            <U+2733>
              <U+2722>                <U+261B>                                                                                              <U+275A>
              <U+2706>                                                                                                               <U+261B>
                                                                                                                              <U+2706>
                                    <U+275A>
              <U+2720>                                                                                                                        <U+2701>
              <U+2720>                                                                                                               <U+261B><U+271E>
                                    <U+271D>
                                    <U+2706>
              <U+2749>
                                    <U+2763>
                               <U+2726>                                                                                              <U+271D>
              <U+271F>                <U+270C>                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                                                                                              <U+2749><U+271E>
                   <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                       <U+274B>
              <U+270C><U+2712>
              <U+25BC>
                       <U+2774>   <U+275A>
                                                                                                                              <U+2716>
              <U+270C>                <U+271B>
                               <U+271D>
              <U+2721>                <U+2716>
              <U+261B>                <U+2720>
              <U+275A>                <U+2749>
              <U+271F>                <U+271E><U+2749>
              <U+2720>                <U+270F>
              <U+2714><U+2749>
                                    <U+270E>
                               <U+2718>
              <U+2746>                <U+261B><U+2719>
              <U+2605>                <U+2720>                                                                                     <U+273A>
                                                                                                                     <U+2711>
              <U+2720>
              <U+2722>
              <U+2706>
              <U+2746>
              <U+271B>
              <U+2721>
              <U+261B>
              <U+271F>
              <U+271B>
              <U+2746>
                                        <U+2726><U+2726>   <U+2726><U+2726>                         <U+2726><U+2726>                             <U+2726><U+2726>   <U+2726><U+2726>
                                        <U+2726><U+2739>   <U+273A><U+2739>                         <U+2726><U+2739>                             <U+273A><U+2739>        <U+2739>
                                                                                                            <U+2726>
                                        <U+2711>    <U+270C>                          <U+270C>                              <U+2726>
                                                  <U+273D><U+2738> <U+2737><U+2735><U+2734>   <U+2720>                 <U+2746>
                                                                                 <U+2746>        <U+2746><U+2746>
                                                                                               <U+272E>   <U+260E>

                                                                     <U+2737><U+2704><U+2736><U+260E>
<removed-date>
                                                                 <U+2736>
                                          <U+2716>
                                               <U+2768>
                                          <U+261B>
                                          <U+271B><U+271E>
                                          <U+271D>             <U+2716>
                                                             <U+2768>
                                          <U+2706>             <U+261B>
                                          <U+2746>             <U+271B><U+271E>
                                          <U+271D>             <U+271D>
                                          <U+2714>             <U+2706>
                                                        <U+2746>
<removed-apn>
                                          <U+261B>
                                          <U+2718>             <U+2718>
                                          <U+271E><U+271D>            <U+271E><U+271D>
                                          <U+2717>             <U+2717>
                                          <U+273C>             <U+273C>
                                          <U+270C><U+2712>            <U+270C><U+2712>
                                          <U+270C>             <U+270C>
              <U+271F><U+2749>
              <U+2749>
              <U+2720>
              <U+2722>
              <U+2706>
              <U+2720>
              <U+2720>
              <U+2749>
              <U+271F>
                   <U+275A>
              <U+273C>                                                                                        <U+2726><U+2726>
              <U+270C><U+2712>                                                                                       <U+270C>
              <U+270C>
              <U+2706><U+271E>
              <U+2712><U+270F>
              <U+2749><U+271E>
              <U+275A>                                                                                             <U+271B>
              <U+261B>                                                                                             <U+271D>
              <U+2706>        <U+271B>                                                                                    <U+2716>
              <U+261B><U+271E>       <U+271D>                                                                                    <U+2720><U+2749>
                       <U+2716>
              <U+271D>
              <U+2722>
              <U+2714>
                       <U+2720><U+2749>
                       <U+271E><U+2749>
                                                                                                            <U+2749><U+271E>
                                                                                                            <U+270F>    <U+270E>
                                                                                                                         <U+2733>
              <U+2716>                                                                                             <U+2718>
              <U+2706><U+271E>       <U+270F>    <U+270E>
                                                                                                            <U+2719><U+261B>       <U+2702>
                       <U+2718>                                                                                    <U+2720>
              <U+2706>        <U+261B><U+2719>                                                                              <U+2726>    <U+275A>        <U+2733>
              <U+261B>
              <U+271C>    <U+275A>   <U+2720>
                       <U+271B>
                            <U+2768>
                                                                                                       <U+273A>    <U+261B>
                                                                                                            <U+2706>        <U+2701>
                                                                                                            <U+271E><U+261B>
                   <U+271D>
                   <U+2706>
                                                                                                            <U+271D>
                   <U+2763>
              <U+2726>                                                                                             <U+2714><U+2749>
              <U+270C><U+2713>                                                                                            <U+271E>        <U+274B>
              <U+273A>                                                                                             <U+2716>
              <U+2746><U+271E>
              <U+270E>
              <U+271B>
              <U+2746>
                   <U+2729>
                   <U+2747>
              <U+261E>
              <U+275A>
              <U+261B>                                                                                    <U+273A>
              <U+271D>                                                                                    <U+2711>
              <U+2722>
              <U+2720>
              <U+275A>
              <U+275A>
              <U+2720>
                                <U+2726><U+2739>   <U+2726><U+2739>            <U+2726><U+2739>                   <U+2726><U+2739>          <U+2726><U+2739>   <U+2726><U+2739>   <U+2726><U+2739>
                                <U+2726>    <U+273A>             <U+2726>                    <U+273A>           <U+2726>    <U+273A>    <U+2726>
                                <U+270D>    <U+2711>             <U+2711>                    <U+270C>           <U+270C>
                                                                 <U+273E><U+273D>
                                                                 <U+261B>
                                                                      <U+270C>¦
                                                                        <U+275A>    <U+2730><U+2734> <U+272D>
                                                                               <U+2720>

<removed-date>
                                                        <U+2736><U+260E><U+2704><U+2736><U+260E>
                                               <U+2716>
                                                    <U+2768>
                                               <U+261B>
                                               <U+271B><U+271E>
                                               <U+271D>         <U+2716>
                                                              <U+2768>
                                               <U+2706>         <U+261B>
                                               <U+2746>         <U+271E><U+271B>
                                               <U+271D>         <U+271D>
                                               <U+2714>         <U+2706>
                                               <U+261B>         <U+2746>
                                               <U+2718>         <U+2718>
<removed-apn>
                                               <U+271D><U+271E>        <U+271D><U+271E>
                                               <U+2717>         <U+2717>
                                               <U+270C><U+2712>        <U+270C><U+2712>
                                               <U+25BC>         <U+25BC>
                                               <U+270C>         <U+270C>
              <U+271F><U+2749>
              <U+2749>
              <U+2720>
              <U+2722>
              <U+2706>
              <U+2720>
              <U+2720><U+2749>
              <U+271F>
                   <U+275A>
              <U+270C>
              <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                       <U+2726><U+2726>
              <U+2712><U+270C>                                                                                                       <U+270C>
              <U+2706><U+271E>
              <U+2712><U+270F>
              <U+2749><U+271E>
              <U+275A>                                                                                                             <U+271B>
              <U+261B>                                                                                                             <U+271D>
              <U+2706>        <U+271B>                                                                                                    <U+2716>
              <U+261B><U+271E>       <U+271D>                                                                                                    <U+2720><U+2749>
              <U+271D>        <U+2716>                                                                                                    <U+2749><U+271E>
              <U+2722>        <U+2720>
              <U+2714>        <U+2749>                                                                                                    <U+270F>
              <U+2716>        <U+2749><U+271E>                                                                                                        <U+270E>
                                                                                                                            <U+2718>
              <U+2706><U+271E>       <U+270F>                                                                                                    <U+261B><U+2719>
                                                                                                                                     <U+2733>
                            <U+270E>
              <U+2706>        <U+2718>                                                                                                    <U+2720>        <U+2702>
              <U+261B>        <U+2719><U+261B>                                                                                              <U+2726>
                                                                                                                       <U+273A>    <U+275A>
              <U+271C><U+2749>       <U+2720>                                                                                                    <U+261B>        <U+2733>
              <U+261E>        <U+271B>
                            <U+2768>
                                                                                                                            <U+2706>
              <U+2723>                                                                                                             <U+261B><U+271E>
                                                                                                                                     <U+2701>
                   <U+2706>
              <U+2714>                                                                                                             <U+271D>
              <U+2726>                                                                                                             <U+2714><U+2749>
              <U+270C><U+2713>                                                                                                            <U+271E>
                                                                                                                            <U+2716>        <U+274B>
              <U+273A>
              <U+271E><U+2746>
              <U+270E>
              <U+271B>
              <U+2746>
                   <U+2729>
                   <U+2747>
              <U+261E>
              <U+275A>
              <U+261B>                                                                                                    <U+273A>
              <U+271D>                                                                                                    <U+2711>
              <U+2722>
              <U+2720>
              <U+275A>
              <U+275A>
              <U+2720>
                                <U+2726><U+2739>   <U+2726><U+2739>   <U+2726><U+2739>                      <U+2726><U+2739>          <U+2726><U+2739>          <U+2726><U+2739>   <U+2726><U+2739>   <U+2726><U+2739>   <U+2726><U+2739>   <U+2726><U+2739>
                                <U+273A>    <U+2726>    <U+273A>                       <U+2726>           <U+273A>           <U+2726>    <U+273A>    <U+2726>    <U+273A>    <U+2726>
                                <U+2712>    <U+2712>    <U+270D>                       <U+270D>           <U+2711>           <U+2711>    <U+270C>    <U+270C>
                                                                       <U+273E><U+273D>
                                                                       <U+261B>
                                                                            <U+270C>¦
                                                                              <U+275A>    <U+2730><U+2734> <U+272D>
                                                                                     <U+2720>

