ABSTRACT
Biomass (e.g., plant biomass, animal biomass, and municipal waste biomass) is processed to
produce useful intermediates and products, such as poly carboxylic acids and poly carboxylic
acid derivatives.

WO 2014/186652                                                               PCT/US2014/038316
                                     PROCESSING BIOMASS
                     CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
     [0001]       This application claims priority from the following provisional applications:
     USSN 61/824,582, filed May 17, 2013, USSN 61/824,597, filed May 17, 2013 and
     61/941,771, filed February 19, 2014. The full disclosure of each of these provisional
     applications is incorporated by reference herein.
                               BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
     [0002]       Many potential lignocellulosic feedstocks are available today, including
     agricultural residues, woody biomass, municipal waste, oilseeds/cakes and seaweed, to
     name a few. At present, these materials are often under-utilized, being used, for
     example, as animal feed, biocompost materials, burned in a co-generation facility or even
     landfilled.
     [0003]       Lignocellulosic biomass includes crystalline cellulose fibrils embedded in a
     hemicellulose matrix, surrounded by lignin. This produces a compact matrix that is
     difficult to access by enzymes and other chemical, biochemical and/or biological
     processes. Cellulosic biomass materials (e.g., biomass material from which the lignin
     has been removed) is more accessible to enzymes and other conversion processes, but
     even so, naturally-occurring cellulosic materials often have low yields (relative to
     theoretical yields) when contacted with hydrolyzing enzymes. Lignocellulosic biomass
     is even more recalcitrant to enzyme attack. Furthermore, each type of lignocellulosic
     biomass has its own specific composition of cellulose, hemicellulose and lignin.
                                               SUMMARY
     [0004]       Generally, this disclosure relates to treating a reduced recalcitrance biomass
     material (e.g., cellulosic, lignocellulosic and/or starchy materials) with one or more
     enzymes and/or one or more organisms (e.g., in any order) to produce a poly carboxylic
     acid, such as a di-, tri- or tetracarboxylic acid. For example, polycarboxylic acids
     selected from the group consisting of oxalic acid, malonic acid, succinic acid, tartaric
     acid, glutaric acid, adipic acid, pimelic acid, suberic acid, azelaic acid, sebacic acid,
     undecanedioic acid, dodecanedioic acid, maleic acid, fumaric acid, glutaconic acid,
                                                     1

WO 2014/186652                                                              PCT/US2014/038316
     traumatic acid, muconic acid, phthalic acid, isophthalic acid, terephthalic acid, citric
     acid, isocitric acid, aconitic acid, mellitic acid and mixtures of these. For example, a
     biomass material having reduced recalcitrance can be treated with one of more enzymes
     to liberate one or more sugars and then one or more of the liberated sugars can be
     fermented to one of more polycarboxylic acids, such as succinic acid. The inventions
     herein also relate to methods, processes and systems for converting a material, such as a
     biomass feedstock, e.g., cellulosic, starchy or lignocellulosic materials, to useful
     products, for example, derivatives of poly carboxylic acids.
     [0005]       In one aspect, the invention features methods for converting poly carboxylic
     acids to a product. The poly carboxylic acids can be made by treating a reduced
     recalcitrance lignocellulosic or cellulosic material with one or more enzymes.
     Optionally, the treatments to produce the reduced recalcitrance lignocellulosic or
     cellulosic material can include at least one of irradiation, sonication, oxidation, pyrolysis
     and steam explosion to produce the reduced recalcitrance material. For example, an
     irradiation treatment (e.g., with a dose of between about 20 and 50 Mrad) and can be
     used to reduce the recalcitrance of the material. The radiation treatment can include an
     electron beam irradiation. Optionally, treating is performed initially with one of more
     enzymes to release one or more sugars from the lignocellulosic or cellulosic material
     followed by one or more organisms to produce the poly carboxylic acid. For example,
     the sugars can be selected from the group consisting of glucose, xylose, sucrose, maltose,
     lactose, mannose, galactose, arabinose, fructose, disaccharides of any one or two of these
     (e.g., cellobiose or fructose), cellobiose, sucrose, poly saccharides of any two or more of
     these, and mixtures of these. In some implementations, treating converts one or more of
     the sugars to an intermediate product (e.g., ethanol or glycol by fermentation of the
     sugar) prior to conversion to the poly carboxylic acid.
     [0006]       In some implementations, the poly carboxylic acid is chemically converted to
     the product. For example, by reactions including polymerization, condensations,
     isomerization, esterification, alkylation, oxidation, amination, acid halide formation (e.g.,
     acid chloride or acid bromide formation from the acid or anhydride), reduction,
     hydrogenation, cyclization, ion exchange, anhydration, acylation and combinations
     thereof. Optionally, the chemically converting steps can include catalytic conversion,
     non-catalytic conversion and combinations thereof.
     [0007]       In some implementations the poly carboxylic acid is succinic acid and the
     product it is converted to includes tetrahydrofuran, gamma-butyro lactone, 2
     pyrrolidinone, N-methyl-2-pyrrolidinone (NMP), N-viny-2-pyrrolidinone, succinimide,
                                                     2

WO 2014/186652                                                               PCT/US2014/038316
     N-hydroxysuccinimide, succindiamide, succinyl chloride, succinic acid anhydride,
     maleic anhydride, 1,4-diaminobutane, succinonitrile, 1,4-butandiol, dimethyl succinate
     or mixtures of these.
     [0008]       In another aspect, the invention features a method of making a product, where
     the method includes contacting a mixed sugar solution that has a nitrogen source (e.g.,
     yeast extract) and inorganic salts (e.g., any one or more of NaH 2PO 4, Na 2HPO 4 , NaCl,
     MgCl 2 and CaCl 2) with a succinic acid producing organism to produce succinic acid. For
     example,the succinic acid producing organism ferments at least one of the sugars in the
     sugar solution to succinic acid. The method further includes purifying the succinic acid
     and converting (e.g., chemically converting) the purified succinic acid to the product.
     The sugar solution can be made by saccharifying an electron beam treated cellulosic or
     lignocellulosic biomass. For example, the cellulosic or lignocellulosic material receives
     a dose of between about 10 and about 50 Mrad of radiation. In some implementations,
     the organism is selected from the group consisting of Actinobacillus succinogenes,
     Anaerobiospirillumsucciniciproducens,Mannheimia succiniciproducensand, PEP
     carboxylase over-expressing E. coli.
     [0009]       In another aspect, the invention features a method for mating a product
     including treating a reduced recalcitrance lignocellulosic or cellulosic material with one
     or more enzymes and/or organisms to produce a poly carboxylic acid. Optionally, a
     feedstock (e.g., a cellulosic or lingnocellulosic material) is pretreated with ionizing
     radiation to produce the reduced recalcitrance of the lignocellulosic or cellulosic
     material. Optionally, treating the reduced recalcitrance feedstock includes treating
     initially with one of more enzymes to release one or more sugar from the lignocellulosic
     or cellulosic material followed by one or more organisms to produce the poly carboxylic
     acid. Optionally, the poly carboxylic acid is not succinic acid.
     [0010]       Products described herein, for example, succinic acid and succinic acid
     derivatives, e.g., acyl derivatives and anhydride derivatives, can be produced by methods
     described herein. Fermentative methods and/or combinations of fermentative methods
     and chemical methods can be very efficient, providing high biomass conversion,
     selective conversion and high production rates. The methods describe herein are also
     advantageous in that the starting materials (e.g., sugars and/or alcohols) can be
     completely derived from biomass (e.g., cellulosic and lignocellulosic materials). In
     addition, some of the fermentative technologies described can also adsorb additional CO 2
     since some fermenting species proceed through a CO 2 fixing mechanism. Some of the
     products described herein, such as biopolymers, are compostable, biodegradable and/or
                                                    3

WO 2014/186652                                                              PCT/US2014/038316
     recyclable. Therefore, the methods described herein can provide useful materials and
     products from renewable sources (e.g., biomass), sequester carbon and the products
     themselves can be re-utilized or simply safely returned to the environment.
     [0011]      Implementations of the invention can optionally include one or more of the
     following summarized features. In some implementations, the selected features can be
     applied or utilized in any order while in other implementations a specific selected
     sequence is applied or utilized. Individual features can be applied or utilized more than
     once in any sequence and even continuously. In addition, an entire sequence, or a portion
     of a sequence, of applied or utilized features can be applied or utilized once, repeatedly
     or continuously in any order. In some optional implementations, the features can be
     applied or utilized with different, or where applicable the same, set or varied,
     quantitative or qualitative parameters as determined by a person skilled in the art. For
     example, parameters of the features such as size, individual dimensions (e.g., length,
     width, height), location of, degree (e.g., to what extent such as the degree of
     recalcitrance), duration, frequency of use, density, concentration, intensity and speed can
     be varied or set, where applicable, as determined by a person of skill in the art.
     [0012]      Features, for example, include: A method for making a product; treating a
     reduced recalcitrance lignocellulosic or cellulosic material with one or more enzymes
     and/or organisms to produce a poly carboxylic acid; converting a poly carboxylic acid to
     a product; pretreating a feedstock with at least irradiation to produce the reduced
     recalcitrance lignocellulosic or cellulosic material; pretreating a feedstock with at least
     sonication to produce the reduced recalcitrance lignocellulosic or cellulosic material;
     pretreating a feedstock with at least oxidation to produce the reduced recalcitrance
     lignocellulosic or cellulosic material; pretreating a feedstock with at least pyrolysis to
     produce the reduced recalcitrance lignocellulosic or cellulosic material; pretreating a
     feedstock with at least steam explosion to produce the reduced recalcitrance
     lignocellulosic or cellulosic material; pretreating a feedstock with at least electron beam
     irradiation to produce the reduced recalcitrance lignocellulosic or cellulosic material;
     converting a poly carboxylic acid to a product comprises chemically converting;
     chemically converting includes at least polymerization; chemically converting includes
     at least condensations; chemically converting includes at least isomerization; chemically
     converting includes at least esterification; chemically converting includes at least
     alkylation; chemically converting includes at least oxidation; chemically converting
     includes at least amination; chemically converting includes at least acid halide formation;
     chemically converting includes at least reduction; chemically converting includes at least
                                                    4

WO 2014/186652                                                              PCT/US2014/038316
     hydrogenation; chemically converting includes at least cyclization; chemically
     converting includes at least ion exchange; chemically converting includes at least
     anhydration; chemically converting includes at least acylation; chemically converting
     includes catalytic conversion; chemically converting includes non-catalytic conversion;
     treating is performed with one of more enzymes to release one or more sugar from a
     lignocellulosic or cellulosic material followed by one or more organisms to produce the
     poly carboxylic acid; a sugar released from lignocellulosic or cellulosic material is of
     glucose; a sugar released from lignocellulosic or cellulosic material is of xylose; a sugar
     released from lignocellulosic or cellulosic material is sucrose; a sugar released from
     lignocellulosic or cellulosic material is of maltose; a sugar released from lignocellulosic
     or cellulosic material is lactose; a sugar released from lignocellulosic or cellulosic
     material is mannose; a sugar released from lignocellulosic or cellulosic material is of
     galactose; a sugar released from lignocellulosic or cellulosic material is arabinose; a
     sugar released from lignocellulosic or cellulosic material is of fructose; a sugar released
     from lignocellulosic or cellulosic material is a disaccharide that includes at least one or
     include two of, glucose, xylose, maltose, lactose, mannose, galactose, arabinose or
     fructose; a sugar released from lignocellulosic or cellulosic material is cellobiose; a sugar
     released from lignocellulosic or cellulosic material is sucrose; a sugar released from
     lignocellulosic or cellulosic material is a poly saccharides that includes any of two or
     more of glucose, xylose, maltose, lactose, mannose, galactose, arabinose or fructose; a
     sugar released from lignocellulosic or cellulosic material is cellobiose; treating converts
     one or more sugars to an intermediate product prior to conversion to a poly carboxylic
     acid; an intermediate product is ethanol; an intermediate product is glycol; a sugar is
     converted to an intermediate product by fermentation; a poly carboxylic acid is oxalic
     acid; a poly carboxylic acid is malonic acid; a poly carboxylic acid is succinic acid; a
     poly carboxylic acid is tartaric acid; a poly carboxylic acid is glutaric acid; a poly
     carboxylic acid is adipic acid; a poly carboxylic acid is pimelic acid; a poly carboxylic
     acid is suberic acid; a poly carboxylic acid is azelaic acid; a poly carboxylic acid is
     sebacic acid; a poly carboxylic acid is undecanedioic acid; a poly carboxylic acid is
     dodecanedioic acid; a poly carboxylic acid is maleic acid; a poly carboxylic acid is
     fumaric acid; a poly carboxylic acid is glutaconic acid; a poly carboxylic acid is
     traumatic acid; a poly carboxylic acid is muconic acid; a poly carboxylic acid is phthalic
     acid; a poly carboxylic acid is isophthalic acid; a poly carboxylic acid is terephthalic
     acid; a poly carboxylic acid is citric acid; a poly carboxylic acid is isocitric acid; a poly
     carboxylic acid is aconitic acid; a poly carboxylic acid is mellitic acid; a product made
                                                     5

WO 2014/186652                                                              PCT/US2014/038316
     from a dicarboxylic acid is tetrahydrofuran; a product made from a dicarboxylic acid is
     gamma-butyro lactone; a product made from a dicarboxylic acid is 2-pyrrolidinone; a
     product made from a dicarboxylic acid is N-methyl-2-pyrrolidinone (NMP); a product
     made from a dicarboxylic acid is N-viny-2-pyrrolidinone; a product made from a
     dicarboxylic acid is succinimide; a product made from a dicarboxylic acid is N
     hydroxysuccinimide; a product made from a dicarboxylic acid is succindiamide; a
     product made from a dicarboxylic acid is succinyl chloride; a product made from a
     dicarboxylic acid is succinic acid anhydride; a product made from a dicarboxylic acid is
     maleic anhydride; a product made from a dicarboxylic acid is 1,4-diaminobutane,
     succinonitrile; a product made from a dicarboxylic acid is 1,4-butandiol and dimethyl
     succinate
     [0013]      Features, for example, an include or further include: a method for making a
     product; contacting a mixed sugar solution comprising a nitrogen source and inorganic
     salts with a succinic acid producing organism to produce succinic acid; purifying a
     succinic acid; converting a purified succinic acid to a product; a sugar solution is made
     by saccharifying an electron beam treated cellulosic or lignocellulosic biomass; an
     inorganic salt includes NaH 2PO 4 ; an inorganic salt includes Na 2HPO 4 ; an inorganic salt
     includes NaCl; an inorganic salt includes MgCl 2; an inorganic salt includes CaCl 2 ; a
     nitrogen source includes yeast extract; an organism is Actinobacillus succinogenes,
     Anaerobiospirillumsucciniciproducens;an organism is Mannheimia succiniciproducens;
     an organism is PEP carboxylase over-expressing       . co/i; converting include chemically
     converting; a cellulosic or lignocellulosic material receives between about 10 and about
     50 Mrad of radiation.
     [0014]      Other features, for example, an include or further include: a method for
     making a product; treating a reduced recalcitrance lignocellulosic or cellulosic material
     with one or more enzymes and/or organisms to produce a poly carboxylic acid; a
     feedstock is pretreated with ionizing radiation to produce a reduced recalcitrance
     lignocellulosic or cellulosic material; ionizing radiation is an electron beam; treating is
     performed initially with one of more enzymes to release one or more sugar from a
     lignocellulosic or cellulosic material followed by one or more organisms to produce ta
     poly carboxylic acid; a produced poly carboxylic acid is oxalic acid; a produced poly
     carboxylic acid is malonic acid; a produced poly carboxylic acid is succinic acid; a
     produced poly carboxylic acid is tartaric acid; a produced poly carboxylic acid is glutaric
     acid; a produced poly carboxylic acid is adipic acid; a produced poly carboxylic acid is
     pimelic acid; a produced poly carboxylic acid is suberic acid; a produced poly carboxylic
                                                    6

WO 2014/186652                                                             PCT/US2014/038316
     acid is azelaic acid; a produced poly carboxylic acid is sebacic acid; a produced poly
     carboxylic acid is undecanedioic acid; a produced poly carboxylic acid is dodecanedioic
     acid; a produced poly carboxylic acid is maleic acid; a produced poly carboxylic acid is
     fumaric acid; a produced poly carboxylic acid is glutaconic acid; a produced poly
     carboxylic acid is traumatic acid; a produced poly carboxylic acid is muconic; a
     produced poly carboxylic acid is acid, phthalic acid; a produced poly carboxylic acid is
     isophthalic acid; a produced poly carboxylic acid is terephthalic acid; a produced poly
     carboxylic acid is citric acid; a produced poly carboxylic acid is isocitric acid; a
     produced poly carboxylic acid is aconitic acid; a produced poly carboxylic acid is
     mellitic acid.
     [0015]      Other features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the
     following detailed description, and from the claims.
                                DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING
     [0016]      The foregoing will be apparent from the following more particular description
     of example embodiments of the invention, as illustrated in the accompanying. The
     drawings are not necessarily to scale, emphasis instead being placed upon illustrating
     embodiments of the present invention.
     [0017]      FIG. 1 is a flow diagram showing processes for manufacturing products from
     a biomass feedstock.
     [0018]      FIG. 2 shows the chemical structures of some poly carboxylic acids.
     [0019]      FIG. 3 is a schematic showing a biochemical pathway for the fermentation of
     sugars to succinic acid.
     [0020]      FIG. 4A is a schematic showing some possible chemical pathways for
     producing succinic acid derived products. FIG. 4B shows some reactions for a derivative
     of succinic acid.
     [0021]      FIG. 5 is a schematic view of a reaction system for the polymerization of
     monomers.
     [0022]      FIG. 6A is a top view of a first embodiment of a reciprocating scraper. FIG.
     6B is a front cut-out view of the first embodiment of a reciprocating scraper. FIG. 6C is a
     top view of a second embodiment of a reciprocating scraper. FIG. 6D is a front cut-out
     view of the second embodiment of a reciprocating scraper.
     [0023]      FIG. 7A shows a schematic of a polymerization unit that has an example of a
     thin film polymerization/devolatilization device and an extruder. FIG. 7B shows a
                                                   7

WO 2014/186652                                                             PCT/US2014/038316
     cutaway of the thin film polymerization/devolatilization device with the sloped surface
     upon which the molten polymer flows.
     [0024]       FIG. 8A shows a small scale polymerization unit that has an example of a
     laboratory-scale thin film polymerization/devolatilization device. FIG. 8B shows a
     cutaway of the thin film polymerization/devolatilization device with the sloped surface
     upon which the molten polymer flows.
     [0025]       FIG. 9 is a schematic showing the preparation of glucoside-based gemini
     surfactants.
     [0026]       FIG. 10 is a schematic showing the preparation of non-ionic surfactants using
     di-carboxylic acids.
     [0027]       FIG. 11 is a plot showing the consumption of glucose and production of
     succinic acid.
     [0028]       FIG. 12 is a plot showing the consumption of xylose and production of
     succinic acid
     [0029]       FIG. 13 is a plot showing the consumption of glucose + xylose and
     production of succinic acid.
     [0030]       FIG. 14 is a plot of sugars consumed and products produced using a 1.2L
     Bioreactor culture of Actinobacillus succinogenes.
                                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION
     [0031]       Using the equipment, methods and systems described herein, cellulosic and
     lignocellulosic feedstock materials, For example, that can be sourced from biomass (e.g.,
     plant biomass, animal biomass, paper, and municipal waste biomass), can be turned into
     useful products and intermediates such as sugars and poly carboxylic acids. Included are
     equipment, methods and systems to chemically convert the primary products produced
     from the biomass to secondary product such as polymers (e.g., polyesters and poly
     urethanes), polymer derivatives (e.g., composites, elastomers and co-polymers), solvents
     (e.g., tetrahydrofuran, N-methyl-2-pyrollidone), pharmaceuticals and other useful
     products.
     [0032]       Biomass is a complex feedstock. For example, lignocellulosic materials
     include different combinations of cellulose, hemicellulose and lignin. Cellulose is a
     linear polymer of glucose. Hemicellulose is any of several heteropolymers, such as
     xylan, glucuronoxylan, arabinoxylans and xyloglucan. The primary sugar monomer
     present (e.g., present in the largest concentration) in hemicellulose is xylose, although
                                                    8

WO 2014/186652                                                             PCT/US2014/038316
     other monomers such as mannose, galactose, rhamnose, arabinose and glucose are
     present. Although all lignins show variation in their composition, they have been
     described as an amorphous dendritic network polymer of phenyl propene units. The
     amounts of cellulose, hemicellulose and lignin in a specific biomass material depends on
     the source of the biomass material. For example, wood-derived biomass can be about 38
     49% cellulose, 7-26% hemicellulose and 23-34% lignin depending on the type. Grasses
     typically are 33-38% cellulose, 24-32% hemicellulose and 17-22% lignin. Clearly
     lignocellulosic biomass constitutes a large class of substrates.
     [0033]      Enzymes and biomass-destroying organisms that break down biomass, such
     as the cellulose, hemicellulose and/or the lignin portions of the biomass as described
     above, contain or manufacture various cellulolytic enzymes (cellulases), ligninases,
     xylanases, hemicellulases or various small molecule biomass-destroying metabolites. A
     cellulosic substrate is initially hydrolyzed by endoglucanases at random locations
     producing oligomeric intermediates. These intermediates are then substrates for exo
     splitting glucanases such as cellobiohydrolase to produce cellobiose from the ends of the
     cellulose polymer. Cellobiose is a water-soluble 1,4-linked dimer of glucose. Finally
     cellobiase cleaves cellobiose to yield glucose. In the case of hemicellulose, a xylanase
     (e.g., hemicellulase) acts on this biopolymer and releases xylose as one of the possible
     products.
     [0034]      FIG. 1 is a flow diagram showing processes for manufacturing poly
     carboxylic acids (e.g., cellulosic or lignocellulosic materials) and further converting the
     acid to another product. In an initial step 110 the method includes optionally
     mechanically treating a cellulosic and/or lignocellulosic feedstock, For example, to
     comminute/size reduce the feedstock. Before and/or after this treatment, the feedstock
     can be treated with another physical treatment 112, For example, irradiation, sonication,
     steam explosion, oxidation, pyrolysis or combinations of these, to reduce or further
     reduce its recalcitrance. A sugar solution e.g., including glucose and/or xylose, is formed
     by saccharifying the feedstock 114. The saccharification can be, for example,
     accomplished efficiently by, in any order and optionally repeatedly, the addition of one
     or more enzymes e.g., cellulases and/or xylanases 111, heating and/or one or more acids.
     A product or several products can be derived from the sugar solution, for example, by
     fermentation to a poly carboxylic acid 116. Following fermentation, the fermentation
     product (e.g., or products, or a subset of the fermentation products) can be purified or
     they can be further processed. For example, chemically converted (e.g., reduced,
     oxidized, undergo atom substitution reactions such as aminations, cyclized, polymerized
                                                    9

WO 2014/186652                                                            PCT/US2014/038316
     or combinations of these) and/or isolated 124. In some embodiments, the sugar solution
     is a mixture of sugars and the organism ferments two or more of the sugars. Optionally
     the sugar solution is a mixture of sugars and the organism selectively ferments only one
     of the sugars. The fermentation of only one of the sugars in a mixture can be
     advantageous as described in PCT Application No. PCT/US14/21813 filed March 7,
     2014, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. If desired, the
     steps of measuring lignin content 118 and setting or adjusting process parameters based
     on this measurement 120 can be performed at various stages of the process, for example,
     as described in U.S. Patent 8,415,122, issued April 9, 2013 the entire disclosure of which
     is incorporated herein by reference. Optionally, enzymes (e.g., in addition to cellulases
     and xylanases) can be added in step 114, For example,a glucose isomerase can be used to
     isomerize glucose to fructose. Some relevant uses of isomerase are discussed in PCT
     Application No. PCT/US12/71093, filed on December 20, 2012, the entire disclosure of
     which is incorporated herein by reference.
     [0035]      In some embodiments the liquids after saccharification and/or fermentation
     can be treated to remove solids, For example, by centrifugation, filtration, screening, or
     rotary vacuum filtration. For example, some methods and equipment that can be used
     during or after saccharification are disclosed in PCT Application No. PCT/US14/21584
     filed March 7, 2014 and U.S. Application Serial No. 13/932,814 filed on Julyl, 2013,
     the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference. In addition other
     separation techniques can be used on the liquids. For example, to remove ions and de
     colorize. For example, chromatography, simulated moving bed chromatograph and
     electrodialysis can be used to purify any of the solutions and or suspensions described
     herein. Some of these methods are discussed in PCT Application No. PCT/US14/21638
     filed on March 7, 2014 and PCT Application No. PCT/US14/21815 filed March 7, 2014,
     the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference. Solids that are
     removed during the processing can be utilized for energy co-generation. For example, as
     discussed in PCT Application No. PCT/US14/21634, filed March 7, 2014, the entire
     disclosure of which is herein incorporated by reference.
     [0036]      Optionally the sugars released from biomass as describe in herein. For
     example, glucose, xylose, sucrose, maltose, lactose, mannose, galactose, arabinose,
     homodimers and heterodimers of these (e.g., cellobiose, sucrose), trimers, oligomers and
     mixtures of these, can be fermented to poly carboxylic acids (e.g., succinic acid).
     Optionally, the saccarification and fermentation can be done simultaneously. In some
                                                   10

WO 2014/186652                                                               PCT/US2014/038316
     instances, the biomass can be processed (e.g., fermented) to an alcohol (e.g., ethanol and
     glycol) and the alcohol can then be fermented to a poly carboxylic acid.
     [0037]      Poly carboxylic acids that can be produced by the methods systems and
     equipment described herein include, for example, organic compounds with two or more
     carboxylate groups where independently each of the carboxylate groups can be in the
     protonated form (e.g., acid), unprotonated form (e.g., conjugate base) or a salt thereof.
     For example, the salt can be the salt of any positively charged ion. For example, ions of
     metals, or metal compounds such as hydroxides, derived from alkai metals such as Li,
     Na, K, Cs, alkali earth metals such as Mg, Ca, Sr Ba, transition metals such as Mn, Fe,
     Co, Ni, Cu, Zn, lanthanides such as La and Ce and main group elements such as B, Al
     and Ga. In some embodiments the poly carboxylic acid forms a coordination compound
     or covalently bonded compound to the metal ions rather than a salt.
     [0038]      The poly carboxylic acid can be represented, for example, in its protonated
     form by the formula:
     [0039]      Cm(CO 2H)n(X)o H2m-.-o+2
     [0040]      Where m is at least 1 and n is an integer chosen from 2 through and including
     2m. "X" is any functional group or functional groups, for example, hydrogen, amine,
     alkyl, alkyne, arene, aromatic, benzyl, ketone, ether, ester, aldehyde, amide, alcohol,
     thiol, cyano, sulfate, phosphate, halide (e.g., chloride, bromide), a ring structure (such as
     heteroatom containing aromatic group e.g., pyridine), a protein, a metal (e.g., ions of
     metals, or metal compounds such as hydoxides derived from alkai metals such as Li, Na,
     K, Cs, alkali earth metals such as Mg, Ca, Sr Ba, transition metals such as Mn, Fe, Co,
     Ni, Cu, Zn, lanthanides such as La and Ce and main group elements such as B,
     aluminum and gallium), selections of one or more of these and combinations of these.
     The value of o is an integer chosen from 0 through and including 2m. The poly
     carboxylic acid can include a mixture of compounds with different values of m, n and o.
     Preferably, m is an integer chosen from 1 through and including 20 and n is a number
     chosen from 2 through and including 4.
     [0041]      The structures of the poly carboxylic acids can include linear structures,
     branched structures, cyclic structures, fused cyclic structures and can have different
     substitution patterns (e.g., alpha, beta, delta, gamma, omega di-acids) and combinations
     of these structures. For example, some examples of poly carboxylic acids include oxalic
     acid, malonic acid, succinic acid tartaric, glutaric acid, adipic acid, pimelic acid, suberic
     acid, azelaic acid, sebacic acid, undecanedioic acid, dodecanedioic acid, maleic acid,
     fumaric acid, glutaconic acid, traumatic acid, muconic acid, phthalic acid, isophthalic
                                                     11

WO 2014/186652                                                                  PCT/US2014/038316
      acid, terephthalic acid, citric acid, isocitric acid, aconitic acid, mellitic acid and mixtures
      of these. Some of the structures are shown in FIG. 2.
      PREPARATION OF SUCCINIC ACID
      [0042]       Succinic acid can be extracted from natural sources, such as from amber, and
      is also known as Spirits of Amber. Succinic acid is also prevalent in biological systems
      playing a role in the Krebs cycle (e.g., also known as the citric acid and tricarboxylic
      acid cycle). Some organisms can, for example, utilize the reductive Krebs cycle to
      produce succinate from pyruvate or pyruvate phosphoenolpyruvate (e.g., anaerobically
      fixing CO 2 ). Other pathways include fermentative oxidation by organisms wherein the
      Krebs cycle and glyoxylate cycle are activated under aerobic conditions.
      [0043]       A possible biochemical pathway is shown in FIG. 3 for a fermenting
      organism to produce succinate. In a first stage, sugars such as glucose (Glc) are
      converted to phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP) through glycolysis steps, e.g., intermediates
      glucose 6-phosphate (G6P), fructose 6-phosphate (F6P) and glucose 3-phosphate (G3P).
      From PEP, the metabolic pathway can take one of two paths depending on the level of
      carbon dioxide available to the system. Under conditions of low carbon dioxide
      concentration, the preferred metabolic pathway shifts to the formation of pyruvate (Pyr)
      formate (For) and Acetyl-CoA (AcCoA )with ethanol (EtOH) and acetate (Ace) as
      typical end products. Under higher carbon dioxide concentration. For example, wherein
      the fermentation solution is sparged with carbon dioxide and is saturated or close to
      saturation, the microorganism favors the production oxaloacetate and then through
      Malate and Fumarate, succinic acid can be the final product. Sugars other than glucose,
      such as xylose, can be fermented using pentose phosphate pathways to also produce
      succinate.
      [0044]       Several organism, such as bacteria, yeasts and fungi, can be utilized to
      ferment biomass derived products such as sugars and alcohols to succinic acid. For
      example, organisms can be selected from; Actinobacillus succinogenes,
      Anaerobiospirillumsucciniciproducens,Mannheimia succiniciproducens,Ruminococcus
     flaverfaciens, Ruminococcus albus, Fibrobactersuccinogenes, Bacteroidesfragilis,
      Bacteroides ruminicola, Bacteroides amylophilus, Bacteriodes succinogenes,
      Mannheimia succiniciproducens,Corynebacteriumglutamicum, Aspergillus niger,
      Aspergillusfumigatus,Byssochlamys nivea, Lentinus degener, Paecilomyces varioti,
      Penicillium viniferum, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Enterococcusfaecali,Prevotella
      ruminicolas,Debaryomyces hansenii, Candida catenulata VKM Y-5, C. mycoderma
                                                       12

WO 2014/186652                                                             PCT/US2014/038316
     VKM Y-240, C. rugosa VKM Y-67, C. paludigena VKM Y-2443, C. utilis VKM Y-74,
     C. utilis 766, C. zeylanoides VKM Y-6, C. zeylanoides VKM Y-14, C. zeylanoides VKM
     Y-2324, C. zeylanoides VKM Y-1543, C. zeylanoides VKM Y-2595, C. valida VKM Y
     934, Kluyveromyces wickerhamii VKM Y-589, Pichiaanomala VKM Y-1 18, P. besseyi
     VKM Y-2084, P. media VKM Y-1381, P. guilliermondii H-P-4, P. guilliermondii 916,
     P. inositovoraVKM Y-2494, Saccharomyces cerevisiae VKM Y-381, Torulopsis
     candida 127, T. candida 420, Yarrowia lipolytica 12a, Y lipolytica VKM Y-47, Y
     lipolytica 69, Y lipolytica VKM Y-57, Y lipolytica 212, Y lipolytica 374/4, Y lipolytica
     585, Y lipolytica 695, Y lipolytica 704, and mixtures of these organisms.
     [0045]       In addition, genetically modified organisms can be utilized to produce poly
     carboxylic acids such as succinic acid (e.g., from biomass derived sugars and alcohols),
     For example, recombinant Escherichiacoli, (e.g., PEP carboxylase over-expressing E.
     coli) and genetically modified Corynebacteriumglutamicum can be utilized.
     [0046]       Co-cultures of organisms, for example, chosen from organisms as describe
     herein, can be used in the fermentations of biomass derived products (e.g., sugars and
     alcohols) to poly carboxylic acids in any combination. For example, two or more
     bacteria, yeasts and/or fungi can be combined with one or more sugar/alcohol (e.g.,
     ethanol, glycol, glucose and/or xylose) where the organisms ferment the sugar/alcohol
     together, selectively and/or sequentially. Optionally, one organism can be added first and
     the fermentation proceed for a time. For example, until it stops fermenting one or more
     of the sugars, and then a second organism can be added to further ferment the same sugar
     or ferment a different sugar. For example, fumaric acid that is obtained from the
     fermentation of glucose using Rhizopus sp. can be subsequently converted to succinic
     acid by E.faecalis. Or a yeast that ferments glucose to ethanol, such as baker's yeast, can
     be combined with a yeast, such as Pichia anomaly that ferments alcohols to succinic acid.
     [0047]       In some embodiments additives (e.g., media components) can be added
     during the fermentation (e.g., with the saccharified biomass or biomass derived alcohol).
     For example, additives that can be utilized include sugars such as glucose, xylose and
     alcohols such as ethanol and glycol. Other optional additives include, for example, yeast
     extract, rice bran, wheat bran, corn steep liquor, black strap molasses, casein
     hydrolyzate, vegetable extracts, corn steep solid, corn steep liquor, ram horn waste,
     peptides, peptone (e.g., bactopeptone, polypeptone, soy peptone), pharmamedia, flower
     (e.g., wheat flour, soybean flour, cottonseed flour), malt extract, beef extract, tryptone,
     Flour hydrolysate, corn hydrolysate and fungal hydrolysate. Metals/minerals can also
     optionally be added to the fermentation media, for example, K 2 HPO 4 ; KH 2 PO 4 ;
                                                   13

WO 2014/186652                                                                    PCT/US2014/038316
     Na 2 HPO 4 ; NaH 2 PO 4 ; (NH4) 2 PO 4 ; NaCl; MgCl 2 -6H 2 0; CaCl 2 -2H 2 0; MgCO 3 ;
     MnSO 4 '5H 2 0; MgSO 4 -7H 2 0; CaCl 2 .2H 2 0; FeSO 4 -7H 2 0; CoCl-6H 2 0; Na 2 MoO 4 ;
     NiCl 2 -6H20; Na 2WO 4 -2H 2 0; ZnCl 2 ; ZnSO 4 ; CuSO 4 -5H 2 0; AlK(SO4)2-12H 20; H 3 B0 3 ;
     NaSeO 3. Vitamins, such as thiamine, riboflavin, niacin, niacinamide, pantothenic acid,
     pyridoxine, pyridoxal, pyridoxamine, pyridoxine hydrochloride, biotin, folic acid, p
     aminobenzoate, lipoic acid can also be added. Addition of protease can also be beneficial
     during the fermentation. Optionally, surfactants such as Tween 80 and antibiotics such as
     choloramphenicol can also be beneficial. Antifoaming compounds such as Antifoam
     204 and/or AFE-0010 can also be utilized. In addition to these components, CO 2 can be
     added to the media. For example, using a gas sparging tube.
     [0048]       In some embodiments the fermentation can take from about 8 hours to several
     days. For example, some batch fermenations can take from about 1 to about 20 days
     (e.g., about 1-10 days, about 3-6 days, about 8 hours to 48 hours, about 8 hours to 24
     hours).
     [0049]       In some embodiments the temperature during the fermentation is controlled.
     For example, the temperature can be controlled between about 20 deg C and 50 deg C
     (e.g., between about 25 and 40 deg C, between about 30 and 40 deg C, between about 35
     and 40 deg. C). In some cases thermophilic organsims are utilized that operate efficiently
     above about 50 deg C, For example, between about 50 deg C and 100 deg. C (e.g.,
     between about 50-90 deg. C, between about 50 to 80 deg. C, between about 50 to 70
     deg. C).
     [0050]       In some embodiments the pH is controlled. For example, by the addition of an
     acid or a base. The pH can be optionally controlled to be close to neutral (e.g., between
     about 4-8, between about 5-7, between about 5-6). Acids, for example, can be protic
     acids such as sulfuric, phosphoric, nitric, hydrochloric and acetic acids. Bases, for
     example, can include metal hydroxides and carbonates (e.g., sodium and potassium
     hydroxide), ammonium hydroxide, calcium carbonate and magnesium carbonate.
     Phosphate and other buffers can also be utilized. In some preferred embodiment the pH
     is controlled by the addition of sodium hydroxide.
     [0051]       Fermentation methods include, for example, batch, fed batch, repeated batch
     or continuous reactors. Often batch methods can produce higher concentrations of lactic
     acids, while continuous methods can lead to higher productivities.
     [0052]       Fed batch methods can include adding media components and substrate (e.g.,
     sugars from biomass) as they are depleted. Optionally products, intermediates, side
     products and/or waste products can be removed as they are produced. In addition solvent
                                                      14

WO 2014/186652                                                              PCT/US2014/038316
     (e.g., water) can be added or removed to maintain the optimal amount for the
     fermentation.
     [0053]       Options include cell-recycling. For example, using a hollow fiber membrane
     to separate cells from media components and products after fermentation is complete.
     The cells can then be re-utilized in repeated batches. In other optional methods the cells
     can be supported. For example, as described in US Application Serial No. 13/293,971,
     filed on Nov. 10, 2011 and US Patent No. 8,377,668, issued Feb. 19, 2013 the entire
     disclosures of which are herein incorporated by reference.
     PURIFICATON OF SUCCINIC ACID
     [0054]       For many uses, the protonated form of succinic acid is required (e.g., for
     further conversion to useful products). Several methods can be utilized for product
     recovery, concentration and acidification from the fermentation broth. For example,
     reactive extraction, ion exchange resins, electrodialysis, precipitation, nanofiltration and
     simulated moving bed chromatography (SMB).
     [0055]       Amine-based extraction is a method of reactive extraction that separates
     organic acids (e.g., poly carboxylic acids such as succinic acid) based on their pKA
     values as it removes undissociated acids. Advantageously, this separation method is
     possible in-situ at room temperature and atmospheric pressure with no pre-treatment. For
     example, reactive extraction with tri-alkyl amines (e.g., tri-n-octylamine) can be utilized
     to extract the poly organic acids as they are produced or after a fermentation is complete
     into a hydrophobic phase. The extracted poly carboxylic acid/amine adduct can
     subsequently be acidified to release the poly carboxylic acid which can then be. For
     example, precipitated, crystalized, distilled or reacted. The pH during the extraction with
     tri-alkyl amines must be kept low. The method will extract most organic acids in the
     fermentation broth, so if other acids are present, further purification can be required.
     [0056]       Optionally, ion-exchange resins can be utilized to purify poly carboxylic
     acids (e.g., succinic acid) from, for example, fermentation broth. Ion exchange
     technology involves using a resin that captures cations with an ionic resin. For example,
     a cationic resin can be used to remove the organic acids. Alternatively a highly acidic ion
     exchange resin followed by a weak basic exchange resin can remove cations, anions and
     other impurities, leaving behind a purified stream with low concentrations of nitrogenous
     impurities, protein impurities, lignin impurities and sulphates. Preferably, a purification
     step to remove cells and other solids from the liquid is used prior to using a resin packed
     column. Alternatively, the exchange resins can be used in batch mode.
                                                   15

WO 2014/186652                                                              PCT/US2014/038316
     [0057]       Some examples of adsorbents that can be used (e.g., in a column or added to a
     batch to purify during or after fermentation) include strong and weak base polymers,
     molecular sieves, and macroreticular resins. For example, Dow XUS 40285 Weak base
     polymer, Dow XITS 40091 Weak base, Dow XUS 40323 Strong base, Dow XUS 40283
     Strong base, Dow XUS 43432 Weak base, Dow XUS 40196 Strong base, Dow XUS
     40189 Strong base Polymer, Amberlite@ IRA-93 RH Weak base macroreticular,
     AmberliteIRA@      (-35 Weak base macroreticular, Amberlite@ XAD-4 Weak base
     polymer, Aimberliet@ XAD-7 Weak base polyimer, Dowex@ Ix2 Weak base, Marathon@
     WBA Strong base macroreticular, Dowex@ MSA-1@ Strong acid PVP, Dowex@ MSA
     2@ Strong acid PVP, REILLEX'            425 PVP, REILLEXM IPQ Hydrophobic molecular
     sieve, REILLEX/' 402 Polymer, SILICALITE T ' powder hydrophobic molecular sieve,
     SILICALITE         pellet hydrophobic molecular sieve with binder, AG-3@ Styrene, AG
     @1 Styrene quaternary amine, Dowex@ MWA-1 ITertiary amine macroreticular, Hytrel@
     8206 and Ilytrel( G3548L.
     [0058]       Methods for recovering the poly carboxylic acid from the adsorbents include
     treatment with hot water, acids, bases, solvents and combinations of these These
     treatments can release the poly carboxylic acids and regenerate the adsorbents.
     [0059]       Another optional method for purification of poly carboxylic acids (e.g.,
     succinic acid) is electrodialysis. In the fermentation broth, the dissociated succinic acid
     is ionic while other components, such as proteins, amino acids, lignin derived substrates
     and carbohydrates, are either often weakly ionic or non-ionic. Electrodialysis can target
     the dissociated form of the succinic acid and removes it while leaving behind the other
     compounds. Optionally, electrodialysis can be used while the fermentation is taking
     place to remove the succinic acid and the remaining fluid including cells can be recycled
     back to the fermenter.
     [0060]       Precipitation of poly carboxylic acid (e.g., succinic acid) is another optional
     purification method. For example, the fermentation broth can be centrifuged and or
     filtered (e.g., press-filtered, rotary vacuum drum filtered) and the broth can then be
     treated with calcium hydroxide or calcium carbonate. Calcium succinate precipitates out
     of solution and can be isolated (e.g., filtered and washed) from non-precipitating species.
     Calcium succinate can then be acidified, e.g., using sulfuric acid producing solid calcium
     sulfate which is removed (e.g., filtered) from the soluble succinic acid.
     [0061]       Another possible method for purification includes cross-flow filtration
     technologies such as nano-filtration. In this method, the nano-filter can retain poly
                                                    16

WO 2014/186652                                                               PCT/US2014/038316
     carboxylic acids such as succinic acids while letting less highly charged and smaller
     molecules pass through the membranes.
     [0062]       Optionally, reactive distillation/extraction can also be used to purify poly
     carboxylic acids. For example, the esterification with methanol provides the methyl ester
     which can be distillated and/or extracted and then the ester can be hydrolyzed to the acid.
     Esterification to other esters can also be used to facilitate the separation. For example,
     reactions with alcohols to the ethyl, propyl, butyl, hexyl, octyl or even esters with more
     than eight carbons can be formed and then extracted in a solvent or distilled.
     [0063]       Other potentially useful methods for purification of poly carboxylic acids
     include SMB. For example, to separate the acids from other fermentation products such
     as residual sugars. Optionally, the acid groups can be modified, e.g., by esterification. As
     in other chromatographic techniques, it is preferable that solutions are treated with SMB,
     that is, most solids are removed, e.g., by filtration, prior to SMB.
     [0064]       More than one method as described herein can be utilized. For example,
     filtrations followed by extractions, followed by crystallizations and/or distillations can be
     utilized.
     CONVERSIONS OF SUCCINIC ACID
     [0065]       Succinic acid is a platform chemical to many important chemicals. For
     example, it is a substitute for petroleum chemicals such as butane and benzene which are
     themselves petrochemical routes to platform chemicals such as maleic anhydride. FIG.
     4A shows some of the transformation (e.g., chemical transformations) available for
     succinic acid. Biological conversion is also possible.
     [0066]       Reactions including cyclizations and other reactions (e.g. amination,
     alkylations, oxidations, reductions, acid halide formation such as acid halide or acid
     bromide formation) can convert succinic acid to tetrahydrofuran, succinic acid
     anhydride, gamma-butyro lactone, 2-pyrrolidinone, N-methyl-2-pyrrolidinone (NMP),
     N-viny-2-pyrrolidinone, other N-substituted-2-pyrrolidinones (e.g., where R is an alkyl,
     aryl or other group), succinimide, succinyl chloride, N-hydroxysuccinimide and other N
     substituted succinimides (e.g., where R is an alkyl, aryl, or other group). Compounds
     such as 2-pyrolidiones and succinimides have many applications/uses including, for
     example, as solvents, functionalizing agents for polymers (e.g., peptides, proteins and
     plastics), functional group activating agents, as intermediates to polymers such as
     polyvinylpyrrolidone and polypyrrolidone and as intermediates to pharmaceutical drugs
                                                     17

WO 2014/186652                                                            PCT/US2014/038316
     such as cotinine, doxapram, piracetam, pvidone, phensuximide, methsuximide and
     ethosuximide. Tetrahydrofuran (THF) is an important solvent and precursor to poly
     THF. Gamma-butyrolactone is a solvent, aroma compound, stain remover and chemical
     reagent.
     [0067]      Succinic acid is also a platform chemical to difunctional linear alkanes. For
     example, succindiamide, 1,4-diaminobutane, succinonitrile, 1,4-butandiol and dimethyl
     succinate. These chemicals have uses, for example, as intermediates to fine chemicals,
     solvents and as polymer precursors. For example; 1,4-diaminobutante (e.g., also known
     as putrescine) can be reacted with adipic acid to produce the polyaminde nylon-4,6; 1,4
     butanediol is used in the manufacturing of plastics, elastomers, polyesters and
     polyurethanes; succinonitrile can used as a glazing agent in nickelizing, a battery
     solution additive, a raw material of quinacridone pigment and is intermediate an nylon-4.
     [0068]      Succinic acid anhydride can be dehydrogenated to maleic anhydride. Maleic
     anhydride can undergo many reactions including Diels Alder reactions. By way of
     example, FIG. 4B shows the reaction of succinic acid with cyclopentadiene producing
     the endo product, cis-Norbornene-5,6-endo-dicarboxylic anhydride, and the reaction of
     succinic acid with anthracene producing 9,1 0-dihydroanthracene-9, 10-succinic
     anhydride. Other transformations of maleic acid can yield malic acid, tetrahydrophtalic
     anhydride, alpha olefin succinimides, succinyl chloride butanediol, tetrahydrofurane,
     polysuccinimides, ethyl vinyl acetate polymers, styrene copolymers, polyisobutenyl
     succinimides, unsaturated polyesters.
     [0069]      Other compounds that can be derived from succinic acid include tartaric acid,
     fumaric acid, aspartic acid and malic acid.
     POLYMERS MADE WITH POLY CARBOXYLIC ACIDS
     [0070]      Some polymers can be made by the thermal polycondensation of
     polycarboxylic acids (e.g., dicarboxylic acids such as succinic acid and adipic acids) with
     diols, for example, 1,3-propanediol, 1,4-butane-diol, 1,5-pentanediol, 1,6-hexanediol,
     1,4-cylcohexanedimethanol and mixtures of these can be used. This polycondensation
     often only provides a low molecular weight polymer. For example, with molecular
     weights of a few thousand. To increase the molecular weight chain extenders can be
     utilized. For example, a chain extension reagents include diepoxides (e.g., 1,3-butadiene
     diepoxide), di-acyl chloride (e.g., sebacoyl dichloride), diisocyanates (e.g., 4,4'
     diphenylmethane, 2,4-toluene diisocyanate), phenols (e.g., bisphenol A), aromatic
     amines (e.g., 4,4'-diaminodiphenyl sulfone, 3,3'-dichloro-4,4'
                                                   18

WO 2014/186652                                                                PCT/US2014/038316
     diaminodiphenylmethane), phosgene (e.g., and phosgene substitutes such as diphosgene,
     triphosgene, carbonyl diimidazole, disuccinimidyl carbonate) and combinations of these.
     The use and choice of chain extenders can greatly modify the propertied of the polymer,
     for example, adding stiffness and thermal stability to the polymer. For example, reaction
     of the polyesters formed by the polycondensation of succinic acid with 1,3-propane diol,
     with chain extenders 4,4'-diisophenylmethane diisocyante and 1,3-propane diol produces
      a segmented polyester-polyurethane co polymer.
      [0071]       FIG. 5 shows a schematic view of a reaction system for polymerization of
     monomers for example, for making polyesters (e.g., including co-polymers of di acids
      and diols; poly lactic acids; and copolymers of D and/or L lactic acids, dicarboxylic acids
      and diamines) and polyurethanes). The reaction system 510 includes a stainless steel
     jacked reaction tank 520, a vented screw extruder 528, a pelletizer 530, a heat exchanger
     534 and a condensation tank 540. An outlet 521 of the reaction tank is connected to a
     tube (e.g., stainless steel) which is connected to an inlet 545 to the heat exchanger. An
     outlet 546 to the heat exchanger is connected to another tube (e.g., stainless steel) and is
     connected to an inlet 548 to the condensation tank 540. The tubes and connections from
     the reaction tank and condensation tank provide a fluid pathway (e.g., water vapor/air)
     between the two tanks. A vacuum can be applied to the fluid pathway between the tanks
     520 and 540 by utilizing a vacuum pump 550 that is connected to port 549.
      [0072]       The reaction tank 520 includes an outlet 524 that can be connected to a tube
      (e.g., stainless steel) that is connected to an inlet to a screw extruder 560. An outlet to the
     extruder 562 is connected to a tube which is connected optionally through a valve 561 to
     the reaction tank 520 through inlet 527. Optionally the outlet to the extruder 562 is
     connected through valve 561 to the pelletizer 530 through inlet 532. Tubes and
     connections from the reaction tank and extruder provide a circular fluid pathway (e.g.,
     reactants and products) between the reaction tank and extruder when the valve 561 is set
     in recirculating position. The tubes and connections from the reaction tank to the
     pelletizer provide a fluid pathway between the reaction tank and pelletizer when the
     valve 561 is set in pelletizing position.
      [0073]        When in operation, the tank can be charged with monomers (e.g., diacids,
     diols D and/or L Lactic acid) or oligomers (e.g., low molecular weight polymers of
     monomers including diacids, diol, D and/or L Lactic acid). The monomers or oligomers
     can be heated in the tank utilizing the stainless steel heating jacket 522. In addition, a
     vacuum is applied to the condensation tank 540 and therefore to the reaction tank 520
     through the stainless steel tubing and connections using the vacuum pump 550. The
                                                      19

WO 2014/186652                                                               PCT/US2014/038316
     heating of the monomers (e.g., or oligomers) accelerates the condensation reactions (e.g.,
     esterification reactions) to form oligomers (e.g., in cases where oligomers were added, to
     molecular weight of the oligomers can increase) while the applied vacuum helps
     volatilize the water that is produced. Water vapor travels out of the reactants and out of
     the reaction tank 520 and towards the heat exchanger 534 as indicated by the arrow. The
     heat exchanger cools the water vapor and the condensed water drops into the
     condensation tank 540 through the tubes and connections previously described. Multiple
     heat exchangers can be utilized.
     [0074]       In addition, during operation, extruder 528 can be engaged and operated to
     draw the reactants (e.g., monomers, oligomers and polymers) out of the tank. When the
     valve 561 is set in recirculating position the reactants/contents of tank 520 are circulated
     back to the reaction tank in the direction shown by the arrows. In addition to the
     extruder, the flow can be controlled by valve 525. For example, the valve can be set to
     closed for no flow, open for maximal flow or an intermediate position for lower or high
     flow rates (e.g., between about 0 and 100% open, e.g., about 0%, 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%,
     50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90% or about 100% open).
     [0075]       The reaction can be continued with reactants following a circular pathway
     (e.g., with valve in recirculating position) until a desired polymerization degree,
     composition and/or polydispersity is achieved. This circulating pathway provides mixing
     and shearing that can help the polymerization (e.g., increase molecular weight, control
     polydispersity, improve the kinetics of the polymerization, improved temperature
     distribution and diffusion of reacting species).The products (e.g. polymer) can then be
     directed to the pelletizer by setting valve 561 to the pelletizing position. The pelletizer
     then can produce pellets which can be collected. Pellets can be of various shapes and
     sizes. For example, spherical or approximately spherical, hollow tube shaped, filled tube
     shape with, for example, approximate volumes, between about 1 mm 3 to about 1 cm 3.
     The pelletizer can also be replaced with other equipment. For example, extruders (e.g.,
     film sheet or filament extruders), mixers, reactors, and filament makers.
     [0076]       The extruder 528 can be a vented screw extruder so that water or other
     volatile compounds can be removed from further processing. The extruder can be a
     single screw extruder or a multiple screw extruder. For example, the extruder can be a
     twine screw extruder with co-rotating or counter rotating screws. The screw extruder can
     also be a hollow flight extruder and can be heated or cooled. The screw extruder can be
     fitted with ports to its interior. The ports can be utilized, for example, for the addition of
     additives, addition of co-monomers, addition of cross-linking agents, addition of
                                                    20

WO 2014/186652                                                               PCT/US2014/038316
     catalysts, addition of chain extending agents, irradiation treatments and addition of
     solvents. The ports can also be utilized for sampling (e.g., to test the progress of the
     reaction or troubleshoot the process). In addition to sampling, the torque applied to the
     extruder can be used to monitor the progress of the polymerization (e.g., as the viscosity
     increases). An in-line (e.g., a static mixer) mixer can also be disposed in the pathway of
     the circulating reactants, for example, before or after the screw extruder, providing a
     tortuous path for the reactants which can improve the mixing supplied to the reactants.
     The extruder can be sized, for example, so that the material is recirculated, e.g., about
     0.25-10 times per hour (e.g., about 1-5 or 1-4 times per hour).
     [0077]      The position of the return port 527 allows the reactants to flow down the side
     of the tank, increasing the surface area of the reactants facilitating the removal of water.
     The return port can include multiple (e.g. a plurality of ports) disposed at various
     positions in the tanks. For example, the plurality of return ports can be placed
     circumferentially around the tank.
     [0078]      The tank can include a reciprocating scraper 529 which can help push the
     formed polymer/oligomers down the reaction tank. For example, during or after
     completion of the reaction. Once the reciprocating scraper moves down, the scraper can
     then be moved back up. For example, to a resting position. The scraper can be moved up
     and down the tank by engaging with an axel 640 that is attached to a hub 650 (seen in
     FIG. 6). In another possible embodiment, the hub can be tapped for mechanical coupling
     to a screw. For example, wherein the axel is a screw-axel that extends to the bottom of
     the tank. The screw-axel can then turn to drive the scraper down or up.
     [0079]      A top view of one embodiment of a reciprocating scraper is shown in FIG. 6A
     while a front cut out view is shown in FIG. 6B. The reciprocating scraper includes
     pistons 620 attached to a hub 650 and scraping ends 630. The scraping end is in the form
     of a compression ring with a gap 660. The pistons apply pressure against the inside
     surfaces of the tank 615 through the scraping ends 630 while the scraper can be moved
     down the tank as shown by the arrow in FIG. 6B. The gap 660 allows the expansion and
     contraction of the scraper. The scraper can be made of any flexible material. For
     example, steel such as stainless steel. The gap is preferably as small as possible (e.g., less
     than about 1", less than about 0.1", less than about 0.01" or even less than about 0.001").
     [0080]      Another embodiment of a reciprocating scraper is shown in FIG. 6C and FIG.
     6D. In this second embodiment the scraping ends include a lip-seal. The lip seal can be
     made of a flexible material, for example, rubber. The movement of the lip-seal as the
     scraper moves up and down acts as a squeegee against the inside of the reaction tank.
                                                   21

WO 2014/186652                                                               PCT/US2014/038316
     [0081]       The tank 520 can be 100 gal in size, although larger and smaller sizes can be
     utilized (e.g., between about 20 to 10, 000 gal, e.g., at least 50 gal, at least 200 gal, at
     least 500 gal, at least1O00 gal). The tank, for example, can be shaped with a conical
     bottom or rounded bottom.
     [0082]       In addition to the inlets and outlets discussed, the tank can also include other
     openings. For example, to allow the addition of reagents or for access to the interior of
     the tank for repairs.
     [0083]       During the reaction the temperature in the tank can be controlled from
     between about 100 and 180 deg C. The polymerization can preferably started at about
     100 deg C and the temperature increased to about 160 deg C over several hours ( e.g.,
     between 1 and 48 hours, 1 and 24 hours, 1 and 16 hours, 1 and 8 hours). A vacuum can
     be applied between about 0.1 and 2 mmHg). For example, at the beginning of the
     reaction about 0. 1mmHg and at the end of the reaction about 2 mmHg.
     [0084]       Water from the condenser tank 540 can be drained trough an opening 542
     utilizing control valve 544.
     [0085]        The heat exchanger can be a fluid cooled heat exchanger. For example,
     cooled with water, air or oil. Several heat exchangers can be used, for example, as
     needed to condense as much of the water as possible. For example, a second heat
     exchanger can be located between the vacuum pump 550 and the condensation tank 540.
     [0086]       In some optional embodiments a monomer or monomer mixture is first
     dehydrated. For example, a monomer or monomer mixture can include a polycarboxylic
     acid. Polymerization can be considered as three steps or phases. The dehydrated mixture
     is oligomerized in a first step to a degree of polymerization of about 5 to about 50. In a
     second step the oligomers from the first step are heated to a temperature for melt
     polymerization, to a polymerization degree of between about 35 and to about 500. In a
     third step the polymer from step 2 is further polymerized. For example, the tank with the
     reciprocating scraper can be utilized, in any of the polymerization steps described.
     [0087]       In some optional embodiments a monomer or monomer mixture is first
     dehydrated. For example, a monomer or monomer mixture can include a polycarboxylic
     acid. Polymerization can be considered as three steps or phases. The dehydrated mixture
     is oligomerized in a first step to a degree of polymerization of about 5 to about 50. In a
     second step the oligomers from the first step are heated to a temperature for melt
     polymerization, to a polymerization degree of between about 35 and to about 500. In a
     third step the polymer from step 2 is further polymerized, for example, utilizing a
     devolitalizing device such as previously described (e.g., see FIGs 5, 7a, 7b, 8a and 8b)
                                                    22

WO 2014/186652                                                                PCT/US2014/038316
     [0088]        FIG. 7A is a schematic of a polymerization system for polymerizing or co
     polymerizing e.g., hydroxyl carboxylic acid and/or polycarboxylic acids. The thin film
     evaporator or thin film polymerization/devolatilization device 1200, and (optional)
     extruder 1202 for product isolation or recycle back to the thin film evaporator or thin
     film polymerization/devolatilization device, a heated recycle loop 1204, a heated
     condenser 1206, cooled condenser 1208 for condensing water and other volatile
     components, a collection vessel 1210 a fluid transfer unit 1212 (e.g., including a pump)
     to remove condensed water and volatile components and a product isolation device
     1214. The effluent from 1212 can optionally be taken to a another unit operation to
     recover the useful volatile components for recycle back to polymerization steps. For
     example, the first step discussed above. The thin film evaporator or thin film
     polymerization/devolatilization device is preferably utilized in the third step describe
     above. The fluid transfer unit is shown as a pump.
     [0089]        FIG. 7B is a cutaway of the thin film polymerization/devolatilization device.
     The angled rectangular piece 1250 is the optionally heated surface where the molten
     polymer flows. The incoming molten polymer stream 1252 flows onto the surface and is
     shown as an ellipse 1258 of flowing polymer flowing to the exit of the device at 1254.
     The volatiles are removed through pipe 1256.
     [0090]         The internals of the thin film evaporator or thin film
     polymerization/devolatilization device can be in different configurations, but can be
     configured to assure that the polymer fluid flows in a thin film through the device. This
     is to facilitate volatilization of the water that is in the polymer fluid or is formed by a
     condensation reaction. For instance, the surface may be slanted at an angle relative to
     the straight sides of the device. The surface may be separately heated such that the
     surface is 0 to 40 'C hotter than the polymer fluid. With this heated surface it can be
     heated to up to 300 'C, as much as 40 'C higher than the overall temperature of the
     device.
     [0091]        The thickness of the polymer fluid flowing along the thin film part of the
     device is less than 1 cm, optionally less than 0.5 cm or alternately less than 0.25 cm.
     [0092]        The thin film evaporator and thin film polymerization/devolatilization device
     are similar in function. Other similar devices similar in function should be considered to
     have the same function as these. Descriptively, these include wiped film evaporators
     (e.g., as previously described), short path evaporator, a shell and tube heat exchanger and
     the like. For each of these evaporator configurations a distributor may be used to assure
                                                     23

WO 2014/186652                                                                PCT/US2014/038316
     distribution of the thin film. The limitation that they must be able to operate at the
     conditions described above.
     [0093]       FIG. 8A is a schematic of a pilot-scale polymerization system to polymerize
     hydroxy carboxylic acid and/or poly carboxylic acid. The thin film evaporator or thin
     film polymerization/devolatilization device 1900, a heated riser 1902, a cooled
     condenser 1904 for condensing water and other volatile components, a collection vessel
     1906 a fluid transfer unit 1908 to recycle the polymer fluid shown as a pump. The
     connecting tubing is not shown for clarity. The output of the pump 1916 is connected to
     inlet 1910, the device output 1912 is connected to the inlet of the pump 1914. The
     product isolation section is not shown. Internal in the thin film
     polymerization/devolatilization device is a slanted surface. The polymer fluid is flowed
     to the inlet with the configured such that the polymer fluid flows onto the slanted
     surface. This slanted surface may be separately heated as described above.
     [0094]       FIG. 8B is a cutaway of the thin film polymerization/devolatilization device.
     The angled rectangular piece 1950 is the optionally heated surface where the molten
     polymer flows. The incoming molten polymer stream 1952 flows onto the surface and is
     shown as a trapezoid 1956 of flowing polymer flowing to the exit of the device at 1954.
     [0095]       The polymerization systems and devices described can be made of any
     normally used metals for chemical processing equipment. Since the carboxylic acids
     and poly carboxylic acids can be corrosive the thin film evaporator may be clad or coated
     with corrosive resistant metals such as tantalum, alloys such as HastelloyTM, a
     trademarked alloy from Haynes International, and the like. It can also be coated with
     inert high temperature polymeric coatings such as TeflonTM from DuPont, Wilmington
     DE. For example, the corrosivity of the hydroxy-carboxylic acid system may not be
     surprising since the pKa of lactic acid is more than 0.8 less than acetic acid. Also, water
     undoubtedly hydrates the acid and the acid end of the polymer. When those waters of
     hydration are removed the acidity can be much higher, since it is not leveled by the
     waters of hydration.
     [0096]       Optionally, polymerizations can be done utilizing catalysts and/or promoters.
     The catalyst can be added after a desired degree of polymerization is obtained. For
     example, protonic acids and Lewis acids may be used. Examples of the acids include
     sulfonic acids, H 3PO 4 , H 2SO 4 , sulfonic acids, e, g, methane sulfonic acid, p-toluene
     sulfonic acid, Nafion@ NR 50 H+ form From DuPont, Wilmington DE ( sulfonic acid
     supported/bonded to a polymer that optionally may have a tetrafluorethylene backbone) ,
     acids supported on or bonded onto polymers, metals, Mg, Al, Ti, Zn, Sn, metal oxides,
                                                      24

WO 2014/186652                                                                     PCT/US2014/038316
     TiO 2 , ZnO, GeO 2 , ZrO 2 , SnO, SnO 2 , Sb 2 0 3 , metal halides, ZnCl 2 , SnCl 2, AlCl 3 SnC14 ,
     Mn(AcO) 2, Fe 2 (LA) 3 , Co(AcO) 2, Ni(AcO) 2, Cu(OAc) 2, Zn(LA) 2, Y(OAc) 3, Al(i-PrO) 3,
     Ti(BuO) 4, TiO(acac) 2, (Bu) 2 SnO, tin octoate, solvates of any of these and mixtures of
     these can be used. For instance, p-toluene sulfonic acid and tin octoate or tin chloride
     may be used together.
     [0097]       In some embodiments, the polymerizations can be done at a temperature
     between about 100 and about 260 'C, such as between about 110 and about 240 'C or
     between about 120 and about 200 'C. Optionally, at least a portion of the
     polymerizations can be performed under vacuum (e.g., between about 0.005 to 300kPa).
     [0098]       After the polymerization has reached the desired molecular weight, it may be
     necessary to deactivate and/or remove the catalyst from the polymer. The catalyst can be
     reacted with a variety of compounds, including, silica, functionalized silica, alumina,
     clays, functionalized clays, amines, carboxylic acids, phosphites, acetic anhydride,
     functionalized polymers, EDTA and similar chelating agents.
     [0099]       While not being bound by theory for those catalysts like the tin systems, if the
     added compound can occupy multiple sites on the tin it can be rendered inactive for
     polymerization (and depolymerization). For example, a compound like EDTA can
     occupy several sites in the coordination sphere of the tin and, in turn, interfere with the
     catalytic sites in the coordination sphere. Alternatively, the added compound can be of
     sufficient size and the catalyst can adhere to its surface, such that the absorbed catalyst
     may be filtered from the polymer. Those added compounds such as silica may have
     sufficient acidic/basic properties that the silica adsorbs the catalyst and is filterable.
     [00100]      Optionally, the catalyst may be removed from the molten polymer.
     Removing catalyst may be accomplished just prior to, during, or after utilizing the
     polymerization device. The catalyst may be filtered from the molten polymer by using a
     filtration system similar to a screen pack. For example, since the molten polymer is
     flowing around the thin film evaporator/thin film polymerization/devolatilization device,
     a filtration system can be added. Alternatively, since the polymer flows through a screw
     extruder (e.g., with respect to FIG. 5) a filtering system can be added in line with the
     screw extruder.
     [00101]      To facilitate the catalyst removal, a neutralization or chelation chemical may
     be added. Candidate compounds include phosphites, anhydrides, poly carboxylic acids,
     polyamines, hydrazides, EDTA (and similar compounds) and the like. These
     neutralization and/or chelation compounds can be insoluble in the molten polymer
     leading to facile filtration. Poly carboxylic acids include poly acrylic acids and poly
                                                        25

WO 2014/186652                                                              PCT/US2014/038316
     methacrylic acids. The latter can be in a both a random, block, and graft polymer
     configuration. The amines include ethylene diamine, oligomers of ethylene diamine and
     other similar polyamines such as methyl bis -3-amino, propane.
     [00102]      Another option to remove the catalyst includes adding solid materials to the
     polymer melt. Examples of added materials include silica, alumina, aluminosilicates,
     clays, diatomaceous earth, polymers and like solid materials. Each of these can be
     optionally functionalized to react/bind with the catalyst. When the catalyst binds/bonds
     to these structures it can be filtered from the polymer.
     [00103]      The (co)polymer product is isolated when the desired conversion/physical
     properties are achieved. The product can be conveyed to a product collection /isolation
     area. Optionally, a final devolatilization step may be performed just prior to product
     isolation. Types of equipment to isolate the (co)polymer product can include rotoform
     pastillation system and similar systems in which the product is cooled to obtain a product
     in a useable form. Optionally, the final product can be directed to a pelletizer as
     previously discussed, to form pellets.
     [00104]      The equipment and reactions described herein (e.g., as described with
     reference to FIG. 5, 7a, 7b, 8a and 8b) can also be used for polymerization of other
     monomers. In addition, the equipment can be utilized after or during the polymerizations
     for blending of polymers. For example, any of the hydroxyl acids and poly carboxylic
     acids described herein can be polymerized by the methods, equipment and system
     described herein.
     [00105]      In addition to chemical method, lactic acid can be polymerized by LA
     polymerizing enzymes and organisms. For example, ring opening polymerization (ROP)
     can be catalyzed by Candida antarcticalipase B, and hydrolases.
     SURFACTANTS MADE WITH POLY CARBOXYLIC ACIDS
     [00106]      Poly carboxylic acids can be used to prepare surfactants. For example,
     dicarboxylic acids such as succinic, glutaric, terpthalic and adipic acid or any other
     diacid such as those describe herein can be utilized to prepare surfactants by
     condensation of one of the acid groups with a, for example, a long chain alcohol or a
     Gemini surfactants can be made by reacting both acid groups. For example, alcohols
     with between about 10 and about 40 carbon atoms (e.g., or even longer chains such as at
     least 40, at least 50, at least 60) such as Cetostearyl alcohol, geddyl alcohol, 1
     dotriacontanol, myricyl alcohol, 1-nonacosanol, montanyl alcohol, 1-heptacosanol, ceryl
     alcohol, lignoceryl alcohol, erucyl alcohol, behenyl alcohol, heneicosyl alcohol,
                                                    26

WO 2014/186652                                                             PCT/US2014/038316
     arachidyl alcohol, nonadecyl alcohol, stearyl alcohol, heptadecyl alcohol , palmitoleyl
     alcohol, cetyl alcohol, pentadecyl alcohol, myristyl alcohol, tridecyl alcohol, lauryl
     alcohol, undecyl alcohol, capric alcohol. Optionally, other groups can be used to form a
     link to the di-acid. For example, surfactants can be produced as described in Mariano et
     al. ARKIVOC 2005 (xii) 253-267 shown in FIG. 9. In this preparation, butyl (n=2), octyl
     (n=6), dodecyl (n=10), tetradecyl (n=12) and dodecyl/tetradecyl (n=10/12) alpha
     glucopyranosides are first prepared by Fisher glycosidation and acetylation of D-glucose.
     Compounds 16 - 20 are then prepared by the benylzylation of carbons 1 through 4. The
     compounds are condensed with the acid chloride of succinic acid (m=2) or glutaric acid
     (m=3) producing compounds 21 - 26 .The hydrogenation of 21 - 26 yields glucoside
     based gemini surfactants 27 - 32. The glucose can be prepared from biomass material.
     For example, as described herein. Other sugars, such as xylose, can be used to make
     surfactants in a similar manner. Other acyl groups can be used to make the alpha
     glucopyranosides such as with more than 14 carbon chains (e.g., from 14 to 40 carbon
     chains or more).
     [00107]     Di-acids can also be reacted with alcohols with more than 2 hydroxyl groups,
     for example, such as glycerol and then further reacted, for example, with saturated and
     unsaturated fatty acids (e.g., with between about 10 and 30 carbon atoms) on one or both
     ends to form non-ionic surfactants. An example of the preparation of these kinds of
     surfactants is shown in FIG. 10, as described in Kandeel, Der chemical Sinica, 2011,
     2(3):88-98. The compound A with n=2 is a 3-acyloxy-2-hydroxypropyl 2,3
     dihydroxypropyl succinate; B with n=4 is 3-acyloxy-2-hydroxypropyl 2,3
     dihyroxypropyl adipate; C with n=4 is bis(3-acyloxy-2-hydroxypropyl)succinate and; D
     with n= 4 is bis(3-acyloxy-2-hydroxypropyl)adipate. The acyloxy groups are derived
     from lauric acid (m=12), myristic acid (m=14) and Palmitic acid (m=16).
     [00108]     Succinic acid can also be made into sulfosuccinates surfactants. A general
     structure is shown here as Structure I:
                                                    O
                                       R
                                               0
                                                  Structure I
     [00109]     With regards to Structure I, counter ions (not shown) can be any positive ion.
     For example, ions of, alkai metals (e.g., Li, Na, K, Cs), alkai earth metals (Mg, Ca, Sr,
                                                   27

WO 2014/186652                                                               PCT/US2014/038316
     Ba), transition metals and lanthnaides. Preferably Nal+, K1 *, Mg    2+ and Ca2+ are used as
     counter ions. The R group can be, for example, a long chain saturated, unsaturated,
     branched or unbranched alkyl group, a poly ether (e.g., poly ethylene oxide, poly
     propylene oxide), silicones or combinations of these groups. The chains can also include
     other groups such as aromatic groups, esters, ketones, amines, alcohols, cyclic aliphatic
     groups and combinations of these groups. For example, some sulfosuccinates that can be
     prepared from succinic acid and succinic acid derivatives are Disodium Laureth
     Sulfosuccinate; Disodium Laureth-6 Sulfosuccinate; Disodium Laureth-9 Sulfosuccinate;
     Disodium Laureth-12 sulfosuccinate; Disodium Deceth-5 Sulfosuccinate; Disodium
     Deceth-6 sulfosuccinate; Magnesium Laureth-3 Sulfosuccinate; Disodium C12-14
     Pareth-1 Sulfosuccinate; Disodium C12-14 Pareth-2 Sulfosuccinate; Disodium C12-15
     Pareth Sulfosuccinate; Disodium C12-14 Sec-Pareth-3 Sulfosuccinate; Disodium C12-14
     Sec-Pareth-5 Sulfosuccinate; Disodium C12-14 Sec-Pareth-7 Sulfosuccinate; Disodium
     C12-14 Sec-Pareth-9 Sulfosuccinate; Disodium C12-14 Sec-Pareth-12 Sulfosuccinate;
     Disodium Oleth-3 Sulfosuccinate; Trisodium Sulfosuccinate; Disodium Laneth-5
     Sulfosuccinate and ; Disodium Coceth-3 Sulfosuccinate.
     OTHER USES FOR SUCCINIC ACID AND SUCCINIC ACID DERIVATIVES
     [00110]      Succinic acid and derivatives of succinic acid can be used for the production
     of biopolymers such as polyesters (e.g., polyaspartic acid, polysuccinimides),
     polyamides, polyurethanes, polyols, poly-butylene succinate, styrene copolymers,
     polyisobutenyl succinimides, EVA copolymers, copolymers and blends of these
     polymers.
     [00111]      As well as being sourced from renewable materials the polymers can be
     composted, recycled, used as a fuel (incinerated). Some of the degradation reactions
     include thermal degradation, hydrolytic degradation and biotic degradations.
     [00112]      End product markets include personal care items, green packaging, gardening
     (e.g., pots), consumer electronics, appliances, food packaging, disposable packaging,
     garbage bags, mulch films, controlled release matrices and containers (e.g., for
     fertilizers, pesticides, herbicides, nutrients, pharmaceuticals, flavoring agents, foods),
     shopping bags, general purpose film, high heat film, heat seal layer, surface coating,
     disposable tableware (e.g., plates, cups, forks, knives, spoons, sporks, bowls),
     automotive parts (e.g., panels, fabrics, under hood covers), carpet fibers, clothing fibers
     and thread (e.g., for garments, sportswear, footwear), biomedical applications and
     engineering plastics.
                                                     28

WO 2014/186652                                                              PCT/US2014/038316
     [00113]      In addition to polymers, succinic acid, succinic acid derivatives and similar
     compounds (e.g., poly carboxylic acids) coolants, deicers (e.g., succinate salts),
     cosmetics, personal care products, food, pharmaceuticals, agrichemicals, chemical
     intermediates, fine chemicals, solvents, plasticizers (e.g., succinate esters), fuel additives
     (e.g., succinate esters), corrosion inhibitors, plating compounds, detergents, surfactants,
     foaming agents, lubricant additives and chelators (e.g., for metals).
                                     RADIATION TREATMENT
     [00114]      The feedstock can be treated with radiation to modify its structure to reduce
     its recalcitrance. Such treatment can, for example, reduce the average molecular weight
     of the feedstock, change the crystalline structure of the feedstock, and/or increase the
     surface area and/or porosity of the feedstock. Radiation can be by, for example, electron
     beam, ion beam, 100 nm to 28 nm ultraviolet (UV) light, gamma or X-ray radiation.
     Radiation treatments and systems for treatments are discussed in U.S. Patent 8,142,620
     and U.S. Publication No. US 2010-009324, published on April 15, 2010, the entire
     disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.
     [00115]      Each form of radiation ionizes the biomass via particular interactions, as
     determined by the energy of the radiation. Heavy charged particles primarily ionize
     matter via Coulomb scattering; furthermore, these interactions produce energetic
     electrons that may further ionize matter. Alpha particles are identical to the nucleus of a
     helium atom and are produced by the alpha decay of various radioactive nuclei, such as
     isotopes of bismuth, polonium, astatine, radon, francium, radium, several actinides, such
     as actinium, thorium, uranium, neptunium, curium, californium, americium, and
     plutonium. Electrons interact via Coulomb scattering and bremsstrahlung radiation
     produced by changes in the velocity of electrons.
     [00116]      When particles are utilized, they can be neutral (uncharged), positively
     charged or negatively charged. When charged, the charged particles can bear a single
     positive or negative charge, or multiple charges, e.g., one, two, three or even four or
     more charges. In instances in which chain scission is desired to change the molecular
     structure of the carbohydrate containing material, positively charged particles may be
     desirable, in part, due to their acidic nature. When particles are utilized, the particles can
     have the mass of a resting electron, or greater, e.g., 500, 1000, 1500, or 2000 or more
     times the mass of a resting electron. For example, the particles can have a mass of from
                                                    29

WO 2014/186652                                                                PCT/US2014/038316
     about 1 atomic unit to about 150 atomic units, e.g., from about 1 atomic unit to about 50
     atomic units, or from about I to about 25, e.g., 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 12 or 15 atomic units.
     [00117]     Gamma radiation has the advantage of a significant penetration depth into a
     variety of material in the sample.
     [00118]     In embodiments in which the irradiating is performed with electromagnetic
     radiation, the electromagnetic radiation can have, e.g., energy per photon (in electron
     volts) of greater than 102 eV, e.g., greater than 103, 104, 105, 106, or even greater than 107
     eV. In some embodiments, the electromagnetic radiation has energy per photon of
     between 104 and 107 , e.g., between 105 and 106 eV. The electromagnetic radiation can
     have a frequency of, e.g., greater than 1016 Hz, greater than 101 Hz, 10 ", 10 ", 102, or
     even greater than 102 Hz. In some embodiments, the electromagnetic radiation has a
     frequency of between 1018 and 102 Hz, e.g., between 10" to 102 Hz.
     [00119]     Electron bombardment may be performed using an electron beam device that
     has a nominal energy of less than 10 MeV, e.g., less than 7 MeV, less than 5 MeV, or
     less than 2 MeV, e.g., from about 0.5 to 1.5 MeV, from about 0.8 to 1.8 MeV, or from
     about 0.7 to 1 MeV. In some implementations the nominal energy is about 500 to 800
     keV.
     [00120]     The electron beam may have a relatively high total beam power (the
     combined beam power of all accelerating heads, or, if multiple accelerators are used, of
     all accelerators and all heads), e.g., at least 25 kW, e.g., at least 30, 40, 50, 60, 65, 70, 80,
     100, 125, or 150 kW. In some cases, the power is even as high as 500 kW, 750 kW, or
     even 1000 kW or more. In some cases the electron beam has a beam power of 1200 kW
     or more, e.g., 1400, 1600, 1800, or even 3000 kW.
     [00121]     This high total beam power is usually achieved by utilizing multiple
     accelerating heads. For example, the electron beam device may include two, four, or
     more accelerating heads. The use of multiple heads, each of which has a relatively low
     beam power, prevents excessive temperature rise in the material, thereby preventing
     burning of the material, and also increases the uniformity of the dose through the
     thickness of the layer of material.
     [00122]     It is generally preferred that the bed of biomass material has a relatively
     uniform thickness. In some embodiments the thickness is less than about 1 inch (e.g.,
     less than about 0.75 inches, less than about 0.5 inches, less than about 0.25 inches, less
     than about 0.1 inches, between about 0.1 and 1 inch, between about 0.2 and 0.3 inches).
     [00123]     It is desirable to treat the material as quickly as possible. In general, it is
     preferred that treatment be performed at a dose rate of greater than about 0.25 Mrad per
                                                     30

WO 2014/186652                                                                PCT/US2014/038316
     second, e.g., greater than about 0.5, 0.75, 1, 1.5, 2, 5, 7, 10, 12, 15, or even greater than
     about 20 Mrad per second, e.g., about 0.25 to 2 Mrad per second. Higher dose rates
     allow a higher throughput for a target (e.g., the desired) dose. Higher dose rates generally
     require higher line speeds, to avoid thermal decomposition of the material. In one
     implementation, the accelerator is set for 3 MeV, 50 mA beam current, and the line
     speed is 24 feet/minute, for a sample thickness of about 20 mm (e.g., comminuted corn
     cob material with a bulk density of 0.5 g/cm 3).
     [00124]      In some embodiments, electron bombardment is performed until the material
     receives a total dose of at least 0.1 Mrad, 0.25 Mrad, 1 Mrad, 5 Mrad, e.g., at least 10,
     20, 30 or at least 40 Mrad. In some embodiments, the treatment is performed until the
     material receives a dose of from about 10 Mrad to about 50 Mrad, e.g., from about 20
     Mrad to about 40 Mrad, or from about 25 Mrad to about 30 Mrad. In some
     implementations, a total dose of 25 to 35 Mrad is preferred, applied ideally over a couple
     of passes, e.g., at 5 Mrad/pass with each pass being applied for about one second.
     Cooling methods, systems and equipment can be used before, during, after and in
     between radiations, for example, utilizing a cooling screw conveyor and/or a cooled
     vibratory conveyor.
     [00125]      Using multiple heads as discussed above, the material can be treated in
     multiple passes, for example, two passes at 10 to 20 Mrad/pass, e.g., 12 to 18 Mrad/pass,
     separated by a few seconds of cool-down, or three passes of 7 to 12 Mrad/pass, e.g., 5 to
     20 Mrad/pass, 10 to 40 Mrad/pass, 9 to 11 Mrad/pass. As discussed herein, treating the
     material with several relatively low doses, rather than one high dose, tends to prevent
     overheating of the material and also increases dose uniformity through the thickness of
     the material. In some implementations, the material is stirred or otherwise mixed during
     or after each pass and then smoothed into a uniform layer again before the next pass, to
     further enhance treatment uniformity.
     [00126]      In some embodiments, electrons are accelerated to, for example, a speed of
     greater than 75 percent of the speed of light, e.g., greater than 85, 90, 95, or 99 percent of
     the speed of light.
     [00127]      In some embodiments, any processing described herein occurs on
     lignocellulosic material that remains dry as acquired or that has been dried, e.g., using
     heat and/or reduced pressure. For example, in some embodiments, the cellulosic and/or
     lignocellulosic material has less than about 25 wt. % retained water, measured at 25'C
     and at fifty percent relative humidity (e.g., less than about 20 wt.%, less than about 15
     wt.%, less than about 14 wt.%, less than about 13 wt.%, less than about 12 wt.%, less
                                                    31

WO 2014/186652                                                                PCT/US2014/038316
     than about 10 wt.%, less than about 9 wt.%, less than about 8 wt.%, less than about 7
     wt.%, less than about 6 wt.%, less than about 5 wt.%, less than about 4 wt.%, less than
     about 3 wt.%, less than about 2 wt.%, less than about 1 wt.%, or less than about 0.5
     wt.%.
     [00128]      In some embodiments, two or more ionizing sources can be used, such as two
     or more electron sources. For example, samples can be treated, in any order, with a
     beam of electrons, followed by gamma radiation and UV light having wavelengths from
     about 100 nm to about 280 nm. In some embodiments, samples are treated with three
     ionizing radiation sources, such as a beam of electrons, gamma radiation, and energetic
     UV light. The biomass is conveyed through the treatment zone where it can be
     bombarded with electrons.
     [00129]      It may be advantageous to repeat the treatment to more thoroughly reduce the
     recalcitrance of the biomass and/or further modify the biomass. In particular the process
     parameters can be adjusted after a first (e.g., second, third, fourth or more) pass
     depending on the recalcitrance of the material. In some embodiments, a conveyor can be
     used which includes a circular system where the biomass is conveyed multiple times
     through the various processes described above. In some other embodiments, multiple
     treatment devices (e.g., electron beam generators) are used to treat the biomass multiple
     (e.g., 2, 3, 4 or more) times. In yet other embodiments, a single electron beam generator
     may be the source of multiple beams (e.g., 2, 3, 4 or more beams) that can be used for
     treatment of the biomass.
     [00130]      The effectiveness in changing the molecular/supermolecular structure and/or
     reducing the recalcitrance of the carbohydrate-containing biomass depends on the
     electron energy used and the dose applied, while exposure time depends on the power
     and dose. In some embodiments, the dose rate and total dose are adjusted so as not to
     destroy (e.g., char or bum) the biomass material. For example, the carbohydrates should
     not be damaged in the processing so that they can be released from the biomass intact,
     e.g. as monomeric sugars.
     [00131]      In some embodiments, the treatment (with any electron source or a
     combination of sources) is performed until the material receives a dose of at least about
     0.05 Mrad, e.g., at least about 0.1, 0.25, 0.5, 0.75, 1.0, 2.5, 5.0, 7.5, 10.0, 15, 20, 25, 30,
     40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 100, 125, 150, 175, or 200 Mrad. In some embodiments, the
     treatment is performed until the material receives a dose of between 0.1-100 Mrad, 1
     200, 5-200, 10-200, 5-150, 50-150 Mrad, 5-100, 5-50, 5-40, 10-50, 10-75, 15-50, 20-35
     Mrad.
                                                    32

WO 2014/186652                                                               PCT/US2014/038316
     [00132]      In some embodiments, relatively low doses of radiation are utilized, e.g., to
     increase the molecular weight of a cellulosic or lignocellulosic material (with any
     radiation source or a combination of sources described herein). For example, a dose of at
     least about 0.05 Mrad, e.g., at least about 0.1 Mrad or at least about 0.25, 0.5, 0.75. 1.0,
     1.5, 2.0, 2.5, 3.0, 3.5, 4.0, or at least about 5.0 Mrad. In some embodiments, the
     irradiation is performed until the material receives a dose of between 0. 1Mrad and 2.0
     Mrad, e.g., between 0.5 Mrad and 4.0 Mrad or between 1.0 Mrad and 3.0 Mrad.
     It also can be desirable to irradiate from multiple directions, simultaneously or
     sequentially, in order to achieve a desired degree of penetration of radiation into the
     material. For example, depending on the density and moisture content of the material,
     such as wood, and the type of radiation source used (e.g., gamma or electron beam), the
     maximum penetration of radiation into the material may be only about 0.75 inch. In such
     cases, a thicker section (up to 1.5 inch) can be irradiated by first irradiating the material
     from one side, and then turning the material over and irradiating from the other side.
     Irradiation from multiple directions can be particularly useful with electron beam
     radiation, which irradiates faster than gamma radiation but typically does not achieve as
     great a penetration depth.
                                RADIATION OPAQUE MATERIALS
     [00133]      The invention can include processing the material in a vault and/or bunker
     that is constructed using radiation opaque materials. In some implementations, the
     radiation opaque materials are selected to be capable of shielding the components from
     X-rays with high energy (short wavelength), which can penetrate many materials. One
     important factor in designing a radiation shielding enclosure is the attenuation length of
     the materials used, which will determine the required thickness for a particular material,
     blend of materials, or layered structure. The attenuation length is the penetration
     distance at which the radiation is reduced to approximately l/e (e = Euler's number)
     times that of the incident radiation. Although virtually all materials are radiation opaque
     if thick enough, materials containing a high compositional percentage (e.g., density) of
     elements that have a high Z value (atomic number) have a shorter radiation attenuation
     length and thus if such materials are used a thinner, lighter shielding can be provided.
     Examples of high Z value materials that are used in radiation shielding are tantalum and
     lead. Another important parameter in radiation shielding is the halving distance, which
     is the thickness of a particular material that will reduce gamma ray intensity by 50%. As
     an example for X-ray radiation with an energy of 0.1 MeV the halving thickness is about
                                                      33

WO 2014/186652                                                                PCT/US2014/038316
     15.1 mm for concrete and about 2.7 mm for lead, while with an X-ray energy of 1 MeV
     the halving thickness for concrete is about 44.45 mm and for lead is about 7.9 mm.
     Radiation opaque materials can be materials that are thick or thin so long as they can
     reduce the radiation that passes through to the other side. Thus, if it is desired that a
     particular enclosure have a low wall thickness, e.g., for light weight or due to size
     constraints, the material chosen should have a sufficient Z value and/or attenuation
     length so that its halving length is less than or equal to the desired wall thickness of the
     enclosure.
     [00134]     In some cases, the radiation opaque material may be a layered material. For
     example, having a layer of a higher Z value material, to provide good shielding, and a
     layer of a lower Z value material to provide other properties (e.g., structural integrity,
     impact resistance, etc.). In some cases, the layered material may be a "graded-Z"
     laminate, e.g., including a laminate in which the layers provide a gradient from high-Z
     through successively lower-Z elements. In some cases the radiation opaque materials can
     be interlocking blocks, for example, lead and/or concrete blocks can be supplied by
     NELCO Worldwide (Burlington, MA), and reconfigurable vaults can be utilized.
     [00135]     A radiation opaque material can reduce the radiation passing through a
     structure (e.g., a wall, door, ceiling, enclosure, a series of these or combinations of these)
     formed of the material by about at least about 10 %, (e.g., at least about 20%, at least
     about 30%, at least about 40%, at least about 50%, at least about 60%, at least about
     70%, at least about 80%, at least about 90%, at least about 95%, at least about 96%, at
     least about 97%, at least about 98%, at least about 99%, at least about 99.9%, at least
     about 99.99%, at least about 99.999%) as compared to the incident radiation. Therefore,
     an enclosure made of a radiation opaque material can reduce the exposure of
     equipment/system/components by the same amount. Radiation opaque materials can
     include stainless steel, metals with Z values above 25 (e.g., lead, iron), concrete, dirt,
     sand and combinations thereof. Radiation opaque materials can include a barrier in the
     direction of the incident radiation of at least about 1mm (e.g., 5 mm, 10mm, 5 cm, 10
     cm, 100cm, Im and even at least about 10m).
                                       RADIATION SOURCES
     [00136]     The type of radiation determines the kinds of radiation sources used as well as
     the radiation devices and associated equipment. The methods, systems and equipment
                                                    34

WO 2014/186652                                                              PCT/US2014/038316
     described herein, for example, for treating materials with radiation, can be utilized
     sources as described herein as well as any other useful source.
     [00137]     Sources of gamma rays include radioactive nuclei, such as isotopes of cobalt,
     calcium, technetium, chromium, gallium, indium, iodine, iron, krypton, samarium,
     selenium, sodium, thallium, and xenon.
     [00138]     Sources of X-rays include electron beam collision with metal targets, such as
     tungsten or molybdenum or alloys, or compact light sources, such as those produced
     commercially by Lyncean.
     [00139]     Alpha particles are identical to the nucleus of a helium atom and are produced
     by the alpha decay of various radioactive nuclei, such as isotopes of bismuth, polonium,
     astatine, radon, francium, radium, several actinides, such as actinium, thorium, uranium,
     neptunium, curium, californium, americium, and plutonium.
     [00140]     Sources for ultraviolet radiation include deuterium or cadmium lamps.
     [00141]     Sources for infrared radiation include sapphire, zinc, or selenide window
     ceramic lamps.
     [00142]     Sources for microwaves include klystrons, Slevin type RF sources, or atom
     beam sources that employ hydrogen, oxygen, or nitrogen gases.
     [00143]     Accelerators used to accelerate the particles (e.g., electrons or ions) can be
     DC (e.g., electrostatic DC or electrodynamic DC), RF linear, magnetic induction linear
     or continuous wave. For example, various irradiating devices may be used in the
     methods disclosed herein, including field ionization sources, electrostatic ion separators,
     field ionization generators, thermionic emission sources, microwave discharge ion
     sources, recirculating or static accelerators, dynamic linear accelerators, van de Graaff
     accelerators, Cockroft Walton accelerators (e.g., PELLETRON@ accelerators), LINACS,
     Dynamitrons (e.g., DYNAMITRON@ accelerators), cyclotrons, synchrotrons, betatrons,
     transformer-type accelerators, microtrons, plasma generators, cascade accelerators, and
     folded tandem accelerators. For example, cyclotron type accelerators are available from
     IBA, Belgium, such as the RHODOTRONTM system, while DC type accelerators are
     available from RDI, now IBA Industrial, such as the DYNAMITRON@. Other suitable
     accelerator systems include, for example: DC insulated core transformer (ICT) type
     systems, available from Nissin High Voltage, Japan; S-band LINACs, available from L3
     PSD (USA), Linac Systems (France), Mevex (Canada), and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries
     (Japan); L-band LINACs, available from Iotron Industries (Canada); and ILU-based
     accelerators, available from Budker Laboratories (Russia). Ions and ion accelerators are
     discussed in Introductory Nuclear Physics, Kenneth S. Krane, John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
                                                    35

WO 2014/186652                                                              PCT/US2014/038316
     (1988), Krsto Prelec, FIZIKA B 6 (1997) 4, 177-206, Chu, William T., "Overview of
     Light-Ion Beam Therapy", Columbus-Ohio, ICRU-IAEA Meeting, 18-20 March 2006,
     Iwata, Y. et al., "Alternating-Phase-Focused IH-DTL for Heavy-Ion Medical
     Accelerators", Proceedings of EPAC 2006, Edinburgh, Scotland, and Leitner, C.M. et
     al., "Status of the Superconducting ECR Ion Source Venus", Proceedings of EPAC 2000,
     Vienna, Austria. Some particle accelerators and their uses are disclosed, for example, in
     U.S. Pat. No. 7,931,784 to Medoff, the complete disclosure of which is incorporated
     herein by reference.
     [00144]      Electrons may be produced by radioactive nuclei that undergo beta decay,
     such as isotopes of iodine, cesium, technetium, and iridium. Alternatively, an electron
     gun can be used as an electron source via thermionic emission and accelerated through
     an accelerating potential. An electron gun generates electrons, which are then
     accelerated through a large potential (e.g., greater than about 500 thousand, greater than
     about 1million, greater than about 2 million, greater than about 5 million, greater than
     about 6 million, greater than about 7 million, greater than about 8 million, greater than
     about 9 million, or even greater than 10 million volts) and then scanned magnetically in
     the x-y plane, where the electrons are initially accelerated in the z direction down the
     accelerator tube and extracted through a foil window. Scanning the electron beams is
     useful for increasing the irradiation surface when irradiating materials, e.g., a biomass,
     that is conveyed through the scanned beam. Scanning the electron beam also distributes
     the thermal load homogenously on the window and helps reduce the foil window rupture
     due to local heating by the electron beam. Window foil rupture is a cause of significant
     down-time due to subsequent necessary repairs and re-starting the electron gun.
     [00145]      Various other irradiating devices may be used in the methods disclosed
     herein, including field ionization sources, electrostatic ion separators, field ionization
     generators, thermionic emission sources, microwave discharge ion sources, recirculating
     or static accelerators, dynamic linear accelerators, van de Graaff accelerators, and folded
     tandem accelerators. Such devices are disclosed, for example, in U.S. Pat. No. 7,931,784
     to Medoff, the complete disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
     [00146]      A beam of electrons can be used as the radiation source. A beam of electrons
     has the advantages of high dose rates (e.g., 1, 5, or even 10 Mrad per second), high
     throughput, less containment, and less confinement equipment. Electron beams can also
     have high electrical efficiency (e.g., 80%), allowing for lower energy usage relative to
     other radiation methods, which can translate into a lower cost of operation and lower
     greenhouse gas emissions corresponding to the smaller amount of energy used. Electron
                                                   36

WO 2014/186652                                                               PCT/US2014/038316
     beams can be generated, e.g., by electrostatic generators, cascade generators, transformer
     generators, low energy accelerators with a scanning system, low energy accelerators with
     a linear cathode, linear accelerators, and pulsed accelerators.
     [00147]      Electrons can also be more efficient at causing changes in the molecular
     structure of carbohydrate-containing materials, for example, by the mechanism of chain
     scission. In addition, electrons having energies of 0.5-10 MeV can penetrate low density
     materials, such as the biomass materials described herein, e.g., materials having a bulk
     density of less than 0.5 g/cm 3 , and a depth of 0.3-10 cm. Electrons as an ionizing
     radiation source can be useful, e.g., for relatively thin piles, layers or beds of materials,
     e.g., less than about 0.5 inch, e.g., less than about 0.4 inch, 0.3 inch, 0.25 inch, or less
     than about 0.1 inch. In some embodiments, the energy of each electron of the electron
     beam is from about 0.3 MeV to about 2.0 MeV (million electron volts), e.g., from about
     0.5 MeV to about 1.5 MeV, or from about 0.7 MeV to about 1.25 MeV. Methods of
     irradiating materials are discussed in U.S. Pat. App. Pub. 2012/0100577 AL, filed
     October 18, 2011, the entire disclosure of which is herein incorporated by reference.
     [00148]      Electron beam irradiation devices may be procured commercially or built. For
     example, elements or components such inductors, capacitors, casings, power sources,
     cables, wiring, voltage control systems, current control elements, insulating material,
     microcontrollers and cooling equipment can be purchased and assembled into a device.
     Optionally, a commercial device can be modified and/or adapted. For example, devices
     and components can be purchased from any of the commercial sources described herein
     including Ion Beam Applications (Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium), Wasik Associates Inc.
     (Dracut, MA), NHV Corporation (Japan), the Titan Corporation (San Diego, CA),
     Vivirad High Voltage Corp (Billerica, MA) and/or Budker Laboratories (Russia).
     Typical electron energies can be 0.5 MeV, 1 MeV, 2 MeV, 4.5 MeV, 7.5 MeV, or 10
     MeV. Typical electron beam irradiation device power can be 1 kW, 5 kW, 10 kW, 20
     kW, 50 kW, 60 kW, 70 kW, 80 kW, 90 kW, 100 kW, 125 kW, 150 kW, 175 kW, 200
     kW, 250 kW, 300 kW, 350 kW, 400 kW, 450 kW, 500 kW, 600 kW, 700 kW, 800 kW,
     900 kW or even 1000 kW. Accelerators that can be used include NHV irradiators
     medium energy series EPS-500 (e.g., 500 kV accelerator voltage and 65, 100 or 150 mA
     beam current), EPS-800 (e.g., 800 kV accelerator voltage and 65 or 100 mA beam
     current), or EPS-1000 (e.g., 1000 kV accelerator voltage and 65 or 100 mA beam
     current). Also, accelerators from NHV's high energy series can be used such as EPS
     1500 (e.g., 1500 kV accelerator voltage and 65 mA beam current), EPS-2000 (e.g., 2000
                                                     37

WO 2014/186652                                                              PCT/US2014/038316
     kV accelerator voltage and 50 mA beam current), EPS-3000 (e.g., 3000 kV accelerator
     voltage and 50 mA beam current) and EPS-5000 (e.g., 5000 and 30 mA beam current).
     [00149]     Tradeoffs in considering electron beam irradiation device power
     specifications include cost to operate, capital costs, depreciation, and device footprint.
     Tradeoffs in considering exposure dose levels of electron beam irradiation would be
     energy costs and environment, safety, and health (ESH) concerns. Typically, generators
     are housed in a vault, e.g., of lead or concrete, especially for production from X-rays that
     are generated in the process. Tradeoffs in considering electron energies include energy
     costs.
     [00150]     The electron beam irradiation device can produce either a fixed beam or a
     scanning beam. A scanning beam may be advantageous with large scan sweep length
     and high scan speeds, as this would effectively replace a large, fixed beam width.
     Further, available sweep widths of 0.5 m, 1 m, 2 m or more are available. The scanning
     beam is preferred in most embodiments described herein because of the larger scan width
     and reduced possibility of local heating and failure of the windows.
                                  ELECTRON GUNS - WINDOWS
     [00151]     The extraction system for an electron accelerator can include two window
     foils. The cooling gas in the two foil window extraction system can be a purge gas or a
     mixture. For example, air, or a pure gas. In one embodiment the gas is an inert gas such
     as nitrogen, argon, helium and or carbon dioxide. It is preferred to use a gas rather than a
     liquid since energy losses to the electron beam are minimized. Mixtures of pure gas can
     also be used, either pre-mixed or mixed in line prior to impinging on the windows or in
     the space between the windows. The cooling gas can be cooled, for example, by using a
     heat exchange system (e.g., a chiller) and/or by using boil off from a condensed gas (e.g.,
     liquid nitrogen, liquid helium). Window foils are described in PCT/US2013/64332 filed
     October 10, 2013 the full disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein.
           HEATING AND THROUGHPUT DURING RADIATION TREATMENT
     [00152]     Several processes can occur in biomass when electrons from an electron beam
     interact with matter in inelastic collisions. For example, ionization of the material, chain
     scission of polymers in the material, cross linking of polymers in the material, oxidation
     of the material, generation of X-rays ("Bremsstrahlung") and vibrational excitation of
                                                    38

WO 2014/186652                                                              PCT/US2014/038316
     molecules (e.g., phonon generation). Without being bound to a particular mechanism, the
     reduction in recalcitrance can be due to several of these inelastic collision effects. For
     example, ionization, chain scission of polymers, oxidation and phonon generation. Some
     of the effects (e.g., especially X-ray generation), necessitate shielding and engineering
     barriers, for example, enclosing the irradiation processes in a concrete (or other radiation
     opaque material) vault. Another effect of irradiation, vibrational excitation, is equivalent
     to heating up the sample. Heating the sample by irradiation can help in recalcitrance
     reduction, but excessive heating can destroy the material, as will be explained below.
     [00153]     The adiabatic temperature rise (AT) from adsorption of ionizing radiation is
     given by the equation: AT = D/Cp : where D is the average dose in kGy, Cp is the heat
     capacity in J/g 'C, and AT is the change in temperature in C. A typical dry biomass
     material will have a heat capacity close to 2. Wet biomass will have a higher heat
     capacity dependent on the amount of water since the heat capacity of water is very high
     (4.19 J/g C). Metals have much lower heat capacities, For example,304 stainless steel
     has a heat capacity of 0.5 J/g C. The temperature change due to the instant adsorption of
     radiation in a biomass and stainless steel for various doses of radiation is shown in Table
     1. At the higher temperatures biomass will decompose causing extreme deviation from
     the estimated changes in temperature.
     Table 1: Calculated Temperature increase for biomass and stainless steel.
     Dose (Mrad)           Estimated Biomass AT ("C)           Steel AT ("C)
     10                     50                                 200
     50                    250 (Decomposed)                    1000
     100                    500 (Decomposed)                   2000
     150                   750 (Decomposed)                    3000
     200                    1000 (Decomposed)                  4000
     [00154]     High temperatures can destroy and or modify the biopolymers in biomass so
     that the polymers (e.g., cellulose) are unsuitable for further processing. A biomass
     subjected to high temperatures can become dark, sticky and give off odors indicating
     decomposition. The stickiness can even make the material hard to convey. The odors can
     be unpleasant and be a safety issue. In fact, keeping the biomass below about 200'C has
     been found to be beneficial in the processes described herein (e.g., below about 190'C,
     below about 180'C, below about 170'C, below about 160'C, below about 150'C, below
                                                   39

WO 2014/186652                                                              PCT/US2014/038316
     about 140'C, below about 130'C, below about 120'C, below about 1 10 C, between
     about 60'C and 180'C, between about 60'C and 160'C, between about 60'C and 150'C,
     between about 60'C and 140'C, between about 60'C and 130'C, between about 60'C
     and 120'C, between about 80'C and 180'C, between about 100'C and 180'C, between
     about 120'C and 180'C, between about 140'C and 180'C, between about 160'C and
     180'C, between about 100'C and 140'C, between about 80'C and 120'C).
     [00155]     It has been found that irradiation above about 10 Mrad is desirable for the
     processes described herein (e.g., reduction of recalcitrance). A high throughput is also
     desirable so that the irradiation does not become a bottle neck in processing the biomass.
     The treatment is governed by a Dose rate equation: M = FP/D-time, where M is the mass
     of irradiated material (kg), F is the fraction of power that is adsorbed (unit less), P is the
     emitted power (kW=Voltage in MeV x Current in mA), time is the treatment time (sec)
     and D is the adsorbed dose (kGy). In an exemplary process where the fraction of
     adsorbed power is fixed, the Power emitted is constant and a set dosage is desired, the
     throughput (e.g., M, the biomass processed) can be increased by increasing the
     irradiation time. However, increasing the irradiation time without allowing the material
     to cool, can excessively heat the material as exemplified by the calculations shown
     above. Since biomass has a low thermal conductivity (less than about 0.1 Wm-'K-'), heat
     dissipation is slow, unlike. For example, metals (greater than about 10 Wm-'K-1) which
     can dissipate energy quickly as long as there is a heat sink to transfer the energy to.
                                ELECTRON GUNS - BEAM STOPS
     [00156]     In some embodiments the systems and methods include a beam stop (e.g., a
     shutter). For example, the beam stop can be used to quickly stop or reduce the
     irradiation of material without powering down the electron beam device. Alternatively
     the beam stop can be used while powering up the electron beam, e.g., the beam stop can
     stop the electron beam until a beam current of a desired level is achieved. The beam stop
     can be placed between the primary foil window and a secondary foil window. For
     example, the beam stop can be mounted so that it is movable, that is, so that it can be
     moved into and out of the beam path. Even partial coverage of the beam can be used, for
     example, to control the dose of irradiation. The beam stop can be mounted to the floor,
     to a conveyor for the biomass, to a wall, to the radiation device (e.g., at the scan horn), or
     to any structural support. Preferably the beam stop is fixed in relation to the scan horn so
                                                    40

WO 2014/186652                                                             PCT/US2014/038316
     that the beam can be effectively controlled by the beam stop. The beam stop can
     incorporate a hinge, a rail, wheels, slots, or other means allowing for its operation in
     moving into and out of the beam. The beam stop can be made of any material that will
     stop at least 5% of the electrons, e.g., at least 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%, at
     least 80%, 85%, 90%, 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99% or even about
     100% of the electrons.
     [00157]      The beam stop can be made of a metal including, but not limited to, stainless
     steel, lead, iron, molybdenum, silver, gold, titanium, aluminum, tin, or alloys of these, or
     laminates (layered materials) made with such metals (e.g., metal-coated ceramic, metal
     coated polymer, metal-coated composite, multilayered metal materials).
     [00158]      The beam stop can be cooled, for example, with a cooling fluid such as an
     aqueous solution or a gas. The beam stop can be partially or completely hollow. For
     example, with cavities. Interior spaces of the beam stop can be used for cooling fluids
     and gases. The beam stop can be of any shape, including flat, curved, round, oval,
     square, rectangular, beveled and wedged shapes.
     [00159]      The beam stop can have perforations so as to allow some electrons through,
     thus controlling (e.g., reducing) the levels of radiation across the whole area of the
     window, or in specific regions of the window. The beam stop can be a mesh formed, for
     example, from fibers or wires. Multiple beam stops can be used, together or
     independently, to control the irradiation. The beam stop can be remotely controlled, e.g.,
     by radio signal or hard wired to a motor for moving the beam into or out of position.
                                            BEAM DUMPS
     [00160]      The embodiments disclosed herein can also include a beam dump when
     utilizing a radiation treatment. A beam dump's purpose is to safely absorb a beam of
     charged particles. Like a beam stop, a beam dump can be used to block the beam of
     charged particles. However, a beam dump is much more robust than a beam stop, and is
     intended to block the full power of the electron beam for an extended period of time.
     They are often used to block the beam as the accelerator is powering up.
     [00161]      Beam dumps are also designed to accommodate the heat generated by such
     beams, and are usually made from materials such as copper, aluminum, carbon,
     beryllium, tungsten, or mercury. Beam dumps can be cooled, for example, using a
     cooling fluid that can be in thermal contact with the beam dump.
                                                     41

WO 2014/186652                                                               PCT/US2014/038316
                                       BIOMASS MATERIALS
     [00162]      Lignocellulosic materials include, but are not limited to, wood, particle board,
     forestry wastes (e.g., sawdust, aspen wood, wood chips), grasses, (e.g., switchgrass,
     miscanthus, cord grass, reed canary grass), grain residues, (e.g., rice hulls, oat hulls,
     wheat chaff, barley hulls), agricultural waste (e.g., silage, canola straw, wheat straw,
     barley straw, oat straw, rice straw, jute, hemp, flax, bamboo, sisal, abaca, corn cobs, corn
     stover, soybean stover, corn fiber, alfalfa, hay, coconut hair), sugar processing residues
     (e.g., bagasse, beet pulp, agave bagasse), algae, seaweed, manure, sewage, and mixtures
     of any of these.
     [00163]      In some cases, the lignocellulosic material includes corncobs. Ground or
     hammermilled corncobs can be spread in a layer of relatively uniform thickness for
     irradiation, and after irradiation are easy to disperse in the medium for further
     processing. To facilitate harvest and collection, in some cases the entire corn plant is
     used, including the corn stalk, corn kernels, and in some cases even the root system of
     the plant.
     [00164]      Advantageously, no additional nutrients (other than a nitrogen source, e.g.,
     urea or ammonia) are required during fermentation of corncobs or cellulosic or
     lignocellulosic materials containing significant amounts of corncobs.
     [00165]      Corncobs, before and after comminution, are also easier to convey and
     disperse, and have a lesser tendency to form explosive mixtures in air than other
     cellulosic or lignocellulosic materials such as hay and grasses.
     [00166]      Cellulosic materials include, for example, paper, paper products, paper waste,
     paper pulp, pigmented papers, loaded papers, coated papers, filled papers, magazines,
     printed matter (e.g., books, catalogs, manuals, labels, calendars, greeting cards,
     brochures, prospectuses, newsprint), printer paper, polycoated paper, card stock,
     cardboard, paperboard, materials having a high a-cellulose content such as cotton, and
     mixtures of any of these. For example, paper products as described in U.S. App. No.
     13/396,365 ("Magazine Feedstocks" by Medoff et al., filed February 14, 2012), the full
     disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
     [00167]      Cellulosic materials can also include lignocellulosic materials which have
     been partially or fully de-lignified.
     [00168]      In some instances other biomass materials can be utilized. For example,
     starchy materials. Starchy materials include starch itself, e.g., corn starch, wheat starch,
     potato starch or rice starch, a derivative of starch, or a material that includes starch, such
                                                    42

WO 2014/186652                                                              PCT/US2014/038316
     as an edible food product or a crop. For example, the starchy material can be arracacha,
     buckwheat, banana, barley, cassava, kudzu, ocra, sago, sorghum, regular household
     potatoes, sweet potato, taro, yams, or one or more beans, such as favas, lentils or peas.
     Blends of any two or more starchy materials are also starchy materials. Mixtures of
     starchy, cellulosic and or lignocellulosic materials can also be used. For example, a
     biomass can be an entire plant, a part of a plant or different parts of a plant, e.g., a wheat
     plant, cotton plant, a corn plant, rice plant or a tree. The starchy materials can be treated
     by any of the methods described herein.
     [00169]      Microbial materials that can be used as feedstock can include, but are not
     limited to, any naturally occurring or genetically modified microorganism or organism
     that contains or is capable of providing a source of carbohydrates (e.g., cellulose), for
     example, protists, e.g., animal protists (e.g., protozoa such as flagellates, amoeboids,
     ciliates, and sporozoa) and plant protists (e.g., algae such alveolates,
     chlorarachniophytes, cryptomonads, euglenids, glaucophytes, haptophytes, red algae,
     stramenopiles, and viridaeplantae). Other examples include seaweed, plankton (e.g.,
     macroplankton, mesoplankton, microplankton, nanoplankton, picoplankton, and
     femptoplankton), phytoplankton, bacteria (e.g., gram positive bacteria, gram negative
     bacteria, and extremophiles), yeast and/or mixtures of these. In some instances,
     microbial biomass can be obtained from natural sources, e.g., the ocean, lakes, bodies of
     water, e.g., salt water or fresh water, or on land. Alternatively or in addition, microbial
     biomass can be obtained from culture systems, e.g., large scale dry and wet culture and
     fermentation systems.
     [00170]      In other embodiments, the biomass materials, such as cellulosic, starchy and
     lignocellulosic feedstock materials, can be obtained from transgenic microorganisms and
     plants that have been modified with respect to a wild type variety. Such modifications
     may be, for example, through the iterative steps of selection and breeding to obtain
     desired traits in a plant. Furthermore, the plants can have had genetic material removed,
     modified, silenced and/or added with respect to the wild type variety. For example,
     genetically modified plants can be produced by recombinant DNA methods, where
     genetic modifications include introducing or modifying specific genes from parental
     varieties, or, for example, by using transgenic breeding wherein a specific gene or genes
     are introduced to a plant from a different species of plant and/or bacteria. Another way
     to create genetic variation is through mutation breeding wherein new alleles are
     artificially created from endogenous genes. The artificial genes can be created by a
     variety of ways including treating the plant or seeds with, for example, chemical
                                                    43

WO 2014/186652                                                              PCT/US2014/038316
     mutagens (e.g., using alkylating agents, epoxides, alkaloids, peroxides, formaldehyde),
     irradiation (e.g., X-rays, gamma rays, neutrons, beta particles, alpha particles, protons,
     deuterons, UV radiation) and temperature shocking or other external stressing and
     subsequent selection techniques. Other methods of providing modified genes is through
     error prone PCR and DNA shuffling followed by insertion of the desired modified DNA
     into the desired plant or seed. Methods of introducing the desired genetic variation in the
     seed or plant include, for example, the use of a bacterial carrier, biolistics, calcium
     phosphate precipitation, electroporation, gene splicing, gene silencing, lipofection,
     microinjection and viral carriers. Additional genetically modified materials have been
     described in U.S. Application Serial No 13/396,369 filed February 14, 2012 the full
     disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
     [00171]     Any of the methods described herein can be practiced with mixtures of any
     biomass materials described herein.
                                       OTHER MATERIALS
     [00172]     Other materials (e.g., natural or synthetic materials), for example, polymers,
     can be treated and/or made utilizing the methods, equipment and systems described
     hererin. For example, polyethylene (e.g., linear low density ethylene and high density
     polyethylene), polystyrenes, sulfonated polystyrenes, poly (vinyl chloride), polyesters
     (e.g., nylons, DACRONTM, KODELTM), polyalkylene esters, poly vinyl esters,
     polyamides (e.g., KEVLARTM), polyethylene terephthalate, cellulose acetate, acetal,
     poly acrylonitrile, polycarbonates (e.g., LEXANTM), acrylics [e.g., poly (methyl
     methacrylate), poly(methyl methacrylate), polyacrylonitrile], Poly urethanes,
     polypropylene, poly butadiene, polyisobutylene, polyacrylonitrile, polychloroprene (e.g.
     neoprene), poly(cis-1,4-isoprene) [e.g., natural rubber], poly(trans-1,4-isoprene) [e.g.,
     gutta percha], phenol formaldehyde, melamine formaldehyde, epoxides, polyesters, poly
     amines, polycarboxylic acids, polylactic acids, polyvinyl alcohols, polyanhydrides, poly
     fluoro carbons (e.g., TEFLONTM), silicons (e.g., silicone rubber), polysilanes, poly ethers
     (e.g., polyethylene oxide, polypropylene oxide), waxes, oils and mixtures of these. Also
     included are plastics, rubbers, elastomers, fibers, waxes, gels, oils, adhesives,
     thermoplastics, thermosets, biodegradable polymers, resins made with these polymers,
     other polymers, other materials and combinations thereof. The polymers can be made by
     any useful method including cationic polymerization, anionic polymerization, radical
     polymerization, metathesis polymerization, ring opening polymerization, graft
                                                   44

WO 2014/186652                                                               PCT/US2014/038316
     polymerization, addition polymerization. In some cases the treatments disclosed herein
     can be used, for example, for radically initiated graft polymerization and cross linking.
     Composites of polymers, for example, with glass, metals, biomass (e.g., fibers, particles),
     ceramics can also be treated and/or made.
     [00173]     Other materials that can be treated by using the methods, systems and
     equipment disclosed herein are ceramic materials, minerals, metals, inorganic
     compounds. For example, silicon and germanium crystals, silicon nitrides, metal oxides,
     semiconductors, insulators, cements and or conductors.
     [00174]     In addition, manufactured multipart or shaped materials (e.g., molded,
     extruded, welded, riveted, layered or combined in any way) can be treated. For example,
     cables, pipes, boards, enclosures, integrated semiconductor chips, circuit boards, wires,
     tires, windows, laminated materials, gears, belts, machines, combinations of these. For
     example, treating a material by the methods described herein can modify the surfaces, for
     example, making them susceptible to further functionalization, combinations (e.g.,
     welding) and/or treatment can cross link the materials.
         BIOMASS MATERIAL PREPARATION - MECHANICAL TREATMENTS
     [00175]     The biomass can be in a dry form. For example, with less than about 35%
     moisture content (e.g., less than about 20 %, less than about 15 %, less than about 10 %
     less than about 5 %, less than about 4%, less than about 3 %, less than about 2 % or
     even less than about 1 %). The biomass can also be delivered in a wet state. For
     example, as a wet solid, a slurry or a suspension with at least about 10 wt% solids (e.g.,
     at least about 20 wt.%, at least about 30 wt. %, at least about 40 wt.%, at least about 50
     wt.%, at least about 60 wt.%, at least about 70 wt.%).
     [00176]     The processes disclosed herein can utilize low bulk density materials. For
     example, cellulosicor lignocellulosic feedstocks that have been physically pretreated to
     have a bulk density of less than about 0.75 g/cm3 , e.g., less than about 0.7, 0.65, 0.60,
     0.50, 0.35, 0.25, 0.20, 0.15, 0.10, 0.05 or less, e.g., less than about 0.025 g/cm 3. Bulk
     density is determined using ASTM D1895B. Briefly, the method involves filling a
     measuring cylinder of known volume with a sample and obtaining a weight of the
     sample. The bulk density is calculated by dividing the weight of the sample in grams by
     the known volume of the cylinder in cubic centimeters. If desired, low bulk density
     materials can be densified, for example, by methods described in U.S. Pat. No. 7,971,809
     to Medoff, the full disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.
                                                    45

WO 2014/186652                                                              PCT/US2014/038316
     [00177]      In some cases, the pre-treatment processing includes screening of the biomass
     material. Screening can be through a mesh or perforated plate with a desired opening
     size, for example, less than about 6.35 mm (1/4 inch, 0.25 inch), (e.g., less than about
     3.18 mm (1/8 inch, 0.125 inch), less than about 1.59 mm (1/16 inch, 0.0625 inch), is less
     than about 0.79 mm (1/32 inch, 0.03125 inch), e.g., less than about 0.51 mm (1/50 inch,
     0.02000 inch), less than about 0.40 mm (1/64 inch, 0.015625 inch), less than about 0.23
     mm (0.009 inch), less than about 0.20 mm (1/128 inch, 0.0078125 inch), less than about
     0.18 mm (0.007 inch), less than about 0.13 mm (0.005 inch), or even less than about 0.10
     mm (1/256 inch, 0.00390625 inch)). In one configuration the desired biomass falls
     through the perforations or screen and thus biomass larger than the perforations or screen
     are not irradiated. These larger materials can be re-processed, for example, by
     comminuting, or they can simply be removed from processing. In another configuration
     material that is larger than the perforations is irradiated and the smaller material is
     removed by the screening process or recycled. In this kind of a configuration, the
     conveyor itself (for example, a part of the conveyor) can be perforated or made with a
     mesh. For example, in one particular embodiment the biomass material may be wet and
     the perforations or mesh allow water to drain away from the biomass before irradiation.
     [00178]      Screening of material can also be by a manual method, for example, by an
     operator or mechanoid (e.g., a robot equipped with a color, reflectivity or other sensor)
     that removes unwanted material. Screening can also be by magnetic screening wherein a
     magnet is disposed near the conveyed material and the magnetic material is removed
     magnetically.
     [00179]      Optional pre-treatment processing can include heating the material. For
     example, a portion of a conveyor conveying the biomass or other material can be sent
     through a heated zone. The heated zone can be created, for example, by IR radiation,
     microwaves, combustion (e.g., gas, coal, oil, biomass), resistive heating and/or inductive
     coils. The heat can be applied from at least one side or more than one side, can be
     continuous or periodic and can be for only a portion of the material or all the material.
     For example, a portion of the conveying trough can be heated by use of a heating jacket.
     Heating can be, for example, for the purpose of drying the material. In the case of drying
     the material, this can also be facilitated, with or without heating, by the movement of a
     gas (e.g., air, oxygen, nitrogen, He, C0 2 , Argon) over and/or through the biomass as it is
     being conveyed.
     [00180]      Optionally, pre-treatment processing can include cooling the material.
     Cooling material is described in U.S. Pat. No. 7,900,857 to Medoff, the disclosure of
                                                    46

WO 2014/186652                                                             PCT/US2014/038316
     which in incorporated herein by reference. For example, cooling can be by supplying a
     cooling fluid. For example, water (e.g., with glycerol), or nitrogen (e.g., liquid nitrogen)
     to the bottom of the conveying trough. Alternatively, a cooling gas, for example, chilled
     nitrogen can be blown over the biomass materials or under the conveying system.
     [00181]     Another optional pre-treatment processing method can include adding a
     material to the biomass or other feedstocks. The additional material can be added by, for
     example, by showering, sprinkling and or pouring the material onto the biomass as it is
     conveyed. Materials that can be added include, for example, metals, ceramics and/or
     ions as described in U.S. Pat. App. Pub. 2010/0105119 Al (filed October 26, 2009) and
     U.S. Pat. App. Pub. 2010/0159569 Al (filed December 16, 2009), the entire disclosures
     of which are incorporated herein by reference. Optional materials that can be added
     include acids and bases. Other materials that can be added are oxidants (e.g., peroxides,
     chlorates), polymers, polymerizable monomers (e.g., containing unsaturated bonds),
     water, catalysts, enzymes and/or organisms. Materials can be added, for example, in
     pure form, as a solution in a solvent (e.g., water or an organic solvent) and/or as a
     solution. In some cases the solvent is volatile and can be made to evaporate e.g., by
     heating and/or blowing gas as previously described. The added material may form a
     uniform coating on the biomass or be a homogeneous mixture of different components
     (e.g., biomass and additional material). The added material can modulate the subsequent
     irradiation step by increasing the efficiency of the irradiation, damping the irradiation or
     changing the effect of the irradiation (e.g., from electron beams to X-rays or heat). The
     method may have no impact on the irradiation but may be useful for further downstream
     processing. The added material may help in conveying the material, for example, by
     lowering dust levels.
     [00182]     Biomass can be delivered to a conveyor (e.g., vibratory conveyors used in the
     vaults herein described) by a belt conveyor, a pneumatic conveyor, a screw conveyor, a
     hopper, a pipe, manually or by a combination of these. The biomass can, for example, be
     dropped, poured and/or placed onto the conveyor by any of these methods. In some
     embodiments, the material is delivered to the conveyor using an enclosed material
     distribution system to help maintain a low oxygen atmosphere and/or control dust and
     fines. Lofted or air suspended biomass fines and dust are undesirable because these can
     form an explosion hazard or damage the window foils of an electron gun (if such a
     device is used for treating the material).
     [00183]     The material can be leveled to form a uniform thickness between about
     0.0312 and 5 inches (e.g., between about 0.0625 and 2.000 inches, between about 0.125
                                                    47

WO 2014/186652                                                                   PCT/US2014/038316
     and 1 inches, between about 0.125 and 0.5 inches, between about 0.3 and 0.9 inches,
     between about 0.2 and 0.5 inches between about 0.25 and 1.0 inches, between about 0.25
     and 0.5 inches, 0.100 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.150 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.200 +/- 0.025 inches,
     0.250 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.300 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.350 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.400 +/- 0.025
     inches, 0.450 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.500 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.550 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.600 +/
     0.025 inches, 0.700 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.750 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.800 +/- 0.025 inches,
     0.850 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.900 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.900 +/- 0.025 inches.
     [00184]      Generally, it is preferred to convey the material as quickly as possible through
     the electron beam to maximize throughput. For example, the material can be conveyed
     at rates of at least 1 ft/min, e.g., at least 2 ft/min, at least 3 ft/min, at least 4 ft/min, at
     least 5 ft/min, at least 10 ft/min, at least 15 ft/min, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50 ft/min. The
     rate of conveying is related to the beam current, for example, for a           inch thick biomass
     and 100 mA, the conveyor can move at about 20 ft/min to provide a useful irradiation
     dosage, at 50 mA the conveyor can move at about 10 ft/min to provide approximately the
     same irradiation dosage.
     [00185]      After the biomass material has been conveyed through the radiation zone,
     optional post-treatment processing can be done. The optional post-treatment processing
     can, for example, be a process described with respect to the pre-irradiation processing.
     For example, the biomass can be screened, heated, cooled, and/or combined with
     additives. Uniquely to post-irradiation, quenching of the radicals can occur, for example,
     quenching of radicals by the addition of fluids or gases (e.g., oxygen, nitrous oxide,
     ammonia, liquids), using pressure, heat, and/or the addition of radical scavengers. For
     example, the biomass can be conveyed out of the enclosed conveyor and exposed to a
     gas (e.g., oxygen) where it is quenched, forming carboxylated groups. In one
     embodiment the biomass is exposed during irradiation to the reactive gas or fluid.
     Quenching of biomass that has been irradiated is described in U.S. Pat. No. 8,083,906 to
     Medoff, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
     [00186]      If desired, one or more mechanical treatments can be used in addition to
     irradiation to further reduce the recalcitrance of the carbohydrate-containing material.
     These processes can be applied before, during and or after irradiation.
     [00187]      In some cases, the mechanical treatment may include an initial preparation of
     the feedstock as received, e.g., size reduction of materials, such as by comminution, e.g.,
     cutting, grinding, shearing, pulverizing or chopping. For example, in some cases, loose
     feedstock (e.g., recycled paper, starchy materials, or switchgrass) is prepared by shearing
     or shredding. Mechanical treatment may reduce the bulk density of the carbohydrate
                                                        48

WO 2014/186652                                                                  PCT/US2014/038316
     containing material, increase the surface area of the carbohydrate-containing material
     and/or decrease one or more dimensions of the carbohydrate-containing material.
     [00188]         Alternatively, or in addition, the feedstock material can be treated with
     another treatment. For example, chemical treatments, such as an with an acid (HCl,
     H 2 SO 4 , H 3 PO 4 ), a base (e.g., KOH and NaOH), a chemical oxidant (e.g., peroxides,
     chlorates, ozone), irradiation, steam explosion, pyrolysis, sonication, oxidation, chemical
     treatment. The treatments can be in any order and in any sequence and combinations. For
     example, the feedstock material can first be physically treated by one or more treatment
     methods, e.g., chemical treatment including and in combination with acid hydrolysis
     (e.g., utilizing HCl, H 2 SO 4 , H 3 PO4), radiation, sonication, oxidation, pyrolysis or steam
     explosion, and then mechanically treated. This sequence can be advantageous since
     materials treated by one or more of the other treatments, e.g., irradiation or pyrolysis,
     tend to be more brittle and, therefore, it may be easier to further change the structure of
     the material by mechanical treatment. As another example, a feedstock material can be
     conveyed through ionizing radiation using a conveyor as described herein and then
     mechanically treated. Chemical treatment can remove some or all of the lignin. (For
     example, chemical pulping) and can partially or completely hydrolyze the material. The
     methods also can be used with pre-hydrolyzed material. The methods also can be used
     with material that has not been pre hydrolyzed. The methods can be used with mixtures
     of hydrolyzed and non-hydrolyzed materials. For example, with about 50% or more non
     hydrolyzed material, with about 60% or more non- hydrolyzed material, with about 70%
     or more non-hydrolyzed material, with about 80% or more non-hydrolyzed material or
     even with 90% or more non-hydrolyzed material.
     [00189]         In addition to size reduction, which can be performed initially and/or later in
     processing, mechanical treatment can also be advantageous for "opening up,"
     "stressing," breaking or shattering the carbohydrate-containing materials, making the
     cellulose of the materials more susceptible to chain scission and/or disruption of
     crystalline structure during the physical treatment.
     [00190]         Methods of mechanically treating the carbohydrate-containing material
     include, for example, wet or dry milling, and/or wet or dry grinding. Milling may be
     performed using, for example, a hammer mill, ball mill, colloid mill, conical or cone
     mill, disk mill, edge mill, Wiley mill, grist mill, rotor/stator or other mill. Grinding may
     be performed using, for example, a cutting/impact type grinder. Some exemplary
     grinders include stone grinders, pin grinders, coffee grinders, and burr grinders.
     Grinding or milling may be provided, for example, by a reciprocating pin or other
                                                        49

WO 2014/186652                                                              PCT/US2014/038316
     element, as is the case in a pin mill. Other mechanical treatment methods include
     mechanical ripping or tearing, other methods that apply pressure to the fibers, and air
     attrition milling. Suitable mechanical treatments further include any other technique that
     continues the disruption of the internal structure of the material that was initiated by the
     previous processing steps. Some milling method, such as utilizing a rotor/stator are
     described in International Publication No. WO 2010/009240, published on January 21,
     2010; International Publication No. WO 2011/090543, published on July 28, 2011; and
     International Publication No. WO 2012/170707, published on December 13, 2012, the
     full disclosure of each of these applications is incorporated by reference herein.
     [00191]      Mechanical feed preparation systems can be configured to produce streams
     with specific characteristics such as, for example, specific maximum sizes, specific
     length-to-width, or specific surface areas ratios. Physical preparation can increase the
     rate of reactions, improve the movement of material on a conveyor, improve the
     irradiation profile of the material, improve the radiation uniformity of the material, or
     reduce the processing time required by opening up the materials and making them more
     accessible to processes and/or reagents, such as reagents in a solution.
     [00192]      The bulk density of feedstocks can be controlled (e.g., increased). In some
     situations, it can be desirable to prepare a low bulk density material, e.g., by densifying
     the material (e.g., densification can make it easier and less costly to transport to another
     site) and then reverting the material to a lower bulk density state (e.g., after transport).
     The material can be densified, for example, from less than about 0.2 g/cc to more than
     about 0.9 g/cc (e.g., less than about 0.3 to more than about 0.5 g/cc, less than about 0.3 to
     more than about 0.9 g/cc, less than about 0.5 to more than about 0.9 g/cc, less than about
     0.3 to more than about 0.8 g/cc, less than about 0.2 to more than about 0.5 g/cc). For
     example, the material can be densified by the methods and equipment disclosed in U.S.
     Pat. No. 7,932,065 to Medoff and International Publication No. WO 2008/073186
     (which was filed October 26, 2007, was published in English, and which designated the
     United States), the full disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.
     Densified materials can be processed by any of the methods described herein, or any
     material processed by any of the methods described herein can be subsequently
     densified.
     [00193]      In some embodiments, the material to be processed is in the form of a fibrous
     material that includes fibers provided by shearing a fiber source. For example, the
     shearing can be performed with a rotary knife cutter.
                                                    50

WO 2014/186652                                                                PCT/US2014/038316
     [00194]      For example, a fiber source, e.g., that is recalcitrant or that has had its
     recalcitrance level reduced, can be sheared, e.g., in a rotary knife cutter, to provide a first
     fibrous material. The first fibrous material is passed through a first screen, e.g., having
     an average opening size of 1.59 mm or less (1/16 inch, 0.0625 inch), provide a second
     fibrous material. If desired, the fiber source can be cut prior to the shearing, e.g., with a
     shredder. For example, when a paper is used as the fiber source, the paper can be first
     cut into strips that are, e.g., 1/4- to 1/2-inch wide, using a shredder, e.g., a counter
     rotating screw shredder, such as those manufactured by Munson (Utica, N.Y.). As an
     alternative to shredding, the paper can be reduced in size by cutting to a desired size
     using a guillotine cutter. For example, the guillotine cutter can be used to cut the paper
     into sheets that are, e.g., 10 inches wide by 12 inches long.
     [00195]      In some embodiments, the shearing of the fiber source and the passing of the
     resulting first fibrous material through a first screen are performed concurrently. The
     shearing and the passing can also be performed in a batch-type process.
     [00196]      For example, a rotary knife cutter can be used to concurrently shear the fiber
     source and screen the first fibrous material. A rotary knife cutter includes a hopper that
     can be loaded with a shredded fiber source prepared by shredding a fiber source.
     [00197]      In some implementations, the feedstock is physically treated prior to
     saccharification and/or fermentation. Physical treatment processes can include one or
     more of any of those described herein, such as mechanical treatment, chemical treatment,
     irradiation, sonication, oxidation, pyrolysis or steam explosion. Treatment methods can
     be used in combinations of two, three, four, or even all of these technologies (in any
     order). When more than one treatment method is used, the methods can be applied at the
     same time or at different times. Other processes that change a molecular structure of a
     biomass feedstock may also be used, alone or in combination with the processes
     disclosed herein.
     [00198]      Mechanical treatments that may be used, and the characteristics of the
     mechanically treated carbohydrate-containing materials, are described in further detail in
     U.S. Pat. App. Pub. 2012/0100577 Al, filed October 18, 2011, the full disclosure of
     which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.
              SONICATION, PYROLYSIS, OXIDATION, STEAM EXPLOSION
     [00199]      If desired, one or more sonication, pyrolysis, oxidative, or steam explosion
     processes can be used instead of or in addition to irradiation to reduce or further reduce
                                                      51

WO 2014/186652                                                             PCT/US2014/038316
     the recalcitrance of the carbohydrate-containing material. For example, these processes
     can be applied before, during and or after irradiation. These processes are described in
     detail in U.S. Pat. No. 7,932,065 to Medoff, the full disclosure of which is incorporated
     herein by reference.
     HEAT TREATMENT OF BIOMASS
     [00200]      Alternately, or in addition to the biomass may be heat treated for up to twelve
     hours at temperatures ranging from about 90'C to about 160'C. Optionally, this heat
     treatment step is performed after biomass has been irradiated with an electron beam. The
     amount of time for the heat treatment is up to 9 hours, alternately up to 6 hours,
     optionally up to 4 hours and further up to about 2 hours. The treatment time can be up to
     as little as 30 minutes when the mass may be effectively heated.
     [00201]      The heat treatment can be performed 90'C to about 160'C or, optionally, at
     100 to 150 or, alternatively, at 120 to 140 'C. The biomass is suspended in water such
     that the biomass content is 10 to 75 wt. % in water. In the case of the biomass being the
     irradiated biomass water is added and the heat treatment performed.
     [00202]      The heat treatment is performed in an aqueous suspension or mixture of the
     biomass. The amount of biomass is 10 to 90 wt. % of the total mixture, alternatively 20
     to 70 wt. % or optionally 25 to 50 wt. %. The irradiated biomass may have minimal
     water content so water must be added prior to the heat treatment.
     [00203]      Since at temperatures above 100 Deg C there will be pressure due at least in
     part to the vapoization of water, a pressure vessel can be utilized to accommodate and/or
     maintain the pressure. The process for the heat treatment may be batch, continuous,
     semi-continuous or other reactor configurations. The continuous reactor configuration
     may be a tubular reactor and may include device(s) within the tube which will facilitate
     heat transfer and mixing/suspension of the biomass. These tubular devices may include
     a one or more static mixers. The heat may also be put into the system by direct injection
     of steam.
                               INTERMEDIATES AND PRODUCTS
     [00204]      Using the processes described herein, the biomass material can be converted
     to one or more products, such as energy, fuels, foods and materials. For example,
     intermediates and products such as organic acids, salts of organic acids, anhydrides,
                                                    52

WO 2014/186652                                                                 PCT/US2014/038316
     esters of organic acids and fuels, e.g., fuels for internal combustion engines or feedstocks
     for fuel cells. Systems and processes are described herein that can use as feedstock
     cellulosic and/or lignocellulosic materials that are readily available, but often can be
     difficult to process, e.g., municipal waste streams and waste paper streams, such as
     streams that include newspaper, Kraft paper, corrugated paper or mixtures of these.
     [00205]      Specific examples of products include, but are not limited to, hydrogen,
     sugars (e.g., glucose, xylose, arabinose, mannose, galactose, fructose, disaccharides,
     oligosaccharides and polysaccharides), alcohols (e.g., monohydric alcohols or dihydric
     alcohols, such as ethanol, n-propanol, isobutanol, sec-butanol, tert-butanol or n-butanol),
     hydrated or hydrous alcohols (e.g., containing greater than 10%, 20%, 30% or even
     greater than 40% water), biodiesel, organic acids, hydrocarbons (e.g., methane, ethane,
     propane, isobutene, pentane, n-hexane, biodiesel, bio-gasoline and mixtures thereof), co
     products (e.g., proteins, such as cellulolytic proteins (enzymes) or single cell proteins),
     and mixtures of any of these in any combination or relative concentration, and optionally
     in combination with any additives (e.g., fuel additives). Other examples include
     carboxylic acids, salts of a carboxylic acid, a mixture of carboxylic acids and salts of
     carboxylic acids and esters of carboxylic acids (e.g., methyl, ethyl and n-propyl esters),
     ketones (e.g., acetone), aldehydes (e.g., acetaldehyde), alpha and beta unsaturated acids
     (e.g., acrylic acid) and olefins (e.g., ethylene). Other alcohols and alcohol derivatives
     include propanol, propylene glycol, 1,4-butanediol, 1,3-propanediol, sugar alcohols (e.g.,
     erythritol, glycol, glycerol, sorbitol threitol, arabitol, ribitol, mannitol, dulcitol, fucitol,
     iditol, isomalt, maltitol, lactitol, xylitol and other polyols), and methyl or ethyl esters of
     any of these alcohols. Other products include methyl acrylate, methylmethacrylate,
     lactic acid, citric acid, formic acid, acetic acid, propionic acid, butyric acid, succinic
     acid, valeric acid, caproic acid, 3-hydroxypropionic acid, palmitic acid, stearic acid,
     oxalic acid, malonic acid, glutaric acid, oleic acid, linoleic acid, glycolic acid, gamma
     hydroxybutyric acid, and mixtures thereof, salts of any of these acids, mixtures of any of
     the acids and their respective salts.
     [00206]      Any combination of the above products with each other, and/or of the above
     products with other products, which other products may be made by the processes
     described herein or otherwise, may be packaged together and sold as products. The
     products may be combined, e.g., mixed, blended or co-dissolved, or may simply be
     packaged or sold together.
     [00207]      Any of the products or combinations of products described herein may be
     sanitized or sterilized prior to selling the products, e.g., after purification or isolation or
                                                      53

WO 2014/186652                                                             PCT/US2014/038316
     even after packaging, to neutralize one or more potentially undesirable contaminants that
     could be present in the product(s). Such sanitation can be done with electron
     bombardment, for example, be at a dosage of less than about 20 Mrad, e.g., from about
     0.1 to 15 Mrad, from about 0.5 to 7 Mrad, or from about 1 to 3 Mrad.
     [00208]      The processes described herein can produce various by-product streams
     useful for generating steam and electricity to be used in other parts of the plant (co
     generation) or sold on the open market. For example, steam generated from burning by
     product streams can be used in a distillation process. As another example, electricity
     generated from burning by-product streams can be used to power electron beam
     generators used in pretreatment.
     [00209]      The by-products used to generate steam and electricity are derived from a
     number of sources throughout the process. For example, anaerobic digestion of
     wastewater can produce a biogas high in methane and a small amount of waste biomass
     (sludge). As another example, post-saccharification and/or post-distillate solids (e.g.,
     unconverted lignin, cellulose, and hemicellulose remaining from the pretreatment and
     primary processes) can be used, e.g., burned, as a fuel.
     [00210]      Other intermediates and products, including food and pharmaceutical
     products, are described in U.S. Pat. App. Pub. 2010/0124583 Al, published May 20,
     2010, to Medoff, the full disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein.
                                   LIGNIN DERIVED PRODUCTS
     [00211]      The spent biomass (e.g., spent lignocellulosic material) from lignocellulosic
     processing by the methods described are expected to have a high lignin content, and in
     addition to being useful for producing energy through combustion in a Co-Generation
     plant, may have uses as other valuable products. For example, the lignin can be used as
     captured as a plastic, or it can be synthetically upgraded to other plastics. In some
     instances, it can also be converted to lignosulfonates, which can be utilized as binders,
     dispersants, emulsifiers or sequestrants.
     [00212]      When used as a binder, the lignin or a lignosulfonate can, e.g., be utilized in
     coal briquettes, in ceramics, for binding carbon black, for binding fertilizers and
     herbicides, as a dust suppressant, in the making of plywood and particle board, for
     binding animal feeds, as a binder for fiberglass, as a binder in linoleum paste and as a
     soil stabilizer.
                                                    54

WO 2014/186652                                                              PCT/US2014/038316
     [00213]      When used as a dispersant, the lignin or lignosulfonates can be used. For
     example, in concrete mixes, clay and ceramics, dyes and pigments, leather tanning and in
     gypsum board.
     [00214]      When used as an emulsifier, the lignin or lignosulfonates can be used, e.g., in
     asphalt, pigments and dyes, pesticides and wax emulsions.
     [00215]      As a sequestrant, the lignin or lignosulfonates can be used, e.g., in micro
     nutrient systems, cleaning compounds and water treatment systems, e.g., for boiler and
     cooling systems.
     [00216]      For energy production, lignin generally has a higher energy content than
     holocellulose (cellulose and hemicellulose) since it contains more carbon than
     homocellulose. For example, dry lignin can have an energy content of between about
     11,000 and 12,500 BTU per pound, compared to 7,000 an 8,000 BTU per pound of
     holocellulose. As such, lignin can be densified and converted into briquettes and pellets
     for burning. For example, the lignin can be converted into pellets by any method
     described herein. For a slower burning pellet or briquette, the lignin can be crosslinked,
     such as applying a radiation dose of between about 0.5 Mrad and 5 Mrad. Crosslinking
     can make a slower burning form factor. The form factor, such as a pellet or briquette,
     can be converted to a "synthetic coal" or charcoal by pyrolyzing in the absence of air,
     e.g., at between 400 and 950 'C. Prior to pyrolyzing, it can be desirable to crosslink the
     lignin to maintain structural integrity.
                                        SACCHARIFICATION
     [00217]      In order to convert the feedstock to a form that can be readily processed, the
     glucan- or xylan-containing cellulose in the feedstock can be hydrolyzed to low
     molecular weight carbohydrates, such as sugars, by a saccharifying agent, e.g., an
     enzyme or acid, a process referred to as saccharification. The low molecular weight
     carbohydrates can then be used, for example, in an existing manufacturing plant, such as
     a single cell protein plant, an enzyme manufacturing plant, or a fuel plant, e.g., an
     ethanol manufacturing facility.
     [00218]      The feedstock can be hydrolyzed using an enzyme, e.g., by combining the
     materials and the enzyme in a solvent, e.g., in an aqueous solution.
     [00219]      Alternatively, the enzymes can be supplied by organisms that break down
     biomass, such as the cellulose and/or the lignin portions of the biomass, contain or
     manufacture various cellulolytic enzymes (cellulases), ligninases or various small
                                                    55

WO 2014/186652                                                              PCT/US2014/038316
     molecule biomass-degrading metabolites. These enzymes may be a complex of enzymes
     that act synergistically to degrade crystalline cellulose or the lignin portions of biomass.
     Examples of cellulolytic enzymes include: endoglucanases, cellobiohydrolases, and
     cellobiases (beta-glucosidases).
     [00220]      During saccharification, a cellulosic substrate can be initially hydrolyzed by
     endoglucanases at random locations producing oligomeric intermediates. These
     intermediates are then substrates for exo-splitting glucanases such as cellobiohydrolase
     to produce cellobiose from the ends of the cellulose polymer. Cellobiose is a water
     soluble 1,4-linked dimer of glucose. Finally, cellobiase cleaves cellobiose to yield
     glucose. The efficiency (e.g., time to hydrolyze and/or completeness of hydrolysis) of
     this process depends on the recalcitrance of the cellulosic material.
     [00221]      Therefore, the treated biomass materials can be saccharified, generally by
     combining the material and a cellulase enzyme in a fluid medium, e.g., an aqueous
     solution. In some cases, the material is boiled, steeped, or cooked in hot water prior to
     saccharification, as described in U.S. Pat. App. Pub. 2012/0100577 Al by Medoff and
     Masterman, published on April 26, 2012, the entire contents of which are incorporated
     herein.
     [00222]      The saccharification process can be partially or completely performed in a
     tank (e.g., a tank having a volume of at least 4000, 40,000, or 500,000 L) in a
     manufacturing plant, and/or can be partially or completely performed in transit, e.g., in a
     rail car, tanker truck, or in a supertanker or the hold of a ship. The time required for
     complete saccharification will depend on the process conditions and the carbohydrate
     containing material and enzyme used. If saccharification is performed in a
     manufacturing plant under controlled conditions, the cellulose may be substantially
     entirely converted to sugar, e.g., glucose in about 12-96 hours. If saccharification is
     performed partially or completely in transit, saccharification may take longer.
     [00223]      It is generally preferred that the tank contents be mixed during
     saccharification, e.g., using jet mixing as described in International App. No.
     PCT/US2010/035331, filed May 18, 2010, which was published in English as WO
     2010/135380 and designated the United States, the full disclosure of which is
     incorporated by reference herein.
     [00224]      The addition of surfactants can enhance the rate of saccharification.
     Examples of surfactants include non-ionic surfactants, such as a Tween@ 20 or Tween
     80 polyethylene glycol surfactants, ionic surfactants, or amphoteric surfactants.
                                                     56

WO 2014/186652                                                               PCT/US2014/038316
     [00225]      It is generally preferred that the concentration of the sugar solution resulting
     from saccharification be relatively high, e.g., greater than 40%, or greater than 50, 60,
     70, 80, 90 or even greater than 95% by weight. Water may be removed, e.g., by
     evaporation, to increase the concentration of the sugar solution. This reduces the volume
     to be shipped, and also inhibits microbial growth in the solution.
     [00226]      Alternatively, sugar solutions of lower concentrations may be used, in which
     case it may be desirable to add an antimicrobial additive, e.g., a broad spectrum
     antibiotic, in a low concentration, e.g., 50 to 150 ppm. Other suitable antibiotics include
     amphotericin B, ampicillin, chloramphenicol, ciprofloxacin, gentamicin, hygromycin B,
     kanamycin, neomycin, penicillin, puromycin, streptomycin. Antibiotics will inhibit
     growth of microorganisms during transport and storage, and can be used at appropriate
     concentrations, e.g., between 15 and 1000 ppm by weight, e.g., between 25 and 500 ppm,
     or between 50 and 150 ppm. If desired, an antibiotic can be included even if the sugar
     concentration is relatively high. Alternatively, other additives with anti-microbial of
     preservative properties may be used. Preferably the antimicrobial additive(s) are food
     grade.
     [00227]      A relatively high concentration solution can be obtained by limiting the
     amount of water added to the carbohydrate-containing material with the enzyme. The
     concentration can be controlled, e.g., by controlling how much saccharification takes
     place. For example, concentration can be increased by adding more carbohydrate
     containing material to the solution. In order to keep the sugar that is being produced in
     solution, a surfactant can be added, e.g., one of those discussed above. Solubility can
     also be increased by increasing the temperature of the solution. For example, the
     solution can be maintained at a temperature of 40-50'C, 60-80'C, or even higher.
                                     SACCHARIFYING AGENTS
     [00228]      Suitable cellulolytic enzymes include cellulases from species in the genera
     Bacillus, Coprinus, Myceliophthora, Cephalosporium,Scytalidium, Penicillium,
     Aspergillus, Pseudomonas,Humicola, Fusarium, Thielavia,Acremonium,
     Chrysosporium and Trichoderma, especially those produced by a strain selected from the
     species Aspergillus (see, e.g., EP Pub. No. 0 458 162), Humicola insolens (reclassified as
     Scytalidium thermophilum, see, e.g., U.S. Pat. No. 4,435,307), Coprinus cinereus,
     Fusariumoxysporum, Myceliophthora thermophila, Meripilus giganteus, Thielavia
     terrestris,Acremonium sp. (including, but not limited to, A. persicinum,A. acremonium,
                                                     57

WO 2014/186652                                                                PCT/US2014/038316
     A. brachypenium,A. dichromosporum,A. obclavatum, A. pinkertoniae, A. roseogriseum,
     A. incoloratum, and A. furatum). Preferred strains include Humicola insolens DSM
     1800, Fusariumoxysporum DSM 2672, Myceliophthora thermophila CBS 117.65,
     Cephalosporiumsp. RYM-202, Acremonium sp. CBS 478.94, Acremonium sp. CBS
     265.95, Acremonium persicinum CBS 169.65, Acremonium acremonium AHU 9519,
     Cephalosporiumsp. CBS 535.71, Acremonium brachypenium CBS 866.73, Acremonium
     dichromosporum CBS 683.73, Acremonium obclavatum CBS 311.74, Acremonium
     pinkertoniae CBS 157.70, Acremonium roseogriseum CBS 134.56, Acremonium
     incoloratum CBS 146.62, and Acremoniumfuratum CBS 299.70H. Cellulolytic
     enzymes may also be obtained from Chrysosporium, preferably a strain of
     Chrysosporium lucknowense. Additional strains that can be used include, but are not
     limited to, Trichoderma (particularlyT. viride, T. reesei, and T. koningii), alkalophilic
     Bacillus (see, for example, U.S. Pat. No. 3,844,890 and EP Pub. No. 0 458 162), and
     Streptomyces (see, e.g., EP Pub. No. 0 458 162).
     [00229]         In addition to or in combination to enzymes, acids, bases and other chemicals
     (e.g., oxidants) can be utilized to saccharify lignocellulosic and cellulosic materials.
     These can be used in any combination or sequence (e.g., before, after and/or during
     addition of an enzyme). For example, strong mineral acids can be utilized (e.g. HCl,
     H 2 SO 4 , H 3 PO 4 ) and strong bases (e.g., NaOH, KOH).
                                                    SUGARS
     [00230]         In the processes described herein, for example, after saccharification, sugars
     (e.g., glucose and xylose) can be isolated. For example, sugars can be isolated by
     precipitation, crystallization, chromatography (e.g., simulated moving bed
     chromatography, high pressure chromatography), centrifugation, extraction, any other
     isolation method known in the art, and combinations thereof.
           HYDROGENATION AND OTHER CHEMICAL TRANSFORMATIONS
     [00231]         The processes described herein can include hydrogenation. For example,
     glucose and xylose can be hydrogenated to sorbitol and xylitol respectively.
     Hydrogenation can be accomplished by use of a catalyst (e.g., Pt/gamma-A12 0 3 , Ru/C,
     Raney Nickel, or other catalysts know in the art) in combination with H 2 under high
     pressure (e.g., 10 to 12000 psi). Other types of chemical transformation of the products
                                                      58

WO 2014/186652                                                            PCT/US2014/038316
     from the processes described herein can be used, for example, production of organic
     sugar derived products such (e.g., furfural and furfural-derived products). Chemical
     transformations of sugar derived products are described in USSN 13/934,704 filed July
     3, 2013, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
                                         FERMENTATION
     [00232]     Yeast and Zymomonas bacteria, for example, can be used for fermentation or
     conversion of sugar(s) to alcohol(s). Other microorganisms are discussed below. The
     optimum pH for fermentations is about pH 4 to 7. For example, the optimum pH for
     yeast is from about pH 4 to 5, while the optimum pH for Zymomonas is from about pH 5
     to 6. Typical fermentation times are about 24 to 168 hours (e.g., 24 to 96 hrs) with
     temperatures in the range of 20'C to 40'C (e.g., 260 C to 40'C), however thermophilic
     microorganisms prefer higher temperatures.
     [00233]     In some embodiments, e.g., when anaerobic organisms are used, at least a
     portion of the fermentation is conducted in the absence of oxygen, e.g., under a blanket
     of an inert gas such as N2, Ar, He, CO 2 or mixtures thereof. Additionally, the mixture
     may have a constant purge of an inert gas flowing through the tank during part of or all
     of the fermentation. In some cases, anaerobic conditions can be achieved or maintained
     by carbon dioxide production during the fermentation and no additional inert gas is
     needed.
     [00234]     In some embodiments, all or a portion of the fermentation process can be
     interrupted before the low molecular weight sugar is completely converted to a product
     (e.g., ethanol). The intermediate fermentation products include sugar and carbohydrates
     in high concentrations. The sugars and carbohydrates can be isolated via any means
     known in the art. These intermediate fermentation products can be used in preparation of
     food for human or animal consumption. Additionally or alternatively, the intermediate
     fermentation products can be ground to a fine particle size in a stainless-steel laboratory
     mill to produce a flour-like substance. Jet mixing may be used during fermentation, and
     in some cases saccharification and fermentation are performed in the same tank.
     [00235]     Nutrients for the microorganisms may be added during saccharification
     and/or fermentation, for example, the food-based nutrient packages described in U.S.
     Pat. App. Pub. 2012/0052536, filed July 15, 2011, the complete disclosure of which is
     incorporated herein by reference.
                                                  59

WO 2014/186652                                                                  PCT/US2014/038316
     [00236]       "Fermentation" includes the methods and products that are disclosed in
     application Nos. PCT/US2012/71093 published June 27, 2013, PCT/ US2012/71907
     published June 27, 2012, and PCT/US2012/71083 published June 27, 2012 the contents
     of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.
     [00237]       Mobile fermenters can be utilized, as described in International App. No.
     PCT/US2007/074028 (which was filed July 20, 2007, was published in English as WO
     2008/011598 and designated the United States) and has a U.S. issued Patent No.
     8,318,453, the contents of which are incorporated herein in its entirety. Similarly, the
     saccharification equipment can be mobile. Further, saccharification and/or fermentation
     may be performed in part or entirely during transit.
                                     FERMENTATION AGENTS
     [00238]       The microorganism(s) used in fermentation can be naturally-occurring
     microorganisms and/or engineered microorganisms. For example, the microorganism
     can be a bacterium (including, but not limited to, e.g., a cellulolytic bacterium), a fungus,
     (including, but not limited to, e.g., a yeast), a plant, a protist, e.g., a protozoa or a fungus
     like protest (including, but not limited to, e.g., a slime mold), or an alga. When the
     organisms are compatible, mixtures of organisms can be utilized.
     [00239]       Suitable fermenting microorganisms have the ability to convert
     carbohydrates, such as glucose, fructose, xylose, arabinose, mannose, galactose,
     oligosaccharides or polysaccharides into fermentation products. Fermenting
     microorganisms include strains of the genus Saccharomyces spp. (including, but not
     limited to, S. cerevisiae (baker's yeast), S. distaticus, S. uvarum), the genus
     Kluyveromyces, (including, but not limited to, K. marxianus, K.fragilis), the genus
     Candida (including, but not limited to, C. pseudotropicalis,and C. brassicae),Pichia
     stipitis (a relative of Candida shehatae), the genus Clavispora (including, but not limited
     to, C. lusitaniae and C. opuntiae), the genus Pachysolen (including, but not limited to, P.
     tannophilus), the genus Bretannomyces (including, but not limited to, e.g., B. clausenii
     (Philippidis, G. P., 1996, Cellulose bioconversion technology, in Handbook on
     Bioethanol: Production and Utilization, Wyman, C.E., ed., Taylor & Francis,
     Washington, DC, 179-212)). Other suitable microorganisms include, for example,
     Zymomonas mobilis, Clostridium spp. (including, but not limited to, C. thermocellum
     (Philippidis, 1996, supra), C. saccharobutylacetonicum,C. tyrobutyricum C.
     saccharobutylicum,C. Puniceum, C. beijernckii, and C. acetobutylicum), Moniliella spp.
                                                     60

WO 2014/186652                                                                PCT/US2014/038316
     (includingbut not limited to M. pollinis,M. tomentosa, M. madida,M. nigrescens, M.
     oedocephali, M. megachiliensis), Yarrowia lipolytica, Aureobasidium sp.,
     Trichosporonoidessp., Trigonopsis variabilis, Trichosporon sp., Moniliellaacetoabutans
     sp., Typhula variabilis,Candida magnoliae, Ustilaginomycetes sp., Pseudozyma
     tsukubaensis, yeast species of genera Zygosaccharomyces, Debaryomyces, Hansenula
     and Pichia,and fungi of the dematioid genus Torula (e.g., T. corallina).
     [00240]       Many such microbial strains are publicly available, either commercially or
     through depositories such as the ATCC (American Type Culture Collection, Manassas,
     Virginia, USA), the NRRL (Agricultural Research Service Culture Collection, Peoria,
     Illinois, USA), or the DSMZ (Deutsche Sammlung von Mikroorganismen und
     Zellkulturen GmbH, Braunschweig, Germany), to name a few.
     [00241]       Commercially available yeasts include, for example, RED STAR@/Lesaffre
     Ethanol Red (available from Red Star/Lesaffre, USA), FALI* (available from
     Fleischmann's Yeast, a division of Bums Philip Food Inc., USA), SUPERSTART*
     (available from Alltech, now Lalemand), GERT STRAND* (available from Gert Strand
     AB, Sweden) and FERMOL* (available from DSM Specialties).
                                             DISTILLATION
     [00242]       After fermentation, the resulting fluids can be distilled using, for example, a
     "beer column" to separate ethanol and other alcohols from the majority of water and
     residual solids. The vapor exiting the beer column can be, e.g., 35% by weight ethanol
     and can be fed to a rectification column. A mixture of nearly azeotropic (92.5%) ethanol
     and water from the rectification column can be purified to pure (99.5%) ethanol using
     vapor-phase molecular sieves. The beer column bottoms can be sent to the first effect of
     a three-effect evaporator. The rectification column reflux condenser can provide heat for
     this first effect. After the first effect, solids can be separated using a centrifuge and dried
     in a rotary dryer. A portion (25%) of the centrifuge effluent can be recycled to
     fermentation and the rest sent to the second and third evaporator effects. Most of the
     evaporator condensate can be returned to the process as fairly clean condensate with a
     small portion split off to waste water treatment to prevent build-up of low-boiling
     compounds.
                                                       61

WO 2014/186652                                                                PCT/US2014/038316
                         HYDROCARBON-CONTAINING MATERIALS
     [00243]     In other embodiments utilizing the methods and systems described herein,
     hydrocarbon-containing materials can be processed. Any process described herein can be
     used to treat any hydrocarbon-containing material herein described. "Hydrocarbon
     containing materials," as used herein, is meant to include oil sands, oil shale, tar sands,
     coal dust, coal slurry, bitumen, various types of coal, and other naturally-occurring and
     synthetic materials that include both hydrocarbon components and solid matter. The
     solid matter can include rock, sand, clay, stone, silt, drilling slurry, or other solid organic
     and/or inorganic matter. The term can also include waste products such as drilling waste
     and by-products, refining waste and by-products, or other waste products containing
     hydrocarbon components, such as asphalt shingling and covering, asphalt pavement, etc.
     [00244]     In yet other embodiments utilizing the methods and systems described herein,
     wood and wood containing produces can be processed. For example, lumber products
     can be processed, e.g. boards, sheets, laminates, beams, particle boards, composites,
     rough cut wood, soft wood and hard wood. In addition cut trees, bushes, wood chips, saw
     dust, roots, bark, stumps, decomposed wood and other wood containing biomass material
     can be processed.
                                       CONVEYING SYSTEMS
     [00245]     Various conveying systems can be used to convey the biomass material, for
     example, as discussed, to a vault, and under an electron beam in a vault. Exemplary
     conveyors are belt conveyors, pneumatic conveyors, screw conveyors, carts, trains, trains
     or carts on rails, elevators, front loaders, backhoes, cranes, various scrapers and shovels,
     trucks, and throwing devices can be used. For example, vibratory conveyors can be used
     in various processes described herein. Vibratory conveyors are described in
     PCT/US2013/64289 filed October 10, 2013 the full disclosure of which is incorporated
     by reference herein.
     [00246]     Vibratory conveyors are particularly useful for spreading the material and
     producing a uniform layer on the conveyor trough surface. For example, the initial
     feedstock can form a pile of material that can be at least four feet high (e.g., at least
     about 3 feet, at least about 2 feet, at least about 1 foot, at least about 6 inches, at least
     about 5 inches, at least about, 4 inches, at least about 3 inches, at least about 2 inches, at
     least about 1 inch, at least about     inch) and spans less than the width of the conveyor
                                                     62

WO 2014/186652                                                                   PCT/US2014/038316
     (e.g., less than about 10%, less than about 20%, less than about 30%, less than about
     40%, less than about 50%, less than about 60%, less than about 70%, less than about
     80%, less than about 90%, less than about 95%, less than about 99%). The vibratory
     conveyor can spread the material to span the entire width of the conveyor trough and
     have a uniform thickness, preferably as discussed above. In some cases, an additional
     spreading method can be useful. For example, a spreader such as a broadcast spreader, a
     drop spreader (e.g., a CHRISTY SPREADERm) or combinations thereof can be used to
     drop (e.g., place, pour, spill and/or sprinkle) the feedstock over a wide area. Optionally,
     the spreader can deliver the biomass as a wide shower or curtain onto the vibratory
     conveyor. Additionally, a second conveyor, upstream from the first conveyor (e.g., the
     first conveyor is used in the irradiation of the feedstock), can drop biomass onto the first
     conveyor, where the second conveyor can have a width transverse to the direction of
     conveying smaller than the first conveyor. In particular, when the second conveyor is a
     vibratory conveyor, the feedstock is spread by the action of the second and first
     conveyor. In some optional embodiments, the second conveyor ends in a bias cross cut
     discharge (e.g., a bias cut with a ratio of 4:1) so that the material can be dropped as a
     wide curtain (e.g., wider than the width of the second conveyor) onto the first conveyor.
     The initial drop area of the biomass by the spreader (e.g., broadcast spreader, drop
     spreader, conveyor, or cross cut vibratory conveyor) can span the entire width of the first
     vibratory conveyor, or it can span part of this width. Once dropped onto the conveyor,
     the material is spread even more uniformly by the vibrations of the conveyor so that,
     preferably, the entire width of the conveyor is covered with a uniform layer of biomass.
     In some embodiments combinations of spreaders can be used. Some methods of
     spreading a feed stock are described in U.S. Patent No. 7,153,533, filed July 23, 2002
     and published December 26, 2006, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein
     by reference.
     [00247]      Generally, it is preferred to convey the material as quickly as possible through
     an electron beam to maximize throughput. For example, the material can be conveyed at
     rates of at least 1 ft/min, e.g., at least 2 ft/min, at least 3 ft/min, at least 4 ft/min, at least 5
     ft/min, at least 10 ft/min, at least 15 ft/min, at least 20 ft/min, at least 25 ft/min, at least
     30 ft/min, at least 40 ft/min, at least 50 ft/min, at least 60 ft/min, at least 70 ft/min, at
     least 80 ft/min, at least 90 ft/min. The rate of conveying is related to the beam current
     and targeted irradiation dose, for example, for a         inch thick biomass spread over a 5.5
     foot wide conveyor and 100 mA, the conveyor can move at about 20 ft/min to provide a
                                                      63

WO 2014/186652                                                                 PCT/US2014/038316
     useful irradiation dosage (e.g. about 10 Mrad for a single pass), at 50 mA the conveyor
     can move at about 10 ft/min to provide approximately the same irradiation dosage.
     [00248]      The rate at which material can be conveyed depends on the shape and mass of
     the material being conveyed. Flowing materials e.g., particulate materials, are
     particularly amenable to conveying with vibratory conveyors. Conveying speeds can, for
     example, be, at least 100 lb/hr (e.g., at least 500 lb/hr, at least 1000 lb/hr, at least 2000
     lb/hr, at least 3000 lb/hr, at least 4000 lb/hr, at least 5000 lb/hr, at least 10,000 lb/hr, at
     least 15, 000 lb/hr, or even at least 25,000 lb/hr). Some typical conveying speeds can be
     between about 1000 and 10,000 lb/hr, (e.g., between about 1000 lb/hr and 8000 lb/hr,
     between about 2000 and 7000 lb/hr, between about 2000 and 6000 lb/hr, between about
     2000 and 50001b/hr, between about 2000 and 4500 lb/hr, between about 1500 and 5000
     lb/hr, between about 3000 and 7000 lb/hr, between about 3000 and 6000 lb/hr, between
     about 4000 and 6000 lb/hr and between about 4000 and 5000 lb/hr). Typical conveying
     speeds depend on the density of the material. For example, for a biomass with a density
     of about 35 lb/ft3, and a conveying speed of about 5000 lb/hr, the material is conveyed at
     a rate of about 143 ft3/hr, if the material is   " thick and is in a trough 5.5 ft wide, the
     material is conveyed at a rate of about 1250 ft/hr (about 21 ft/min). Rates of conveying
     the material can therefore vary greatly. Preferably, for example, a        " thick layer of
     biomass, is conveyed at speeds of between about 5 and 100 ft/min (e.g. between about 5
     and 100 ft/min, between about 6 and 100 ft/min, between about 7 and 100 ft/min,
     between about 8 and 100 ft/min, between about 9 and 100 ft/min, between about 10 and
     100 ft/min, between about 11 and 100 ft/min, between about 12 and 100 ft/min, between
     about 13 and 100 ft/min, between about 14 and 100 ft/min, between about 15 and 100
     ft/min, between about 20 and 100 ft/min, between about 30 and 100 ft/min, between
     about 40 and 100 ft/min, between about 2 and 60 ft/min, between about 3 and 60 ft/min,
     between about 5 and 60 ft/min, between about 6 and 60 ft/min, between about 7 and 60
     ft/min, between about 8 and 60 ft/min, between about 9 and 60 ft/min, between about 10
     and 60 ft/min, between about 15 and 60 ft/min, between about 20 and 60 ft/min, between
     about 30 and 60 ft/min, between about 40 and 60 ft/min, between about 2 and 50 ft/min,
     between about 3 and 50 ft/min, between about 5 and 50 ft/min, between about 6 and 50
     ft/min, between about 7 and 50 ft/min, between about 8 and 50 ft/min, between about 9
     and 50 ft/min, between about 10 and 50 ft/min, between about 15 and 50 ft/min, between
     about 20 and 50 ft/min, between about 30 and 50 ft/min, between about 40 and 50
     ft/min). It is preferable that the material be conveyed at a constant rate, for example, to
                                                     64

WO 2014/186652                                                                PCT/US2014/038316
     help maintain a constant irradiation of the material as it passes under the electron beam
     (e.g., shower, field).
     [00249]      The vibratory conveyors described can include screens used for sieving and
     sorting materials. Port openings on the side or bottom of the troughs can be used for
     sorting, selecting or removing specific materials, for example, by size or shape. Some
     conveyors have counterbalances to reduce the dynamic forces on the support structure.
     Some vibratory conveyors are configured as spiral elevators, are designed to curve
     around surfaces and/or are designed to drop material from one conveyor to another (e.g.,
     in a step, cascade or as a series of steps or a stair). Along with conveying materials,
     conveyors can be used by themselves or coupled with other equipment or systems, for
     screening, separating, sorting, classifying, distributing, sizing, inspection, picking, metal
     removing, freezing, blending, mixing, orienting, heating, cooking, drying, dewatering,
     cleaning, washing, leaching, quenching, coating, de-dusting and/or feeding. The
     conveyors can also include covers (e.g., dust-tight covers), side discharge gates, bottom
     discharge gates, special liners (e.g., anti-stick, stainless steel, rubber, custom steal, and or
     grooved), divided troughs, quench pools, screens, perforated plates, detectors (e.g., metal
     detectors), high temperature designs, food grade designs, heaters, dryers and or coolers.
     In addition, the trough can be of various shapes, for example, flat bottomed, vee shaped
     bottom, flanged at the top, curved bottom, flat with ridges in any direction, tubular, half
     pipe, covered or any combinations of these. In particular, the conveyors can be coupled
     with an irradiation systems and/or equipment.
     [00250]      The conveyors (e.g., vibratory conveyor) can be made of corrosion resistant
     materials. The conveyors can utilize structural materials that include stainless steel (e.g.,
     304, 316 stainless steel, HASTELLOY@ ALLOYS and INCONEL@ Alloys). For
     example, HASTELLOY@ Corrosion-Resistant alloys from Hynes (Kokomo, Indiana,
     USA) such as HASTELLOY@ B-3@ ALLOY, HASTELLOY@ HYBRID-BC1@
     ALLOY, HASTELLOY@ C-4 ALLOY, HASTELLOY@ C-22@ ALLOY,
     HASTELLOY@ C-22HS@ ALLOY, HASTELLOY@ C-276 ALLOY, HASTELLOY@
     C-2000@ ALLOY, HASTELLOY@ G-30@ ALLOY, HASTELLOY@ G-35@ ALLOY,
     HASTELLOY@ N ALLOY and HASTELLOY@ ULTIMET@ alloy.
     [00251]      The vibratory conveyors can include non-stick release coatings, for example,
     TUFFLONTM (Dupont, Delaware, USA). The vibratory conveyors can also include
     corrosion resistant coatings. For example, coatings that can be supplied from Metal
     Coatings Corp (Houston, Texas, USA) and others such as Fluoropolymer, XYLAN@,
     Molybdenum Disulfide, Epoxy Phenolic, Phosphate- ferrous metal coating,
                                                     65

WO 2014/186652                                                               PCT/US2014/038316
     Polyurethane- high gloss topcoat for epoxy, inorganic zinc, Poly Tetrafluoro ethylene,
     PPS/RYTON@, fluorinated ethylene propylene, PVDF/DYKOR@, ECTFE/HALAR@
     and Ceramic Epoxy Coating. The coatings can improve resistance to process gases (e.g.,
     ozone), chemical corrosion, pitting corrosion, galling corrosion and oxidation.
     [00252]      Optionally, in addition to the conveying systems described herein, one or
     more other conveying systems can be enclosed. When using an enclosure, the enclosed
     conveyor can also be purged with an inert gas so as to maintain an atmosphere at a
     reduced oxygen level. Keeping oxygen levels low avoids the formation of ozone which
     in some instances is undesirable due to its reactive and toxic nature. For example, the
     oxygen can be less than about 20% (e.g., less than about 10%, less than about 1%, less
     than about 0.1%, less than about 0.01%, or even less than about 0.001% oxygen).
     Purging can be done with an inert gas including, but not limited to, nitrogen, argon,
     helium or carbon dioxide. This can be supplied, for example, from a boil off of a liquid
     source (e.g., liquid nitrogen or helium), generated or separated from air in situ, or
     supplied from tanks. The inert gas can be recirculated and any residual oxygen can be
     removed using a catalyst, such as a copper catalyst bed. Alternatively, combinations of
     purging, recirculating and oxygen removal can be done to keep the oxygen levels low.
     [00253]      The enclosed conveyor can also be purged with a reactive gas that can react
     with the biomass. This can be done before, during or after the irradiation process. The
     reactive gas can be, but is not limited to, nitrous oxide, ammonia, oxygen, ozone,
     hydrocarbons, aromatic compounds, amides, peroxides, azides, halides, oxyhalides,
     phosphides, phosphines, arsines, sulfides, thiols, boranes and/or hydrides. The reactive
     gas can be activated in the enclosure, e.g., by irradiation (e.g., electron beam, UV
     irradiation, microwave irradiation, heating, IR radiation), so that it reacts with the
     biomass. The biomass itself can be activated, for example, by irradiation. Preferably the
     biomass is activated by the electron beam, to produce radicals which then react with the
     activated or unactivated reactive gas, e.g., by radical coupling or quenching.
     [00254]      Purging gases supplied to an enclosed conveyor can also be cooled, for
     example, below about 25'C, below about 00 C, below about -40'C, below about -80'C,
     below about -120'C. For example, the gas can be boiled off from a compressed gas such
     as liquid nitrogen or sublimed from solid carbon dioxide. As an alternative example, the
     gas can be cooled by a chiller or part of or the entire conveyor can be cooled.
                                                    66

WO 2014/186652                                                                PCT/US2014/038316
                                      OTHER EMBODIMENTS
     [00255]     Any material, processes or processed materials discussed herein can be used
     to make products and/or intermediates such as composites, fillers, binders, plastic
     additives, adsorbents and controlled release agents. The methods can include
     densification, for example, by applying pressure and heat to the materials. For example,
     composites can be made by combining fibrous materials with a resin or polymer. For
     example, radiation cross-linkable resin, e.g., a thermoplastic resin can be combined with
     a fibrous material to provide a fibrous material/cross-linkable resin combination. Such
     materials can be, for example, useful as building materials, protective sheets, containers
     and other structural materials (e.g., molded and/or extruded products). Absorbents can
     be, for example, in the form of pellets, chips, fibers and/or sheets. Adsorbents can be
     used, for example, as pet bedding, packaging material or in pollution control systems.
     Controlled release matrices can also be the form of, for example, pellets, chips, fibers
     and or sheets. The controlled release matrices can, for example, be used to release drugs,
     biocides, fragrances. For example, composites, absorbents and control release agents
     and their uses are described in International Serial No. PCT/US2006/010648, filed
     March 23, 2006, and U.S. Patent No. 8,074,910 filed November 22, 2011, the entire
     disclosures of which are herein incorporated by reference.
     [00256]     In some instances the biomass material is treated at a first level to reduce
     recalcitrance, e.g., utilizing accelerated electrons, to selectively release one or more
     sugars (e.g., xylose). The biomass can then be treated to a second level to release one or
     more other sugars (e.g., glucose). Optionally, the biomass can be dried between
     treatments. The treatments can include applying chemical and biochemical treatments to
     release the sugars. For example, a biomass material can be treated to a level of less than
     about 20 Mrad (e.g., less than about 15 Mrad, less than about 10 Mrad, less than about 5
     Mrad, less than about 2 Mrad) and then treated with a solution of sulfuric acid,
     containing less than 10% sulfuric acid (e.g., less than about 9%, less than about 8%, less
     than about 7%, less than about 6%, less than about 5%, less than about 4%, less than
     about 3%, less than about 2%, less than about 1%, less than about 0.75%, less than about
     0.50 %, less than about 0.25%) to release xylose. Xylose, for example, that is released
     into solution, can be separated from solids and optionally the solids washed with a
     solvent/solution (e.g., with water and/or acidified water). Optionally, the solids can be
     dried, for example, in air and/or under vacuum optionally with heating (e.g., below about
                                                    67

WO 2014/186652                                                                PCT/US2014/038316
     150 deg C, below about 120 deg C) to a water content below about 25 wt% (below about
     20 wt.%, below about 15 wt.%, below about 10 wt.%, below about 5 wt.%). The solids
     can then be treated with a level of less than about 30 Mrad (e.g., less than about 25 Mrad,
     less than about 20 Mrad, less than about 15 Mrad, less than about 10 Mrad, less than
     about 5 Mrad, less than about 1 Mrad or even not at all) and then treated with an enzyme
     (e.g., a cellulase) to release glucose. The glucose (e.g., glucose in solution) can be
     separated from the remaining solids. The solids can then be further processed, for
     example, utilized to make energy or other products (e.g., lignin derived products).
                          FLAVORS, FRAGRANCES AND COLORANTS
     [00257]      Any of the products and/or intermediates described herein, for example,
     produced by the processes, systems and/or equipment described herein, can be combined
     with flavors, fragrances, colorants and/or mixtures of these. For example, any one or
     more of (optionally along with flavors, fragrances and/or colorants) sugars, organic
     acids, fuels, polyols, such as sugar alcohols, biomass, fibers and composites can be
     combined with (e.g., formulated, mixed or reacted) or used to make other products. For
     example, one or more such product can be used to make soaps, detergents, candies,
     drinks (e.g., cola, wine, beer, liquors such as gin or vodka, sports drinks, coffees, teas),
     pharmaceuticals, adhesives, sheets (e.g., woven, none woven, filters, tissues) and/or
     composites (e.g., boards). For example, one or more such product can be combined with
     herbs, flowers, petals, spices, vitamins, potpourri, or candles. For example, the
     formulated, mixed or reacted combinations can have flavors/fragrances of grapefruit,
     orange, apple, raspberry, banana, lettuce, celery, cinnamon, chocolate, vanilla,
     peppermint, mint, onion, garlic, pepper, saffron, ginger, milk, wine, beer, tea, lean beef,
     fish, clams, olive oil, coconut fat, pork fat, butter fat, beef bouillon, legume, potatoes,
     marmalade, ham, coffee and cheeses.
     [00258]      Flavors, fragrances and colorants can be added in any amount, such as
     between about 0.001 wt.% to about 30 wt.%, e.g., between about 0.01 to about 20,
     between about 0.05 to about 10, or between about 0.1 wt.% to about 5 wt.%. These can
     be formulated, mixed and or reacted (e.g., with any one of more product or intermediate
     described herein) by any means and in any order or sequence (e.g., agitated, mixed,
     emulsified, gelled, infused, heated, sonicated, and/or suspended). Fillers, binders,
     emulsifier, antioxidants can also be utilized, for example, protein gels, starches and
     silica.
                                                    68

WO 2014/186652                                                             PCT/US2014/038316
     [00259]      In one embodiment the flavors, fragrances and colorants can be added to the
     biomass immediately after the biomass is irradiated such that the reactive sites created by
     the irradiation may react with reactive compatible sites of the flavors, fragrances, and
     colorants.
     [00260]      The flavors, fragrances and colorants can be natural and/or synthetic
     materials. These materials can be one or more of a compound, a composition or mixtures
     of these (e.g., a formulated or natural composition of several compounds). Optionally the
     flavors, fragrances, antioxidants and colorants can be derived biologically, for example,
     from a fermentation process (e.g., fermentation of saccharified materials as described
     herein). Alternatively, or additionally these flavors, fragrances and colorants can be
     harvested from a whole organism (e.g., plant, fungus, animal, bacteria or yeast) or a part
     of an organism. The organism can be collected and or extracted to provide color, flavors,
     fragrances and/or antioxidant by any means including utilizing the methods, systems and
     equipment described herein, hot water extraction, supercritical fluid extraction, chemical
     extraction (e.g., solvent or reactive extraction including acids and bases), mechanical
     extraction (e.g., pressing, comminuting, filtering), utilizing an enzyme, utilizing a
     bacteria such as to break down a starting material, and combinations of these methods.
     The compounds can be derived by a chemical reaction, for example, the combination of
     a sugar (e.g., as produced as described herein) with an amino acid (Maillard reaction).
     The flavor, fragrance, antioxidant and/or colorant can be an intermediate and or product
     produced by the methods, equipment or systems described herein, for example, and ester
     and a lignin derived product.
     [00261]      Some examples of flavor, fragrances or colorants are polyphenols.
     Polyphenols are pigments responsible for the red, purple and blue colorants of many
     fruits, vegetables, cereal grains, and flowers. Polyphenols also can have antioxidant
     properties and often have a bitter taste. The antioxidant properties make these important
     preservatives. On class of polyphenols are the flavonoids, such as Anthocyanidines,
     flavanonols, flavan-3-ols, s, flavanones and flavanonols. Other phenolic compounds that
     can be used include phenolic acids and their esters, such as chlorogenic acid and
     polymeric tannins.
     [00262]      Among the colorants inorganic compounds, minerals or organic compounds
     can be used, for example, titanium dioxide, zinc oxide, aluminum oxide, cadmium
     yellow (E.g., CdS), cadmium orange (e.g., CdS with some Se), alizarin crimson (e.g.,
     synthetic or non-synthetic rose madder), ultramarine (e.g., synthetic ultramarine, natural
     ultramarine, synthetic ultramarine violet ), cobalt blue, cobalt yellow, cobalt green,
                                                    69

WO 2014/186652                                                           PCT/US2014/038316
     viridian (e.g., hydrated chromium(III)oxide), chalcophylite, conichalcite, cornubite,
     cornwallite and liroconite. Black pigments such as carbon black and self-dispersed
     blacks may be used.
     [00263]     Some flavors and fragrances that can be utilized include ACALEA TBHQ,
     ACET C-6, ALLYL AMYL GLYCOLATE, ALPHA TERPINEOL, AMBRETTOLIDE,
     AMBRINOL 95, ANDRANE, APHERMATE, APPLELIDE, BACDANOL@,
     BERGAMAL, BETA IONONE EPOXIDE, BETA NAPHTHYL ISO-BUTYL ETHER,
     BICYCLONONALACTONE, BORNAFIX@, CANTHOXAL, CASHMERAN@,
     CASHMERAN@ VELVET, CASSIFFIX@, CEDRAFIX, CEDRAMBER@, CEDRYL
     ACETATE, CELESTOLIDE, CINNAMALVA, CITRAL DIMETHYL ACETATE,
     CITROLATETM, CITRONELLOL 700, CITRONELLOL 950, CITRONELLOL
     COEUR, CITRONELLYL ACETATE, CITRONELLYL ACETATE PURE,
     CITRONELLYL FORMATE, CLARYCET, CLONAL, CONIFERAN, CONIFERAN
     PURE, CORTEX ALDEHYDE 50% PEOMOSA, CYCLABUTE, CYCLACET@,
     CYCLAPROP@, CYCLEMAXTM, CYCLOHEXYL ETHYL ACETATE, DAMASCOL,
     DELTA DAMASCONE, DIHYDRO CYCLACET, DIHYDRO MYRCENOL,
     DIHYDRO TERPINEOL, DIHYDRO TERPINYL ACETATE, DIMETHYL
     CYCLORMOL, DIMETHYL OCTANOL PQ, DIMYRCETOL, DIOLA, DIPENTENE,
     DULCINYL@ RECRYSTALLIZED, ETHYL-3-PHENYL GLYCIDATE,
     FLEURAMONE, FLEURANIL, FLORAL SUPER, FLORALOZONE, FLORIFFOL,
     FRAISTONE, FRUCTONE, GALAXOLIDE@ 50, GALAXOLIDE@ 50 BB,
     GALAXOLIDE@ 50 IPM, GALAXOLIDE@ UNDILUTED, GALBASCONE,
     GERALDEHYDE, GERANIOL 5020, GERANIOL 600 TYPE, GERANIOL 950,
     GERANIOL 980 (PURE), GERANIOL CFT COEUR, GERANIOL COEUR,
     GERANYL ACETATE COEUR, GERANYL ACETATE, PURE, GERANYL
     FORMATE, GRISALVA, GUAIYL ACETATE, HELIONALTM, HERBAC,
     HERBALIMETM, HEXADECANOLIDE, HEXALON, HEXENYL SALICYLATE CIS
     3-, HYACINTH BODY, HYACINTH BODY NO. 3, HYDRATROPIC
     ALDEHYDE.DMA, HYDROXYOL, INDOLAROME, INTRELEVEN ALDEHYDE,
     INTRELEVEN ALDEHYDE SPECIAL, IONONE ALPHA, IONONE BETA, ISO
     CYCLO CITRAL, ISO CYCLO GERANIOL, ISO E SUPER@, ISOBUTYL
     QUINOLINE, JASMAL, JESSEMAL@, KHARISMAL@, KHARISMAL@ SUPER,
     KHUSINIL, KOAVONE@, KOHINOOL@, LIFFAROMETM, LIMOXAL,
     LINDENOLTM, LYRAL@, LYRAME SUPER, MANDARIN ALD 10% TRI ETH,
     CITR, MARITIMA, MCK CHINESE, MEIJIFFTM, MELAFLEUR, MELOZONE,
                                                 70

WO 2014/186652                                           PCT/US2014/038316
     METHYL ANTHRANILATE, METHYL IONONE ALPHA EXTRA, METHYL
     IONONE GAMMA A, METHYL IONONE GAMMA COEUR, METHYL IONONE
     GAMMA PURE, METHYL LAVENDER KETONE, MONTAVERDI@, MUGUESIA,
     MUGUET ALDEHYDE 50, MUSK Z4, MYRAC ALDEHYDE, MYRCENYL
     ACETATE, NECTARATETM, NEROL 900, NERYL ACETATE, OCIMENE,
     OCTACETAL, ORANGE FLOWER ETHER, ORIVONE, ORRINIFF 25%,
     OXASPIRANE, OZOFLEUR, PAMPLEFLEUR@, PEOMOSA, PHENOXANOL@,
     PICONIA, PRECYCLEMONE B, PRENYL ACETATE, PRISMANTOL, RESEDA
     BODY, ROSALVA, ROSAMUSK, SANJINOL, SANTALIFFTM, SYVERTAL,
     TERPINEOL,TERPINOLENE 20, TERPINOLENE 90 PQ, TERPINOLENE RECT.,
     TERPINYL ACETATE, TERPINYL ACETATE JAX, TETRAHYDRO, MUGUOL@,
     TETRAHYDRO MYRCENOL, TETRAMERAN, TIMBERSILKTM, TOBACAROL,
     TRIMOFIX@ 0 TT, TRIPLAL@, TRISAMBER@, VANORIS, VERDOXTM
     VERDOXTM HC, VERTENEX@, VERTENEX@ HC, VERTOFIX@ COEUR,
     VERTOLIFF, VERTOLIFF ISO, VIOLIFF, VIVALDIE, ZENOLIDE, ABS INDIA 75
     PCT MIGLYOL, ABS MOROCCO 50 PCT DPG, ABS MOROCCO 50 PCT TEC,
     ABSOLUTE FRENCH, ABSOLUTE INDIA, ABSOLUTE MD 50 PCT BB,
     ABSOLUTE MOROCCO, CONCENTRATE PG, TINCTURE 20 PCT, AMBERGRIS,
     AMBRETTE ABSOLUTE, AMBRETTE SEED OIL, ARMOISE OIL 70 PCT
     THUYONE, BASIL ABSOLUTE GRAND VERT, BASIL GRAND VERT ABS MD,
     BASIL OIL GRAND VERT, BASIL OIL VERVEINA, BASIL OIL VIETNAM, BAY
     OIL TERPENELESS, BEESWAX ABS N G, BEESWAX ABSOLUTE, BENZOIN
     RESINOID SIAM, BENZOIN RESINOID SIAM 50 PCT DPG, BENZOIN RESINOID
     SIAM 50 PCT PG, BENZOIN RESINOID SIAM 70.5 PCT TEC, BLACKCURRANT
     BUD ABS 65 PCT PG, BLACKCURRANT BUD ABS MD 37 PCT TEC,
     BLACKCURRANT BUD ABS MIGLYOL, BLACKCURRANT BUD ABSOLUTE
     BURGUNDY, BOIS DE ROSE OIL, BRAN ABSOLUTE, BRAN RESINOID,
     BROOM ABSOLUTE ITALY, CARDAMOM GUATEMALA C02 EXTRACT,
     CARDAMOM OIL GUATEMALA, CARDAMOM OIL INDIA, CARROT HEART,
     CASSIE ABSOLUTE EGYPT, CASSIE ABSOLUTE MD 50 PCT IPM, CASTOREUM
     ABS 90 PCT TEC, CASTOREUM ABS C 50 PCT MIGLYOL, CASTOREUM
     ABSOLUTE, CASTOREUM RESINOID, CASTOREUM RESINOID 50 PCT DPG,
     CEDROL CEDRENE, CEDRUS ATLANTICA OIL REDIST, CHAMOMILE OIL
     ROMAN, CHAMOMILE OIL WILD, CHAMOMILE OIL WILD LOW LIMONENE,
     CINNAMON BARK OIL CEYLAN, CISTE ABSOLUTE, CISTE ABSOLUTE
                                      71

WO 2014/186652                                         PCT/US2014/038316
     COLORLESS, CITRONELLA OIL ASIA IRON FREE, CIVET ABS 75 PCT PG,
     CIVET ABSOLUTE, CIVET TINCTURE 10 PCT, CLARY SAGE ABS FRENCH
     DECOL, CLARY SAGE ABSOLUTE FRENCH, CLARY SAGE C'LESS 50 PCT PG,
     CLARY SAGE OIL FRENCH, COPAIBA BALSAM, COPAIBA BALSAM OIL,
     CORIANDER SEED OIL, CYPRESS OIL, CYPRESS OIL ORGANIC, DAVANA OIL,
     GALBANOL, GALBANUM ABSOLUTE COLORLESS, GALBANUM OIL,
     GALBANUM RESINOID, GALBANUM RESINOID 50 PCT DPG, GALBANUM
     RESINOID HERCOLYN BHT, GALBANUM RESINOID TEC BHT, GENTIANE
     ABSOLUTE MD 20 PCT BB, GENTIANE CONCRETE, GERANIUM ABS EGYPT
     MD, GERANIUM ABSOLUTE EGYPT, GERANIUM OIL CHINA, GERANIUM OIL
     EGYPT, GINGER OIL 624, GINGER OIL RECTIFIED SOLUBLE, GUAIACWOOD
     HEART, HAY ABS MD 50 PCT BB, HAY ABSOLUTE, HAY ABSOLUTE MD 50
     PCT TEC, HEALINGWOOD, HYSSOP OIL ORGANIC, IMMORTELLE ABS YUGO
     MD 50 PCT TEC, IMMORTELLE ABSOLUTE SPAIN, IMMORTELLE ABSOLUTE
     YUGO, JASMIN ABS INDIA MD, JASMIN ABSOLUTE EGYPT, JASMIN
     ABSOLUTE INDIA, ASMIN ABSOLUTE MOROCCO, JASMIN ABSOLUTE
     SAMBAC, JONQUILLE ABS MD 20 PCT BB, JONQUILLE ABSOLUTE France,
     JUNIPER BERRY OIL FLG, JUNIPER BERRY OIL RECTIFIED SOLUBLE,
     LABDANUM RESINOID 50 PCT TEC, LABDANUM RESINOID BB, LABDANUM
     RESINOID MD, LABDANUM RESINOID MD 50 PCT BB, LAVANDIN ABSOLUTE
     H, LAVANDIN ABSOLUTE MD, LAVANDIN OIL ABRIAL ORGANIC,
     LAVANDIN OIL GROSSO ORGANIC, LAVANDIN OIL SUPER, LAVENDER
     ABSOLUTE H, LAVENDER ABSOLUTE MD, LAVENDER OIL COUMARIN
     FREE, LAVENDER OIL COUMARIN FREE ORGANIC, LAVENDER OIL
     MAILLETTE ORGANIC, LAVENDER OIL MT, MACE ABSOLUTE BB,
     MAGNOLIA FLOWER OIL LOW METHYL EUGENOL, MAGNOLIA FLOWER
     OIL, MAGNOLIA FLOWER OIL MD, MAGNOLIA LEAF OIL, MANDARIN OIL
     MD, MANDARIN OIL MD BHT, MATE ABSOLUTE BB, MOSS TREE ABSOLUTE
     MD TEX IFRA 43, MOSS-OAK ABS MD TEC IFRA 43, MOSS-OAK ABSOLUTE
     IFRA 43, MOSS-TREE ABSOLUTE MD IPM IFRA 43, MYRRH RESINOID BB,
     MYRRH RESINOID MD, MYRRH RESINOID TEC, MYRTLE OIL IRON FREE,
     MYRTLE OIL TUNISIA RECTIFIED, NARCISSE ABS MD 20 PCT BB, NARCISSE
     ABSOLUTE FRENCH, NEROLI OIL TUNISIA, NUTMEG OIL TERPENELESS,
     OEILLET ABSOLUTE, OLIBANUM RESINOID, OLIBANUM RESINOID BB,
     OLIBANUM RESINOID DPG, OLIBANUM RESINOID EXTRA 50 PCT DPG,
                                      72

WO 2014/186652                                                             PCT/US2014/038316
     OLIBANUM RESINOID MD, OLIBANUM RESINOID MD 50 PCT DPG,
     OLIBANUM RESINOID TEC, OPOPONAX RESINOID TEC, ORANGE BIGARADE
     OIL MD BHT, ORANGE BIGARADE OIL MD SCFC, ORANGE FLOWER
     ABSOLUTE TUNISIA, ORANGE FLOWER WATER ABSOLUTE TUNISIA,
     ORANGE LEAF ABSOLUTE, ORANGE LEAF WATER ABSOLUTE TUNISIA,
     ORRIS ABSOLUTE ITALY, ORRIS CONCRETE 15 PCT IRONE, ORRIS
     CONCRETE 8 PCT IRONE, ORRIS NATURAL 15 PCT IRONE 4095C, ORRIS
     NATURAL 8 PCT IRONE 2942C, ORRIS RESINOID, OSMANTHUS ABSOLUTE,
     OSMANTHUS ABSOLUTE MD 50 PCT BB, PATCHOULI HEART N3,
     PATCHOULI OIL INDONESIA, PATCHOULI OIL INDONESIA IRON FREE,
     PATCHOULI OIL INDONESIA MD, PATCHOULI OIL REDIST, PENNYROYAL
     HEART, PEPPERMINT ABSOLUTE MD, PETITGRAIN BIGARADE OIL TUNISIA,
     PETITGRAIN CITRONNIER OIL, PETITGRAIN OIL PARAGUAY TERPENELESS,
     PETITGRAIN OIL TERPENELESS STAB, PIMENTO BERRY OIL, PIMENTO LEAF
     OIL, RHODINOL EX GERANIUM CHINA, ROSE ABS BULGARIAN LOW
     METHYL EUGENOL, ROSE ABS MOROCCO LOW METHYL EUGENOL, ROSE
     ABS TURKISH LOW METHYL EUGENOL, ROSE ABSOLUTE, ROSE ABSOLUTE
     BULGARIAN, ROSE ABSOLUTE DAMASCENA, ROSE ABSOLUTE MD, ROSE
     ABSOLUTE MOROCCO, ROSE ABSOLUTE TURKISH, ROSE OIL BULGARIAN,
     ROSE OIL DAMASCENA LOW METHYL EUGENOL, ROSE OIL TURKISH,
     ROSEMARY OIL CAMPHOR ORGANIC, ROSEMARY OIL TUNISIA,
     SANDALWOOD OIL INDIA, SANDALWOOD OIL INDIA RECTIFIED,
     SANTALOL, SCHINUS MOLLE OIL, ST JOHN BREAD TINCTURE 10 PCT,
     STYRAX RESINOID, STYRAX RESINOID, TAGETE OIL, TEA TREE HEART,
     TONKA BEAN ABS 50 PCT SOLVENTS, TONKA BEAN ABSOLUTE, TUBEROSE
     ABSOLUTE INDIA, VETIVER HEART EXTRA, VETIVER OIL HAITI, VETIVER
     OIL HAITI MD, VETIVER OIL JAVA, VETIVER OIL JAVA MD, VIOLET LEAF
     ABSOLUTE EGYPT, VIOLET LEAF ABSOLUTE EGYPT DECOL, VIOLET LEAF
     ABSOLUTE FRENCH, VIOLET LEAF ABSOLUTE MD 50 PCT BB, WORMWOOD
     OIL TERPENELESS, YLANG EXTRA OIL, YLANG III OIL and combinations of
     these.
     [00264]     The colorants can be among those listed in the Color Index International by
     the Society of Dyers and Colourists. Colorants include dyes and pigments and include
     those commonly used for coloring textiles, paints, inks and inkjet inks. Some colorants
     that can be utilized include carotenoids, arylide yellows, diarylide yellows, B-naphthols,
                                                  73

WO 2014/186652                                                            PCT/US2014/038316
     naphthols, benzimidazolones, disazo condensation pigments, pyrazolones, nickel azo
     yellow, phthalocyanines, quinacridones, perylenes and perinones, isoindolinone and
     isoindoline pigments, triarylcarbonium pigments, diketopyrrolo-pyrrole pigments,
     thioindigoids. Cartenoids include, for example, alpha-carotene, beta-carotene, gamma
     carotene, lycopene, lutein and astaxanthin, Annatto extract, Dehydrated beets (beet
     powder), Canthaxanthin, Caramel,      -Apo-8'-carotenal, Cochineal extract, Carmine,
     Sodium copper chlorophyllin, Toasted partially defatted cooked cottonseed flour,
     Ferrous gluconate, Ferrous lactate, Grape color extract, Grape skin extract (enocianina),
     Carrot oil, Paprika, Paprika oleoresin, Mica-based pearlescent pigments, Riboflavin,
     Saffron, Titanium dioxide, Tomato lycopene extract; tomato lycopene concentrate,
     Turmeric, Turmeric oleoresin, FD&C Blue No. 1, FD&C Blue No. 2, FD&C Green No.
     3, Orange B, Citrus Red No. 2, FD&C Red No. 3, FD&C Red No. 40, FD&C Yellow
     No. 5, FD&C Yellow No. 6, Alumina (dried aluminum hydroxide), Calcium carbonate,
     Potassium sodium copper chlorophyllin (chlorophyllin-copper complex),
     Dihydroxyacetone, Bismuth oxychloride, Ferric ammonium ferrocyanide, Ferric
     ferrocyanide, Chromium hydroxide green, Chromium oxide greens, Guanine,
     Pyrophyllite, Talc, Aluminum powder, Bronze powder, Copper powder, Zinc oxide,
     D&C Blue No. 4, D&C Green No. 5, D&C Green No. 6, D&C Green No. 8, D&C
     Orange No. 4, D&C Orange No. 5, D&C Orange No. 10, D&C Orange No. 11, FD&C
     Red No. 4, D&C Red No. 6, D&C Red No. 7, D&C Red No. 17, D&C Red No. 21, D&C
     Red No. 22, D&C Red No. 27, D&C Red No. 28, D&C Red No. 30, D&C Red No. 31,
     D&C Red No. 33, D&C Red No. 34, D&C Red No. 36, D&C Red No. 39, D&C Violet
     No. 2, D&C Yellow No. 7, Ext. D&C Yellow No. 7, D&C Yellow No. 8, D&C Yellow
     No. 10, D&C Yellow No. 11, D&C Black No. 2, D&C Black No. 3 (3), D&C Brown No.
     1, Ext. D&C, Chromium-cobalt-aluminum oxide, Ferric ammonium citrate, Pyrogallol,
     Logwood extract, 1,4-Bis[(2-hydroxy-ethyl)amino]-9,10-anthracenedione bis(2
     propenoic)ester copolymers, 1,4-Bis [(2-methylphenyl)amino] -9,1 0-anthracenedione,
     1,4-Bis[4- (2-methacryloxyethyl) phenylamino] anthraquinone copolymers, Carbazole
     violet, Chlorophyllin-copper complex, Chromium-cobalt-aluminum oxide,, C.I. Vat
     Orange 1, 2-[[2,5-Diethoxy- 4-[(4-methylphenyl)thiol] phenyl]azo] -1,3,5-benzenetriol,
     16,23-Dihydrodinaphtho [2,3-a:2',3'-i] naphth [2',3':6,7] indolo [2,3-c] carbazole
     5,10,15,17,22,24-hexone, N,N'-(9,10-Dihydro- 9,10-dioxo- 1,5-anthracenediyl)
     bisbenzamide, 7,16-Dichloro- 6,15-dihydro- 5,9,14,18-anthrazinetetrone, 16,17
     Dimethoxydinaphtho (1,2,3-cd:3',2',1'-lm) perylene-5,10-dione, Poly(hydroxyethyl
     methacrylate) -dye copolymers(3), Reactive Black 5, Reactive Blue 21, Reactive Orange
                                                 74

WO 2014/186652                                                           PCT/US2014/038316
     78, Reactive Yellow 15, Reactive Blue No. 19, Reactive Blue No. 4, C.I. Reactive Red
     11, C.I. Reactive Yellow 86, C.I. Reactive Blue 163, C.I. Reactive Red 180, 4-[(2,4
     dimethylphenyl)azo]- 2,4-dihydro- 5-methyl-2-phenyl- 3H-pyrazol-3-one (solvent
     Yellow 18), 6-Ethoxy-2- (6-ethoxy-3-oxobenzo[b] thien-2(3H)- ylidene)
     benzo[b]thiophen- 3(2H)-one, Phthalocyanine green, Vinyl alcohol/methyl methacrylate
     dye reaction products, C.I. Reactive Red 180, C.I. Reactive Black 5, C.I. Reactive
     Orange 78, C.I. Reactive Yellow 15, C.I. Reactive Blue 21, Disodium 1-amino-4-[[4-[(2
     bromo- 1-oxoallyl)amino]-2-sulphonatophenyl] amino] -9,1 0-dihydro-9,10
     dioxoanthracene-2-sulphonate (Reactive Blue 69), D&C Blue No. 9,
     [Phthalocyaninato(2-)] copper and mixtures of these.
     EXAMPLES
     Succinic acid Production from Saccharified Corncob using Actinobacillus
     succinogenes.
     [00265]    Material and Methods
     [00266]    Succinic acid producing strains tested:
     [00267]    Actinobacillus succinogenes
     [00268]    Anaerobiospirillumsucciniciproducens
     [00269]    Mannheimia succiniciproducens
     [00270]    Recombinant Escherichiacoli: Aerobic, PEP carboxylase over-expressing E.
     coli
     [00271]    Seed Culture
     [00272]    Cells from a frozen (-80 'C) cell bank were cultivated in propagation medium
     (BD Trypticase Soy media) at 30 'C, with 150 rpm stirring for 20 hours. This seed
     culture was transferred to a 1.2L bioreactors charged with media as describe below.
     Trypticase Soy (TS) includes 17g/L Pancreatic digest of casein, 3 g/L papaic digest of
     soybean meal, 2.5 g/L glucose, 5 g/L sodium chloride and 2.5 g/L dipotassium
     phosphate.
     [00273]    Media and Conditions Testin2
     [00274]    Table 1 outlines experiments to determine the impact of various media
     components and conditions on succinic acid production.
                                                  75

WO 2014/186652                                                                  PCT/US2014/038316
     Table 1 Succinic acid production with Actinobacillus succinogenes
     Media                 Test Parameter   Range-Tested         Range-            Range -Currently
     Component                                                   Currently         Most Preferred"
                                                                 preferreda
     Initial sugar         Succinic acid    40-100 g/L           40-100 g/L        50 - 60 g/L
     concentration         concentration
     Nitrogen Sources      Succinic acid    Yeast extract,       Yeast extract,    Yeast extract
     Tested                concentration    Trypticase, peptone, Tryptone,
                                            Corn steep,          Trypticase
                                            Tryptone, Peptone
     Yeast Extract  a      Succinic acid    0-20 g/L             10-20 g/L         20 g/L
                           concentration
     Magnesium             Succinic acid    0-8 wt.%/vol.%       3- 5 %            3 - 5 % wt.%/vol.%
     carbonate             concentration                         wt.%/vol.%
     Inorganic saltsb      Succinic acid    With or without      With              With
                           concentration
     Physical              Test Parameter   Range-Tested         Range-            Range -Most
     Condition                                                   preferred         Preferred
     Temperature           Succinic acid    28-48 deg C          34- 40 deg C      37-40 deg C
                           concentration
     Agitation (in 1.2L    Succinic acid    50-500 rpm           50-500 rpm        50-500 rpm
     reactor)              concentration
     CO 2 gas sparging     Succinic acid    0-0.5 VVM            0-0.5 VVM         0 VVM
                           concentration
     a Fluka brand yeast extract was used.
     b NaH 2 PO 4   (1.5 g/L), Na 2HPO 4 (1.5 g), NaCl (1.0 g/L), MgCl 2 (0.2 g/L), CaCl (0.2 g/L).
                                                                                             2
     The pH was regulated by addition of MgCO 3.
     Media is also supplemented with CO 2 gas through a sparge tub.
     [00275]       Based on the results on the media component and conditions tests, the
     following media and conditions were used for subsequent testing. A 0.7 L of culture
     volume in 1.2 L vessel bioreactor (New Brunswick) was tested. 1 % of 20-hour-cultured
     seed was used for inoculation. No CO 2 sparging was used. Magnesum carbonate was
     added to 5% (w/v) to maintain pH between 5 and 6. The temperature was maintained at
     37 'C. Antifoam 204 was added (0.1%, 1ml/L) at the beginning of the culture and then
     was not added any more. Inorganic salts were used.
                                                       76

WO 2014/186652                                                           PCT/US2014/038316
     [00276]     Results
     [00277]     1. Bioreactor culture of Actinobacillus succinogenes (ATCC 55618) with
     reagent glucose and xylose.
     [00278]     Three independent experiments using the above media and conditions were
     conducted. The first used glucose as the carbon source. FIG. 11 is a plot showing the
     consumption of glucose and production of succinic acid in this first experiment. A
     second experiment used xylose as the carbon source. FIG. 12 is a plot showing the
     consumption of xylose and production of succinic acid for this second experiment. A
     third experiment used both glucose and xylose as the carbon source. FIG. 13 is a plot
     showing the consumption of glucose + xylose and production of succinic acid in the third
     experiment.
     [00279]     2. Bioreactor culture of Actinobacillus succinogenes (ATCC 55618) with
     saccharified corncob.
     [00280]     In addition to the media components described above (most preferred), sugar
     solution from saccharified biomass was used. The sugar solution included saccharified
     corncob that had been hammer milled and irradiated with about 35 Mrad of electron
     beam irradiation. For example, saccharified corn cob can be prepared as described in US
     provisional application Serial No. 61/774,723 filed on March 8, 2013 the entire
     disclosure of which is herein incorporated by reference.
     [00281]     Actinobacillus succinogenes (ATCC 55618) was cultured in the production
     medium in the 1.2L bioreactor (culture volume volume is 0.7L) with various medium
     components conditions (table 1). Culture period was 3 to 5 days.
     [00282]     Figure 14 is a plot of sugars consumed and products produced using a 1.2L
     Bioreactor culture of Actinobacillus succinogenes (ATCC 55618) with the preferred
     conditions and saccharified corn cob. The conditions were: media components
     Saccharified corncob, 20 g/L yeast extract, inorganic salts; and physical conditions:
     37 'C and 200 rpm.
     [00283]     Simultaneous consumption of glucose and xylose was observed, where
     glucose started near 30 g/L and decreased to about 12 g/L and Xylose started at about
     24g/L and decreased to about 5 g/L. Cellobiose was not consumed (not shown). About
     30g/L of succinic acid was produced so the yield based on glucose and xylose was just
     over about 50 %.
     [00284]     Other than in the examples herein, or unless otherwise expressly specified, all
     of the numerical ranges, amounts, values and percentages, such as those for amounts of
     materials, elemental contents, times and temperatures of reaction, ratios of amounts, and
                                                  77

WO 2014/186652                                                              PCT/US2014/038316
     others, in the following portion of the specification and attached claims may be read as if
     prefaced by the word "about" even though the term "about" may not expressly appear
     with the value, amount, or range. Accordingly, unless indicated to the contrary, the
     numerical parameters set forth in the following specification and attached claims are
     approximations that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be
     obtained by the present invention. At the very least, and not as an attempt to limit the
     application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims, each numerical
     parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of reported significant
     digits and by applying ordinary rounding techniques.
     [00285]      Notwithstanding that the numerical ranges and parameters setting forth the
     broad scope of the invention are approximations, the numerical values set forth in the
     specific examples are reported as precisely as possible. Any numerical value, however,
     inherently contains error necessarily resulting from the standard deviation found in its
     underlying respective testing measurements. Furthermore, when numerical ranges are
     set forth herein, these ranges are inclusive of the recited range end points (i.e., end points
     may be used). When percentages by weight are used herein, the numerical values
     reported are relative to the total weight.
     [00286]      Also, it should be understood that any numerical range recited herein is
     intended to include all sub-ranges subsumed therein. For example, a range of "1 to 10"
     is intended to include all sub-ranges between (and including) the recited minimum value
     of 1 and the recited maximum value of 10, that is, having a minimum value equal to or
     greater than 1 and a maximum value of equal to or less than 10. The terms "one," "a," or
     "an" as used herein are intended to include "at least one" or "one or more," unless
     otherwise indicated.
     [00287]      Any patent, publication, or other disclosure material, in whole or in part, that
     is said to be incorporated by reference herein is incorporated herein only to the extent
     that the incorporated material does not conflict with existing definitions, statements, or
     other disclosure material set forth in this disclosure. As such, and to the extent
     necessary, the disclosure as explicitly set forth herein supersedes any conflicting material
     incorporated herein by reference. Any material, or portion thereof, that is said to be
     incorporated by reference herein, but which conflicts with existing definitions,
     statements, or other disclosure material set forth herein will only be incorporated to the
     extent that no conflict arises between that incorporated material and the existing
     disclosure material.
                                                    78

WO 2014/186652                                                           PCT/US2014/038316
     [00288]      While this invention has been particularly shown and described with
     references to most preferred embodiments thereof, it will be understood by those skilled
     in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing
     from the scope of the invention encompassed by the appended claims.
                                                  79

WO 2014/186652                                                              PCT/US2014/038316
     CLAIMS
              1. A method for making a product comprising:
              treating a reduced recalcitrance lignocellulosic or cellulosic material with one or
     more enzymes and/or organisms to produce a poly carboxylic acid; and
              converting the poly carboxylic acid to the product.
              2. The method of claim 1, wherein a feedstock is pretreated with at least one of
     irradiation, sonication, oxidation, pyrolysis and steam explosion to produce the reduced
     recalcitrance lignocellulosic or cellulosic material.
              3. The method of claim 2, wherein irradiation is performed with an electron
     beam.
              4. The method of any one of the above claims, wherein converting the poly
     carboxylic acid to the product comprises chemically converting.
              5. The method of claim 4, wherein chemically converting is selected from the
     group consisting of polymerization, condensations, isomerization, esterification,
     alkylation, oxidation, amination, acid halide formation, reduction, hydrogenation,
     cyclization, ion exchange, anhydration, acylation and combinations thereof.
              6. The method of claims 4 or 5, wherein chemically converting includes steps
     selected from catalytic conversion, non-catalytic conversion and combinations thereof.
              7. The method of any one of the above claims, wherein treating is performed
     initially with one of more enzymes to release one or more sugar from the lignocellulosic
     or cellulosic material followed by one or more organisms to produce the poly carboxylic
     acid.
              8. The method of claim 7, wherein the sugar is selected from the group consisting
     of glucose, xylose, sucrose, maltose, lactose, mannose, galactose, arabinose, fructose,
     disaccharides of any one or two of these, cellobiose, sucrose, poly saccharides of any of
     two or more of these, and mixtures of these.
              9. The method of claim 8, wherein treating converts one or more of the sugars to
     an intermediate product prior to conversion to the poly carboxylic acid.
                                                   80

WO 2014/186652                                                              PCT/US2014/038316
              10. The method of claim 9, wherein the intermediate product is ethanol or glycol.
              11. The method of claim 9 or 10, wherein the sugar is converted to the
     intermediate product by fermentation.
              12. The method of any one of the above claims, wherein the poly carboxylic acid
     is selected from the group consisting of oxalic acid, malonic acid, succinic acid, tartaric
     acid, glutaric acid, adipic acid, pimelic acid, suberic acid, azelaic acid, sebacic acid,
     undecanedioic acid, dodecanedioic acid, maleic acid, fumaric acid, glutaconic acid,
     traumatic acid, muconic acid, phthalic acid, isophthalic acid, terephthalic acid, citric
     acid, isocitric acid, aconitic acid, mellitic acid and mixtures of these.
              13. The method of any one of the above claims, wherein the poly carboxylic acid
     is succinic acid.
              14. The method of claim 13, wherein the product is selected from the group
     consisting of tetrahydrofuran, gamma-butyro lactone, 2-pyrrolidinone, N-methyl-2
     pyrrolidinone (NMP), N-viny-2-pyrrolidinone, succinimide, N-hydroxysuccinimide,
     succindiamide, succinyl chloride, succinic acid anhydride, maleic anhydride, 1,4
     diaminobutane, succinonitrile, 1,4-butandiol and dimethyl succinate
              15. A method for making a product comprising:
              contacting a mixed sugar solution comprising a nitrogen source and inorganic
     salts with a succinic acid producing organism to produce succinic acid,
              purifying the succinic acid, and
              converting the purified succinic acid to the product, wherein
              the sugar solution is made by saccharifying an electron beam treated cellulosic or
     lignocellulosic biomass.
              16. The method as in claim 12, wherein the inorganic salts include NaH 2 PO 4 ,
     Na 2HPO 4, NaCl, MgCl 2 and CaCl 2.
              17. The method of claim 15 or 16, wherein the nitrogen source includes yeast
     extract.
              18. The method of any one of claims 15 through 17, wherein the organism is
     selected from the group consisting of Actinobacillus succinogenes,Anaerobiospirillum
                                                     81

WO 2014/186652                                                             PCT/US2014/038316
     succiniciproducens,Mannheimia succiniciproducensand, PEP carboxylase over
     expressing E. co/i.
             19. The method of any one of claims 15 through 18, wherein converting
     comprises chemically converting.
             20. The method of any one of claims 15 through 19, wherein the cellulosic or
     lignocellulosic material receives between about 10 and about 50 Mrad of radiation.
             21. A method for making a product comprising:
             contacting a mixed sugar solution comprising a nitrogen source and inorganic
     salts with an organism selected from the group consisting of Actinobacillus
     succinogenes, Anaerobiospirillumsucciniciproducens,Mannheimia succiniciproducens
     and, PEP carboxylase over-expressing E. coli. and fermenting at least one sugar to
     succinic acid, and
             converting the succinic acid to the product, wherein
             the sugar solution is made by saccharifying an electron beam treated cellulosic or
     lignocellulosic biomass.
             22. The method of claim 21, wherein converting comprises chemically
     converting.
             23. The method of claim 22, wherein chemically converting is selected from the
     group consisting of polymerization, condensations, isomerization, esterification,
     alkylation, oxidation, amination, acid halide formation, reduction, hydrogenation,
     cyclization, ion exchange, anhydration, acylation and combinations thereof.
             24. The method of any one of claims 21 through 23, wherein lignocellulosic
     material receives between about 10 and about 50 Mrad of radiation.
             25. A method for making a product comprising:
             treating a reduced recalcitrance lignocellulosic or cellulosic material with one or
     more enzymes and/or organisms to produce a poly carboxylic acid.
              26. The method of claim 25, wherein a feedstock is pretreated with ionizing
     radiation to produce the reduced recalcitrance lignocellulosic or cellulosic material.
                                                  82

WO 2014/186652                                                               PCT/US2014/038316
              27. The method of claim 26, wherein the ionizing radiation is performed with an
     electron beam.
              28. The method of any one of claims 25 through 27, wherein treating is
     performed initially with one of more enzymes to release one or more sugar from the
     lignocellulosic or cellulosic material followed by one or more organisms to produce the
     poly carboxylic acid.
              29. The method of any one of claims 25 through 28, wherein the poly carboxylic
     acid is selected from the group consisting of oxalic acid, malonic acid, succinic acid,
     tartaric acid, glutaric acid, adipic acid, pimelic acid, suberic acid, azelaic acid, sebacic
     acid, undecanedioic acid, dodecanedioic acid, maleic acid, fumaric acid, glutaconic acid,
     traumatic acid, muconic acid, phthalic acid, isophthalic acid, terephthalic acid, citric
     acid, isocitric acid, aconitic acid, mellitic acid and mixtures of these
              30. The method of claim 29, wherein the poly carboxylic acid is not succinic
     acid.
                                                     83

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
