                                       ABSTRACT
Provided are methods for treating or preventing vasculopathy in a subject in need thereof,
comprising administering to the subject a prostacyclin and a mesenchymal stem cell
(MSC) or a MSC-conditioned culture medium or administering to the subject a MSC or a
MSC-conditioned culture medium that has treated with prostacyclin. Pharmaceutical
compositions suitable for such treatments are also provided.
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

    TREATMENT OF VASCULOPATHY WITH PROSTACYCLIN AND
                                    MESENCHYMAL STEM CELLS
                               CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]          This application claims benefit to U.S. Provisional Applications Serial
No.: 61/750,458, filed January 9, 2013, the contents of which are incorporated by
reference in their entirety into the present disclosure.
[0001a] The entire disclosure in the complete specification of our Australian Patent
Application No. 2014205557 is by this cross-reference incorporated into the present
specification.
                                            BACKGROUND
[0002]          The present application relates to the use of mesenchymal stem cells in treatment
of vasculopathy, including pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) and other types of
pulmonary hypertension, peripheral vascular disease (PVD), critical limb ischemia (CLI),
coronary artery disease, diabetic vasculopathy, etc.
 [0003]         Pulmonary arterial hypertension is a progressive lung disorder which, untreated,
leads to death on average within 2.8 years after being diagnosed. An increasing
constriction of the pulmonary circulation leads to increased stress on the right heart, which
may develop into right heart failure. By definition, the mean pulmonary arterial pressure
(mPAP) in a case of chronic pulmonary hypertension is >25 mmHg at rest or >30 mmHg
during exertion (normal value <20 mmHg). The pathophysiology of pulmonary arterial
hypertension is characterized by vasoconstriction and remodeling of the pulmonary
vessels. In chronic PAH there is neomuscularization of initially unmuscularized
pulmonary vessels, and the vascular muscles of the already muscularized vessels increase
in circumference. This increasing obliteration of the pulmonary circulation results in
progressive stress on the right heart, which leads to a reduced output from the right heart
and eventually ends in right heart failure (M. Humbert et al., J. Am. Coll. Cardiol. 2004,
43, 13S-24S). PAH is an extremely rare disorder, with a prevalence of 1-2 per million.
The average age of the patients has been estimated to be 36 years, and only 10% of the
                                                     1
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

patients were over 60 years of age. Distinctly more women than men are affected (G. E.
D'Alonzo et al., Ann. Intern. Med. 1991, 115, 343-349).
[0004]          Standard therapies available on the market (e.g. prostacyclin analogues,
endothelin receptor antagonists, phosphodiesterase inhibitors) are able to improve the
quality of life, the exercise tolerance and the prognosis of the patients. The principles of
these therapies are primarily hemodynamic, influencing vessel tone but having no direct
influence on the pathogenic remodeling processes. In addition, the possibility of using
these medicaments is restricted through the sometimes serious side effects and/or
complicated types of administration. The period over which the clinical situation of the
patients can be improved or stabilized by specific monotherapy is limited. Eventually the
therapy escalates and thus a combination therapy is applied, where a plurality of
medicaments must be given concurrently. Despite all the advances in the therapy of
pulmonary arterial hypertension there is as yet no prospect of cure of this serious disorder.
[0005]          The term peripheral vascular disease (PVD) refers to damage, dysfunction or
obstruction within peripheral arteries and veins. Peripheral artery disease is the most
common form of PVD. Peripheral vascular disease is the most common disease of the
arteries and is a very common condition in the United States. It occurs mostly in people
older than 50 years. Peripheral vascular disease is a leading cause of disability among
people older than 50 years, as well as in those people with diabetes. About 10 million
people in the United States have peripheral vascular disease, which translates to about 5%
of people older than 50 years. The number of people with the condition is expected to
grow as the population ages. Men are slightly more likely than women to have peripheral
vascular disease.
[0006]          Critical limb ischemia (CLI), due to advanced peripheral arterial occlusion, is
characterized by reduced blood flow and oxygen delivery at rest, resulting in muscle pain
at rest and non-healing skin ulcers or gangrene (Rissanen et al., Eur. J. Clin. Invest
31:651-666 (2001); Dormandy and Rutherford, J. Vasc. Surg. 3 1:S1-S296 (2000)).
Critical limb ischemia is estimated to develop in 500 to 1000 per million individuals in
one year ("Second European Consensus Document on Chronic Critical Leg Ischemia",
Circulation 84(4 Suppl.) IV 1-26 (1991)). In patients with critical limb ischemia,
amputation, despite its associated morbidity, mortality and functional implications, is
                                                    2
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

often recommended as a solution against disabling symptoms (M. R. Tyrrell et al., Br. J.
Surg. 80: 177-180 (1993); M. Eneroth et al., Int. Orthop. 16: 383-387 (1992)). There exists
no optimal medical therapy for critical limb ischemia (Circulation 84(4 Suppl.): IV 1-26
(1991))
[0007]          Coronary artery disease (atherosclerosis) is a progressive disease in humans
wherein one or more coronary arteries gradually become occluded through the buildup of
plaque. The coronary arteries of patients having this disease are often treated by balloon
angioplasty or the insertion of stents to prop open the partially occluded arteries.
Ultimately, these patients are required to undergo coronary artery bypass surgery at great
expense and risk.
[0007a] It is to be understood that if any prior art publication is referred to herein, such
reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of the common
general knowledge in the art in Australia or any other country.
                                              SUMMARY
[0008]           In one embodiment, the current disclosure is directed to a method for treating or
preventing vasculopathy in a subject in need thereof, comprising administering to the
subject a prostacyclin and a composition comprising a mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) or a
part of a culture medium that has been in contact with the MSC and contains one or more
component(s) of the MSC. The prostacyclin and the composition can be administered
concurrently or separately.
[0009]          In some embodiments, prior to the administration, the MSC has been in contact
with prostacyclin. Likewise, the culture medium or the MSC from which the culture
medium is obtained can be placed in contact with prostacyclin, prior to such
administration. Accordingly, in some embodiments, the method further includes such a
pre-treatment step.
[0010]          Non-limiting examples of components obtained from a part of the MSC culture
include an exosome, a microvesicle, a microRNA, a messenger RNA, a non-coding RNA,
a mitochondria, a growth factor, or combinations thereof.
                                                    3
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

[0011]          Such methods, in one aspect, further entail administering to the subject an
endothelial progenitor cell (EPC). In one aspect, the EPC is obtained from the subject. In
some aspects, the EPC is transformed with a nucleic acid that increases the expression of
biological activity of a protein selected from the group consisting of endothelial nitric
oxide synthase (eNOS), heme oxygenase (HMOXi) and prostacyclin synthase (PTGIS).
In one aspect, the nucleic acid encodes the protein.
[0012]          Examples of prostacyclin include, without limitation, epoprostenol sodium,
treprostinil, beraprost, ilprost, and a PGI2 receptor agonist. In one aspect, the prostacyclin
is treprostinil or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester thereof.
[0013]          Further provided, in embodiment, is a pharmaceutical composition comprising a
therapeutically effective amount of a prostacyclin and a composition comprising a
mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) or a culture medium that has been in contact with the MSC
and contains compounds released from the MSC and a pharmaceutically acceptable
carrier. In some aspects, the composition further comprises an endothelial progenitor cell
(EPC).
[0014]          Yet another embodiment provides a method for preparing a composition
comprising a mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) or a culture medium that has been in contact
with the MSC and contains compounds released from the MSC for in vivo delivery,
comprising contacting the MSC with a prostacyclin. Treated composition obtainable by
such a method is also provided.
[0015]          In other embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition further comprises at least
one pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier or at least one therapeutic agent. In another
embodiment, the subject is suffering from vasculopathy, such as pulmonary arterial
hypertension (PAH), peripheral vascular disease (PVD), critical limb ischemia (CLI),
coronary artery disease, or diabetic vasculopathy. In other embodiments the current
method reduces thrombosis in pulmonary arteries, reduces inflammation in pulmonary
arteries, reduces the proliferation of intimal smooth muscle in pulmonary arteries, reduces
the formation of plexiform lesions in pulmonary arteries, increases the amount of nitric
oxide in pulmonary arteries, increases the amount of PGI 2 in pulmonary arteries, reduces
the level of Endothelin-1 in pulmonary arteries, or reduces the amount of growth factors in
                                                   4
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

pulmonary arteries. In other embodiments, the current method promotes proper
endothelial morphology in pulmonary arteries.
                                   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0016]          Provided as embodiments of this disclosure are drawings which illustrate by
exemplification only, and not limitation.
[0017]          FIG. 1 shows the results of immunophenotype analysis of human bone marrow
derived MSC.
[0018]          FIG. 2 is a chart showing VEGF secretion by human bone marrow MSC after 24
hours of exposure to treprostinil.
[0019]          FIG. 3A-B present a MSC secretion chart (A) and a gene expression chart (B) of
VEGF after 24 hours exposure to treprostinil.
[0020]          FIG. 4 presents representative images of MSC exposed to increasing
concentrations of treprostinil.
[0021]          FIG. 5 is chart showing cellular viability of MSC exposed to treprostinil.
[0022]          FIG. 6 illustrates a model for the effects of treprostinil on cell signaling, gene
expression, and the release of paracrine factors.
[0023]          FIG. 7A-B presents images and a chart showing MSC treated with or without
250 pg/mL treprostinil.
[0024]          FIG. 8 presents two charts showing altered expression in selected genes in MSC
treated with treprostinil.
[0025]          FIG. 9A-B present two heatmaps that cluster MSC treated with treprostinil from
controls with most significantly differentially expressed genes (FIG. 9A) or other genomic
sequences or expression tags (FIG. 9B).
[0026]          FIG. 10 presents charts showing that the RNA content in MSC-derived
exosomes is altered with treprostinil treatment.
                                                     5
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

[0027]          FIG. 11A-B show size distribution of exosomes derived from treprostinil-treated
and -untreated MSC.
[0028]          Some or all of the figures are schematic representations for exemplification;
hence, they do not necessarily depict the actual relative sizes or locations of the elements
shown. The figures are presented for the purpose of illustrating one or more embodiments
with the explicit understanding that they will not be used to limit the scope or the meaning
of the claims that follow below.
                                      DETAILED DESCRIPTIONS
[0029]          Unless otherwise specified, "a" or "an" means "one or more."
 [0029a] In the claims which follow and in the description of the invention, except where
the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the word
''comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive
sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or
addition of further features in various embodiments of the invention.
 [0030]         Unless specifically defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used
herein shall be taken to have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of
ordinary skill in the art (e.g., in stem cell biology, cell culture, molecular genetics,
immunology, immunohistochemistry, protein chemistry, and biochemistry).
 [0031]         Unless otherwise indicated, the recombinant protein, cell culture, and
immunological techniques utilized in the present disclosure are standard procedures, well
known to those skilled in the art. Such techniques are described and explained throughout
the literature in sources such as, J. Perbal, A Practical Guide to Molecular Cloning, John
Wiley and Sons (1984), J. Sambrook et al., Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual,
Cold Spring Harbour Laboratory Press (1989), T. A. Brown (editor), Essential Molecular
Biology: A Practical Approach, Volumes 1 and 2, IRL Press (1991), D. M. Glover and B.
D. Hames (editors), DNA Cloning: A Practical Approach, Volumes 1-4, IRL Press (1995
and 1996), and F. M. Ausubel et al. (editors), Current Protocols in Molecular Biology,
Greene Pub. Associates and Wiley-Interscience (1988, including all updates until present),
                                                    6
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

Ed Harlow and David Lane (editors) Antibodies: A Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring
Harbour Laboratory, (1988), and J. E. Coligan et al. (editors) Current Protocols in
Immunology, John Wiley & Sons (including all updates until present), and are
incorporated herein by reference.
[0032]          It is herein discovered that both prostacyclin and mesenchymal stem cells
(MSCs) possess therapeutic activities for vasculopathy. The combination of prostacyclin
and MSCs, furthermore, produces synergistic effects. Such combination can be either co
administration, which can be concurrent or separate, of prostacyclin and MSCs to a
patient, or administration to the patient a MSC composition that has been pre-treated with
a prostacyclin.
[0033]          It is shown that MSCs can ameliorate vasculopathy in patients, and it is
contemplated that such a therapeutic effect is achieved due to MSCs' ability to improve
the local microenvironment by delivering anti-inflammatory and pro-angiogenic factors to
the diseased area. MSCs, however, are short-lived in the body and not regenerative.
[0034]          Prostacyclin, such as treprostinil (TP), has been used for treating pulmonary
arterial hypertension (PAH) patients. In this respect, prostacyclin has been shown to
possess vasodilatory and anti-platelet aggregation activities.
[0035]          An unexpected discovery is that prostacyclin can enhance the activity of MSCs
for the treatment of vasculopathy, exhibiting synergism for such treatment. In this respect,
it is observed that prostacyclin enhances MSCs' beneficial effect on blood vessel growth.
For instance, prostacyclin increases the expression of VEGF at both protein and gene
levels. Changes in secreted cytokines are also observed as a result of prostacyclin
exposure. For instance, IL-6 is increased ~50-fold while MCP-1 is decreased ~6-7-fold.
[0036]          Such synergism is also evident when the patient is further administered an
endothelial progenitor cell (EPC). It is therefore contemplated that prostacyclin may
enhance the activity of EPCs through MSCs. By virtue of such synergism, therefore, the
combinatory use of prostacyclin and MSC, optionally together with EPC, can lead to
improved therapeutic outcome and/or reduced need of each agent alone which, in turn, can
result in reduced adverse effects potentially caused by each agent alone, at a higher dose.
                                                     7
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

[0037]          It is further shown that such synergism is applicable to MSC-conditioned culture
medium. To this end, it is observed that the exosomes of prostacyclin-treated MSC have
higher levels of VEGF-A, which may promote increased VEGF production in target cells
through a mechanism of horizontal gene transfer. Further, exposure to prostacyclin yields
a more uniform population of exosomes.
[0038]          As used herein, a "MSC-conditioned culture medium" refers to a culture medium
that has been in contact with a MSC (e.g., for the purpose of culturing the MSC) and thus
contains compounds released from the MSC. Non-limiting examples of such released
compounds include exosomes or other microvesicles which can enclose messenger RNA,
non-coding RNA, microRNAs, mitochondria, growth factors, or other types of bioactive
agents.
  [0039]         A "culture medium" as used herein, encompasses (a) both a culture medium that
contains the typical components used for culturing a MSC, such as amino acids, glucose,
and various salts, with or without the MSC, and (b) a composition isolated from the
culture medium that contains compounds released from the MSC during the culturing.
 [0040]         Accordingly, one embodiment of the present disclosure provides a method for
treating or preventing vasculopathy in a subject in need thereof, comprising administering
to the subject a prostacyclin and a composition comprising a mesenchymal stem cell
(MSC) or a MSC-conditioned culture medium (collectively a "MSC composition").
 [0041]         In one aspect, the prostacyclin and the MSC composition are administered
concurrently. In another aspect, the prostacyclin and the MSC composition are
administered separately. When administered separately, the prostacyclin can be
administered prior to, or following the administration of the MSC composition.
 [0042]         In another embodiment, provided is a method for treating or preventing
vasculopathy in a subject in need thereof, comprising contacting a composition comprising
an isolated mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) or a MSC-conditioned culture medium with a
prostacyclin, and then administering the MSC composition to the subject.
                                                     8
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

[0043]          Non-limiting examples of vasculopathy include pulmonary arterial hypertension
(PAH), peripheral vascular disease (PVD), critical limb ischemia (CLI), coronary artery
disease and diabetic vasculopathy.
[0044]          As used herein, the term "subject" (also referred to herein as a "patient") includes
warm-blooded animals, preferably mammals, including humans. In a preferred
embodiment, the subject is a primate. In an even more preferred embodiment, the subject
is a human.
[0045]          As used herein the terms "treating", "treat" or "treatment" include administering
a therapeutically effective amount of cells as defined herein sufficient to reduce or
eliminate at least one symptom of vasculopathy.
[0046]          As used herein the terms "preventing", "prevent" or "prevention" include
administering a therapeutically effective amount of cells as defined herein sufficient to
stop or hinder the development of at least one symptom of vasculopathy.
A.           Prostacyclin
[0047]          The term "prostacyclin" used herein explicitly comprises any prostaglandin I2
(PGI2), any prostacyclin analogues, and any PGI2 receptor agonists. Non-limiting
examples of prostacyclin suitable for the present technology include epoprostenol sodium
(e.g. Flolan@), treprostinil(e.g. TYVASO@, Remodulin@), ilprost (e.g. Ventavis@), and
PGI 2 receptor agonist (e.g. Selexipag). In one aspect, the prostacyclin is treprostinil or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester thereof.
B.           Mesenchymal Stem Cells (MSCs)
[0048]          Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are cells found in bone marrow, blood, dental
pulp cells, adipose tissue, skin, spleen, pancreas, brain, kidney, liver, heart, retina, brain,
hair follicles, intestine, lung, lymph node, thymus, bone, ligament, tendon, skeletal
muscle, dermis, and periosteum; and are capable of differentiating into different germ
lines such as mesoderm, endoderm and ectoderm. Thus, MSCs are capable of
differentiating into a large number of cell types including, but not limited to, adipose,
osseous, cartilaginous, elastic, muscular, and fibrous connective tissues. The specific
lineage-commitment and differentiation pathway which these cells enter depends upon
                                                    9
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

various influences from mechanical influences and/or endogenous bioactive factors, such
as growth factors, cytokines, and/or local microenvironmental conditions established by
host tissues. MSCs are thus non-hematopoietic progenitor cells which divide to yield
daughter cells that are either stem cells or are precursor cells which in time will
irreversibly differentiate to yield a phenotypic cell. Examples of MSCs include
mesenchymal precursor cells (MPCs).
[0049]          As used herein, the term "stem cell" refers to self-renewing cells that are capable
of giving rise to phenotypically and genotypically identical daughters as well as at least
one other final cell type (e.g., terminally differentiated cells). The term "stem cells"
includes totipotential, pluripotential and multipotential cells, as well as progenitor and/or
precursor cells derived from the differentiation thereof.
[0050]          As used herein, the term "totipotent cell" or "totipotential cell" refers to a cell
that is able to form a complete embryo (e.g., a blastocyst).
[0051]          As used herein, the term "pluripotent cell" or "pluripotential cell" refers to a cell
that has complete differentiation versatility, i.e., the capacity to grow into any of the
mammalian body's approximately 260 cell types. A pluripotent cell can be self-renewing,
and can remain dormant or quiescent within a tissue.
[0052]          The term "multipotential cell" or "multipotent cell" refers to a cell which is
capable of giving rise to any of several mature cell types. As used herein, this phrase
encompasses adult or embryonic stem cells and progenitor cells, and multipotential
progeny of these cells. Unlike a pluripotent cell, a multipotent cell does not have the
capacity to form all of the cell types.
[0053]          As used herein, the term "progenitor cell" or "precursor cell" refers to a cell that
is committed to differentiate into a specific type of cell or to form a specific type of tissue.
[0054]          In a preferred embodiment, cells used in the methods of the disclosure are
enriched from a sample obtained from a subject. The terms 'enriched', 'enrichment' or
variations thereof are used herein to describe a population of cells in which the proportion
of one particular cell type or the proportion of a number of particular cell types is
increased when compared with the untreated population.
                                                    10
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

[0055]          In a preferred embodiment, the cells used in the present disclosure are TNAP,
STRO-17 , VCAM-17 , THY-I, STRO-2*, CD45+, CD146*, 3G5+ or any combination
thereof.
[0056]          When we refer to a cell as being "positive" for a given marker it may be either a
low (lo or dim) or a high (bright, bri) expresser of that marker depending on the degree to
which the marker is present on the cell surface, where the terms relate to intensity of
fluorescence or other color used in the color sorting process of the cells. The distinction of
lo (or dim or dull) and bri will be understood in the context of the marker used on a
particular cell population being sorted. When we refer herein to a cell as being "negative"
for a given marker, it does not mean that the marker is not expressed at all by that cell. It
means that the marker is expressed at a relatively very low level by that cell, and that it
generates a very low signal when detectably labeled.
[0057]          When used herein the term "TNAP" is intended to encompass all isoforms of
tissue non-specific alkaline phosphatase. For example, the term encompasses the liver
isoform (LAP), the bone isoform (BAP) and the kidney isoform (KAP). In a preferred
embodiment, the TNAP is BAP. In a particularly preferred embodiment, TNAP as used
herein refers to a molecule which can bind the STRO-3 antibody produced by the
hybridoma cell line deposited with ATCC on 19 Dec. 2005 under the provisions of the
Budapest Treaty under deposit accession number PTA-7282.
[0058]          Stem cells useful for the methods can be derived from adult tissue, an embryo,
extraembryonic tissue, or a fetus. The term "adult" is used in its broadest sense to include
a postnatal subject. In a preferred embodiment, the term "adult" refers to a subject that is
postpubertal. The term, "adult" as used herein can also include cord blood taken from a
female.
 [0059]         In some aspects, the stem cells can be progeny cells (which can also be referred
to as expanded cells) which are produced from the in vitro culture of the stem cells
described herein. Expanded cells of the disclosure may have a wide variety of phenotypes
depending on the culture conditions (including the number and/or type of stimulatory
factors in the culture medium), the number of passages and the like. In certain
embodiments, the progeny cells are obtained after about 2, about 3, about 4, about 5, about
                                                    11
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

6, about 7, about 8, about 9, or about 10 passages from the parental population. However,
the progeny cells may be obtained after any number of passages from the parental
population.
[0060]          The progeny cells can be obtained by culturing in any suitable medium. The term
"medium", as used in reference to a cell culture, includes the components of the
environment surrounding the cells. Media may be solid, liquid, gaseous or a mixture of
phases and materials. Media include liquid growth media as well as liquid media that do
not sustain cell growth. Media also include gelatinous media such as agar, agarose, gelatin
and collagen matrices. The term "medium" also refers to material that is intended for use
in a cell culture, even if it has not yet been contacted with cells. In other words, a nutrient
rich liquid prepared for bacterial culture is a medium.
[0061]          In an embodiment, the progeny cells are obtained by isolating TNAP+ cells from
bone marrow using magnetic beads labelled with the STRO-3 antibody, and plated in a
MEM supplemented with 20% fetal calf serum, 2 mM L-glutamine and 100 [m L
ascorbate-2-phosphate.
[0062]          In one embodiment, such expanded cells (at least after 5 passages) can be TNAP
, CC9+, HLA class I+, HLA class II-, CD14-, CD19-; CD3-, CD11a-c-, CD3 1-, CD86
and/or CD80-. However, it is possible that under different culturing conditions to those
described herein that the expression of different markers may vary. Also, whilst cells of
these phenotypes may predominate in the expended cell population it does not mean that
there is not a minor proportion of the cells that do not have this phenotype(s) (for example,
a small percentage of the expanded cells may be CC9-). In one preferred embodiment,
expanded cells of the disclosure still have the capacity to differentiate into different cell
types.
[0063]          In one embodiment, an expended cell population used in the methods of the
disclosure comprises cells wherein at least 25%, more preferably at least 50%, of the cells
are CC9+.
                                                  12
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

[0064]          In another embodiment, an expended cell population used in the methods of the
disclosure comprises cells wherein at least 40%, more preferably at least 45%, of the cells
are STRO-1+.
[0065]          In a further embodiment, the progeny cells may express markers selected from
the group consisting of LFA-3, THY-1, VCAM-1, PECAM-1, P-selectin, L-selectin, 3G5,
CD49a/CD49b/CD29, CD49c/CD29, CD49d/CD29, CD29, CD 18, CD61, integrin beta, 6
 19, thrombomodulin, CD 10, CD 13, SCF, PDGF-R, EGF-R, IGF1-R, NGF-R, FGF-R,
Leptin-R, (STRO-2=Leptin-R), RANKL, STRO-lbright and CD146 or any combination
of these markers.
[0066]          In one embodiment, the progeny cells are Multipotential Expanded MSC
Progeny (MEMPs) as defined in WO 2006/032092. Methods for preparing enriched
populations of MSC from which progeny may be derived are described in WO 01/04268
and WO 2004/085630. In an in vitro context MSCs will rarely be present as an absolutely
pure preparation and will generally be present with other cells that are tissue specific
committed cells (TSCCs). WO 01/04268 refers to harvesting such cells from bone marrow
at purity levels of about 0.l1% to 90%. The population comprising MSC from which
progeny are derived may be directly harvested from a tissue source, or alternatively it may
be a population that has already been expanded ex vivo.
[0067]          For example, the progeny may be obtained from a harvested, unexpanded,
population of substantially purified MSC, comprising at least about 0.1, 1, 5, 10, 20, 30,
40, 50, 60, 70, 80 or 95% of total cells of the population in which they are present. This
level may be achieved, for example, by selecting for cells that are positive for at least one
marker selected from the group consisting of TNAP, STRO-1 Iri, 3G5+, VCAM-1, THY-1,
CD146 and STRO-2.
 [0068]         The MSC starting population may be derived from any one or more tissue types
set out in WO 01/04268 or WO 2004/085630, namely bone marrow, dental pulp cells,
adipose tissue and skin, or perhaps more broadly from adipose tissue, teeth, dental pulp,
skin, liver, kidney, heart, retina, brain, hair follicles, intestine, lung, spleen, lymph node,
thymus, pancreas, bone, ligament, bone marrow, tendon and skeletal muscle.
                                                  13
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

[0069]          MEMPS can be distinguished from freshly harvested MSCs in that they are
positive for the marker STRO-lbri and negative for the marker Alkaline phosphatase
(ALP). In contrast, freshly isolated MSCs are positive for both STRO-1 b and ALP. In a
preferred embodiment of the present disclosure, at least 15%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%,
70%, 80%, 90% or 95% of the administered cells have the phenotype STRO-l                , ALP-. In
a further preferred embodiment the MEMPS are positive for one or more of the markers
Ki67, CD44 and/or CD49c/CD29, VLA-3, &JB. In yet a further preferred embodiment
the MEMPs do not exhibit TERT activity and/or are negative for the marker CD 18.
  [0070]          In one embodiment, the cells are taken from a patient with vasculopathy,
cultured in vitro using standard techniques and administered to a patient as an autologous
or allogeneic transplant. In an alternative embodiment, cells of one or more of the
established human cell lines are used. In another useful embodiment of the disclosure,
cells of a non-human animal (or if the patient is not a human, from another species) are
used.
 [0071]         The present technology can be practiced using cells from any non-human animal
species, including but not limited to non-human primate cells, ungulate, canine, feline,
lagomorph, rodent, avian, and fish cells. Primate cells with which the disclosure may be
performed include but are not limited to cells of chimpanzees, baboons, cynomolgus
monkeys, and any other New or Old World monkeys. Ungulate cells with which the
disclosure may be performed include but are not limited to cells of bovines, porcines,
ovines, caprines, equines, buffalo and bison. Rodent cells with which the disclosure may
be performed include but are not limited to mouse, rat, guinea pig, hamster and gerbil
cells. Examples of lagomorph species with which the disclosure may be performed include
domesticated rabbits, jack rabbits, hares, cottontails, snowshoe rabbits, and pikas.
Chickens (Gallus gallus) are an example of an avian species with which the disclosure
may be performed.
 [0072]         Cells can be stored before use. Methods and protocols for preserving and storing
of eukaryotic cells, and in particular mammalian cells, are well known in the art (cf., for
example, Pollard, J. W. and Walker, J. M. (1997) Basic Cell Culture Protocols, Second
Edition, Humana Press, Totowa, N.J.; Freshney, R. I. (2000) Culture of Animal Cells,
Fourth Edition, Wiley-Liss, Hoboken, N.J.). Any method maintaining the biological
                                                     14
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

activity of the isolated stem cells such as mesenchymal stem/progenitor cells, or progeny
thereof, may be utilized in connection with the present disclosure. In one preferred
embodiment, the cells are maintained and stored by using cryo -preservation.
[0073]          Cells can be obtained using a variety of techniques. For example, a number of
cell-sorting techniques by which cells are physically separated by reference to a property
associated with the cell-antibody complex, or a label attached to the antibody can be used.
This label may be a magnetic particle or a fluorescent molecule. The antibodies may be
cross-linked such that they form aggregates of multiple cells, which are separable by their
density. Alternatively the antibodies may be attached to a stationary matrix, to which the
desired cells adhere.
[0074]          In a preferred embodiment, an antibody (or other binding agent) that binds
TNAP+, STRO-1+, VCAM-1+, THY-1+, STRO-2+, 3G5+, CD45+, CD146+ is used to
isolate the cells. More preferably, an antibody (or other binding agent) that binds TNAP+
or STRO-1+ is used to isolate the cells.
[0075]          Various methods of separating antibody-bound cells from unbound cells are
known. For example, the antibody bound to the cell (or an anti-isotype antibody) can be
labelled and then the cells separated by a mechanical cell sorter that detects the presence
of the label. Fluorescence-activated cell sorters are well known in the art. In one
embodiment, anti-TNAP antibodies and/or an STRO-1 antibodies are attached to a solid
support. Various solid supports are known to those of skill in the art, including, but not
limited to, agarose beads, polystyrene beads, hollow fiber membranes, polymers, and
plastic petri dishes. Cells that are bound by the antibody can be removed from the cell
suspension by simply physically separating the solid support from the cell suspension.
[0076]          Super paramagnetic microparticles may be used for cell separations. For
example, the microparticles may be coated with anti-TNAP antibodies and/or STRO-1
antibodies. The antibody-tagged, super paramagnetic microparticles may then be
incubated with a solution containing the cells of interest. The microparticles bind to the
surfaces of the desired stem cells, and these cells can then be collected in a magnetic-field.
                                                    15
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

[0077]          In another example, the cell sample is allowed to physically contact, for example,
a solid phase-linked anti-TNAP monoclonal antibodies and/or anti-STRO-1 monoclonal
antibodies. The solid-phase linking can comprise, for instance, adsorbing the antibodies to
a plastic, nitrocellulose, or other surface. The antibodies can also be adsorbed on to the
walls of the large pores (sufficiently large to permit flow-through of cells) of a hollow
fiber membrane. Alternatively, the antibodies can be covalently linked to a surface or
bead, such as Pharmacia Sepharose 6 MB macrobeads. The exact conditions and duration
of incubation for the solid phase-linked antibodies with the stem cell containing
suspension will depend upon several factors specific to the system employed. The
selection of appropriate conditions, however, is well within the skill of the art.
[0078]          The unbound cells are then eluted or washed away with physiologic buffer after
allowing sufficient time for the stem cells to be bound. The unbound cells can be
recovered and used for other purposes or discarded after appropriate testing has been done
to ensure that the desired separation had been achieved. The bound cells are then separated
from the solid phase by any appropriate method, depending mainly upon the nature of the
solid phase and the antibody. For example, bound cells can be eluted from a plastic petri
dish by vigorous agitation. Alternatively, bound cells can be eluted by enzymatically
"nicking" or digesting an enzyme-sensitive "spacer" sequence between the solid phase and
the antibody. Spacers bound to agarose beads are commercially available from, for
example, Pharmacia.
 [0079]         The eluted, enriched fraction of cells may then be washed with a buffer by
centrifugation and said enriched fraction may be cryopreserved in a viable state for later
use according to conventional technology, culture expanded and/or introduced into the
patient.
C.           MSC-conditioned culture media
[0080]          It is discovered that MSCs can carry out their activities through compounds that
can be released into the extracellular environment during growth or differentiation. In
some aspects, such compounds include a microvesicle, referred to as exosome, which is
between about 30 nm and about 200 nm in diameter. Exosomes can be internalized by host
cells in vivo.
                                                     16
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

[0081]          Exosomes are vesicles derived from the multivesicular body sorting pathway.
Recent studies show that exosomes are bioactive vesicles useful for intercellular
communication and facilitation of the immunoregulatory process. MSC exosomes contain
20S proteasomes and numerous RNAs (messenger RNA, non-coding RNA, microRNA).
[0082]          In addition to exosomes, MSC also release other bioactive molecules/vesicles
useful for the purpose of the present disclosure. Such molecules and vesicles include,
without limitation, mitochondria and growth factors. Method of preparing culture media
that contain such molecules and vesicles released from MSC and further isolating
particular molecules and vesicles are known in the art. See, for instance, Hu et al.,
Frontiers in Genetics, 2:56, 1-9 (2012).
D.           Pre-treatment of MSC with prostacyclin
[0083]          In some embodiments, prior to coadministering a MSC or a MSC-conditioned
culture medium with prostacyclin to a patient, the MSC or MSC-conditioned culture
medium can be optionally pre-treated with prostacyclin. Accordingly, also provided, in
one embodiment, is a method for preparing a mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) or MSC
conditioned culture medium for in vivo delivery, comprising contacting the MSC or MSC
conditioned culture medium with a prostacyclin. Yet another embodiment provides a
treated MSC or MSC-conditioned culture medium obtainable by such a method.
[0084]          Pre-treatment of a cell or a medium with a chemical compound encompasses
known techniques. In one aspect, the prostacyclin can be added to and co-incubated with a
culture medium that contains a MSC. Optionally, however, such co-incubation can further
involve the addition of a growth factor (e.g., VEGF and Angiopoietin-1 or -2, platelet
derived growth factor) and/or hypoxia.
[0085]          MSCs or MSC-conditioned culture media can be treated with prostacyclin in
various ways. For example, prostacyclin can be used to treat MSCs ex vivo during the
expansion of MSCs; prostacyclin can also be used to treat MSCs after administration. In
some aspects, the concentration of prostacyclin is at least about 100 tg/mL, or at least
about 150 pg/mL, 200 tg/mL, or 250 tg/mL. In some aspects, the concentration of
prostacyclin is not more than about 400 tg/mL, or not more than about 350 tg/mL, 300
pg/mL or 250 pg/mL.
                                                   17
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

[0086]          According to one embodiment of the present disclosure, MSCs can be prepared
from the recipient's own blood or bone marrow. In that case, prostacyclin can also be
used to treat MSCs before they are isolated from the recipients.
E.           Endothelial progenitor cell (EPC)
[0087]          As provided, the synergism between prostacyclin and MSCs for the treatment of
vasculopathy is also evident when a patient is further administered with an endothelial
progenitor cell (EPC). Thus, for any embodiment of the presently disclosed method, the
patient further is administered an endothelial progenitor cell (EPC).
[0088]          In some embodiments, the EPC can also be pre-treated with prostacyclin. The
EPCs treated with prostacyclin exhibit a hyperproliferative phenotype with enhanced
angiogenic properties, which are advantageous in treating vasculopathy compared to
untreated EPCs.
[0089]          EPCs can be treated with prostacyclin in various ways. For example,
prostacyclin can be used to treat EPCs ex vivo during the expansion of EPCs; prostacyclin
can be co-administered with EPCs to the recipient; prostacyclin can also be used to treat
EPCs after transplantation. According to one embodiment of the present disclosure, EPCs
are prepared from the recipient's own blood or bone marrow. In that case, prostacyclin
can also be used to treat EPCs before they are isolated from the recipients.
[0090]          An EPC is an undifferentiated cell that can be induced to proliferate. EPCs are
capable of self-maintenance, such that with each cell division, at least one daughter cell
will also be an EPC cell. EPCs are capable of being expanded 100, 250, 500, 1000, 2000,
3000, 4000, 5000 or more fold.
[0091]          Phenotyping of EPCs reveals that these cells express the committed
hematopoietic marker CD45. Additionally, an EPC may be immunoreactive for VEGFR-2
and/or Tie-2. Optionally, the EPC is immunoreactive for CD14. The EPC is a multipotent
progenitor cell.
[0092]          Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) acts through specific tyrosine kinase
receptors that includes VEGFR-1 (fit-1) and VEGFR-2 (flk-1/KDR) and VEGFR-3/Flt-4
which convey signals that are essential for embryonic angiogenesis and hematopoiesis.
                                                    18
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

While VEGF binds to all three receptors, most biological functions are mediated via
VEGFR-2 and the role of VEGFR-1 is currently unknown. VEGFR3/Flt4 signaling is
known to be important for the development of lymphatic endothelial cells and VEGFR3
signaling may confer lymphatic endothelial-like phenotypes to endothelial cells. VEGFRs
relay signals for processes essential in stimulation of vessel growth, vasorelaxation,
induction of vascular permeability, endothelial cell migration, proliferation and survival.
Endothelial cells express all different VEGF-Rs. During embryogenesis, it has been
reported that a single progenitor cell, the hemangioblast can give rise to both the
hematopoietic and vascular systems.
[0093]          Tie-2 is an endothelial-specific receptor tyrosine kinase and a receptor for
angiopoietin 1. It is a type I membrane protein that is expressed predominantly in the
endothelium of actively growing blood vessels and may represent the earliest mammalian
endothelial cell lineage marker. Tie-2 is likely involved in the regulation of endothelial
cell proliferation and differentiation and may direct the special orientation of endothelial
cells during the formation of blood vessels.
[0094]          The CD14 antigen is a high affinity receptor for the complex of
lipopolysaccharides (LPS) and LPS-Binding protein (LBP). The CD14 antigen is part of
the functional heteromeric LPS receptor complex comprised of CD14, TLR4 and MD-2.
CD14 is strongly expressed on most human monocytes and macrophages in peripheral
blood, other body fluids and various tissues, such as lymph nodes and spleen. CD14 is
weakly expressed on subpopulations of human neutrophils and myeloid dendritic cells.
[0095]          The CD45 antigen is a tyrosine phosphatase, also known as the leukocyte
common antigen (LCA). CD45 is present on all human cells of hematopoietic origin,
except erythroid cells, platelets and their precursor cells. The CD45 molecule is required
for T cell and B cell activation and is expressed in at least 5 isoforms, depending on the
activation status of the cell.
[0096]          VEGFR-1+, VEGFR-2+ and Tie-2+ cells constituted approximately 3.0.+-.0.2%,
0.8.+-.0.5%, 2.0.+-.0.3% of the total population of mononuclear cells in blood
respectively. CD14+/VEGFR-2+ cells constituted approximately 2.0.+-.0.5% of the total
population of monocytes and 0.08.+-.0.04% of mononuclear cells in blood.
                                                     19
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

[0097]          EPCs can be maintained in vitro in long-term cultures. The EPCs are capable of
being passed in culture 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 or more times.
[0098]          EPCs comprise endothelial colony-forming cells, typically developed after 1-3
weeks of cell culture. Endothelial colony-forming cells have the characteristics of
precursor cells committed to the endothelial lineage and are capable of merging into
neovessels, according to Smardja et al., Angiogenesis 14(1):17-27 (2011).
[0099]          The isolation, purification, ex vivo culturing and characterizing of EPCs are
described in Hill et al, N. Engl. J. Med. 348:593-600 (2003), Assmus et al., Circulation
 106:3009-16 (2002), Wang et al., J. Am. Coll. Cardiol. 49:1566-71 (2007), and Kalka et
al., P.N.A.S. 97:3422-7 (2000), the content of which are hereby incorporated by reference
in their entireties. Further, the isolation, purification, ex vivo culturing and characterizing
of endothelial colony-forming cells are described in Yoder et al., Blood 109:1801-1809
(2007), Ingram et al., Blood 104:2752-2760 (2004), and Smardja et al., Angiogenesis
 14(1):17-27 (2011), the content of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their
entireties.
[0100]          For example, the population of cells are isolated by means of positive selection,
or by a mixture of both positive and negative selection in either order. The population of
progenitor cells is purified. A purified population of EPCs contains a significantly higher
proportion of EPCs than the crude population of cells from which the cells are isolated.
[0101]          For example, the purification procedure should lead at least to a five-fold
increase, preferably at least a ten-fold increase, more preferably at least a fifteen fold
increase, most preferably at least a twenty fold increase, and optimally at least a twenty
five fold increase in EPCs with respect to the total population. The purified population of
EPC should include at least 15%, preferably at least 20%, more preferably at least 25%,
most preferably at least 35%, and optimally at least 50% of EPCs.
[0102]          The methods described herein can lead to mixtures comprising up to 75%,
preferably up to 80%, more preferably up to 85%, most preferably up to 90% and
optimally up to 95% of stem cells. Such methods are capable of producing mixtures
comprising 99%, 99.90% and even 100% of EPCs. Accordingly, the purified populations
                                                     20
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

of the disclosure contain significantly higher levels of EPCs than those that exist in nature,
as described above.
[0103]          The purified population of EPCs can be isolated by contacting a crude mixture of
cells containing a population of stem cells that express an antigen characteristic of the
EPCs with a molecule that binds specifically to the extracellular portion of the antigen.
Such a technique is known as positive selection. The binding of the EPCs to the molecule
permit the EPCs to be sufficiently distinguished from contaminating cells that do not
express the antigen to permit isolating the stem cells from the contaminating cells. The
antigen is preferably VEGFR, and more preferably VEGFR-2.
[0104]          The molecule used to separate progenitor cells from the contaminating cells can
be any molecule that binds specifically to the antigen that characterizes the EPCs. The
molecule can be, for example, a monoclonal antibody, a fragment of a monoclonal
antibody, or, in the case of an antigen that is a receptor, the ligand of that receptor. For
example, in the case of a VEGF receptor, such as FLK- 1, the ligand is VEGF.
[0105]          The unique isolated cells of the present disclosure can be separated from other
cells by virtue of their CD45+ state and possession of vascular endothelial growth factor
receptors (VEGFR), e.g. VEGFR-2. The cells can be isolated by conventional techniques
for separating cells, such as those described in Civin, U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,714,680, 4,965,204,
5,035,994, and 5,130,144, Tsukamoto et al U.S. Pat. No. 5,750,397, and Loken et al, U.S.
Pat. No. 5,137,809, each of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.
Thus, for example, a CD45 specific monoclonal antibody or a VEGFR-specific antibody
can be immobilized on a solid support such as nitrocellulose, agarose beads, polystyrene
beads, hollow fiber membranes, magnetic beads, and plastic petri dishes. The entire cell
population is then be passed through the solid support or added to the beads.
[0106]          Cells that are bound to the binding molecule can be removed from the cell
suspension by physically separating the solid support from the remaining cell suspension.
For example, the unbound cells may be eluted or washed away with physiologic buffer
after allowing sufficient time for the solid support to bind the stem cells.
                                                    21
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

[0107]          The bound cells can be separated from the solid phase by any appropriate
method, depending mainly upon the nature of the solid phase and the binding molecule.
For example, bound cells can be eluted from a plastic petri dish by vigorous agitation.
Alternatively, bound cells can be eluted by enzymatically "nicking" or digesting an
enzyme-sensitive "spacer" sequence between the solid phase and an antibody. Suitable
spacer sequences bound to agarose beads are commercially available from, for example,
Pharmacia.
[0108]          The eluted, enriched fraction of cells may then be washed with a buffer by
centrifugation and preserved in a viable state at low temperatures for later use according to
conventional technology. The cells may also be used immediately, for example by being
infused intravenously into a recipient.
[0109]          Those which remain attached to the solid support are those cells which contain a
marker which is recognized by the antibody used. Thus, if the anti-CD45 antibody is used,
then the resulting population will be greatly enriched in CD45+ cells. If the antibody used
is VFGFR, then the resulting population will be greatly enriched in VEGFR+ cells. That
population may then be enriched in the other marker by repeating the steps using a solid
phase having attached thereto an antibody to the other marker.
[0110]          Another way to sort CD45+ VEGFR+ cells is by means of flow cytometry, most
preferably by means of a fluorescence-activated cell sorter (FACS), such as those
manufactured by Becton-Dickinson under the names FACScan or FACSCalibur. By
means of this technique, the cells having a CD45 marker thereon are tagged with a
particular fluorescent dye by means of an anti-CD45 antibody which has been conjugated
to such a dye. Similarly, the VEGFR marker of the cells are tagged with a different
fluorescent dye by means of an anti-VEGFR antibody which is conjugated to the other
dye. When the stained cells are placed on the instrument, a stream of cells is directed
through an argon laser beam that excites the fluorochrome to emit light. This emitted light
is detected by a photo-multiplier tube (PMT) specific for the emission wavelength of the
fluorochrome by virtue of a set of optical filters. The signal detected by the PMT is
amplified in its own channel and displayed by a computer in a variety of different forms-
e.g., a histogram, dot display, or contour display. Thus, fluorescent cells which emit at one
wavelength, express a molecule that is reactive with the specific fluorochrome-labeled
                                                    22
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

reagent, whereas non-fluorescent cells or fluorescent cells which emit at a different
wavelength do not express this molecule but may express the molecule which is reactive
with the fluorochrome-labeled reagent which fluoresces at the other wavelength. The flow
cytometer is also semi-quantitative in that it displays the amount of fluorescence
(fluorescence intensity) expressed by the cell. This correlates, in a relative sense, to the
number of the molecules expressed by the cell.
[0111]          Flow cytometers can also be equipped to measure non-fluorescent parameters,
such as cell volume or light scattered by the cell as it passes through the laser beam. Cell
volume is usually a direct measurement. The light scatter PMTs detect light scattered by
the cell either in a forward angle (forward scatter; FSC) or at a right angle (side scatter;
SSC). FSC is usually an index of size, whereas SSC is an index of cellular complexity,
although both parameters can be influenced by other factors.
[0112]          Preferably, the flow cytometer is equipped with more than one PMT emission
detector. The additional PMTs may detect other emission wavelengths, allowing
simultaneous detection of more than one fluorochrome, each in individual separate
channels. Computers allow the analysis of each channel or the correlation of each
parameter with another. Fluorochromes which are typically used with FACS machines
include fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC), which has an emission peak at 525 nm (green),
R-phycoerythrin (PE), which has an emission peak at 575 nm (orange-red), propidium
iodide (PI), which has an emission peak at 620 nm (red), 7-aminoactinomycin D (7-AAD),
which has an emission peak at 660 nm (red), R-phycoerythrin Cy5 (RPE-Cy5), which has
an emission peak at 670 nm (red), and allophycocyanin (APC), which has an emission
peak at 655-750 nm (deep red).
[0113]          These and other types of FACS machines may have the additional capability to
physically separate the various fractions by deflecting the cells of different properties into
different containers.
[0114]          Any other method for isolating the CD45+ VEGFR+ population of a starting
material, such as bone marrow, peripheral blood or cord blood, may also be used in
accordance with the present disclosure. The various subpopulations (e.g., CD14+, Tie2+,
CD 144-) of the present disclosure may be isolated in similar manners.
                                                   23
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

[0115]          Either before or after the crude cell populations are purified as described above,
the population of progenitor cells may be further concentrated by methods known in the
art. For example, the progenitor cells can be enriched by positive selection for one or more
antigens characteristic of EPCs. Such antigens include, for example, CD14 or Tie-2.
[0116]          In one embodiment, blood is withdrawn directly from the circulating peripheral
blood of a donor. The blood is percolated continuously through a column containing the
solid phase-linked binding molecule, such as an antibody VEGFR-2, to capture EPCs. The
progenitor cell-depleted blood is returned immediately to the donor's circulatory system
by methods known in the art, such as hemapheresis. The blood is processed in this way
until a sufficient number of progenitor cells binds to the column. The stem cells are then
isolated from the column by methods known in the art. This method allows rare peripheral
blood progenitor cells to be harvested from a very large volume of blood, sparing the
donor the expense and pain of harvesting bone marrow and the associated risks of
anesthesia, analgesia, blood transfusion, and infection.
[0117]          EPCs are cultivated and proliferated using the methods described herein. Cells
are obtained peripheral blood by isolating peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) by
density gradient centrifugation.
[0118]          Cell suspensions are seeded in any receptacle capable of sustaining cells,
particularly culture flasks, culture plates or roller bottles, and more particularly in small
culture flasks such as 25 cm2 culture flasks. Cells cultured in suspension are resuspended
at approximately 5x 104 to 2x 105 cells/ml (for example, 1x105 cells/ml). Cells plated on a
fixed substrate are plated at approximately 2-3 x 103 cells/cm 2 . Optionally, the culture
plates are coated with a matrix protein such as collagen. The cells can be placed into any
known culture medium capable of supporting cell growth, including HEM, DMEM,
RPMI, F-12, and the like, containing supplements which are required for cellular
metabolism such as glutamine and other amino acids, vitamins, minerals and proteins such
as transferrin and the like. The culture medium may also contain antibiotics to prevent
contamination with yeast, bacteria and fungi such as penicillin, streptomycin, gentamicin
and the like. The culture medium may contain serum derived from bovine, equine, chicken
and the like.
                                                     24
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

[0119]          Conditions for culturing should be close to physiological conditions. The pH of
the culture medium should be close to physiological pH. (for example, between pH 6-8,
between about pH 7 to 7.8, or at pH 7.4). Physiological temperatures range between about
30'C. to 40'C. EPCs are cultured at temperatures between about 32'C. to about 38'C. (for
example, between about 35'C. to about 37 0 C.).
[0120]          Optionally, the culture medium is supplemented with at least one proliferation
inducing ("mitogenic") growth factor. A "growth factor" is protein, peptide or other
molecule having a growth, proliferation-inducing, differentiation-inducing, or trophic
effect on EPCs. "Proliferation-inducing growth factors" are trophic factor that allows
EPCs to proliferate, including any molecule that binds to a receptor on the surface of the
cell to exert a trophic, or growth-inducing effect on the cell. Proliferation-inducing growth
factors include EGF, amphiregulin, acidic fibroblast growth factor (aFGF or FGF-1), basic
fibroblast growth factor (bFGF or FGF-2), transforming growth factor alpha (TGFa),
VEGF and combinations thereof. Growth factors are usually added to the culture medium
at concentrations ranging between about 1 fg/ml to 1 mg/ml. Concentrations between
about 1 to 100 ng/ml are usually sufficient. Simple titration assays can easily be performed
to determine the optimal concentration of a particular growth factor.
[0121]          The biological effects of growth and trophic factors are generally mediated
through binding to cell surface receptors. The receptors for a number of these factors have
been identified and antibodies and molecular probes for specific receptors are available.
EPCs can be analyzed for the presence of growth factor receptors at all stages of
differentiation. In many cases, the identification of a particular receptor provides guidance
for the strategy to use in further differentiating the cells along specific developmental
pathways with the addition of exogenous growth or trophic factors.
 [0122]         Generally, after about 3-10 days in vitro, the culture medium of EPCs is
replenished by aspirating the medium, and adding fresh medium to the culture flask.
Optionally, the aspirated medium is collected, filtered and used as a condition medium to
subsequently passage EPCs. For example the 10%, 20%, 30%, 40% or more condition
medium is used.
                                                   25
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

[0123]          The EPC cell culture can be easily passaged to reinitiate proliferation. For
example, after 3-7 days in vitro, the culture flasks are shaken well and EPCs are then
transferred to a 50 ml centrifuge tube and centrifuged at low speed. The medium is
aspirated, the EPCs are resuspended in a small amount of culture medium. The cells are
then counted and replated at the desired density to reinitiate proliferation. This procedure
can be repeated weekly to result in a logarithmic increase in the number of viable cells at
each passage. The procedure is continued until the desired number of EPCs is obtained.
[0124]          EPCs and EPC progeny can be cryopreserved by any method known in the art
until they are needed. (See, e.g., U.S. Pat. No. 5,071,741, PCT International patent
applications W093/14191, W095/0761 1, W096/27287, W096/29862, and W098/14058,
Karlsson et al., 65 Biophysical J. 2524-2536 (1993)). The EPCs can be suspended in an
isotonic solution, preferably a cell culture medium, containing a particular cryopreservant.
Such cryopreservants include dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), glycerol and the like. These
cryopreservants are used at a concentration of 5-15% (for example, 8-10%). Cells are
frozen gradually to a temperature of -10 C. to -150 C. (for example, -20'C. to -100 C., or
70'C. to -80'C.).
F.           Genetic modification of the cells
[0125]          In one embodiment, the cells of the present disclosure, MSCs and/or EPCs, are
genetically modified. In one aspect, such genetic modification enhances the therapeutic
activity of the cells. Non-limiting examples of such modification include enhanced
expression or activation of an endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS), heme oxygenase
(HMOX1) and prostacyclin synthase (PTGIS).
[0126]          In one aspect, the cell is transformed with a nucleic acid that increases the
expression of biological activity of a protein selected from the group consisting of
endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS), heme oxygenase (HMOX1) and prostacyclin
synthase (PTGIS). In one aspect, the nucleic acid encodes the protein.
[0127]          In some aspects, the cells are genetically modified to produce a heterologous
protein. Sometimes, the cells will be genetically modified such that the heterologous
protein is secreted from the cells. However, in an embodiment the cells can be modified to
express a functional non-protein encoding polynucleotide such as dsRNA (typically for
                                                     26
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

RNA silencing), an antisense oligonucleotide or a catalytic nucleic acid (such as a
ribozyme or DNAzyme).
[0128]          Genetically modified cells may be cultured in the presence of at least one
cytokine in an amount sufficient to support growth of the modified cells. The genetically
modified cells thus obtained may be used immediately (e.g., in transplant), cultured and
expanded in vitro, or stored for later uses. The modified cells may be stored by methods
well known in the art, e.g., frozen in liquid nitrogen.
[0129]          Genetic modification as used herein encompasses any genetic modification
method which involves introduction of an exogenous or foreign polynucleotide into a cell
described herein or modification of an endogenous gene within the cell. Genetic
modification includes but is not limited to transduction (viral mediated transfer of host
DNA from a host or donor to a recipient, either in vitro or in vivo), transfection
(transformation of cells with isolated viral DNA genomes), liposome mediated transfer,
electroporation, calcium phosphate transfection or coprecipitation and others. Methods of
transduction include direct co-culture of cells with producer cells (Bregni et al., 1992) or
culturing with viral supernatant alone with or without appropriate growth factors and
polycations.
[0130]          An exogenous polynucleotide is preferably introduced to the cell in a vector. The
vector preferably includes the necessary elements for the transcription and translation of
the inserted coding sequence. Methods used to construct such vectors are well known in
the art. For example, techniques for constructing suitable expression vectors are described
in detail in Sambrook et al., Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring
Harbor Press, N.Y. (3rd Ed., 2000); and Ausubel et al., Current Protocols in Molecular
Biology, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., New York (1999).
[0131]          Vectors may include, but are not limited to, viral vectors, such as retroviruses,
adenoviruses, adeno-associated viruses, and herpes simplex viruses; cosmids; plasmid
vectors; synthetic vectors; and other recombination vehicles typically used in the art.
Vectors containing both a promoter and a cloning site into which a polynucleotide can be
operatively linked are well known in the art. Such vectors are capable of transcribing RNA
in vitro or in vivo, and are commercially available from sources such as Stratagene (La
                                                   27
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

Jolla, Calif.) and Promega Biotech (Madison, Wis.). Specific examples include, pSG,
pSV2CAT, pXtl from Stratagene; and pMSG, pSVL, pBPV and pSVK3 from Pharmacia.
[0132]          Vectors can include retroviral vectors (see, Coffin et al., "Retroviruses", Chapter
9 pp; 437-473, Cold Springs Harbor Laboratory Press, 1997). Vectors useful in the
disclosure can be produced recombinantly by procedures well known in the art. For
example, W094/29438, W097/21824 and W097/21825 describe the construction of
retroviral packaging plasmids and packing cell lines. Exemplary vectors include the
pCMV mammalian expression vectors, such as pCMV6b and pCMV6c (Chiron Corp.),
pSFFV-Neo, and pBluescript-Sk+. Non-limiting examples of useful retroviral vectors are
those derived from murine, avian or primate retroviruses. Common retroviral vectors
include those based on the Moloney murine leukemia virus (MoMLV-vector). Other
MoMLV derived vectors include, Lmily, LINGFER, MINGFR and MINT. Additional
vectors include those based on Gibbon ape leukemia virus (GAIN) and Moloney murine
sarcoma virus (MOMSV) and spleen focus forming virus (SFFV). Vectors derived from
the murine stem cell virus (MESV) include MESV-MiLy. Retroviral vectors also include
vectors based on lentiviruses, and non-limiting examples include vectors based on human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1 and HIV-2).
[0133]          In producing retroviral vector constructs, the viral gag, pol and env sequences
can be removed from the virus, creating room for insertion of foreign DNA sequences.
Genes encoded by foreign DNA are usually expressed under the control a strong viral
promoter in the long terminal repeat (LTR). Selection of appropriate control regulatory
sequences is dependent on the host cell used and selection is within the skill of one in the
art. Numerous promoters are known in addition to the promoter of the LTR. Non-limiting
examples include the phage lambda PL promoter, the human cytomegalovirus (CMV)
immediate early promoter; the U3 region promoter of the Moloney Murine Sarcoma Virus
(MMSV), Rous Sacroma Virus (RSV), or Spleen Focus Forming Virus (SFFV);
Granzyme A promoter; and the Granzyme B promoter. Additionally inducible or multiple
control elements may be used. The selection of a suitable promoter will be apparent to
those skilled in the art.
[0134]          Such a construct can be packed into viral particles efficiently if the gag, pol and
env functions are provided in trans by a packing cell line. Therefore, when the vector
                                                    28
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

construct is introduced into the packaging cell, the gag-pol and env proteins produced by
the cell, assemble with the vector RNA to produce infectious virons that are secreted into
the culture medium. The virus thus produced can infect and integrate into the DNA of the
target cell, but does not produce infectious viral particles since it is lacking essential
packaging sequences. Most of the packing cell lines currently in use have been transfected
with separate plasmids, each containing one of the necessary coding sequences, so that
multiple recombination events are necessary before a replication competent virus can be
produced. Alternatively the packaging cell line harbours a provirus. The provirus has been
crippled so that although it may produce all the proteins required to assemble infectious
viruses, its own RNA cannot be packaged into virus. RNA produced from the recombinant
virus is packaged instead. Therefore, the virus stock released from the packaging cells
contains only recombinant virus. Non-limiting examples of retroviral packaging lines
include PA12, PA317, PE501, PG13, PSI.CRIP, RDI 14, GP7C-tTA-G10, ProPak-A
(PPA-6), and PT67.
[0135]          Other suitable vectors include adenoviral vectors (see, WO 95/27071) and adeno
associated viral vectors. These vectors are all well known in the art, e.g., as described in
Stem Cell Biology and Gene Therapy, eds. Quesenberry et al., John Wiley & Sons, 1998;
and U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,693,531 and 5,691,176. The use of adenovirus-derived vectors may
be advantageous under certain situation because they are not capable of infecting non
dividing cells. Unlike retroviral DNA, the adenoviral DNA is not integrated into the
genome of the target cell. Further, the capacity to carry foreign DNA is much larger in
adenoviral vectors than retroviral vectors. The adeno-associated viral vectors are another
useful delivery system. The DNA of this virus may be integrated into non-dividing cells,
and a number of polynucleotides have been successful introduced into different cell types
using adeno-associated viral vectors.
[0136]          In some embodiments, the construct or vector will include two or more
heterologous polynucleotide sequences. Preferably the additional nucleic acid sequence is
a polynucleotide which encodes a selective marker, a structural gene, a therapeutic gene,
or a cytokine/chemokine gene.
[0137]          A selective marker may be included in the construct or vector for the purposes of
monitoring successful genetic modification and for selection of cells into which DNA has
                                                   29
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

been integrated. Non-limiting examples include drug resistance markers, such as G148 or
hygromycin. Additionally negative selection may be used, for example wherein the
marker is the HSV-tk gene. This gene will make the cells sensitive to agents such as
acyclovir and gancyclovir. The NeoR (neomycin/G148 resistance) gene is commonly used
but any convenient marker gene may be used whose gene sequences are not already
present in the target cell can be used. Further non-limiting examples include low-affinity
Nerve Growth Factor (NGFR), enhanced fluorescent green protein (EFGP), dihydrofolate
reductase gene (DHFR) the bacterial hisD gene, murine CD24 (HSA), murine CD8a(lyt),
bacterial genes which confer resistance to puromycin or phleomycin, and .beta.
glactosidase.
[0138]          The additional polynucleotide sequence(s) may be introduced into the cell on the
same vector or may be introduced into the host cells on a second vector. In a preferred
embodiment, a selective marker will be included on the same vector as the polynucleotide.
[0139]          The present disclosure also encompasses genetically modifying the promoter
region of an endogenous gene such that expression of the endogenous gene is up-regulated
resulting in the increased production of the encoded protein compared to a wild type cell.
G.           Pharmaceutical compositions and administration methods
[0140]          One embodiment of the present disclosure provides a pharmaceutical
composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a mesenchymal stem cell
(MSC) or a MSC-conditioned culture medium and a prostacyclin and a pharmaceutically
acceptable carrier. In one aspect, the composition further comprises an endothelial
progenitor cell (EPC).
[0141]          In one aspect, the pharmaceutical composition further comprises at least one
pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier. The phrase "pharmaceutically acceptable" refers to
those compounds, materials, compositions, and/or dosage forms which are, within the
scope of sound medical judgment, suitable for use in contact with the tissues of human
beings and animals without excessive toxicity, irritation, allergic response, or other
problem or complication, commensurate with a reasonable benefit/risk ratio. The phrase
"pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier" as used herein means a pharmaceutically-acceptable
                                                   30
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

material, composition or vehicle, such as a liquid or solid filler, diluent, excipient, or
solvent encapsulating material.
[0142]          Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers include saline, aqueous buffer solutions,
solvents and/or dispersion media. The use of such carriers are well known in the art. The
solution is preferably sterile and fluid to the extent that easy syringability exists.
Preferably, the solution is stable under the conditions of manufacture and storage and
preserved against the contaminating action of microorganisms such as bacteria and fungi
through the use of, for example, parabens, chlorobutanol, phenol, ascorbic acid,
thimerosal, and the like.
[0143]          Some examples of materials and solutions which can serve as pharmaceutically
acceptable carriers include: (1) sugars, such as lactose, glucose and sucrose; (2) starches,
such as corn starch and potato starch; (3) cellulose, and its derivatives, such as sodium
carboxymethyl cellulose, ethyl cellulose and cellulose acetate; (4) powdered tragacanth;
(5) malt; (6) gelatin; (7) talc; (8) excipients, such as cocoa butter and suppository waxes;
(9) oils, such as peanut oil, cottonseed oil, safflower oil, sesame oil, olive oil, corn oil and
soybean oil; (10) glycols, such as propylene glycol; (11) polyols, such as glycerin,
sorbitol, mannitol and polyethylene glycol; (12) esters, such as ethyl oleate and ethyl
laurate; (13) agar; (14) buffering agents, such as magnesium hydroxide and aluminum
hydroxide; (15) alginic acid; (16) pyrogen-free water; (17) isotonic saline; (18) Ringer's
solution; (19) ethyl alcohol; (20) pH buffered solutions; (21) polyesters, polycarbonates
and/or polyanhydrides; and (22) other non-toxic compatible substances employed in
pharmaceutical formulations.
[0144]          The pharmaceutical compositions useful for the methods of the disclosure may
comprise a polymeric carrier or extracellular matrix.
[0145]          A variety of biological or synthetic solid matrix materials (i.e., solid support
matrices, biological adhesives or dressings, and biological/medical scaffolds) are suitable
for use in this disclosure. The matrix material is preferably medically acceptable for use in
in vivo applications. Non-limiting examples of such medically acceptable and/or
biologically or physiologically acceptable or compatible materials include, but are not
limited to, solid matrix materials that are absorbable and/or non-absorbable, such as small
                                                    31
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

intestine submucosa (SIS), e.g., porcine-derived (and other SIS sources); crosslinked or
non-crosslinked alginate, hydrocolloid, foams, collagen gel, collagen sponge, polyglycolic
acid (PGA) mesh, polyglactin (PGL) mesh, fleeces, foam dressing, bioadhesives (e.g.,
fibrin glue and fibrin gel) and dead de-epidermized skin equivalents in one or more layers.
[0146]          Fibrin glues are a class of surgical sealants which have been used in various
clinical settings. As the skilled address would be aware, numerous sealants are useful in
compositions for use in the methods of the disclosure. However, a preferred embodiment
of the disclosure relates to the use of fibrin glues with the cells described herein.
[0147]          When used herein the term "fibrin glue" refers to the insoluble matrix formed by
the cross-linking of fibrin polymers in the presence of calcium ions. The fibrin glue may
be formed from fibrinogen, or a derivative or metabolite thereof, fibrin (soluble monomers
or polymers) and/or complexes thereof derived from biological tissue or fluid which forms
a fibrin matrix. Alternatively, the fibrin glue may be formed from fibrinogen, or a
derivative or metabolite thereof, or fibrin, produced by recombinant DNA technology.
[0148]          The fibrin glue may also be formed by the interaction of fibrinogen and a catalyst
of fibrin glue formation (such as thrombin and/or Factor XIII). As will be appreciated by
those skilled in the art, fibrinogen is proteolytically cleaved in the presence of a catalyst
(such as thrombin) and converted to a fibrin monomer. The fibrin monomers may then
form polymers which may cross-link to form a fibrin glue matrix. The cross-linking of
fibrin polymers may be enhanced by the presence of a catalyst such as Factor XIII. The
catalyst of fibrin glue formation may be derived from blood plasma, cryoprecipitate or
other plasma fractions containing fibrinogen or thrombin. Alternatively, the catalyst may
be produced by recombinant DNA technology.
 [0149]         The rate at which the clot forms is dependent upon the concentration of thrombin
mixed with fibrinogen. Being an enzyme dependent reaction, the higher the temperature
(up to 37.degree. C.) the faster the clot formation rate. The tensile strength of the clot is
dependent upon the concentration of fibrinogen used.
 [0150]         Use of fibrin glue and methods for its preparation and use are described in U.S.
Pat. No. 5,643,192. U.S. Pat. No. 5,643,192 discloses the extraction of fibrinogen and
                                                     32
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

thrombin components from a single donor, and the combination of only these components
for use as a fibrin glue. U.S. Pat. No. 5,651,982, describes another preparation and method
of use for fibrin glue. U.S. Pat. No. 5,651,982, provides a fibrin glue with liposomes for
use as a topical sealant in mammals.
[0151]          Several publications describe the use of fibrin glue for the delivery of therapeutic
agents. For example, U.S. Pat. No. 4,983,393 discloses a composition for use as an intra
vaginal insert comprising agarose, agar, saline solution glycosaminoglycans, collagen,
fibrin and an enzyme. Further, U.S. Pat. No. 3,089,815 discloses an injectable
pharmaceutical preparation composed of fibrinogen and thrombin and U.S. Pat. No.
6,468,527 discloses a fibrin glue which facilitates the delivery of various biological and
non-biological agents to specific sites within the body. Such procedures can be used in the
methods of the disclosure.
[0152]          Suitable polymeric carriers include porous meshes or sponges formed of
synthetic or natural polymers, as well as polymer solutions. One form of matrix is a
polymeric mesh or sponge; the other is a polymeric hydrogel. Natural polymers that can
be used include proteins such as collagen, albumin, and fibrin; and polysaccharides such
as alginate and polymers of hyaluronic acid. Synthetic polymers include both
biodegradable and non-biodegradable polymers. Examples of biodegradable polymers
include polymers of hydroxy acids such as polylactic acid (PLA), polyglycolic acid
(PGA), and polylactic acid-glycolic acid (PLGA), polyorthoesters, polyanhydrides,
polyphosphazenes, and combinations thereof. Non-biodegradable polymers include
polyacrylates, polymethacrylates, ethylene vinyl acetate, and polyvinyl alcohols.
[0153]          Polymers that can form ionic or covalently crosslinked hydrogels which are
malleable are used to encapsulate cells. A hydrogel is a substance formed when an organic
polymer (natural or synthetic) is cross-linked via covalent, ionic, or hydrogen bonds to
create a three-dimensional open-lattice structure which entraps water molecules to form a
gel. Examples of materials which can be used to form a hydrogel include polysaccharides
such as alginate, polyphosphazines, and polyacrylates, which are crosslinked ionically, or
                                           TM              TM
block copolymers such as Pluronics            or Tetronics    , polyethylene oxide-polypropylene
glycol block copolymers which are crosslinked by temperature or pH, respectively. Other
                                                    33
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

materials include proteins such as fibrin, polymers such as polyvinylpyrrolidone,
hyaluronic acid and collagen.
[0154]          In general, these polymers are at least partially soluble in aqueous solutions, such
as water, buffered salt solutions, or aqueous alcohol solutions, that have charged side
groups, or a monovalent ionic salt thereof. Examples of polymers with acidic side groups
that can be reacted with cations are poly(phosphazenes), poly(acrylic acids),
poly(methacrylic acids), copolymers of acrylic acid and methacrylic acid, poly(vinyl
acetate), and sulfonated polymers, such as sulfonated polystyrene. Copolymers having
acidic side groups formed by reaction of acrylic or methacrylic acid and vinyl ether
monomers or polymers can also be used. Examples of acidic groups are carboxylic acid
groups, sulfonic acid groups, halogenated (preferably fluorinated) alcohol groups,
phenolic OH groups, and acidic OH groups. Examples of polymers with basic side groups
that can be reacted with anions are poly(vinyl amines), poly(vinyl pyridine), poly(vinyl
imidazole), and some imino substituted polyphosphazenes. The ammonium or quaternary
salt of the polymers can also be formed from the backbone nitrogens or pendant imino
groups. Examples of basic side groups are amino and imino groups.
[0155]          Further, a composition used for a method of the disclosure may comprise at least
one therapeutic agent. For example, the composition may contain an analgesic to aid in
treating inflammation or pain, or an anti-infective agent to prevent infection of the site
treated with the composition. More specifically, non-limiting examples of useful
therapeutic agents include the following therapeutic categories: analgesics, such as
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, opiate agonists and salicylates; anti-infective
agents, such as antihelmintics, antianaerobics, antibiotics, aminoglycoside antibiotics,
antifungal antibiotics, cephalosporin antibiotics, macrolide antibiotics, miscellaneous
.beta.-lactam antibiotics, penicillin antibiotics, quinolone antibiotics, sulfonamide
antibiotics, tetracycline antibiotics, antimycobacterials, antituberculosis
antimycobacterials, antiprotozoals, antimalarial antiprotozoals, antiviral agents, anti
retroviral agents, scabicides, anti-inflammatory agents, corticosteroid anti-inflammatory
agents, antipruritics/local anesthetics, topical anti-infectives, antifungal topical anti
infectives, antiviral topical anti-infectives; electrolytic and renal agents, such as acidifying
agents, alkalinizing agents, diuretics, carbonic anhydrase inhibitor diuretics, loop diuretics,
                                                    34
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

osmotic diuretics, potassium-sparing diuretics, thiazide diuretics, electrolyte replacements,
and uricosuric agents; enzymes, such as pancreatic enzymes and thrombolytic enzymes;
gastrointestinal agents, such as antidiarrheals, gastrointestinal anti-inflammatory agents,
gastrointestinal anti-inflammatory agents, antacid anti-ulcer agents, gastric acid-pump
inhibitor anti-ulcer agents, gastric mucosal anti-ulcer agents, H2-blocker anti-ulcer agents,
cholelitholytic agent's, digestants, emetics, laxatives and stool softeners, and prokinetic
agents; general anesthetics, such as inhalation anesthetics, halogenated inhalation
anesthetics, intravenous anesthetics, barbiturate intravenous anesthetics, benzodiazepine
intravenous anesthetics, and opiate agonist intravenous anesthetics; hormones and
hormone modifiers, such as abortifacients, adrenal agents, corticosteroid adrenal agents,
androgens, anti-androgens, immunobiologic agents, such as immunoglobulins,
immunosuppressives, toxoids, and vaccines; local anesthetics, such as amide local
anesthetics and ester local anesthetics; musculoskeletal agents, such as anti-gout anti
inflammatory agents, corticosteroid anti-inflammatory agents, gold compound anti
inflammatory agents, immunosuppressive anti-inflammatory agents, nonsteroidal anti
inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), salicylate anti-inflammatory agents, minerals; and
vitamins, such as vitamin A, vitamin B, vitamin C, vitamin D, vitamin E, and vitamin K.
 [0156]         Compositions useful for the methods of the present disclosure may include cell
culture components, e.g., culture media including amino acids, metals, coenzyme factors,
as well as small populations of other cells, e.g., some of which may arise by subsequent
differentiation of the stem cells.
 [0157]         Compositions useful for the methods of the present disclosure may be prepared,
for example, by sedimenting out the subject cells from the culture medium and re
suspending them in the desired solution or material. The cells may be sedimented and/or
changed out of the culture medium, for example, by centrifugation, filtration,
ultrafiltration, etc.
 [0158]         The skilled artisan can readily determine the amount of cells and optional
carrier(s) in compositions and to be administered in methods of the disclosure. In an
embodiment, any additives (in addition to the active cell(s)) are present in an amount of
0.001 to 50% (weight) solution in phosphate buffered saline, and the active ingredient is
present in the order of micrograms to milligrams, such as about 0.0001 to about 5 wt %,
                                                    35
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

preferably about 0.0001 to about 1 wt %, still more preferably about 0.0001 to about 0.05
wt % or about 0.001 to about 20 wt %, preferably about 0.01 to about 10 wt %, and still
more preferably about 0.05 to about 5 wt %. Of course, for any composition to be
administered to an animal or human, and for any particular method of administration, it is
preferred to determine therefore: toxicity, such as by determining the lethal dose (LD) and
LD50 in a suitable animal model e.g., rodent such as mouse; and, the dosage of the
composition(s), concentration of components therein and timing of administering the
composition(s), which elicit a suitable response. Such determinations do not require undue
experimentation from the knowledge of the skilled artisan, this disclosure and the
documents cited herein. And, the time for sequential administrations can be ascertained
without undue experimentation.
[0159]          Compositions useful for the methods of the present disclosure can be
administered via, inter alia, localized injection, including catheter administration, systemic
injection, localized injection, intravenous injection, intrauterine injection or parenteral
administration. When administering a therapeutic composition described herein (e.g., a
pharmaceutical composition), it will generally be formulated in a unit dosage injectable
form (solution, suspension, emulsion).
[0160]          According to one embodiment of the present disclosure, the compositions can be
co-administered with at least one other medicine for vasculopathy, which comprises
prostaglandin I2 (PGI2 ), prostacyclin analogues, phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) inhibitor,
endothelin receptor antagonist (ETRA), tyrosine kinase inhibitors, and soluble guanylate
cyclase stimulator.
[0161]          According to one embodiment of the present disclosure, the method for treating
vasculopathy may further comprises reducing thrombosis in pulmonary arteries; reducing
inflammation in pulmonary arteries; reducing the proliferation of intimal smooth muscle
in pulmonary arteries; reducing the formation of plexiform lesions in pulmonary arteries;
increasing the amount of nitric oxide in pulmonary arteries; increasing the amount of PGI2
in pulmonary arteries; reducing the level of Endothelin- 1 in pulmonary arteries; reducing
the amount of growth factors in pulmonary arteries; or promoting proper endothelial
morphology in pulmonary arteries.
                                                  36
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

[0162]          Treating vasculopathy by administering/transplanting progenitor cells are
described in Wang et al., J. Am. Coll. Cardiol. 49:1566-71 (2007), Zhao et al. Circ. Res.
96:442-450 (2005), and Nagaya et al., Circulation 108:889-895(2003), the content of
which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.
 [0163]         Administration/transplantation of cells into the damaged blood vessels has the
potential to repair damaged vascular tissue, e.g., veins, arteries, capillaries, thereby
restoring vascular function. However, the absence of suitable cells for transplantation
purposes has prevented the full potential of this procedure from being met. "Suitable" cells
are cells that meet one or more of the following criteria: (1) can be obtained in large
numbers; (2) can be proliferated in vitro to allow insertion of genetic material, if
necessary; (3) capable of surviving indefinitely and facilitate vascular repair on
transplantation r; and (4) are non-immunogenic, preferably obtained from a patient's own
tissue or from a compatible donor. Suitable cells may be autologous, allogeneic or
xenogeneic.
 [0164]         The cells can be administered to a subject with abnormal vasculature or coronary
failure symptoms. The cells can be prepared from the recipient's own blood or bone
marrow. In such instances the EPCs can be generated from dissociated tissue and
proliferated in vitro using the methods described above. Upon suitable expansion of cell
numbers, the EPCs may be harvested, genetically modified if necessary, and readied for
direct injection into the recipient's vasculature
 [0165]         The cells can be prepared from donor tissue that is xenogeneic to the host. For
xenografts to be successful, some method of reducing or eliminating the immune response
to the implanted tissue is usually employed. Thus the recipients can be
immunosuppressed, either through the use of immunosuppressive drugs such as
cyclosporin, or through local immunosuppression strategies employing locally applied
immunosuppressants. Local immunosuppression is disclosed by Gruber, 54
Transplantation 1-11 (1992). U.S. Pat. No. 5,026,365 discloses encapsulation methods
suitable for local immunosuppression.
 [0166]         As an alternative to employing immunosuppression techniques, methods of gene
replacement or knockout using homologous recombination in embryonic stem cells, taught
                                                   37
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

by Smithies et al., 317 Nature 230-234 (1985), and extended to gene replacement or
knockout in cell lines (Zheng et al., 88 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 8067-8071 (1991)), can be
applied to EPCs for the ablation of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) genes. EPCs
lacking MHC expression allows for the grafting of enriched endothelial cell populations
across allogeneic, and perhaps even xenogeneic, histocompatibility barriers without the
need to immunosuppress the recipient. General reviews and citations for the use of
recombinant methods to reduce antigenicity of donor cells are also disclosed by Gruber,
54 Transplantation 1-11 (1992). Exemplary approaches to the reduction of
immunogenicity of transplants by surface modification are disclosed by PCT International
patent application WO 92/04033 and PCT/US99/24630. Alternatively the immunogenicity
of the graft may be reduced by preparing EPCs from a transgenic animal that has altered
or deleted MHC antigens.
[0167]          The cells can be encapsulated and used to deliver factors to the host, according to
known encapsulation technologies, including microencapsulation (see, e.g., U.S. Pat. Nos.
4,352,883; 4,353,888; and 5,084,350, herein incorporated by reference) and
macroencapsulation (see, e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,284,761, 5,158,881, 4,976,859 and
4,968,733 and PCT International patent applications WO 92/19195 and WO 95/05452,
each incorporated herein by reference). Macroencapsulation is described in U.S. Pat. Nos.
5,284,761; 5,158,881; 4,976,859; 4,968,733; 5,800,828 and PCT International patent
application WO 95/05452, each incorporated herein by reference. Multiple
macroencapsulation devices can be implanted in the host.
[0168]          Cells prepared from tissue that is allogeneic to that of the recipient can be tested
for use by the well-known methods of tissue typing, to closely match the
histocompatibility type of the recipient.
 [0169]         Cells administered to the vasculature can form a vascular graft, so that the cells
form normal connections with neighboring vascular cells, maintaining contact with
transplanted or existing endothelial cells. Thus the transplanted cells can re-establish the
vascular tissue which have been damaged due to disease and aging.
 [0170]         Functional integration of the graft into the host's vascular tissue can be assessed
by examining the effectiveness of grafts on restoring various functions.
                                                     38
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

[0171]          According to one embodiment of the present disclosure, cells can be co
administered to the recipient with at least one growth factor, such as FGF, VEGF-A,
VEGF-B, BMP-4, TGF-Beta, etc.
                                               EXAMPLES
[0172]          The present technology is further defined by reference to the following non
limiting examples. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that many modifications,
both to compositions and methods, may be practiced without departing from the scope of
the current invention.
   Example 1. Optimization of treprostinil concentration for cellular response in BM
                                                  MSC
[0173]          This example identifies minimum treprostinil concentrations required to enhance
the angiogenic potential of human bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BM-MSC).
[0174]          A single vial of human bone marrow-derived MSC was expanded and seeded
into twenty (20) wells of 6-well plates using standard growth medium. At 95-99%
confluency, cells were thoroughly washed with phosphate-buffered saline (PBS). Cells
were then exposed to media containing 0, 0.1, 1.0, 10, or 100 pg/mL of treprostinil (n=4
wells for each concentration).
[0175]          After 24 hours of culture, the conditioned media was collected from each
replicate and analyzed for Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF) protein by
enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The goal of this experiment was to
determine the optimal concentration of treprostinil needed to elicit a cellular response in
MSC (using VEGF as a read out).
[0176]          Flow cytometry analysis (FIG. 1) demonstrated that the bone marrow MSC used
in this study were positive for MSC markers CD73, CD105, CD90, and HLA-ABC. Cells
were negative or low for CD34, CD45, CD14, CD19 and HLA-DR. Definition of MSC
was established by the International Society for Cellular Therapy (Dominici et al.,
Cytotherapy 8(4):315-7, 2006).
                                                    39
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

[0177]          FIG. 2 is a chart showing VEGF secretion by human bone marrow MSC after 24
hours of exposure to treprostinil. Cell culture supernatant was assayed for VEGF by
ELISA (n=4 per group). As shown in FIG. 2, no statistically significant differences were
observed among the dosage groups (error bars represent the standard deviation of the test
group).
[0178]          This experiment suggests that treprostinil concentrations of 100 pg/mL or less
may not significantly enhance the angiogenic potential of human bone marrow MSC.
However, there is a slight trend of increased VEGF secretion as treprostinil increased.
Subsequent examples investigated higher concentrations of treprostinil.
   Example 2. Optimization of treprostinil concentration for cellular response in BM
                                                 MSC
[0179]          This example identifies 250 pg/mL as a good concentration of treprostinil for
enhancing the angiogenic potential of human BM-MSC.
[0180]          A follow-up experiment to Example 1 was conducted to determine if treprostinil
concentrations above 100 pg/mL affected MSC secretion of VEGF. As before, a single
vial (same lot/batch) of bone marrow-derived MSC was expanded to thirty (30) wells of 6
well plates using standard growth medium. At 95-99% confluency, cells were thoroughly
washed with PBS. Cells were then exposed to media containing 0, 100, 200, 300, or 400
pg/mL of treprostinil (n=6 wells for each concentration).
[0181]          Conditioned media was assayed for VEGF by ELISA after 24 hours of
treprostinil exposure (n=4 replicates). Cells from those replicates were lysed, and RNA
was extracted to determine VEGF-A gene expression by qRT-PCR. Cells from the
remaining two (2) replicates were trypsinized, and assayed for cell viability by trypan blue
exclusion.
[0182]          Cell culture supernatant was assayed for VEGF protein by ELISA (FIG. 3A,
n=4). Cell lysates from those cultures were assayed for VEGF-A gene expression by qRT
PCR, and normalized to the control value (FIG. 3B, n=4). In both figures, error bars
represent the standard deviation in each test group.
                                                   40
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

[0183]          FIG. 4 includes representative images of MSC exposed to increasing
concentrations of treprostinil. At the highest dose (400 tg/mL), the increased numbers of
rounded up, detaching cells suggested a cytotoxic effect of treprostinil on MSC.
[0184]          MSC were stained with trypan blue to determine the total number of live and
dead cells in each well (FIG. 5, n=2 wells per group). Percent viability was calculated as
the ratio between trypan blue negative cells and the total population (100 x Live/Total).
While there were too few replicates to perform statistical analysis, there was a trend of
decreased viability as treprostinil concentration increased above 100 pg/mL. However,
cell viability did not decrease below 85% at any dose level tested in this experiment.
[0185]          This example demonstrates that high levels of treprostinil negatively impacted
cellular viability of MSC. At 100 pg/mL, VEGF secretion increased ~2-fold, but VEGF-A
gene expression was not significantly different from untreated controls after 24 hours of
exposure. VEGF-A gene expression did increase over 5-fold at the 200 pg/mL level of
treprostinil, and VEGF secretion was observed at ~3-fold of control values. VEGF
secretion did not increase above this value, even with higher concentrations of treprostinil,
suggesting that the effect was saturated. Therefore, 250 pg/mL was selected as the
optimal treprostinil concentration to use in subsequent studies.
      Example 3. Comprehensive analysis of MSC exposed to 250 pg/mL treprostinil
[0186]          Based on the previous examples, this example selected 250 pg/mL as the
treprostinil dose to elicit a cellular response in MSC. This concentration was based on
increased VEGF production compared to untreated control cells, and minimal cytotoxic
effects.
[0187]          Human bone marrow MSC were expanded and seeded into six (6) T225 flasks
using standard growth medium (Table 1). At 95-99% confluency, cells were thoroughly
washed with PBS. Three (3) flasks were replenished with basal media containing 250
pg/mL treprostinil, (+)Tre, and the remaining three (3) flasks were replenished with
unsupplemented basal media, (-)Tre.
                                                  41
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

Table 1. Study design to evaluate the effects of treprostinil on MSC activity.
     Sample #                Media  Cell analysis            Media analysis
     n  =   3                (+)Tre RNA isolation for        e    Secreted proteins
                                    gene microarray          0    Exosome RNA content
     n  =   3                (-)Tre RNA isolated for gene    e    Secreted proteins,
                                    microarray               0    Exosome RNA content
[0188]          After 24 hours of culture, representative images were captured from (+) Tre and
(-) Tre cultures. Conditioned media was collected from each replicate, divided into two
samples of appropriate volumes, and analyzed separately for: 1) secreted proteins (Myriad
RBM InflammationMAP@ 1.0) and 2) exosome RNA content. Cells were lysed directly
from culture flasks, processed for total RNA isolation, and analyzed for gene expression
by microarray (Illumina Human HT12 Expression BeadChip).
[0189]          FIG. 6 illustrates a model for the effects of treprostinil on cell signaling, gene
expression, and the release of paracrine factors, and with the table below showing assays
useful to test the effects.
     Cellular function                  Assay
      1. Intracellular signaling
     2. Cytokine release                Immunoassay
     3. Nuclear signaling
     4. RNA expression                  RT-PCR, Microarray
     5. Protein translation
     6. RNA packaging
     7. Vesicle release                 RT-PCR, Particle analysis
[0190]          To characterize the effect of treprostinil on MSC, cells were analyzed by qRT
PCR and microarray to identify changes in gene expression (4). Cell culture supernatant
media was assayed for selected inflammatory cytokines by bead-based immunoassays (2).
Secreted vesicles were isolated from cell culture supernatant, and assayed for RNA
content by qRT-PCR (7). Vesicles were also assayed for size and concentration by
tunable resistive pulse sensing, or TRPS (7) (refer to Example 4).
[0191]          Cells that were exposed to 250 pg/mL of treprostinil for 24 hours (FIG. 7A, right
panel) showed no obvious changes in morphology compared to untreated cells (FIG. 7A,
left panel). Cell viability was assessed in trypsinized cells in both treprostinil-treated and
untreated cultures. No significant cell death was observed as a result of treprostinil
exposure, see FIG. 7B (>95% viability in all replicates and conditions).
                                                          42
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

[0192]          Gene expression of VEGF-A was confirmed in MSC by qRT-PCR. Treprostinil
increased VEGF-A expression ~3.5-fold over untreated controls (FIG. 8, upper panel).
Additionally, miR-21 was more abundant in exosomes derived from treprostinil-exposed
MSC, while let-7b was less prevalent compared to controls (FIG. 8, lower panel; asterisks
indicate statistical significance (p<0.05)).
[0193]          Microarray gene expression analysis was also performed on MSC from cultures
without (-) or with (+) 250 ug/mL treprostinil. Three (3) biological replicates from each
condition were analyzed. Of the 77,612 sequences identified among all replicates, only
24,273 were detected above the arbitrary background of 50 counts. 2,984 RNA sequences
were unique to Tre(-) cultures, while 1,781 RNA sequences were unique to Tre(+) cultures
(panel A). Genes detected in both conditions were further analyzed for differential
expression (panel). Of the 19,508 genes commonly expressed, only 1,690 differed
significantly (p<0.01). 268 genes were found to be at least 4-fold higher in untreated
MSC, and 171 were found to be at least 4-fold higher in Tre(+) MSC cultures.
[0194]          As shown in FIG. 9A and 9B, differentially expressed genes clearly separated (in
terms of clustering) Tre(+) MSC cultures from controls, suggesting that treprostinil
exhibited significant impact on the function or activity of the MSC cells.
[0195]          Tables 2-3 list genes that are upregulated in response to treprostinil. Genes that
are expressed only in Tre(+) cultures with at least an average value of 500 counts are
shown in Table 2. Genes that are expressed at least 10-fold higher in Tre(+) compared to
untreated cells are shown in Table 3.
[0196]          Tables 4-5 list genes that are downregulated in response to treprostinil. Genes
that are downregulated at least 10-fold in Tre(+) cultures are shown in Table 4. Genes that
are expressed only in Tre(-) cultures (that is to say, completely turned off in the Tre(+)
cultures) are shown in Table 5.
                                                    43
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

           001
                                                                                       0                                    W D
     >0
        ~0000     o
                              OY)
                              LA
                              r
                                          00 r.
                                          tNi r,
                                                   D
                                                               00
                                                               L
                                                                       CY
                                                                          OY)
                                                                         nM
                                                                                       rl
                                                                                                :T
                                                                                                N1
                                                                                               r'
                                                                                                        00
                                                                                                        LA
                                                                                                                 r-
                                                                                                                 0         OY)
                                                                                                                           N rI
                                                                                                                                      N
                                                                                                                                         -       0
                                                                                                                                                   n             00
                                                                                                                                                                 LA
                                                                                                                                                                         mA m
                                                                                                                                                                         LA    N   WL
                                                                                                                                                                                      N
      m-           LD                     -      -             C)         -n           -n    -*       r-I           -1       LD         -1              ~         O     O      ~
           C       ,          r-.         LW r-.               O)         r.           r        00      LA                 U' LA                                  m     w~ 0 0        r
      a)rl                     mn R~* LA)                      0          r-I          0      -         N        0         0          0          00              00      LAO          m
           1='                  -       '-4 '-                 '-4 -                   r   -   4      O-I        r-                   r-         r-.                    W-
                                                                                                                                                                        D      l
        N m
      +      ,                r'      !     I    R*            RT         W            00       '-4 OY)          O)        '-         0          N                     N       1-'
                               mL               i-D rn            r * q N              '-4     00       r,       r            ,       r           !              0       r,    m      N
                               mL i             y LAO 0                   Fy)    -     00       LAWL              LA       m          ,-4        m                 mm y'       N      N
           w    r             N           N         N          N          '-4          '-4      '-4 '-4           '-       '-         '-         '-              r,      '-    '-4    OY
 V,
       C                                      0      OY)     ,      mn WD              r        0       OY)                0          0                          LA
 w) CL  CLN                   F-.         R* r-I                -4        O)           r-4     -4W               0          WD         my        LA              LA      LA r-i r
         00                   LA          -4        RT          m         N            N        N       -4       0            -4         -4      1-                mm) r LAWL
                              ,4I         ,4I -1               -4         -1            -1      -1      -4        -4       '-4        '-         O)              '-4     00 00        00
             >                                                 W      Wn   LOwm        W     a)       N          w                    w          0                     NO           0
           <       ~                      N          l            mm)          ry               ml    ry            N          1         my         l               ON         LA     N
       WW)
        ~Ln                   LAW                   0 C        N
                                                                W         WYw
                                                                          N
                                                                                 ~           w-
                                                                                              m1r N
                                                                                                      a)          'lr -I
                                                                                                                  mn       N-
                                                                                                                                      m
                                                                                                                                       mn
                                                                                                                                                  -I
                                                                                                                                                   -I            0mr)w
                                                                                                                                                                             LA      w
       W,) -I                                                          r !             0         n      a)        Wo        Wo        -It                                    W-     Lo
 c         0                  00           00C                 LA       -43             1                  N       CT      my         N-                         00          w          m
 0
                 0)                                             m~ O r                 00        N-     00                                                             LA      00     my
           0~                 0          0                     N        N                    ml       r    w        0         0          0          N-             O    w           m
           N                  rIE
                     cu                            ts..                                                            V)
                                C:               tt                      0     O                      Ln                                                _
                                          *~                                                           cu *0     N           U                    W
  o            ,C    O          ..                                                           W                                           L                 Cu
           _u      CO)          U                                                                                  o                              E-     >    0~
1r)                                                                                                   -2 rawOL
                                                                                               Uu                              0   <O                                        <     E
                        .I-                 CO                                          w)0              0 -   .
                                          0)                                            u'   CO     2                                                                   V)
                                                                                        CO                         Uo        CO)        COCL                                         C
                          CL                                                             _D                  N       , V -                         >-       CO-        U              V)
                                         I-        V) ,                  0~ 0                  a)      wj~ N                                                       >--0
                            4 CU,                  ra            -:                     u      C:                                                             CO
       ol                        cu      C          O-- .2
                                                                         >                     uo
                                                                                               0-                                       E                            :  06           COE
                             :Ei            ra            ro      j~     CV C
                                                                              cv                        C_   0     ra
                                                                                                                   U,) CO
                                                                                                                             V)                     V,    ~   m   O
                                                                                                                                                                        0
                         UO                        N2            NV                     3:     C
                                                                                                                           0O0
                                                                                                                                       -4C)
                                                                                                                                                m                         v
       L                  x               mL        0   -      LA         N             to      00      LA       0          -9-'9-          -     L              m     0            N
                     u                        LA                            W          LA    W - O                  a 0 -    0                                   L        0W
            0,     V) 0                                                  Nn             N          40LA
           o                   m          00                       00                     00                       0Z       0          0              0           0:   76      00w
                                          00                                     0000V                                                  0        0     0                  0-   0
                          u         <            0-            V 0- z              CLz           o      0-        z0       <             >          0- 0-                z     z
                                                                                                      N          r                    0n
                     Nq                                                                       W                  00        rn
       0) LA)                                    rQL                                     l   0         n          0        r             lM                             0    rIr
           LD                           r4AI        )          u             L          0L             y            y        y          Y          Y               AI   *           Z
           0)         I           l     0Z        0            0      0                0
    CL     0                              TH0C            0            0A       0            0        0          0         0C      0          0                  0A          0      0
                          L44

<           <              <            <         <            <        <           <          <      <0                  r1            C00                                          , i
z           z              z            z           z               z      z             z        z      z               U-                                         tA
                                                                                                                                                                 r,          LA
                                                                                                                               C)         LA LA                  cy)         LA
WD          -l         N                         I.  W          .       a)~                    LA     WD                 >mr              00 -1                  N~          An
00          LA           m      )         0                 r, 1*                   N                 C)I                <W               WD to r,               C)
      r,                       r,                 W,            WkD        LA       LA         LA     LA
                                                                                                                                 rn~                                   TT    00
                                                                                                                                    rl C)          C)           LA           00
      TI            TI         ry                N             CY)       W                     00     LA                  CLN             -* 00                  N~          0)
rN                                 (.                                   a)          r-         N                          a) Wm           kW C)                 N            0)
00
            (D         r,
                       LA            W
                                                 R
                                                 TT
                                                               a)
                                                               TT       LA)            LA                                  ~Ln            LAW.                   r-            r
                                                                                                                                                                LA
                                                                                                                                                                 N~          00
            mn                                                                                                       TNm                     LA N                N~ r,
LA          r-         r            LA            0)           mn        N~          W.        1-     -10                                     N ' Z            LA TI Y
 ti
00
            0)
            r-I
                       00
                       00          rl
                                     :T          N
                                                 a)
                                                               C)
                                                               00
                                                                        ,-4
                                                                         WD
                                                                                    r,
                                                                                      -
                                                                                               C)     LA
                                                                                                      WD            CD
                                                                                                                          CL)
                                                                                                                                      00
                                                                                                                                        r-
                                                                                                                                             00 00
                                                                                                                                                   -tl           N-
                                                                                                                                                                 r-I
                                                                                                                                                                        ~    ,
                                                                                                                                                                                 00
                                                                                                                    v)
                                     CY)~~~~           ~~ ~                ~                                                                                    00r o 0               , -   -   ) -z  L L Cj) o
00          1-         An           C)            W.           It       An          r~         N      N*                                                       -* r N N l
W.          r,         1-                        (.DW          LA       LA          00                            I           Ln          to       r            00             I
                                                                                                                                                                w
 n                     C)           00           r.               C)    C)           W.                                  >m             my                      0nrI          Y     N
 cl         C)                                   rn             11 m                 1                   N               <LAW                   t.       m
                                                                                                                          CL                                    -4           00
                                   00            C)                      my                                               Q)N           mjr        LA            cy          LA
L                                  C)            -It              LA                                                      Q)    00W            w      I          R           00
W.          C)         C)            W              N                   C)          C)      0    -     C) 0                            j= r       00             N     r LA
                                                                                                                    v)
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                             "                                  00
                                                                                                                          0.                                    C)        -4r
      -tN                              LA        00                     r            N-r       N                          a)            o     c LA              w            N~
w           C)                      ml
                                   ry                          0)                                     N-
                                                                                                      rl                                                             l     mr
                              v)                  v            00                                -.. -ru.                                                                          t
                                                                                                                               ~0                 E
                                                                 Ea       CL)                                                                     E~~E                    L
                                     ra           4t;                     *o        -C  wm       C>
 _o                      to                                                                                                     C                u      0m
                         '-          0      ,                                                    C0   0                                                           C        t
                2~v0)                CL-                                   )                          u                                            v0 u--~                  o~U*1
 CL          CL     N-              . 0. u         u
                                                  Ca             0-       C0          0E:        E-                                                               ro        u                 0V rut
 0~o~t       01
                  0
                     0
                           C     0       Cr
                                      rraC
                                                                          0      ~          u                 _                            .
                                                                                                                                                     ~ ~
                                           >C C                           C          zCe       -Co                                                  ,     "N 11
                                     to           0-                      u            C          Co                            ut.                              ~         4
                      LA.
                    -0.-0.
                                     0
                                           ~          C>-~           ~     ~    m   .      N"O~Iv-    .-   u~          C'E
                                                                                                                                e)                             C
_0       C: _     C C:             -0t                                                                                            --     u      )r      )     C      U      Z
          to to     C CwU                         v)
                                                  4:       '-    C:                                        w                                                      v)         0
       toOVJCV~5                                          to                                           IW v)                                            C       C:
                          r:                 o    c0              rm     N                                                               7                  )               C
                       C)                                                Nu         00                        0nL                                         u
                                                                                                              0C)                                                 N       N
LA            N)     C
                         I-N-
                            )
                                     C)
                                           Q)
                                                  N-
                                                  W             LA
                                                                  W: 11              0n
                                                                                      uL                                                                                         W     ~ - 0
          C,0)                                                   N        p-
      C) 00            C)                        C)            LA       C)          C)         C))
      C)       I       Cl          Ln         )                         G)          G)    C)rnL                                   C) C)                 Ci                                           cT
    I           Io         ,         0                I,         D           I,          IY     rI    TTCIY                                              ) N rl           L
                                                                                                                       Q)      0z)C
                                                _                                                                                                                         LA
                                                                                  z        z                                                                     z        zCa
                                                                        r-445

          r             LA? Li                mo qm                        q c                       LQ           LA           mq           N          N          N         '-i      0               LQ         C)      0
m                         N I                  l        l       0C)W                       LA             my         mY         mY              mn      mY             mm)C          N        N      N                 N l
N                 N           N                N       N         N         '-1             -           -             -        r-          r-            '-1         '-1       -1       -1     -1
          r,                  NTr~                CY) O y' m0                                               CO           ' m y' m'                                     rj m          N LA Nj                       LA
rl.                             rl          O-I C N 00                                  CY            0~       C)     i N       m            00           WD        0~                 rn rl           0y)         C)     LA
N                         CY)       r,          C Y) r-I                   N4                        rN              N          C)           W.         WD             -      0)       '-I     C)      r,          '      00
                       N ,               r-I             r-I      r-       00              00           r-I          LA           r-I        R          N            r-i      N        LA        -i    Lo          N    WL
                                                     LA
N                   OLA                  CY) n AW                                                                 mn          LA          C)              N      r,         N~       00                         LA
(.                LA          LA          WD           N         00                     00           RT           CY)         LA)           N~        rN                CY)           m~ m             N        00C0
C)                LA LA                  C)            WC)                 WI           LA           LA            N~         C)          0)           mr         W           r          r-I WD        m        00         r-I
                    N             W ~i   L       -I      r-I      r-I      r,           r,           C)            RT         '-I         m           N          '-I          '-I      RT      m~      LA       '-        LA
00                LA          0o                      N0                 rNC         N               CY)           RT                     r-I         C)          WD          WD '-I           CY
W                 O        CY)              0 00Cn               N         C)              WD          N~            -           LA          00           1            t      C) C)            00C                 COW I
LA                LA          '-i            '-I       -         mo C)                     W           LA            W.         00           0)         '-I         cy)       -t       LA      -z       r-i        m a)
                  m     r       C)            r-I      N          1          r-I           0)           1            WD         CO           LA         mY           r-I      N W.               -1    CO          N WL
                                              NN
                  O- rl        rl          -   N1               -1    C)                00          '-1           't          CO          '           N           N-          C)       -Nt                      C)L N0 R
                                                                                                                                                                                           C        N     mO          C)
                                                                                                                                              l       R          L A a)
                                                                                                        l               N.        l
                                                 C)        N.        1         C)       N
r    N                  N.      T
                  N           0)                     CO                                                            W.                     LA          N          a)           LA         i                       WD
                  mn          LA         '-I           '-I       CO N                   LA           a)           CO          CO          LA          C)         N            LA C)            LA LA            N.        CO
L                    l      m            LA          a)        LA LA                    LA          CO             mn         N.          m           N          .H             i    -*       CO LA                  i LA
                   W.      r.                        CY)                                                          C)          CO          C)          C)         rH         -*       C)
W.                       mn WD              C)         CO N                N.              It          N             W.         C)           N.         m              N      '-I      N.      '-I     C)          N.
rm                       1 m                          00 COW             LA                N           W.              N              I      mn           N             -l      I    mn       M      LA               1 C)
                  N        N                          N~                                            CO            C)           W          LA                     rH      -n        mC)m
          cn      LA          LA          W            '-1       a)        LA           N.           mn           '-I         N           '-I         '-I        r,           N        r.      COW              C)      0   N.
CO                 11      R             LA           1        r,     N.0 W                0 CO                   LA           1 1                     N             l        Nq       R       M~      W        N         11
                                                                                                                                                                                     N
                  CO       CO                        r,                                                           C)                      cn           11                   C)       -*                         CO
W.                       C) LA              CY) mr                Ri mn                    Ri          CO            CO                   N.               W           LA N            LAW           LD            cy
mn                       11 N                        rt N. ) mm                            LA          WD            m'         C)           N          11          m~ 11              ml      WD mn               -      C)
                            0                                                                                                               0           0                    _
 u(                         0                                                            V)           (0                                                0                             N
  0*-                       D                                                            -                                                                                          0N2
 0     >                    (                                                      C     C                                                0                                           c
                 0.         CO                        E                  *5              C                                      -            >            n                   +          =            z;          E
                                        to                               4-N             0                                                   0. w~                                W)       0-                 ,           L
 cu    u                                              COf                 0                                  C0                             E             0* N
                                                                                                                               (0                         W(0                                 w                 .
                                                                                                    znu             2)                                  (-T  E                                       E
 Wu   Lr            DL      >9.                                                    >                                            u-                                           Cp                      (>C         0       0
            (0W >.                  >o                m)         Cl                                          o      3r                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                V)                                 D         C)        m      LJ                E        o
                           C:
                             DED
                                        E             Ea                  r,
                                                                          (0u
                                                                           "o zo
                                                                                 EL-     M
                                                                                           >.D:
                                                                                                     z Cc
                                                                                                      Q) 0L "
                                                                                                                    0     - ~         ~              CL,(0-(
                                                                                                                                                        M DEC
                                                                                                                                                                              m.                  ~~        ND
  0
    .D             0                    ~      Ew                                                                   mV(x.                       o)0.EW~~                           u                          CL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         C0L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C
         )
            D
             C      ELA
                      )      uE        o)
                                           m                           -c     w                                                                 C)      a)
                                                                                                                                                        uC
                                                                                                                                                             ~E ro
                                                                                                                                                                             uo                0C>E
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0 DOE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Z; CLo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             D
                                                                                                                  C),          CL)                     Nl                                                        mFD0            C
                                                                                                                  N.                'tt   -o
        N.r                            CO LA                                                                        Q O mW L )                                                        V)      CL~C O
CO                C)          C)         C)            muCO                                                           C                 C C)      C)  C)          CL)         C)       C)      C)      C)        C        C)
             -QC                                             )         C         )   -)       -)            C)          C)    C)          C)          C)          C           )                t) C C)           C)u C
                                                      m5a 5C
                                                    '4-           E     p -        E~Ua        V)
                                                                                                 CLW-.
                                                                                                                                                                                                       N'  16 u   .-                  4---0
                 W:                                                   mL LA N DU                                              L                               U      LA                                                  <
    On                     L                                     7 A ( m                                            u      0    m~ -J            0    LA         (J Ll
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  E0
LA                 E-               u U              L          La-                u                LA            >r                                   u-    W             u      _3           m     z      E   ua
                                                                                                                                   46                  Nr

                                                                        Q)
                                                                        to
     LA         LA          CY      LA                         _0        c                    Lfl            j          ~       ID         r         l        j          Y
      a           -i      a         a                          u.c6                          6            6
                                                                                                          c;                                                                  N
                                    WD                                                                                                             LA
     cm         m         0O        N                                  (oo                    Ln                         n      L                    n      00          cn
     o           0         0        LA                                 >                     N            Cn           r4       0                W          Cn           0 m
      N              W    c         m                                  < Ln                   .-            .n            .-    .           .n LA                       re Ln
                                                                         n                                                                         en
                                    N*ao                                      oo                                                             N, 0nn         00LA
      N,        CY        r~                                              ) wm)                  .-  I        .- I        en      WD                                      LA LA
       L        en        m         cn                                                        r4          m              -I     N          en      -        r~j         00      r
                           N        m
                                    C                                      .                 cn                                 cn               L            o        LA
     rcn          e       m          m                         -        eLA                    -          ao                    r-I         W       .n        m                W.n
       SNo                m                          N                                                                                               0
      00          00        r-4       C)                      v
        4       m         r4        m                                                                                                               m
                1.n         ,                                           a) R*WCL                                      r                      0       n
                                                                                                                                                     n       rWe
                                                                        >amN                 m                                  m            o e             r                  m
      oo        I.D       LW         n                                 <       i n0                        o             H                 t        .n        mO        Ai    r
      0         00        LD        00~                                                         H         00           ,1       r                  L                          L
      Nl           LA       Nl        ri
                                                                       (D nn                 en
                                                                                                                       N
                                                                                                                        1       00
                                                                                                                                  mI       Cm n
                                                                                                                                                   No       N
                                                                                                                                                              A
                                                                                                                                                             cn
                                                                                                                                                                        Cm
                                                                                                                                                                              c
                 W         No       mw
                                    n                                  >      fl             en            R          N         N          WD .              Lm        N      en
      00                            Cn                                       LA               r4           W           r4          4       to      LA        m         r4      W
                          00        mm                          -'       N
                                                                                o                                      -        00                 0        00              n
                                                                          L    -.t            In          00           1.n      cnI        00W               Lo          N
                          to0o                                                                 N           L           N        en          N       N       C)          oN    m
                LA
                t
                          ID
                          0         C)
                                                         ~LA                                  r4I          o          cnI       cn          n L LA          m                 t
                                nr --.                  o                                                                                                                       >N
                                                                        NE                                                                                             en
                                                                                :Tc      o    LA                       r-       t                  00        rI
                                                                         C o          .      .0-          00          en                   LA 00            m          0 0
                                                              E)           .0                            n             .                   0                           LD
                t         ro        00                                                     .A              .               I 00      L                      tt                r4
                                    00                                  W-                    0              =t -r-I en E-o.    00                                       OW
                0                                                       = -              ' E    4         t:o         m           +-       LA          -
      0                   LA          N
                           ro  oo
                                     a                                                          m                            c3b                   eNa
                                     cv                                                                                 Ccm     en
            Cu                                                                  0 a         0 m La                              a      v)                  v)c
                                                   u                                          <                       cn>       t                             Nvm
                                                                               en             C            ,-          ,n                                                O
               oC                        a o '1-c                               E E           o -cCo                              N Ey                   >    ue C: u<c
             -       a y 4o         oc             .                              c o - 2a                   >,    _D wu
                                                                                                                        a) u                 S
                                                                                                                                             a               2;a U"v Ncu
              cu                             E                                  W U:L a                                                             a
                >          a                                                              -a                E                   a:         <L                2>-                u
           EN     o
                  MO        >         u                                            )r
                                                                                          7 rn
                                                                                         m)y   0
                                                                                                        f47        L               u:4               >        u          a
                                                                                                                                                                              <M
                  ->       aN                                                   C= CB c:                          m au -zr -:                 a>                            v
                                                                                                                      cn        ,-I-to             ca)        on         m
        CL             mm           aa
                                    Ea      Q)
                                                                                Z;    CV
                                                                                            E                      cv CL
                                                                                                                .zgt
                                                                                                                   rv~ w
                                                                                                                                -FaJ
                                                                                                                                             Cu
                                                                                                                                                  u
                                                                                                                                                      >4w
                                                                                                                                                              ul
                                                                                                                                                                           Eo.)CLC:
                                   a>
                                                                   0a
                                                                                00C>                        M                     0
                                                                                                                                  _)         et             vgQ
                                                                                .           o o               u        o        o-            u ,-     o                ,I
       W~L~~C     --       - vn       mv             U)D            L)
                                                                                       '        O c1Ca aO mN                              cmO cv to             - -'           a
   )                                                                                                                                   m..                           =~4   U
a)                                                                                                                                                            v) cv0W
                                                                              Ln E                                   00         NW
      to                          4~~~~~                00-1L                 LA                       >NU4 m r4 -              cc > <oe     0               NA E c
                  M4        CL 0                                                                        aa aW                                a                4
  E               >-      en mwn >                                                                             )       0
                                 o ~              ~          ~      I)             ~I               I ~ I c0I
                          .HD       N              4-1                                                                                  N.                     en 0 n 0I. N        N
                                    rn < m                                       a)                                             Zl         Zl N                 HmL
                       in         0~
                              0i>(9 C                               L)                        i           U            L       ~U~         < u
                                                                                          47zz             z           z         z

 N   14                LA       N-           N-        C)              0)         0)        N*        W           -1       N~            00        LA             0W                (.       -C                Wq -I L
             N                                              NNN          NNi              4     m                4 uA      L            L          00                C         L6       N-          r4       C
LA             0)             m                  Ln    -c              mn           00
                                                                                                                                         N-I
                                                                                                                            N1                                       -1
 0)                           rr    '-     m -I        -I           LA           -*         r-        mn Ln                N1                       00           0)        0)       LA        -         -*   Ri
      r-               -        '-I          '-I       '-I          N-            A-        LA        LA         00        N~             WD       00           F-           r-i    W         LA        r-     LA
                               r, N-                                             LA                                        WLO
 N~           A        LA       o)           R         0)            0)           N4        N                   0)          0)          m             -          WD        LA       00        N-        c)     N
      S      00                 LA           LA        R*              00        LA                                    00 WD            N-           N4                                              m*r
r-            N1       -t       LA           r-I                                 r C))                 n    m m            00            N1          0)          0)        0)        r-I N              0      00
                                                                     WD                                                                                                                              LA
C)           N-               w              LA        cy)              1        mn                                                      rm                     LA         N4       N                N
      '        ,   N-mm                  r)    w       LA           '-I          00        W          C)       00          N-            LA        LA           '-I        *        C)        00        '-I    N
                                                                                                                                                                                                     N
          l Ri                  LA           CY)       R*           CY           N                              mn          11           N-                     LA          l       N         0)         1     G)
00             mm         r     00           LA        r-           C)            m         '-I       C)         00         WD           LA        N             W.        LA       N       W           C) LA
 N~          r-        00W               I.            :T              00        CY)                  00         N~         m       )               W        (.      R     Ln-L                      m       rn
                                                                                                                                        N                                                               Y
CY)          00                 WD           r-I       N1            N           00                                         -I           LA        C)           N-         C) N~              0          r-I r
 Wo               CY)          N             00 00                  00           LA         N4                 (W          LA           N-           WD         -          N        N-        M~ N           WL
 N-          00         mn WD                 m        LA           C)           C)         W         C)         N         LA           C)         mn           R        C       0m               LW           00
LA           r-         C)      00           '-I       mr           LA           '-I        00        N-         CY)        W           C)0                     N          N        C)        '-I       00     mr
 N~          cy)        cy      LA           CY)       N-           C)           C)         C)        11         1         00            LA        N-           C)         N                  w     m      N   00
LA           '-I        '-I     C)           00       W             '-I          Rt         C)                 r   C) N     0            N          '-I          000                0       0                C)
                                                                                                                                                                                                     LA
      CY                             0)        RT      WD              W            LA                                     N-               00        00           N-      N        LA        LA        mm)rr
 tl          C)          -I     WD           C)        W            LA            CT        m         00W              LD                 WC        N           -c           r-i    m         N         LA cy
 0C
      I-
          ~    N
                 -
                       l N
                        N-
                                n
                                  -I
                                             r-I
                                             r-I
                                                        r-
                                                        r-I
                                                                    LA
                                                                    N-
                                                                                 mn
                                                                                 r-
                                                                                            N-
                                                                                            LA
                                                                                                      r-I
                                                                                                      LA
                                                                                                                 W
                                                                                                                 00
                                                                                                                           LA
                                                                                                                            N~           00
                                                                                                                                                    CY
                                                                                                                                                    r-I
                                                                                                                                                         m        -I
                                                                                                                                                                r-I
                                                                                                                                                                           00
                                                                                                                                                                             r-I
                                                                                                                                                                                    N4
                                                                                                                                                                                      r-I     r-
                                                                                                                                                                                                r-I     WD m
                               COr                          ~                  00                                                                    w)
                      o~(                                                            ---                       -2
                                                                                                                0                                    0
                                                              rn          0       N0                                                  *L                   0~
                                                                     CL                                                                                                  C
                               0-      LA     C    *2 C       COW   V        0 U
                                                                            Q)
                                                                                              >.       c U C0               CL
                                                                                                                                          ro
                                                                                                                                                     CO
                                                                                                                                                     CO4-r                r- C ''          -      .  .
                                              >                                                                .2-'                ra                                     >        U                ~
                                                 CN   0                   .2-                                         C.2
    N
                            C    )    W
                                        N             V C)~
                                                                     M    ~        o
                                                                                    u         C:                 u       C-
                                                                                                                      mO <
                                                                                                                                  ~       0L
                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                                           >              u
                                                                                                                                                                             C)
                                                                                                                                                                                      EC      C
                                                                                                                                                                                                      0         CO
        CL           . 2 E             N C O                            -o                                                                                 -m~          0        .    ~,      4          CO     -    00
                       C)       C         -n                         mOWN C 4-    u               C                                       E        O       .2-                     E        >         "       rCkC
                              :w
                               *-C                    C                    rnOC vrn-              m          ~              WCO                 C4                                 o                  tt
              Co
             W-     ~W-         Cu
                                       ra
                                               CO)
                                                             W       -         O                       C         OC                 -L--
                                                                                                                                                     m-
                                                                                                                                                             "I CO
                                                                                                                                                                  C
                                                                                                                                                                        W>C      V
                                                                                                                                                                                   E        x         z
                                                                                                                                                                                                      V)
                                                                                                                                                                                                      V0
*C       -V          s    4                                  4-'                           o    NL                   C
                                                                                                                       > >                          -c:                                      > OW,
              EWL
             CEt                                                            >o -           C: >u         - 0-0-0
                                                                                                                        5,C~L                     ~               ~                                   Q)      E
                                                                                                   C:C- W5                  --:-D 0-Co .2- I                      EU5
                           CL)               L     0         u              b                               0           Q)                 -C    U0                   0                   0 w
                                                                      CO                  '*:
                                                                                           CL CO  bU C CL             VC)
                                                                                                                       E)                                  -                                 M  0 0
                                       -      C)                 C)                        C)                         Z)m
                                             C)                             c:                                        00r
            L 00 C)                                                              z-      ~   N  -         -e     c~ N m                                     E~L      A    -        N        C                L
Ln           0                ~ C)         C) C) C)"                                                 C) C) C) C) m~                                         E~           L.,                 u-     C)um C
        -      ~               L -LCn)               ) C               CY)                 C)           C)      C            )           -             )          C)     C           )       C         )     C
  n          00       0        rI              -I    N                    rI                    rI      -I      N           n                IY          In      m       rI        N        C)       I        m
z            z z               z                  zz                     z                z                z z                   z           z           z         z z            z z z                      z
                                                                                 LA
N                                                                                                                                                               r4N
                                                                                                                                                                 N-                    n                                LA
      <                         -n                                                  L       m            -                 <     LA       N
           N         LAL                     zn
                                             Z                                             n                                                                                     o-1
                         U-e                                                                          0CI w -                  -       (     LA)     -U      u                                                 U
                                 C)          u                      <              l        Z         z          LU                                              -J        >.                         0       x
-j
LA
               -jO
             0WC                                 < CL               a-               )<               <        ~             -U                          LA     0        LA             JuUL
                                                                                                                       48

            Q)
            bOn
            0
             wL)r           I.                      N-            W        0)      0                 00                                       -IT     N.
            =m                 moo                 r 0 0    I  0    RT     mn      m          0         M           0       0          0        LA    M
         0
     CL                                   00       LA                            N-           '-                          N
                0        CYN O'        0             mmW      0           0)     N            04      0N            -  0  N              1 00       F.
            CL) rj                         moR a 00           c            4       00                      0                                                    mY - n L
               LA             L       L       L      LA   LA     ) LA      W        n           n W D W            r       n W          -I      N-    N
            m
                                       N                                                                         00
            CL m            r,     0       CY)       n AW       r-i        LA      tW         m         00                N            r,       N4    M
            a)(          CY - r,       - '4          LA   00  -            r-I     N1           0       -*          0       D          LW       I-i   N
           ~    LA          L      m       r,        LD   r,    00         00      00           00 00               -1      00         N        CY)   CY
     2
             0-u         CL      (D    -"    m       CY) WD     mn         N       00           m       00          .-1     00         W.       0
            Q)N            0        0      m~                  *          N          mn       CY        00          CY)     RT        -1              WY
           -    m           LAW           ND         r        LA                 LA               LA             LA         LA         00       LA    LA
                                                                    ~     .2-                 L        c                             N          ob   cu
                             V)                                cu          V)c
                                         .2-                   E..                                                0                            r6I
                     lu4-.r            V)                                                             a0-         U  ~     0
                                                                                                                           C:      ~                 Eom
oo                               LA                 cu        06                              *u       CL                  0           r
                                                              Co                  oz                        -4     V)                         -F
                               E>          l2-E ~                                      0~ .7w
           A~~                                                             L
                          *-      lu                      m0
                                                    o-    U                      .cu4          2)                  V)           S2-i
             0    )        >     .>0                                                                      ro "     X       a    >
                  :
                          >~~
                           CL
                           c:o
                                  U~                       L      u,6                                        >
             U       -Esa         , WU,!a           E~~ '=     c:c                SL   0
                  Wr     <      u          ra  ~           Cu     E) Z,           CU    -  U,                               a            0           _U
                                                               N                  0                         2-r LA               ); 0
     (JI                                                       07                                           " N-  r         L          0u-j     L u c
                N        LA      m         IN-       -    LA              Nu     00           N-                                              m          LA)r "
                                m        0           000                  00                   ON                0u       0                 07
                0          00            N           00>0                                                      N        0 0           00r
                 Ei                           r,0Cl)                           N  c    C
                                  v) IL              0 I)               I                              E Iu                            E I I a
                           0       0aa)C
 Lfr                                                                  2 m          v)     l                   3     v m-4    00                      r <C
                Nn                                                                                   N             n      a)                        00
            W~~                   0~ ~        ~ 00r00~                    0                     uz ,L               -                  0
        a0      <C       <CD             CY                                      r             t       0         LD       0           D-cT n        <Ci
                          N       -1      N                   -            -     rI           0      0              -                I-L            UD
                                r~r) L              * n -i                ri       0            ,        1           1       1           149)       L

z          z                z             z z z                           z z            z z                         z z                     z           z               z
In       WD                N1         00 N1          -1                   N- -1              0i)            00         N1              0)                       N1
-1         my'         n4               -1       -*     -                     m          0       -    r-       4       -1                r-1        r-1               r
        -:            my                     W.                   0        Un                                N1
 0           N~      =-I              0       U)    0                     00 NO              0                    NO                 040        C        0        0
        0i)          -1                    w                                                   0            my         rl
 0            l          -1             0     -l    0                     0      -1  0             -l              -1    0                   lq       -l               0
U)      in            my          in       -z       R*           rlr                                      00        in in                  W.                   W
 CT     w                        L   n      in      my           -t        in            0      my          -*         myl               N4        my           m
                                                                                              WD                 Nl 0                          W.     0Y)           W
ml                   I. W          y       Lo W                  LoW N                  l my                  in in                          -1       -1               my
myl                    *         r-          -I     Lfl             00 00              0i) 0                 0          '-1         in            r             CY
I       I            r,                 00 00 00                       00 CY) 0Y 1                           11        11             1           N               N
                                                                 00         my               in             in        a)               0)         rl            in
00      r-            my          NWL                    N        00       CY) NW                            WD            L    00          00      rYn         W
WD 0i)               m              0           00                     '-1        0 in 0                       -I     N              N            r-            N
U)         WD        r-           rl          00      0i)        r-I          r-       00       -I           -I         '-I          '-I          '-I           N
                                 in                         0i)            -         0Y      N                   0Y)                           N          0     00
Li)     Un            W           ry)      0        0               in      N~       '-I     '-I             my RT                     m          00            my
N          in        0)           -1          ON                      r-I      r-I     m        m            N          N~           r-            WD           N1
0)         0)        00           r-          0)       r-I       0)           -I        r-I      -I         r-I         a)            "I          m
    rlr              00                 N N              0i)        WD r                 N         N
                                                                                                                       WD
                                                                                                                    r-I m
                                                                                                                                    0)
                                                                                                                                           N
                                                                                                                                                  0           ~     0
0       00                  0             0 R* in                      in N              0r                 m                n    N~       Un         mY            in
rl      LA             D                Lo     r-   RT           in             l     WD r,                      l     r-I           r-I          Am            N
                              C:C
                                                    (0                               4-'                                                                                 c
                                                      0          co                   CL0                                             0                                            M
                                                     V))                                                                                            0            t-      >
                0                                                                     u-       ra                       CL)           U           4
          CL'          r-.           Cj                                                          Co                     CL            E           ~                      CL
 CD       c                                           Cj          0o                  U         L     c0                0U                         WC
          m                                                            (0          CL   x         I
          (0
                  (0~-            C
                                                     0~           -             N       4-             0                 Un    ~
                                                                                                                               C~     0~~
 0          E       V)
                       U
                       u*
                                   C)
                                   cC
                                                     >u
                                                     >(
                                                                  CL)        -0
                                                                             0.
                                                                                      C                >              N(0m->
                                                                                                                        c:."            ,                   x
          C)        C!                                                                                       cu 'C1*             C,                   C:      CL(
 00       E>-                                         u           u                                                          CC~~ a)~EC~
        V)L-4                      CL        E)      ra           0          EU                                                                                   004-u
                                  00                      N         n        o-     CF          C0                        0                    CL o    -      C           U
 Eur            CCC                               l         0              -  2                r.                       CE     C:.                      r6       8.~
                Cu                           (n                                                                       -0              tw           CL            m
                     -r-                                         ..          E       -I      -C        U                       CU     C:
      o              -      >        n                                       >                 C:                       a)   E5                                         L.2N~C <>i
                     Nb'C
                       IV          m                                                                                                 U)w
        N
                Nt
                       unrva       -
                                            00W
                                                    00              OmW
                                                                             COD vo)
                                                                                                      ~
                                                                                                      EY
                                                                                                             to
                                                                                                             NC:                      an      C:           cY     "n
 OL     '-               )  0                       <-        -u                  0.        00          0           0                    0                   0           0TV
                      N                                                                      -nr                       0~
            N          D                                                    NN                                        G)~            LD
I-      C-           u-          Lo        R*       CY           CY Rt                       -n                       RT
                                                                                                                       Un            0D
                                                                                                                                     r              0
                r~~~~i<                    r,       0                      UJ        >-       UlD           W                         n
                            05

[0197]          Bead-based immunoassays (Luminex) was performed to assess the concentration
of 46 cytokines in cell culture supernatants (Myriad RBM Human InflammationMAP@
 1.0). Of the 46 evaluated, 6 were differentially secreted in treprostinil-treated and
untreated MSC cultures (see Table 6, n=3 per group). Asterisks indicate statistical
significance between the groups based on a Student's T Test (*p<0.001, or **p<0.0001).
Table 6. Inflammatory cytokine secretion is altered in MSC treated with treprostinil
     Protein Name                  Abbreviation    (+) Treprostinil          (-) Treprostinil
     Ferritin                      FRTN            0.96 +/- 0.01 ng/mL      0.70 +/- 0.11 ng/mL
                                                   (INCREASED)
     Interleukin-6                 IL-6            3580 +/- 384 pg/mL**      62 +/- 6 pg/mL
                                                   (INCREASED)
     Interleukin-8                 IL-8            Below detection          2.4 +/- 1.0 pg/mL
                                                   (DECREASED)
     Monocyte Chemotactic          MCP-1           47 +/- 9 pg/mL**          379 +/- 35 pg/mL
     Protein 1                                     (DECREASED)
     Tissue Inhibitor of           TIMP-1          12 +/- 1 ng/mL*          29 +/- 3 ng/mL
     Metalloproteinases 1                          (DECREASED)
     Vascular Endothelial          VEGF            612 +/- 37 pg/mL**       235 +/- 16 pg/mL
     Growth Factor                                 (INCREASED)
[0198]          Total RNA was extracted from exosomal preparations, and qRT-PCR was
performed with the same primer/probe sets used in experiments with the parent cells (refer
to FIG. 8). VEGF-A gene transcripts present in MSC-derived exosomes were increased
 ~4-fold as a result of treprostinil exposure (FIG. 10). Additionally, miR-21 and miR-199
3p were significantly more abundant in exosomes derived from treprostinil-treated cells
(p<0.05).
[0199]          This example shows that the gene expression and secretory profiles of MSC were
altered upon 24 hours of exposure to treprostinil in vitro. Treprostinil increased the
angiogenic potential of MSC based on the observation that VEGF protein and gene were
both increased. Furthermore, the exosomes of treprostinil-treated MSC had higher levels
of VEGF-A, which could promote increased VEGF production in target cells through a
mechanism of horizontal gene transfer.
[0200]          Furthermore, miR-21 and miR-199a-3p were observed, which could also
influence the activity in target cells (Lee et al., Circulation 126(22):2601-11, 2012).
Changes in secreted cytokines were also observed as a result of treprostinil exposure. In
                                                  51
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

particular, IL-6 was produced ~50-fold more compared to control MSC, while MCP-1 was
secreted -6-7-fold less.
  Example 4. Physical analysis of exosomes derived from MSC exposed to 250 pg/mL
                                                      treprostinil.
[0201]          The experimental procedure described in Example 3 was repeated to generate
enough exosomes for additional analysis. Conditioned media from treprostinil-treated and
-untreated MSC cultures were analyzed by tunable pulse resistive sensing (TRPS). This
method quantifies the number of particles suspended in a sample, as well as the size of
each particle, based on changes in electrical current through the sample.
[0202]          Size distribution of exosomes derived from treprostinil-treated and -untreated
MSC is presented in FIG. 11A-B. Exosome preparations from treprostinil-treated MSC
(FIG. 11A) and -untreated MSC (FIG. 11B) were analyzed for 50-600 nm sized particles
by tunable resistive pulse sensing (TRPS). These representative histograms for each
exosome population demonstrated that a majority of the particles were 150-200 nm in size
in both groups. Treprostinil-treat MSC yielded a more uniform population of exosomes,
with nearly 60% of the population falling into the ~200 nm size category. Total particle
count for each condition was >500 counts.
[0203]          Particle concentration of exosomal preparations was determined by TRPS.
Fewer particles were observed in the (+) Treprostinil preparation compared to control
(n=1). Mean size, mode size and size range were comparable between the two groups, and
included in Table 7.
[0204]          Table 7. Exosome size and concentration in (+) Treprostinil and (-)
Treprostinil preparations
     Parameter                     (+) Treprostinil (-) Treprostinil
     Concentration                 8.9 E6 per mL    1.5 E7 per mL
     Mean Diameter                 213.3 nm         210.0 nm
     Mode Diameter                 164.4 nm         147.1 nm
     Max Diameter                  503.0 nm         482.8 nm
     Min Diameter                  139.2 nm         128.3 nm
                                                            52
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

[0205]          This example suggests that treprostinil could yield a more uniform population of
exosomes.
[0206]          Although the foregoing refers to particular preferred embodiments, it will be
understood that the present disclosure is not so limited. It will occur to those of ordinary
skill in the art that various modifications may be made to the disclosed embodiments and
that such modifications are intended to be within the scope of the present disclosure.
[0207]          All of the publications, patent applications and patents cited in this specification
are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
                                                     53
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

CLAIMS:
 1.          A method for treating or preventing vasculopathy in a subject in need thereof,
comprising administering to the subject a prostacyclin and a composition comprising a
mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) or a part of a culture medium that has been in contact with
the MSC and contains one or more components of the MSC.
2.           The method of claim 1, wherein the prostacyclin and the composition are
administered concurrently.
3.           The method of claim 1, wherein the prostacyclin and the composition are
administered separately.
4.           The method of claim 1, further comprising, prior to the administration, contacting
the MSC or the part of the culture medium with a prostacyclin.
5.           The method of claim 1, wherein the component(s) of the MSC is selected from the
group consisting of an exosome, a microvesicle, a microRNA, a messenger RNA, a non
coding RNA, a mitochondria, a growth factor, and combinations thereof.
6.           The method of claim 1, further comprising administering to the subject an
endothelial progenitor cell (EPC).
7.           The method of claim 6, wherein the EPC is obtained from the subject.
8.           The method of claim 6, wherein the EPC is transformed with a nucleic acid that
increases the expression of biological activity of a protein selected from the group
consisting of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS), heme oxygenase (HMOX1) and
prostacyclin synthase (PTGIS).
9.           The method of claim 8, wherein the nucleic acid encodes the protein.
                                                 54
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

 10.         The method of claim 1, wherein the prostacyclin is selected from the group
consisting of epoprostenol, treprostinil, beraprost, ilprost, a PGI 2 receptor agonist, and
pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.
 11.         The method of claim 9, wherein the prostacyclin is treprostinil or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester thereof.
 12.         The method of claim 1, wherein the MSC is a mesenchymal precursor cell (MPC).
 13.         The method of claim 1, wherein the MSC is obtained from bone marrow.
 14.         The method of claim 1, wherein the vasculopathy is selected from the group
consisting of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH), peripheral vascular disease (PVD),
critical limb ischemia (CLI), coronary artery disease and diabetic vasculopathy.
 15.         A pharmaceutical composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a
prostacyclin and a composition comprising a mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) or a part of a
culture medium that has been in contact with the MSC and contains one or more
components of the MSC and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
 16.         The composition of claim 15, wherein the MSC or the part of the culture medium
has been in contact with a prostacyclin.
 17.         The composition of claim 15, further comprising an endothelial progenitor cell
(EPC).
 18.         A method for preparing a composition comprising a mesenchymal stem cell
(MSC) or a culture medium that has been in contact with the MSC and contains one or
more components of the MSC for in vivo delivery, comprising contacting the MSC with a
prostacyclin.
                                                 55
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

 19.         The method of claim 18, wherein the prostacyclin is present in a concentration
from about 200 pg/mL to about 300 pg/mL.
20.          A treated composition obtainable by the method of claim 18.
21.          A method for treating or preventing vasculopathy in a subject in need thereof,
comprising administering to the subject a pharmaceutical composition comprising a
pharmaceutically effective amount of a mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) culture and a
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, wherein the mesenchymal stem cell culture is
prepared by a method comprising culturing a mesenchymal stem cell ex vivo in a culture
medium and adding an amount of treprostinil or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester
thereof to the culture medium during culturing of the mesenchymal stem cell sufficient to
increase production of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) by the mesenchymal
stem cell.
22.          The method of claim 21, wherein the vasculopathy is selected from the group
consisting of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH), peripheral vascular disease (PVD),
critical limb ischemia (CLI), coronary artery disease and diabetic vasculopathy.
23.          The method of claim 21 or claim 22, wherein the vasculopathy is pulmonary
arterial hypertension.
24.          The method of any one of claims 21 to 23, wherein the mesenchymal stem cell is
obtained from bone marrow.
25.          The method of any one of claims 21 to 24, wherein the mesenchymal stem cell is a
mesenchymal precursor cell.
26.          The method of any one of claims 21 to 25, wherein the amount of the treprostinil
or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester thereof added to the culture medium is
between about 200 [g/mL and about 300 [g/mL.
27.          The method of any one of claims 21 to 26, wherein the mesenchymal stem cell
culture comprises vascular endothelial growth factor in an amount two-fold greater than a
mesenchymal stem cell culture not comprising a prostacyclin.
                                                 56
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

28.          The method of any one of claims 21 to 27, wherein the mesenchymal stem cell
culture further comprises an endothelial progenitor cell.
29.          The method of any one of claims 21 to 28, wherein the pharmaceutical
composition further comprises treprostinil or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester
thereof.
30.          A method for treating or preventing vasculopathy in a subject in need thereof,
comprising administering to the subject a pharmaceutical composition comprising a
pharmaceutically effective amount of exosomes and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier,
wherein the exosomes are isolated from an ex vivo mesenchymal stem cell culture
comprising a mesenchymal stem cell cultured in a culture medium in the presence of
treprostinil or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester thereof, wherein the treprostinil
or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester thereof is present in the culture medium in an
amount sufficient to increase the amount of vascular endothelial growth factor produced in
the mesenchymal stem cell culture and wherein the exosomes have increased vascular
endothelial growth factor-A gene transcript levels relative to exosomes obtained from a
mesenchymal stem cell culture not comprising a prostacyclin.
31.          The method of claim 30, wherein the vasculopathy is selected from the group
consisting of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH), peripheral vascular disease (PVD),
critical limb ischemia (CLI), coronary artery disease and diabetic vasculopathy.
32.          The method of claim 30 or claim 31, wherein the vasculopathy is pulmonary
arterial hypertension.
33.          The method of any one of claims 30 to 32, wherein the mesenchymal stem cell is
obtained from bone marrow.
34.          The method of any one of claims 30 to 33, wherein the mesenchymal stem cell is a
mesenchymal precursor cell.
35.          The method of any one of claims 30 to 34, wherein the amount of the treprostinil
or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester thereof present in the culture medium is
between about 200 [g/mL and about 300 [g/mL.
                                                 57
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

36.          The method of any one of claims 30 to 35, wherein the mesenchymal stem cell
culture comprises vascular endothelial growth factor in an amount two-fold greater than a
mesenchymal stem cell culture not comprising a prostacyclin.
37.          The method of any one of claims 30 to 36, wherein the mesenchymal stem cell
culture further comprises an endothelial progenitor cell.
38.          The method of any one of claims 30 to 37, wherein the pharmaceutical
composition further comprises treprostinil or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester
thereof.
                                                58
9649194_1 (GHMatters) P100279.AU.1

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
