ABSTRACT
        Various self-cinching suture anchors, self-cinching suture anchor systems, and
methods of use are provided. In one exemplary embodiment, a suture anchor is provided
that includes an outer member and an inner member configured to be received within the
outer member. The inner and outer members can define a gap that allows a suture to be
movably disposed within the outer member, e.g., within the gap, when the inner member is
disposed within the outer member. The inner member can be configured to be secured
within the outer member by a knot of the suture having a diameter greater than a width of
the gap so as to fix the inner member within the outer member, while still allowing uni
directional tensioning of the suture.

                     1/11
16p
                  16L           20w~w14
    24        24w
                          - 16L 18L 2
       21L                                     14FG.
                                        I   18
        2422A
                  22ITG18             FIG.42

                                                 1
SELF-CINCHING SUTURE ANCHORS, SYSTEMS, AND METHODS
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001]           The present disclosure relates generally to self-cinching suture anchors, self
cinching suture anchor systems, and methods for use.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]           The complete or partial detachment of ligaments, tendons, and/or other soft
tissues from their associated bones within the body are relatively commonplace injuries,
particularly among athletes. Such injuries are generally the result of excessive stresses
being placed on these tissues. By way of example, tissue detachment may occur as the
result of an accident such as a fall, over exertion during a work-related activity, during the
course of an athletic event, or in any one of many other situations and/or activities.
[0003]           In the case of a partial detachment, the injury will frequently heal itself, if
given sufficient time and if care is taken not to expose the injury to further undue stress. In
the case of complete detachment, however, surgery may be needed to re-attach the soft
tissue to its associated bone or bones. Numerous devices are currently available to re
attach soft tissue to bone. Examples of such currently-available devices include screws,
staples, suture anchors, and tacks. In soft tissue re-attachment procedures utilizing screws,
the detached soft tissue is typically moved back into its original position over the bone.
The screw is then screwed through the soft tissue and into the bone, with the shank and
head of the screw holding the soft tissue to the bone. Similarly, in soft tissue re-attachment
procedures utilizing staples, the detached soft tissue is typically moved back into its
original position over the bone. The staple is then driven through the soft tissue and into
the bone, with the legs and bridge of the staple holding the soft tissue to the bone.
[0004]           In soft tissue re-attachment procedures utilizing suture anchors, an anchor
receiving hole is generally first drilled in the bone at the desired point of tissue re
attachment. A suture anchor is then deployed in the hole using an appropriate installation
tool. This effectively locks the suture , with soft tissue attached thereto.

                                                  2
[0005]          While current suture anchors are effective in anchoring soft tissue to bone,
one drawback with current devices is that the suture and soft tissue attached thereto can
slip or otherwise move while the suture anchor is being driven into the bone. Once the
suture anchor has been driven into bone, the suture and the soft tissue cannot be adjusted to
adjust the position of the soft tissue relative to the bone because the driven suture anchor
holds the suture and soft tissue in place. The soft tissue may therefore not be in an optimal
position to facilitate healing.
[0006]          Even if the suture and the soft tissue can be adjusted after the suture anchor
has been driven into bone, tying the suture into a knot to secure the soft tissue in place
relative to the bone can cause the soft tissue to slip from an optimal position. More
particularly, surgeons typically tie suture ends using a surgical sliding knot such as the
Tennessee Slider or Duncan Loop. After advancing the knot distally to tighten the loop, a
number of additional half hitches or other knots are tied in an effort to secure the new
location of the sliding knot. The additional knots are needed because a conventional
sliding knot used in current repair constructs does not provide the necessary protection
against loosening or slippage, especially when tension is placed primarily on the limbs of
the loop. The generally accepted practice is to follow the sliding knot with at least three
reversed half hitches on alternating posts of the suture. Before one or more half hitches or
other knots can be added to the sliding knot, however, there exists a potential for the
sliding knot to slip, that is, for the loop to enlarge as the tissue places tension on the loop.
This has been referred to as "loop security" and can reportedly occur even in the hands of
very experienced surgeons. Sometimes, even fully-tied knots may slip. In addition to this
"loop security" problem, conventional knots can have an overall size that can be
obstructive or intrusive, especially in tight joints, which may damage cartilage or other
tissue by abrasion with the knot.
[0007]          Accordingly, there remains a need for improved methods and devices for
securing soft tissue to bone.

                                               3
SUMMARY
[0008]         The present invention generally provides self-cinching suture anchors, self
cinching suture anchor systems, and methods for use. In one aspect, a suture anchor is
provided that includes an outer member having an inner lumen extending therethrough
between proximal and distal ends thereof, and an inner member configured to be received
within the inner lumen of the outer member. The outer member can have at least one
bone-engaging surface feature formed on an outer surface thereof that is configured to
engage bone. A suture receiving member can extend across the inner lumen of the outer
member adjacent to the distal end, and the suture receiving member can be configured to
receive a suture therearound. The suture receiving member can, in some embodiments, be
in the form of a cross-bar extending between opposed inner sidewalls of the outer member.
The inner member can have a maximum outer diameter that is less than a minimum inner
diameter of the inner lumen of the outer member, and the inner member can have a length
extending between proximal and distal ends thereof that is not greater than a length of the
outer member extending between the proximal and distal ends of the outer member. When
the inner member is fully disposed within the inner lumen of the outer member, a suture
extending between the inner and outer members and around the suture receiving member
can be configured to be freely slidable relative to the inner and outer members.
[0009]         The inner member can vary in any number of ways. For example, the inner
member can have a central lumen extending therethrough between proximal and distal
ends thereof, and the inner lumen can be configured to have the suture extend
therethrough. At least one of the inner member and the outer member can have at least one
groove extending along an outer surface between proximal and distal ends thereof that can
be configured to seat the suture therein.
[0010]         In another aspect, a suture anchor system is provided that includes an outer
member and an inner member removably disposable within the inner lumen of the outer
member. The outer member can have an inner lumen extending therethrough between
proximal and distal ends thereof and can have a suture receiving member adjacent to the
distal end and configured to couple a suture to the outer member. In some embodiments,
the outer member can have at least one bone-engaging surface feature formed on an outer

                                                 4
surface thereof that is configured to engage bone. The inner and outer members can define
a gap therebetween for slidably receiving a suture coupled to the suture receiving member.
When the inner member is disposed within the inner lumen of the outer member such that a
proximal end of the inner member is flush or sub-flush with a proximal end of the outer
member, and when a suture is coupled to the suture receiving member, extends between
the inner and outer members, and has a knot formed therein and positioned adjacent to the
proximal ends of the inner and outer members, the suture can be freely slidable in only one
direction within the gap relative to the inner and outer members. The inner member can be
configured to be retained within the outer member solely by the knot when the suture is
coupled to the inner and outer members.
[0011]           The gap can be defined in a variety of ways. For example, the inner
member can have an outer diameter that is less than a diameter of the inner lumen in the
outer member such that the gap is formed by a space between the inner and outer members.
For another example, the gap can be formed by a groove formed in one of the inner and
outer members.
[0012]           In yet another aspect, a surgical method is provided that includes threading a
suture coupled to a soft tissue through an inner lumen of a suture anchor, around a suture
receiving member located in a distal end portion of the suture anchor, and back through the
inner lumen, the suture having first and second terminal ends that extend out of a proximal
end of the suture anchor. The method can further include implanting the suture anchor in a
bone hole, tensioning the first and second terminal ends of the suture to pull the suture
around the suture receiving member and thereby pull the soft tissue toward the suture
anchor, and forming a first knot with the first and second terminal ends of the suture such
that the first knot is positioned adjacent to the proximal end of the suture anchor and to a
proximal end of a plug disposed within the inner lumen. The suture can be threaded
through the inner lumen of the suture anchor before implanting the suture anchor in the
bone hole, e.g., as with a push-in anchor, or after implanting the suture anchor, e.g., as with
a threaded anchor. In some embodiments, a portion of the suture can extend through a
central lumen in the plug. The plug can allow free sliding movement of the suture within
the inner lumen of the suture anchor. The first knot can have an outer diameter that
prevents the first knot from passing between the suture anchor and the plug such that the

                                                 5
first knot retains the plug within the suture anchor as tension is applied to the suture by the
soft tissue. In some embodiments, after forming the first knot, a second knot can be
formed adjacent to the first knot.
[0013]           The method can also include inserting the plug into the inner lumen of the
suture anchor to fully dispose the plug within the inner lumen of the suture anchor. In
some embodiments, inserting the plug can include sliding the plug along the suture and
into the inner lumen of the suture anchor.
[0014]           The suture anchor can include a second suture anchor. Prior to implanting
the second suture anchor in the bone hole, a first suture anchor can be implanted in a first
bone hole, the suture extending around a suture receiving member formed in a distal end
portion of the first suture anchor, through an inner lumen of the first suture anchor, and
through the soft tissue. A knot can be formed in the suture adjacent to the soft tissue to
secure the soft tissue against the first suture anchor.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[0015]           This invention will be more fully understood from the following detailed
description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which:
[0016]           FIG. 1 is a side cross-sectional exploded view of one embodiment of a
suture anchor including an inner member and an outer member;
[0017]           FIG. 2 is a side cross-sectional view of the suture anchor of FIG. 1 with the
inner member disposed in the outer member;
[0018]           FIG. 3 is a side cross-sectional view of the outer member of FIG. 1 with a
suture coupled thereto;
[0019]           FIG. 4 is a top view of the suture anchor and the suture of FIG. 3;
[0020]           FIG. 5 is a side cross-sectional view of the outer member and the suture of
FIG. 3 with the inner member of FIG. 1 disposed in the outer member;

                                               6
[0021]         FIG. 6 is a top view of the inner member, the outer member, and the suture
of FIG. 5;
[0022]         FIG. 7 is a side cross-sectional view of the outer member, the inner member,
and the suture of FIG. 5 with a knot formed in the suture;
[0023]         FIG. 8 is a top view of the inner member, the outer member, and the suture
of FIG. 7;
[0024]         FIG. 9 is a side cross-sectional view of the outer member, the inner member,
and the suture of FIG. 7 with a second suture having a second knot therein;
[0025]         FIG. 10 is a top view of the inner member, the outer member, and the
sutures of FIG. 9;
[0026]         FIG. 11 is a side exploded view of another embodiment of a suture anchor
including an inner member and an outer member;
[0027]         FIG. 12 is a side view of the suture anchor of FIG. 11 with the inner
member disposed in the outer member and with a suture coupled to the inner and outer
members;
[0028]         FIG. 13 is a side view of the inner member, the outer member, and the
suture of FIG. 12 with a knot formed in the suture;
[0029]         FIG. 14 is a side exploded view of yet another embodiment of a suture
anchor including an inner member and an outer member;
[0030]         FIG. 15 is a side cross-sectional view of an embodiment of suture anchor
including an outer member and an inner member, the inner member being disposed in the
outer member and having a groove formed therein, and a suture being coupled to the inner
and outer members and seated in the groove;

                                               7
[0031]         FIG. 16 is a top view of the inner member, the outer member, and the suture
of FIG. 15;
[0032]         FIG. 17 is a side cross-sectional view of an embodiment of suture anchor
including an outer member and an inner member, the inner member being disposed in the
outer member and having a slot formed therein, and a suture being coupled to the inner and
outer members and seated in the slot;
[0033]         FIG. 18 is a top view of the inner member, the outer member, and the suture
of FIG. 17;
[0034]         FIG. 19 is a side cross-sectional view of an embodiment of suture anchor
including an outer member and an inner member, the inner member being disposed in the
outer member and having an inner passageway extending therethrough, and a suture being
coupled to the inner and outer members and extending through the inner passageway;
[0035]         FIG. 20 is a top view of the inner member, the outer member, and the suture
of FIG. 19;
[0036]         FIG. 21 is a side cross-sectional view of a bone underlying skin, a tissue
being adjacent to the bone under the skin, and a bone hole being formed in the bone;
[0037]         FIG. 22 is a side cross-sectional view of the bone, the skin, the tissue, and
the outer member of FIG. 1 disposed in the bone hole of FIG. 21 and having a loading
suture coupled thereto, the loading suture extending through the skin;
[0038]         FIG. 23 is a side cross-sectional view of the bone, the skin, the tissue, the
outer member, and the loading suture of FIG. 22 with the suture of FIG. 3 attached to the
tissue of FIG. 22;
[0039]         FIG. 24 is a side cross-sectional view of the bone, the skin, the tissue, the
outer member, the suture, and the loading suture of FIG. 23 with the suture passed through
the loading suture;

                                                 8
[0040]           FIG. 25 is a side cross-sectional view of the bone, the skin, the tissue, the
outer member, and the suture of FIG. 24 with the suture passed through the outer member
and the skin;
[0041]           FIG. 26 is a side cross-sectional view of the bone, the skin, the tissue, the
outer member, and the suture of FIG. 25 with the suture tensioned;
[0042]           FIG. 27 is a side cross-sectional view of the bone, the skin, the tissue, the
outer member, and the suture of FIG. 26 with the inner member of FIG. 1 disposed in the
outer member and the suture extending between the inner and outer members;
[0043]           FIG. 28 is a side cross-sectional view of the bone, the skin, the tissue, the
outer member, the inner member, and the suture of FIG. 26 with a knot formed in the
suture;
[0044]           FIG. 29 is a side cross-sectional view of the bone, the skin, the tissue, the
outer member, the inner member, and the suture of FIG. 26 with a second knot formed in
the suture and with ends of the knot and second knot trimmed; and
[0045]           FIG. 30 is a side cross-sectional view of a bone underlying skin, a tissue
adjacent to the bone under the skin, a suture passed through the tissue, first and second
bone holes formed in the bone, a first outer member disposed in the first bone hole and
having the suture extending therethrough, a second outer member disposed in the second
bone hole and having the suture extending therethrough, and an inner member being
disposed in the second outer member.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0046]           Certain exemplary embodiments will now be described to provide an overall
understanding of the principles of the structure, function, manufacture, and use of the
devices and methods disclosed herein. One or more examples of these embodiments are
illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Those skilled in the art will understand that the
devices and methods specifically described herein and illustrated in the accompanying
drawings are non-limiting exemplary embodiments and that the scope of the present

                                                9
invention is defined solely by the claims. The features illustrated or described in
connection with one exemplary embodiment may be combined with the features of other
embodiments. Such modifications and variations are intended to be included within the
scope of the present invention
[0047]          Further, in the present disclosure, like-numbered components of the
embodiments generally have similar features, and thus within a particular embodiment
each feature of each like-numbered component is not necessarily fully elaborated upon.
Additionally, to the extent that linear or circular dimensions are used in the description of
the disclosed systems, devices, and methods, such dimensions are not intended to limit the
types of shapes that can be used in conjunction with such systems, devices, and methods.
A person skilled in the art will recognize that an equivalent to such linear and circular
dimensions can easily be determined for any geometric shape. Sizes and shapes of the
systems and devices, and the components thereof, can depend at least on the anatomy of
the subject in which the systems and devices will be used, the size and shape of
components with which the systems and devices will be used, and the methods and
procedures in which the systems and devices will be used.
[0048]          Various devices, systems, and methods are provided for securing soft tissue
to bone. In general, various exemplary self-cinching suture anchors, self-cinching suture
anchor systems, and methods of use are provided. In one exemplary embodiment, a suture
anchor is provided that includes an outer member and an inner member configured to be
received within the outer member. The inner member can be configured to be disposed
within the outer member such that a gap exists between the inner and outer members. The
inner and outer members can cooperate to allow a suture to slide freely between the outer
and inner members, e.g., within the gap, when the inner member is disposed within the
outer member. The inner member can be configured to be secured within the outer
member by a knot of the suture having a diameter greater than a width of the gap so as to
fix the inner member within the outer member. The outer member can include at least one
bone-engaging surface feature on an exterior surface thereof and configured to engage
bone so as to secure the outer member to bone and hence secure the inner member and the
suture to the bone. In use, when the outer member is secured to bone, e.g., disposed within
a bone hole, and the inner member and the suture are disposed within the outer member,

                                                10
the suture can be movable relative to the inner and outer members, which can allow a soft
tissue attached to the suture to be optimally positioned relative to the bone even after the
suture anchor has been secured to the bone. The anchor can therefore allow the soft tissue
to be positioned relative to the bone both before and after the anchor has been driven into
the bone, which can facilitate optimal positioning of the soft tissue relative to the bone for
healing. Tension from the soft tissue coupled to the suture can self-cinch the knot of the
suture, which can help prevent the knot from loosening, e.g., help provide "loop security,"
and thereby help hold the soft tissue in an optimal position relative to the bone during
healing. The knot can be easily tied in a simple process, e.g., using a basic sliding knot or
a basic half-hitch, and can be used alone without any additional knots, which can simplify
the knot-tying and tissue-securing process and help ensure consistent results of the anchor
from user to user. The configuration of the anchor is particularly advantageous as the
tension applied to the tissue by the suture can be adjusted in one direction, e.g., tightened,
while the knot secures the suture from sliding in the opposite direction. Accordingly, the
system can provide uni-directional adjustment of the suture tension without the need to
"lock" and "unlock" the anchor.
[0049]          A person skilled in the art will appreciate that while methods, systems, and
devices are disclosed herein for anchoring soft tissue to bone, the methods, systems, and
devices can be used in a variety of other medical procedures for anchoring various objects
to one another.
[0050]          A person skilled in the art will appreciate that when an anchor disclosed
herein is partially disposed in bone, e.g., within a bone hole or a bone tunnel, the anchor's
distal end is disposed in the bone and the anchor's proximal end is proximal to a proximal
surface of the bone. A person skilled in the art will also appreciate that when the anchor is
fully disposed within the bone, the anchor's distal end is disposed in the bone and the
anchor's proximal end is substantially flush or sub-flush with the proximal surface of the
bone.
[0051]          The anchors disclosed herein can be formed from a variety of materials. In
an exemplary embodiment, material(s) forming an anchor can have physical properties that
are sufficient to allow a driver to be used to drive the anchor into bone without damaging

                                                 11
the anchor. The properties of the material(s) will depend on the particular configuration of
the anchor. For non-limiting example, where the driver is inserted into the anchor's inner
lumen, the inner lumen of the anchor can have a length that maximizes the torque strength
of the anchor as well as the amount of surface contact between a driver and the anchor,
thus allowing weaker materials, such as bioabsorbable and/or osteoconductive materials to
be used. A person skilled in the art will appreciate that a variety of other materials,
including polymers (e.g., polyetheretherketone (PEEK), polylactic Biocryl* Rapide
available from DePuy Mitek of Raynham, MA, acid (PLA), etc.) and metals (e.g., stainless
steel, titanium, Nitinol, etc.), can be used to form the anchor. An outer member and an
inner member of the anchor can each be formed of same material(s) or be formed of
different material(s). In an exemplary embodiment, at least the inner member can be
formed of substantially rigid material(s), which can help prevent the inner member from
deforming or flexing. This can also help prevent a suture knot from slipping into a space
defined between the inner and outer members, as discussed further below.
[0052]          FIGS. 1-10 illustrate one exemplary embodiment of a suture anchor 10
configured to anchor soft tissue to bone. The anchor 10 can generally be configured to
couple to at least one suture 12, and the anchor 10 can be configured to be disposed at least
partially in bone, e.g., within a bone hole or a bone tunnel, so as to secure the at least one
suture 12 to the bone and hence secure any material, e.g., a soft tissue, coupled to the at
least one suture 12 to the bone. FIGS. 3-7 illustrate one suture 12 coupled to the anchor
10, and FIGS. 9 and 10 illustrate two sutures 12, 12a coupled to the anchor 10, but any
number of sutures can be coupled to the anchor 10. Although the at least one suture 12 is
shown as being coupled to the outer member 14 before the inner member 16 has been
disposed within the outer member 14, in some embodiments, the inner member 16 can be
disposed within an inner lumen 18 of the outer member before the at least one suture 12 is
positioned within the inner lumen 18.
[0053]          The anchor 10 can be elongate and can include an outer member 14 and an
inner member 16, also referred to herein as a "plug," configured to mate to the outer
member 14. The anchor 10 can thus include two discrete members 14, 16 configured to
selectively mate together. In another embodiment, however, the inner member can be non
removably coupled to an outer member. The outer member 14 can have an inner lumen 18

                                                12
extending therethrough between a proximal end 14p and a distal end 14d thereof. The
inner member 16 can be configured to be at least partially disposed within the inner lumen
18 of the outer member 14. As in the illustrated embodiment, the inner member 16 can be
configured to be fully disposed within the outer member 14. The inner member 16 can be
disposed substantially flush or sub-flush within the outer member 14 so as to fully dispose
the inner member 14 within the outer member 16 when the inner member 16 is fully
distally advanced into the outer member 14. In other words, a proximal end 16p of the
inner member 16 can be configured to be positioned substantially flush or sub-flush with a
proximal end 14p of the outer member 14 when the distal end 16d of the inner member 16
is positioned within the outer member 14 and is proximal to or aligned with the outer
member's distal end 14d. In the illustrated embodiment, as shown in FIGS. 5, 7, and 9,
when the inner member 16 is fully distally advanced into the outer member 14, the inner
member's proximal end 16p is configured to be substantially flush with the outer
member's proximal end 14p when a distal end 16d of the inner member 16 is positioned
within the outer member 14 at a location proximal to the outer member's distal end 14d.
[0054]          As discussed further below, the inner member 16 can have a size and shape
that allows a gap 20 to be formed between the inner member 16 and the outer member 14
even when the inner member 16 is fully distally advanced into the inner lumen 18, as
shown in FIGS. 2 and 5. The outer and inner members 14, 16 can therefore cooperate to
define the gap 20, also referred to herein as a "space," therebetween when the inner
member 16 is disposed within the outer member 14. In one embodiment, the gap 20 can be
defined by an outer surface of the inner member 16 and an inner surface of the outer
member 14, and the gap 20 can extend longitudinally through the inner lumen 18 of the
outer member 14. In another embodiment, the gap can be formed by grooves, channels, or
other features in the inner and/or outer member that create a space for a suture to slide
freely relative to the inner and outer members. As also discussed further below, the gap 20
can have a maximum width 20w greater than a maximum diameter 12D of the at least one
suture 12, which can allow the at least one suture 12 to be freely movable within the gap
20, e.g., longitudinally and laterally slidable in the gap 20 relative to the outer and inner
members 14, 16. In an exemplary embodiment, the maximum width 20w of the gap 20 can
be greater than twice the maximum diameter 12D of the at least one suture 12 so as to
allow at least two lengths of the suture 12 to extend through the gap 20 on opposite sides of

                                                13
the inner member 16, as shown in FIGS. 5-10, which can allow the at least one suture 12 to
be folded. A folded suture can facilitate securing of the suture to soft tissue, as discussed
further below.
[0055]          The outer member 14 can have a variety of sizes, shapes, and
configurations. The outer member 14 can be configured to be implanted within bone, such
as within a bone hole, e.g., a hole having one open end and one closed end, or within a
bone tunnel, e.g., a tunnel having two open ends. In an exemplary embodiment, the outer
member 14 has a size and shape that allows it to be fully engaged through the thickness of
the cortical bone. As in the illustrated embodiment, the proximal end 14p of the outer
member 14 can be head-free, as the cannulated configuration of the outer member 14 can
allow a driver or other installation tool to be inserted into the inner lumen 18 to drive the
outer member 14 into bone. In other embodiments, however, an outer member can include
a head, flange, or other feature on a proximal end thereof for driving the anchor into bone
and/or limiting the insertion depth of the anchor. Exemplary configurations of an outer
member of a suture anchor include the following anchors, all commercially available from
DePuy Mitek of Raynham, MA: HEALIX*, HEALIX PEEK*, and HEALIX BR*.
[0056]          As indicated above, the outer member 14 can be in the form of an elongate
body having the inner lumen 18 extending therethrough. A suture seating member 22 can
extend across the inner lumen 18 for receiving a suture therearound. The inner lumen 18
can extend along a complete longitudinal length 14L of the outer member, as in the
illustrated embodiment, such that the outer member 14 is cannulated. The outer member
14 being cannulated can facilitate passage of the at least one suture 12 through the inner
lumen 18 and around the suture seating member 22. In another embodiment, the inner
lumen of an anchor's outer member can extend along a partial longitudinal length of the
outer member.
[0057]          The suture receiving member 22 can have a variety of sizes, shapes, and
configurations. Generally, the suture receiving member 22 can be configured to receive,
seat, or engage the at least one suture 12 extending at least partially through the inner
lumen 18 so as to help securely couple the at least one suture 12 to the outer member 14.
The suture receiving member 22, also referred to herein as a "cross bar," a "suture seating

                                                 14
member," can be disposed within the inner lumen 18 adjacent to the distal end 14d of the
outer member 14. Because the distal end 14d of the outer member 14 can define a distal
end of the anchor 10, as shown in FIGS. 2, 5, 7, and 9, the suture receiving member 22 can
thus be disposed adjacent to a distal end of the anchor 10. In another embodiment, a suture
receiving member can be located proximal to a distal end of an anchor, e.g., proximal to a
distal end of an outer member of the anchor.
[0058]           The suture receiving member 22 can be configured to engage one or more
sutures, e.g., the at least one suture 12, that extend through the inner lumen 18 of the outer
member 14. As shown in the illustrated embodiment, the suture receiving member 22 can
be in the form of a post that extends transversely across the inner lumen 18 and between
opposed inner sidewalls of the outer member 14. An angular orientation of the suture
receiving member 22 relative to a longitudinal axis A of the inner lumen 18 can vary, but
in an exemplary embodiment, a longitudinal axis 22A of the suture receiving member 22
extends substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal axis A of the inner lumen 18, as
shown in FIGS. 1 and 4. The suture receiving member 22 has a cylindrical shape and a
circular cross-sectional shape in the illustrated embodiment, but the suture receiving
member can have other shapes, e.g., hourglass-shaped, etc., and can have other cross
sectional shapes, e.g., ovular, hexagonal, etc. In an exemplary embodiment, at least a
distal surface of the suture receiving member 22 can be curved or rounded, which can
facilitate smooth sliding of the at least one suture 12 therearound.
[0059]           The suture receiving member 22 can be integrally formed with the outer
member 14, e.g., the outer member 14 and the suture receiving member 22 be molded as a
single unit or formed from a single piece of material, or the suture receiving member 22
can be a discrete element fixedly or removably mated to the outer member 14, e.g., mated
via snap fit. In an exemplary embodiment, the suture receiving member 22 can be
configured to be non-movable, e.g., non-rotatable and non-slidable, relative to the outer
member 14 whether the suture receiving member 22 is integrally formed with the outer
member 14 or is a discrete element mated to the outer member 14. In another embodiment,
the suture receiving member can be rotatable.

                                                 15
[0060]           The suture receiving member can optionally include at least one groove (not
shown) formed in an outer surface thereof. The at least one groove can be configured to
seat one or more sutures, e.g., the at least one suture 12. The at least one groove can help
predictably position the at least one suture 12 relative to the outer member 14 by seating
the at least one suture 12 therein, which can help predictably position a soft tissue coupled
to the at least one suture 12 relative to the outer member 14 and hence to bone in which the
outer member 14 is disposed.
[0061]           Various exemplary embodiments of suture receiving members are described
in further detail in U.S. Patent No. 8,114,128 entitled "Cannulated Suture Anchor" issued
February 14, 2012, and in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2009/0076544 entitled "Dual
Thread Cannulated Suture Anchor" filed September 14, 2007, which are hereby
incorporated by reference in their entireties.
[0062]           The outer member 14 can also include at least one bone-engaging surface
feature 24 for engaging bone. The at least one bone-engaging surface feature 24 can have
a variety of configurations, shapes, and sizes. In one embodiment, the at least one bone
engaging surface feature 24 can be formed on at least a portion of an external surface of
the outer member 14, e.g., in a proximal portion of the outer member 14. A distal portion
of the outer member 14 can be free of bone-engaging surface features. In other
embodiments, the surface features can be formed along the entire length or along discrete
portions of the outer member. While various surface features can be used, such as teeth,
ridges, flanges, ribs, barbs, protrusions, etc., as in the illustrated exemplary embodiment,
the outer member 14 can include at least one bone-engaging surface feature 24 in the form
of one or more threads extending therearound. In the illustrated embodiment, the outer
member 14 includes a single thread extending around the outer surface of the outer
member 14 from the proximal end thereof to the distal end thereof, but an outer member
can include a plurality of bone-engaging surface features, e.g., a plurality of threads, a
plurality of ridges, etc. Various exemplary embodiments of bone-engaging surface
features are described in further detail in previously mentioned U.S. Patent No. 8,114,128
entitled "Cannulated Suture Anchor" issued February 14, 2012, and U.S. Patent
Publication No. 2009/0076544 entitled "Dual Thread Cannulated Suture Anchor" filed
September 14, 2007, and in U.S. Patent Application No. 13/331,867 entitled "Knotless

                                                16
Instability Anchor" filed December 20, 2011 ,which is hereby incorporated by reference in
its entirety.
 [0063]          FIGS. 11-13 illustrate an embodiment of an anchor 10' including an outer
member 14' having a plurality of bone-engaging surfaces features in the form of first and
second threads 24a, 24b. FIGS. 11-13 also illustrate an inner member 16' configured to
selectively mate to the outer member 14' and be received within an inner lumen 18' thereof.
These figures also illustrate at least one suture 12' configured to couple to the outer and
inner members 14', 16'. The anchor 10' can generally be configured and used similar to
other anchors disclosed herein. The first and second threads 24a, 24b extend around the
outer member 14' in a proximal portion 14 p' of the outer member 14' such that the outer
member 14' has a threaded proximal portion 14 p' and a non-threaded distal portion 14d'.
The first thread 24a originates at a proximal end of the outer member 14' and it terminates
just proximal to a suture receiving member 22' of the outer member 14'. The suture
receiving member 22' in this illustrated embodiment is located proximal to a distal end of
the anchor 10', e.g., proximal to a distal end of the outer member 14'. The second thread
24b can extend between the first thread 24a. The second thread 24b can extend over only a
portion of the outer member 14', or over an entire longitudinal length of the outer member
 14'. As shown in FIGS. 11-13, the second thread 24b can extend along only a proximal
most portion of the outer member 14', and the second thread 24b can terminate proximal to
the first thread 24a. As a result, the threaded proximal portion 14p' of the outer member
 14' can include a dual threaded proximal region and a single threaded distal region.
Various embodiments of outer members including a plurality of bone-engaging surface
features are described in further detail in previously mentioned U.S. Patent Publication No.
2009/0076544 entitled "Dual Thread Cannulated Suture Anchor" filed September 14,
2007.
 [0064]          Referring again to the embodiment of FIGS. 1-10, as shown in FIGS. 1 and
2, the outer member 14 can have a longitudinal length 14L that is equal to or greater than a
longitudinal length 16L of the inner member 16, which can allow the inner member 16 to
be fully disposed within the outer member 14. A longitudinal length 18L of the inner
lumen 18 of the outer member 14 can thus also be equal to or greater than the inner
member's longitudinal length 16L. As shown in FIGS. 1 and 6, a maximum width 18w of

                                               17
the outer member's inner lumen 18 can be greater than a maximum width 16w of the inner
member 16, which can allow the inner member 16 to be loosely disposed within the inner
lumen 18 and can create the gap 20 therebetween. Because the inner lumen 18 in the
illustrated embodiment has a cylindrical shape and a circular cross-sectional shape, the
maximum width 18w of the inner lumen 18 equals a diameter of the inner lumen's circular
cross-sectional shape. Similarly, because the inner member 16 in the illustrated
embodiment has a cylindrical shape and a circular cross-sectional shape, the maximum
width 16w of the inner member 16 equals a diameter of the inner member's circular cross
sectional shape. Although the inner lumen 18 and the inner member 16 have the same
shapes, e.g., cylindrical, and the same cross-sectional shapes, e.g., circular, in the
illustrated embodiment, the inner lumen 18 and the inner member 16 can have different
shapes and different cross-sectional shapes, same or different from one another. The inner
lumen 18 and/or the inner member 16 can have different cross-sectional shapes along
longitudinal lengths thereof and/or can have different diameters along longitudinal lengths
thereof, e.g., the inner member 16 can have a truncated cone shape, a spherical shape, etc.
In other words, the inner member 16 and/or the inner lumen 18 can have a variable cross
sectional shape along a longitudinal length thereof, e.g., does not need to have a constant
cross-section along its length. The inner member 16 can have, e.g., a pointed or bullet
shaped distal tip and a proximal end having a size and shape adequate to form the gap 20
between the outer and inner members 14, 16 so as to allow securement of the inner
member 16 within the outer member 14 using at least one knot, as discussed further below.
The inner member 16 having such a pointed or bullet-shaped distal tip can make it easier to
insert the inner member 16 into the inner lumen 18 of the outer member 14.
[0065]           FIG. 14 illustrates another embodiment of an anchor 10" including an inner
member 16" having a hexagonal cross-sectional shape and an outer member 14" having an
inner lumen 18" with a hexagonal cross-sectional shape. A suture receiving member 22" in
this illustrated embodiment is located proximal to a distal end of the anchor 10", e.g.,
proximal to a distal end of the outer member 14". The anchor 10" can generally be
configured and used similar to other anchors disclosed herein. The outer member 14" and
various other embodiments of outer members are described in further detail in previously
mentioned U.S. Patent No. 8,114,128 entitled "Cannulated Suture Anchor" issued
February 14, 2012.

                                                18
[0066]           Referring again to the embodiment of FIGS. 1-10, the inner member 16 can
have a variety of sizes, shapes, and configurations. The inner member 16 can, as in the
illustrated embodiment, have a cylindrical shape and a circular cross-sectional shape. The
inner member 16 can be substantially solid, as in the illustrated embodiment. A person
skilled in the art will appreciate that the inner member 16 can be substantially solid despite
including one or more material inconsistencies within manufacturing tolerances, such as by
including small air bubbles. Alternatively, the inner member 16 can have one or more
hollow portions, such as by being a hollow cylindrical member having closed ends, by
being a hollow cylindrical member having one open end and one closed end, by having one
or more hollow cavities contained within a member having closed ends, etc.
[0067]           The inner member 16 can have a smooth outer surface without any surface
features formed thereon, as in the illustrated embodiment. The smooth outer surface
without any surface features can facilitate smooth slidable movement of the inner member
 16 into the outer member's inner lumen 18 and/or can facilitate smooth slidable movement
of the at least one suture 12 within the gap 20 defined by the outer and inner members 14,
16 when the inner member 16 is disposed within the outer member 14. In another
embodiment, the inner member 16 can include at least one surface feature, e.g., a textured
surface, a plurality of longitudinal ridges configured to longitudinally align one or more
sutures along a longitudinal length of the inner member, etc.
[0068]           In some embodiments, an inner member of a suture anchor can include at
least one groove formed in an outer surface thereof that defines a gap between the inner
and outer members. The at least one groove can have a variety of sizes, shapes, and
configurations. The at least one groove can extend longitudinally along the inner member
and can be configured to seat at least one suture therein. The at least one groove can
facilitate predictable positioning of the at least one suture relative to an outer member in
which the inner member including the at least one groove is disposed. FIGS. 15 and 16
illustrate an exemplary embodiment of an inner member 116 having at least one groove
117 formed in an outer surface thereof configured to seat at least one suture 112 therein.
The at least one groove 117 in this illustrated embodiment includes a single longitudinal
channel formed in an outer surface of the inner member 116, although an inner member
can include more than one groove formed therein. The longitudinal channel can have, e.g.,

                                                 19
a crescent or half-moon cross-sectional shape as in the illustrated embodiment, or the
longitudinal channel can have another shape and/or another cross-sectional shape. The at
least one groove 117 can allow for the at least one suture 112 coupled to the inner member
116 to be seated therein and extend from a predictable position longitudinally around a
perimeter of the inner member 116 when the inner member 116 is disposed in an outer
member 114, which can facilitate tensioning of the at least one suture 112 and/or of a soft
tissue coupled to the at least one suture 112. FIGS. 17 and 18 illustrate another exemplary
embodiment of an inner member 216 having at least one groove 217 in the form of a slot
formed in an outer surface thereof and configured to seat at least one suture 212 therein.
The at least one groove 217 in this illustrated embodiment includes a single slot formed in
an outer surface of the inner member 216 and extending radially inward, although as
mentioned above, an inner member can include more than one groove formed therein. The
longitudinal channel can have a rectangular cross-sectional shape as in the illustrated
embodiment, or the longitudinal channel can have another shape and/or another cross
sectional shape. The at least one groove 217 can allow for the at least one suture 212
coupled to the inner member 216 to be seated therein and extend from a predictable
position longitudinally around a perimeter of the inner member 216 when the inner
member 216 is disposed in an outer member 214, which can facilitate tensioning of the at
least one suture 212 and/or of a soft tissue coupled to the at least one suture 212. In other
embodiments, the inner member can include two grooves positioned on opposite
longitudinal sides of the inner member.
[0069]           In addition or in alternative to an inner member being configured to have at
least one suture coupled to an outer surface thereof when the inner member is disposed
within an outer member, the inner member can be configured to have at least one suture
extend through an inner lumen thereof when the inner member is disposed within the outer
member. FIGS. 19 and 20 illustrate an exemplary embodiment of an inner member 316
mateable to an outer member 314 and having an inner lumen 317 extending therethrough
that can be configured to receive at least one suture 112 therein. The inner lumen 317 in
this illustrated embodiment includes a single longitudinal inner lumen, but an inner
member can include more than one inner lumen extending therethrough, such as two
parallel lumens. The inner lumen 317 of the inner member 316 can have a cylindrical

                                                 20
shape and a circular cross-sectional shape as in the illustrated embodiment, or the inner
lumen 317 can have another shape and/or another cross-sectional shape.
[0070]           Different cross-sectional shapes of an inner member can require different
suture cinching techniques to be used, and in particular can dictate a size of a knot of a
suture coupled to the anchor. By way of non-limiting example, the gap 20 between the
outer and inner members 14, 16 of FIG. 2 can require use of a sliding knot, such as a bunt
line knot, with the at least one suture 12 extending through the gap 20, whereas a narrower
space seating at least one suture, such as in the embodiment of FIGS. 17 and 18 including
the at least one longitudinally-extending groove 217 in the form of a slot and in the
embodiment of FIGS. 19 and 20 including a cannulated inner member 316, can allow for
use of a cinching knot, such as a half-hitch knot, that is smaller than a sliding knot.
[0071]           Referring again to the embodiment of FIGS. 1-10, the at least one suture 12
coupled to the anchor 10 can have a variety of sizes, shapes, and configurations, as will be
appreciated by a person skilled in the art. As also will be appreciated by a person skilled in
the art, the at least one suture 12 can be coupled to the anchor 10 in a variety of ways, e.g.,
by hand, by using a suture threading device, etc. In some embodiments, the at least one
suture 12 can be pre-loaded within the inner lumen 18 of the outer member 14, e.g.,
packaged as a pre-loaded unit, which can speed usage of the anchor 10 in a surgical
procedure.
[0072]           As shown in FIGS. 3 and 4, the at least one suture 12 can be configured to
be positioned within the inner lumen 18 of the outer member 14 such that the suture 12 can
be movable therein relative to the outer member 14, e.g., by sliding around the suture
seating member 22. The at least one suture 12 can be positioned within the inner lumen 18
such that a first portion of the at least one suture 12 extends through the inner lumen 18
and out of the proximal end of the outer member 14, a second portion of the at least one
suture 12 extends through the inner lumen 18 and out of the proximal end of the outer
member 14, and a mid-portion of the at least one suture 12 located between the first and
second portions of the at least one suture 12 is positioned around the suture seating
member 22 at a location distal to the inner member 16. In an exemplary embodiment, as
mentioned above, the at least one suture 12 can be positioned within the inner lumen 18

                                               21
with the at least one suture 12 being folded. Such folding can allow terminal ends 12el,
12e2 of the at least one suture 12 to define an end of the first portion of the at least one
suture 12 extending out of the outer member 14 and a looped end or a folded point 12f of
the at least one suture 12 to define an end of the second portion of the at least one suture
12. The at least one suture 12 can be configured to be movable within the inner lumen 18,
e.g., moving within the gap 20, even after the inner member 16 has been positioned within
the inner lumen 18, as shown in FIGS. 5 and 6.
[0073]          As discussed further below, when the inner member 16 is positioned within
the inner lumen 18 and the at least one suture 12 is positioned within the gap 20 such that
its terminal ends extend from the proximal end of the outer member 14, as shown in FIGS.
5 and 6, a knot 26 can be formed with the terminal ends 12el, 12e2 of the at least one
suture 12, as shown in FIGS. 7 and 8. The knot 26 can have a size that prevents the knot
26 from passing between the outer and inner members 14, 16. In an exemplary
embodiment, the knot 26 can have an outer diameter 26D, shown in FIG. 7, that is greater
than the maximum width 20w of the gap 20. In other words, a minimum width 26w of the
knot 26, shown in FIG. 8, can be greater than the maximum width 20w of the gap 20.
Having a size greater than a size of the gap 20 can prevent the knot 26 from passing
between the outer and inner members 14, 16, e.g., from passing into the gap 20, and can
prevent the inner member 14 from being releasable from the outer member 16 (at least
when the opposite end of the at least one suture 12 is coupled to the tissue and without first
undoing the knot 26). A portion of the knot 26 may extend into the gap 20, e.g., be pulled
therein due to a force exerted by a tissue attached to the folded end 12f of the at least one
suture 12, but the size of the knot 26 can prevent the knot 26 from fully passing into the
gap 20 and can prevent the inner member 16 from being released from the outer member
14.
[0074]          The knot 26 can be a sliding knot, or the knot 26 can be a simple knot such
as a half-hitch. Because the knot 26 can be self-cinching, e.g., be tensioned from an
opposite end 12f of the at least one suture 12 attached to a tissue, both sliding knots and
simple knots can be effective in securing the at least one suture 12 for effective anchor
functionality.

                                               22
[0075]          Although only one knot 26 is shown formed with the at least one suture 12,
a plurality of knots can be formed in the at least one suture 12. Each of the plurality of
knots can have a size, same or different from a size of any of the other knots, that prevents
the knot from passing between the outer and inner members 14, 16. Forming a plurality of
knots with the at least one suture 12 can help ensure anchor functionality in the unlikely
event of suture knot failure, e.g., knot unraveling, suture breakage, etc. In an embodiment
that includes a plurality of sutures, such as shown in FIGS. 9 and 10, each knot 26, 26a
formed in the sutures 12, 12a can have a size, same or different from one another, that
prevents the knots 26, 26a from passing between the outer and inner members 14, 16.
Having multiple sutures 12, 12a and hence also multiple knots 26, 26b can help ensure
anchor functionality in the unlikely event of suture failure. Additionally, as mentioned
above, although only one knot 26, 26a is shown formed with each of the sutures 12, 12a,
each of the sutures 12, 12a can have any number of knots formed therewith, same or
different from each other. A knotting element can be used instead of a suture, as will be
appreciated by a person skilled in the art.
[0076]          In another embodiment, a suture anchor kit can be provided including one or
more outer members and one or more inner members. In an exemplary embodiment, each
of the inner members can be configured to be received within each of the outer members
such that the inner members can be interchangeably used with the outer members. Each of
the outer members can have a different size, different shape, and/or different configuration
than the other outer members, and each of the inner members can have a different size,
different shape, and/or different configuration than the other inner members. In this way,
the outer member having the most appropriate size, shape, and configuration, and the inner
member having the most appropriate size, shape, and configuration, can be selected for use
in a particular surgical procedure with a particular patient, which can help a single kit
accommodate different situations, such as different surgical procedures, different patient
anatomies, various suture sizes, and various tissue sizes. The kit can optionally include
one or more sutures configured to mate with the one or more inner members and the one or
more outer members. As mentioned above, the suture(s) can be pre-loaded in the outer
member(s), or the suture(s) can be loaded during or after the outer member is implanted.
The sutures can have different sizes, different shapes, and/or different configurations from
one another, which similar to that mentioned above, can allow suture(s) to be selected for

                                                23
use to accommodate different situations. The kit can include one or more additional
surgical tools configured to be used with a suture anchor, e.g., one or more drivers, etc.
[0077]          In use, as mentioned above, the suture anchors disclosed herein can be used
in a minimally invasive surgical procedure for securing a soft tissue to bone. Generally,
the patient can first be prepared for the surgery using standard techniques.
[0078]          FIGS. 21-29 illustrate an exemplary embodiment of a surgical procedure for
soft tissue repair. Although the procedure is illustrated with respect to the anchor 10 of
FIGS. 1-8, any of the anchors disclosed herein can be similarly used. Also, although the
procedure is illustrated with respect to a soft tissue repair, any of the suture anchors
disclosed herein can be used to surgically repair various problems.
[0079]          As shown in FIG. 21, a bone hole 404 can be formed in a patient's bone 400
underlying skin 402 of the patient. Although a bone hole 404 is shown in this
embodiment, as mentioned above, anchors described herein can be used with bone tunnels.
The bone hole 404 can be formed in a variety of ways, as will be appreciated by a person
skilled in the art, such as by drilling. In an exemplary embodiment, the bone hole 404 can
have a diameter 404D that is slightly less than a maximum outer width 14w of the outer
member 14, shown in FIG. 2, which can facilitate engagement of the bone-engaging
surface features 24 with the bone 400 and secure fit of the outer member 14 within the
bone hole 404. Also in an exemplary embodiment, a longitudinal length 404L of the bone
hole 404 can be substantially equal to or can be slightly greater than the longitudinal length
14L of the outer member 14, shown in FIG. 1, which can allow the outer member 14 to be
fully disposed within the bone hole 404, e.g., with the proximal end of the outer member
14 being substantially flush or sub-flush with a proximal end of the bone hole 404, i.e.,
with a surface of the bone 400. The bone hole 404 can extend fully through cortical bone
to allow the outer member 14 to be fully engaged through the thickness of the cortical
bone. The bone hole 404 can also extend into cancellous bone underlying the cortical bone
depending on the longitudinal length 14L of the outer member 14.
[0080]          The outer member 14 can be inserted into the bone hole 404, as shown in
FIG. 22. As will be appreciated by a person skilled in the art, the outer member 14 can be

                                                 24
inserted into the bone hole 404 in a variety of ways, such as by inserting a distal tip of a
driver into the inner lumen 18 through the proximal end of the outer member 14 and
advancing the outer member 14 in a distal direction into the bone hole 404. The outer
member 14 can be impacted into the bone hole 404 or driven therein using another
technique, as will be appreciated by a person skilled in the art. As the outer member 14
advances distally into the bone hole 404, the bone-engaging surface feature 24 can engage
the bone 400, e.g., thread into the bone 400 as the outer member 14 is rotated relative to
the bone 400, which can help prevent removal of the outer member 14 from the bone hole
404.
[0081]           Although the bone hole 404 is pre-formed in the bone 400 before the outer
member 14 is advanced into the bone 400 in the illustrated embodiment, as will be
appreciated by a person skilled in the art, the bone hole 404 can be partially formed in the
bone 400 before an outer member is advanced therein. Alternatively, as will also be
appreciated by a person skilled in the art, an outer member can be configured to form a
bone hole as the outer member is advanced into the bone, such as by having a pointed
distal tip that is substantially rigid.
[0082]           The at least one suture 12 can be coupled to the outer member 14 before or
after the outer member 14 is inserted into the bone hole 404. In an exemplary
embodiment, the at least one suture 12 is coupled to the outer member 14 before the outer
member 14 is inserted into the bone 400. If the at least one suture 12 is coupled to the
outer member 14 before the outer member 14 is inserted into the bone 400, trailing ends of
at least one suture 12, e.g., trailing ends of the first and second portions of the at least one
suture 12, can extend externally along a driver used to advance the outer member 14 into
the bone 400 and/or can extend through an inner lumen of the driver.
[0083]           At least one loading suture 406 can be coupled to the outer member 14 to
facilitate coupling of the at least one suture 12 to the outer member 14, as shown in FIGS.
22-25. The at least one loading suture 406 can be coupled to the outer member 14 before
or after the outer member 14 is inserted into the bone hole 404. If the at least one loading
suture 406 is coupled to the outer member 14 before the outer member 14 is inserted into
the bone 400, trailing ends of the at least one loading suture 406 can extend externally

                                                25
along a driver used to advance the outer member 14 into the bone 400 and/or can extend
through an inner lumen of the driver. In an exemplary embodiment, the at least one
loading suture 406 is pre-loaded or factory-installed in the outer member 14, and the at
least one suture 12 is threaded in the at least one loading suture 406 before the outer
member 14 is implanted. The suture 12 can be coupled to outer member 14 using the
loading suture 406 before or after insertion of the outer member 14 into the bone 400, e.g.,
if the outer member 14 is a push-in type member. If the outer member 14 is threaded into
the bone 400, then the suture 12 can be coupled to the outer member 14 after insertion of
the outer member 14 into the bone 400, which can help prevent the suture 12 from
wrapping around the outer member 14 and/or the inserter tool used to drive the outer
member 14 into the bone 400. Threading the outer member 14 into the bone 400 can give
better fixation between the bone 400 and the anchor 10 than with a non-threaded outer
member.
[0084]           Whether the at least one loading suture 406 is coupled to the outer member
14 before or after the outer member 14 is inserted into the bone hole 404, the at least one
loading suture 406 can be positioned within the inner lumen 18 similar to that discussed
above for the at least one suture 12. As shown in FIG. 22, the at least one loading suture
406 can be coupled to the outer member 14 such that a first portion of the at least one
loading suture 406 extends through the inner lumen 18 and out of the proximal end of the
outer member 14, a second portion of the at least one loading suture 406 extends through
the inner lumen 18 and out of the proximal end of the outer member 14, and a mid-portion
of the at least one loading suture 406 located between the first and second portions of the at
least one loading suture 406 is positioned around the suture seating member 22. A first
end 406a of the at least one loading suture 406 can define an end of the first portion of the
at least one loading suture 406 extending out of the outer member 14, and a second end
406b of the at least one loading suture 406 can define an end of the second portion of the at
least one loading suture 406. The second end 406b can include a loading loop configured
to facilitate coupling the at least one suture 12 to the outer member 14, although the first
end 406a can also or alternatively include a loading loop. If the outer member 14 is
implanted with the loading suture coupled thereto, the loading suture's second end 406b
can be positioned relative to the bone 400 so that the loading suture's second end 406b is

                                                26
on a side of the bone hole 404 nearer a position where a soft tissue 408 is to be coupled to
the bone 400, as shown in FIG. 22.
[0085]          The at least one suture 12 can be coupled to the soft tissue 408 in any way,
as will be appreciated by a person skilled in the art, such as by being passed through the
soft tissue 408, e.g., using a needle. As shown in FIG. 23, the at least one suture 12 can be
advanced through the soft tissue 408 such that one of the terminal ends 12el of the at least
one suture 12 is positioned on one side of the soft tissue 408, the other of the terminal ends
12e2 of the at least one suture 12 is positioned on another, opposite side of the soft tissue
408, and the folded point 12f of the at least one suture 12 extends through or is positioned
within the soft tissue 408.
[0086]          The at least one suture 12 can be coupled to the at least one loading suture
406 to facilitate coupling of the at least one suture 12 to the outer member 14. In an
exemplary embodiment, the at least one suture 12 and the at least one loading suture 406
can be coupled together by passing the terminal ends 12el, 12e2 of the at least one suture
12 through the loading loop of the at least one loading suture 406, e.g., through the second
end 406b, as shown in FIG. 24. The terminal ends 12el, 12e2 of the at least one suture 12
can be so passed in any way, as will be appreciated by a person skilled in the art, e.g., by
hand and/or by threading tool. As shown in FIG. 25, the at least one loading suture 406
having the at least one suture 12 coupled thereto, e.g., passed through the loading loop
thereof, can be moved relative to the outer member 14 to advance the at least one suture 12
into the inner lumen 18. In an exemplary embodiment, the at least one loading suture 406
can be moved by pulling the first end 406a of the at least one loading suture 406 so as to
pull the second end 406b of the at least one loading suture 406 and the at least one suture
12 into the inner lumen 18, around the suture seating member 22, and out of the inner
lumen 18. Although the soft tissue 408 is shown as being coupled to the at least one suture
12 before the at least one suture 12 is coupled to the outer member 14, the soft tissue 408
can be coupled to the at least one suture 12 after the at least one suture 12 is coupled to the
outer member 14, such as by tying the folded point 12f to the soft tissue 408 after the at
least one suture 12 is coupled to the outer member 14.

                                                 27
[0087]            With the at least one suture 12 coupled to the outer member 14, and with the
at least one suture 12 coupled to the soft tissue 408, as shown in FIG. 26, the at least one
suture 12 can be tensioned relative to the bone 400 and the outer member 14, thereby
tensioning the soft tissue 408 relative to the bone 400 and the outer member 14. The at
least one suture 12 can be tensioned in any way, as will be appreciated by a person skilled
in the art, e.g., by pulling the terminal ends 12el, 12e2 simultaneously by hand and/or by
tool.
[0088]            The inner member 16 can be inserted into the inner lumen 18 of the outer
member 14, as shown in FIG. 27, with the at least one suture 12 positioned in the gap 20
defined by the outer and inner members 14, 16. The inner member 16 can be inserted into
the outer member 14 before the at least one suture 12 is tensioned, but tensioning the at
least one suture 12 before inserting the inner member 16 into the outer member 14 can help
prevent the inner member 16 from snagging on the at least one suture 12 and/or help
prevent the at least one suture 12 from wrapping or tangling around the inner member 16
so as to hinder free movement of the at least one suture 12 within the gap 20. Also, the
inner member 16 can be positioned in the outer member 14 with the at least one loading
suture 406 before or after the outer member 14 is implanted.
[0089]            Because the outer and inner members 14, 16 define the gap 20 therebetween
when the inner member 16 is fully disposed therein, the at least one suture 12, and hence
the soft tissue 408 attached thereto, can be tensioned after the inner member 16 has been
inserted into the outer member 14, e.g., by sliding the at least one suture 12 through the
gap 20 relative to the bone 400 and the outer and inner members 14, 16. The soft tissue
408 can thus be selectively tensioned and adjusted in position relative to the bone 400 and
to the anchor 10 similar to a ratcheting system after the anchor 10 has been fully distally
advanced into the bone hole 400. Advancement of the anchor 10 into the bone 400 and
advancement of the at least one suture 12 through the anchor 10 will thus have no effect on
position of the soft tissue 408 and the tension applied thereto by the at least one suture 12.
[0090]            As shown in FIG. 28, a knot 26 can be formed in the at least one suture 12,
thereby securing the soft tissue 408 in position relative to the bone 400 and to the anchor
10. The soft tissue 408 can provide a tension force to the at least one suture 12 so as to

                                               28
self-cinch the knot 26 and pull the knot 26 toward the anchor 10, which can help prevent
the knot 26 from relaxing and can help prevent the movement of the at least one suture 12
relative to the bone 400, thereby holding the soft tissue 408 in place relative to the bone
400 for healing purposes. As explained above, the knot 26 can be made to have a size that
prevents passage of the knot 26 through the gap 20 between the outer and inner members
14, 16. As a result, the soft tissue 408 will apply tension to the at least one suture 12 that
pulls the knot 26 distally toward the distal end of the anchor, i.e., as a result of the at least
one suture 12 extending around the suture receiving member 22. The knot 26 will this abut
a proximal surface of the inner member 16, thereby pushing the inner member 16 distally
into the outer member 14. The knot 26 will thereby retain the inner member 16 within the
outer member 14 and simultaneously prevent slippage of the at least one suture 12 and
movement of the soft tissue 408 away from the anchor 10. The at least one suture 12 can,
however, be tensioned further to pull the soft tissue 408 toward the anchor 10. The knot 26
can be slid along the at least one suture 12 to increase the tension and/or one or more
additional knots can be added to the at least one suture, as shown in FIG. 29. Accordingly,
the anchor 10 allows for uni-directional movement of the at least one suture 12 to increase
the tension applied to the soft tissue 408. The anchor 10 also provides simultaneous
fixation of the inner member 16 within the outer member 14 without the need to "lock" and
"unlock" the anchor 10. A person skilled in the art will appreciate that any one or more of
the knots 26, 26a formed in the at least one suture 12 can optionally be loosened,
readjusted, and/or removed by manually undoing the knot(s) 26, 26a, e.g., by picking on
the knot(s) by hand and/or by tool, which can allow the soft tissue 408 to be readjusted
again relative to the bone 400 and the anchor 10 if the soft tissue 408 is determined to not
be in an optimal position relative to the bone 400, e.g., if too much tension is applied.
[0091]          While FIGS. 21-29 illustrate a single-row soft tissue repair using a single
anchor, the anchors disclosed herein can be used in multi-row soft tissue repair using
multiple anchors. FIG. 30 illustrate an exemplary embodiment of a surgical procedure for
double-row soft tissue repair using two anchors. Although the procedure is illustrated with
respect to the anchor 10 of FIGS. 1-8, any of the anchors disclosed herein can be similarly
used, and each of the anchors used in the procedure can be the same or different from one
another. Also, although the procedure is illustrated with respect to a soft tissue repair, any
of the suture anchors disclosed herein can be used to surgically repair various problems.

                                                29
The procedure of FIG. 30 can be generally the same as that discussed above regarding
FIGS. 21-29, although only one of the outer members in the double-row soft tissue repair
need have an inner member coupled thereto.
[0092]          A first outer member 514, which can be configured and used similar to the
outer member 14 of the anchor 10, can be advanced into a first bone hole 504 formed in
bone 500. At least one suture 512, which can be configured and used similar to the at least
one suture 12, can be advanced through the first outer member 514 before or after the first
outer member 514 is advanced into the bone 400, and the at least one suture 512 can be
coupled to a soft tissue 508 before or after the first outer member 514 is advanced into the
bone 400. One or more knots 512a, 512b can be formed in the at least one suture 512 that
faces a first surface of the soft tissue 508 that is opposite to a second side of the soft tissue
508 on the first outer member 514. An inner member does not need to be advanced into
the first outer member 514 because the soft tissue 508 can be held in place by tension
between the one or more knots 512a, 512b and a suture seating member 522 of the first
outer member 514 around which the at least one suture 512 can be wrapped around.
[0093]          Trailing ends of the at least one suture 512 can span over a portion of the
soft tissue 508 and toward a second bone hole 604 formed in the bone 500, e.g., similar to
a mattress stitch. A second outer member 614 can be positioned within the second bone
hole 604, before or after the first outer member 514 is positioned within the first bone hole
504. The at least one suture 512 can be coupled to the second outer member 614, and an
inner member 616 can be advanced into the second outer member 616 with the at least one
suture 512 positioned in a gap defined between the outer and inner members 614, 616.
One or more knots 512c, 512d can be formed in the at least one suture 512, thereby
securing the soft tissue 508 in position relative to the bone 500 and to the second outer
member 614 and its associated inner member 616. The one or more knots 512a, 512b
associated with the first outer member 514 can provide a tension force to the at least one
suture 512 so as to self-cinch the one or more knots 512c, 512d associated with the second
outer member 614 and pull the one or more knots 512c, 512d toward the second outer
member 614. The one or more knots 512c, 512d will thus also secure the inner member
616 within the second outer member 614. Although FIG. 30 illustrates the first tissue
fixation point as being at the first outer member 514, the first tissue fixation point can

                                                30
otherwise be at the soft tissue 508, e.g., using fixation other than an outer member, such as
another type of anchor. Additionally, although the one or more knots 512a, 512b are
shown in the illustrated embodiment, the one or more knots 512a, 512b need not be
present. The one or more knots 512c, 512d adjacent the second anchor including the outer
and inner members 614, 616 can secure the soft tissue 508 in place.
[0094]           In another embodiment of a multi-row soft tissue repair using multiple
anchors, an anchor can be coupled to a plurality of sutures, each of the sutures trailing from
different anchors. Using the anchor of FIGS. 9 and 10 as a non-limiting example, one of
the sutures 12 can be coupled to a first outer member disposed in bone, or otherwise
coupled to a first soft tissue fixation point, and the other of the sutures 12a can be coupled
to a second outer member disposed in the bone, or otherwise coupled to a second soft
tissue fixation point. Alternatively, each of the sutures 12, 12a can trail from a same outer
member disposed in the bone, or otherwise can be coupled to a soft tissue fixation point.
In another embodiment, one suture can be coupled to a plurality of anchors, e.g., like a
mattress stitch.
[0095]           A person skilled in the art will appreciate that the present invention has
application in conventional minimally-invasive and open surgical instrumentation as well
application in robotic-assisted surgery.
[0096]           The devices disclosed herein can also be designed to be disposed of after a
single use, or they can be designed to be used multiple times. In either case, however, the
device can be reconditioned for reuse after at least one use. Reconditioning can include
any combination of the steps of disassembly of the device, followed by cleaning or
replacement of particular pieces and subsequent reassembly. In particular, the device can
be disassembled, and any number of the particular pieces or parts of the device can be
selectively replaced or removed in any combination. Upon cleaning and/or replacement of
particular parts, the device can be reassembled for subsequent use either at a reconditioning
facility, or by a surgical team immediately prior to a surgical procedure. Those skilled in
the art will appreciate that reconditioning of a device can utilize a variety of techniques for
disassembly, cleaning/replacement, and reassembly. Use of such techniques, and the
resulting reconditioned device, are all within the scope of the present application.

                                               31
[0097]          One skilled in the art will appreciate further features and advantages of the
invention based on the above-described embodiments. Accordingly, the invention is not to
be limited by what has been particularly shown and described, except as indicated by the
appended claims. All publications and references cited herein are expressly incorporated
herein by reference in their entirety.
[0098]          Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the
context requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
"comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group
of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or
steps.
[0099]          The reference to any prior art in this specification is not and should not be
taken as an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of the
common general knowledge in Australia.
[0100]          This application is a divisional application from Australian Application
2013231048. The full disclosure of AU 2013231048 is incorporated herein by reference.

                                              32
CLAIMS
1.        A suture anchor, comprising:
          an outer member having an inner lumen extending therethrough between proximal
and distal ends thereof, the outer member having at least one bone-engaging surface
feature formed on an outer surface thereof and configured to engage bone, and the outer
member having a suture receiving member extending across the inner lumen adjacent to
the distal end, the suture receiving member being configured to receive a suture
therearound; and
          an inner member configured to be received within the inner lumen of the outer
member, the inner member having a maximum outer diameter that is less than a minimum
inner diameter of the inner lumen of the outer member, and the inner member having a
length extending between proximal and distal ends thereof that is not greater than a length
of the outer member extending between the proximal and distal ends of the outer member;
          wherein when the inner member is fully disposed within the inner lumen of the
outer member, a suture extending between the inner and outer members and around the
suture receiving member is configured to be freely slidable relative to the inner and outer
members.
2.        The suture anchor of claim 1, wherein the inner member has a central lumen
extending therethrough between proximal and distal ends thereof, the central lumen being
configured to have the suture extend therethrough.
3.        The suture anchor of claim 1, wherein at least one of the inner member and the
outer member has at least one groove extending along an outer surface between proximal
and distal ends thereof, the groove being configured to seat the suture therein.
4.        The suture anchor of claim 1, wherein the suture receiving member comprises a
cross-bar extending between opposed inner sidewalls of the outer member.
5.        The suture anchor of claim 1, further comprising a suture configured to be
received in the inner lumen of the outer member such that when the inner member is fully
disposed within the inner lumen of the outer member, the suture extends between the inner

                                               33
and outer members and around the suture receiving member and is freely slidable relative
to the inner member and the outer member.
6.        A suture anchor system, comprising:
          an outer member having an inner lumen extending therethrough between proximal
and distal ends thereof, the outer member having a suture receiving member adjacent to the
distal end and configured to couple a suture to the outer member; and
          an inner member removably disposable within the inner lumen of the outer
member, the inner and outer members defining a gap therebetween for slidably receiving a
suture coupled to the suture receiving member;
          wherein, when the inner member is disposed within the inner lumen of the outer
member such that a proximal end of the inner member is flush or sub-flush with a proximal
end of the outer member, and when a suture is coupled to the suture receiving member,
extends between the inner and outer members, and has a knot formed therein and
positioned adjacent to the proximal ends of the inner and outer members, the suture is
freely slidable in only one direction within the gap relative to the inner and outer members.
7.        The system of claim 6, wherein the inner member is configured to be retained
within the outer member solely by the knot when the suture is coupled to the inner and
outer members.
8.        The system of claim 6, wherein the outer member has at least one bone-engaging
surface feature formed on an outer surface thereof that is configured to engage bone.
9.        The system of claim 6, wherein the inner member has an outer diameter that is
less than a diameter of the inner lumen in the outer member such that the gap is formed by
a space between the inner and outer members.
10.       The system of claim 6, wherein the gap is formed by a groove formed in one of
the inner and outer members.

                                                 34
11.        A surgical method, comprising:
           threading a suture coupled to a soft tissue through an inner lumen of a suture
anchor, around a suture receiving member located in a distal end portion of the suture
anchor, and back through the inner lumen, the suture having first and second terminal ends
that extend out of a proximal end of the suture anchor;
           implanting the suture anchor in a bone hole;
           tensioning the first and second terminal ends of the suture to pull the suture
around the suture receiving member and thereby pull the soft tissue toward the suture
anchor; and
           forming a first knot with the first and second terminal ends of the suture such that
the first knot is positioned adjacent to the proximal end of the suture anchor and to a
proximal end of a plug disposed within the inner lumen, the plug allowing free sliding
movement of the suture within the inner lumen of the suture anchor, and the first knot
having an outer diameter that prevents the first knot from passing between the suture
anchor and the plug such that the first knot retains the plug within the suture anchor as
tension is applied to the suture by the soft tissue.
12.        The method of claim 11, wherein a portion of the suture extends through a central
lumen in the plug.
13.        The method of claim 11, further comprising inserting the plug into the inner
lumen of the suture anchor to fully dispose the plug within the inner lumen of the suture
anchor.
14.        The method of claim 13, wherein inserting the plug comprises sliding the plug
along the suture and into the inner lumen of the suture anchor.
15.        The method of claim 11, further comprising, after forming the first knot, forming
a second knot adjacent to the first knot.
16.        The method of claim 11, wherein the suture anchor comprises a second suture
anchor, and the method further comprises prior to implanting the second suture anchor in
the bone hole, implanting a first suture anchor in a first bone hole, the suture extending

                                                35
around a suture receiving member formed in a distal end portion of the first suture anchor,
through an inner lumen of the first suture anchor, and through the soft tissue.
17.       The method of claim 16, further comprising forming a knot in the suture adjacent
to the soft tissue to secure the soft tissue against the first suture anchor.
18.       The method of claim 11, wherein the suture is threaded through the inner lumen
of the suture anchor before implanting the suture anchor in the bone hole.
19.       The method of claim 11, wherein the suture is threaded through the inner lumen
of the suture anchor after implanting the suture anchor in the bone hole.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
