                      ANALYTICS IN A UTILITY INFRASTRUCTURE
                                           ABSTRACT
        Techniques for analyzing a utility infrastructure are described herein. In one example,
data is obtained from a utility system. The data may include consumption measurement
information, consumption measurement exceptions and/or system events. Exceptions may
include data indicating a possible problem, such as significantly increased or decreased
consumption, reduced voltage, etc. Events may include data on power down actions, meter
removal, etc. Attributes may be considered, including demographic information, weather
information, economic information, etc. The data may be filtered by com- parison to known
patterns of measurements, exceptions, events and/or attributers that indicate an analytic event.
Accordingly, analytic events may include important system information that is inferred from
large quantities of data. Analytic events may be reported to an operator through operation of a
user interface.

                                                   1
                      ANALYTICS IN A UTILITY INFRASTRUCTURE
                                    RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]       This patent application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application
No. <removed-apn>, filed on 18 March 2016, in turn a divisional application of Australian Patent
Application No. 2013212226, a national phase entry of International Patent Application No.
PCT/US2013/022814, filed on 23 January 2013. International Patent Application No.
PCT/US2013/022814 claims priority to U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 61/589,816, titled
"Active Smart Grid Analytics", filed on 23 January 2012, commonly assigned herewith, which is
incorporated herein by reference. Australian Patent Application No. 2013212226 and Australian
Patent Application No. <removed-apn> are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
                                          BACKGROUND
[0002]      Utility companies provide electricity, gas, water, heat, steam, and other consumables
or services (e.g., sewer, etc.) to consumers. A utility company may offer such services over a
considerable geographic area and to a large number of consumers. Utility companies have
increasingly networked their infrastructure, and considerable data is generated from
measurement points throughout their systems. In theory, the data is usable by operators, who
can use the data to recognize problems and to correct them. In practice, the flood of data that
results from successful operation of the network tends to bury important data points that indicate
problems that should be addressed. Thus, while data may indicate problems with a utility system
that should be addressed, in many cases that data is simply not recognized or comprehended by
operators of those systems.
14381482_1

                                             2
                     BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   [00031    The   detailed   description   is   described   with  reference    to  the
   accompanying figures.       In the figures, the left-most digit(s) of a reference
   number identifies the figure in which the reference number first appears. The
 5 same numbers are used throughout the drawings to reference like features and
   components. Moreover, the figures are intended to illustrate general concepts,
   and not to indicate required and/or necessary elements.
   [00041 FIG. 1 is a block diagram showing an example network from which
   data may be obtained, including a central office configured for performing
10 techniques in analytics in a utility infrastructure environment.
   [00051 FIG. 2 is a block diagram showing example structure of a system
   configured for performing analytics in a utility infrastructure environment.
   [00061 FIG. 3 is an example of a user interface configured as part of an
   analytics    system    configured   for   operation   in  a utility   infrastructure
15 environment.
   [00071 FIG. 4 is a flow diagram showing example operation of analytic
   techniques in a utility infrastructure environment.
   [00081 FIG. 5 is a circuit diagram illustrating example operation of the
   analytic techniques in a utility environment, including example identification of
20 sequential and/or nested analytic events.
                               DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   Overview
   [00091    Techniques for implementing and operating analytics in a utility
25 infrastructure environment are described herein.          In one example of the
   techniques, data is obtained from a utility system. The data may be related to
   electricity, gas, water, steam, sewer, etc. The data may include measurement

                                              3
   information indicating consumption and other measures at endpoints, meters,
   transformers, switches, substations and/or other devices and points throughout
   the system. The data may also include exceptions, events and/or other system
   or operational data. Exceptions may include anomalous measurements or other
 5 data.    Such anomalies may indicate a possible problem.                For example,
   significantly increased consumption may indicate a broken water pipe, while
   decreased consumption may indicate electrical theft.            Events may include
   activities (e.g., a power-down of service to a customer) that do not depend on
   the context of the activity. Thus, such an event may be recognized without
10 taking into account other events, measurements, etc.          Additionally, the data
   may be analyzed using one or more relevant attributes, such as characteristics
   of the consumer, network and/or environment. Examples of attributes include
   information that was not obtained from metering devices, such as demographic
   information (e.g., the consumer is a restaurant, or the consumer's house is over
15 sized), environmental information (e.g., it's a cold winter day) or economic
   information. Additionally, attributes and/or a connectivity model or network
   topology may be used to derive an analytic event. Such a connectivity attribute
   and/or connectivity model could show devices that are connected and/or related
   to a particular device or node on the network or grid. Such attributes may be
20 used and helpful in deriving analytic events.
   [00101    Analytic events are useful combinations and/or sequences found in data.
   They may be identified in real time or near real time. They are valuable in that
   they may be used to monitor and improve the operational health of a utility
   system, to discover utility theft or diversion, indicate potential safety issues, or for
25 other purposes. An analytic event may be formed of "building blocks" including
   measurement data, exceptions, events, attributes, previously identified analytic
   events, and/or groups or patterns of previously identified analytic events.

                                             4
   [00111   An event derivation, event inference and/or pattern-based data filtration
   and/or examination process may be used to identify analytic events. The data
   may be filtered or examined to identify patterns of data elements. The patterns
   may include at least one measurement, exception and/or event. The patterns may
 5 be selected and/or based on one or more attributes that are relevant to a consumer.
   The data may be compared to a number of patterns to search for a number of
   respective analytic events. Thus, an analytic event may be recognized based at
   least in part on measurements, exceptions, events, attributes and previously
   identified analytic events. In a specific example, a meter removal event, followed
10 by measurements including a period of lower than normal consumption (which
   may be considered to be an exception), followed by another meter removal event,
   may indicate an analytic event (e.g., a meter bypass). Such analytic events, which
   may be derived by recognition of a plurality of indicative data elements, may
   indicate electricity theft. In another example, a conservation analytic event may
15 include events that related to utility losses, such as electrical theft, water or gas
   leaks, and/or other events that indicate loss to a utility system. Analytic events
   may be reported to an operator through operation of a user interface.          In one
   example, the analytic events may be prioritized and reported to an operator. In
   other examples, analytic events may be used to initiate action through operation
20 of automated systems.
   [00121   The discussion herein includes several sections. Each section is intended
   to be an example of techniques and/or structures, but is not intended to indicate
   elements which must be used and/or performed. A section entitled "Example
   System and Techniques" discusses example structures and implementations that
25 scan and filter measurement data, exception data and event data. Additionally, the
   example structures perform pattern-matching functionality to locate and/or infer
   analytic events. A section entitled "Example User Interface" discusses example

                                            5
   output of analytics from a utility infrastructure.     A section entitled "Example
   Methods" discusses aspects of methods operational in devices including
   processors, memory devices, application specific integrated circuits (ASICs), etc.
   In particular, the example methods may be applied to any of the techniques
 5 discussed herein, including those of the following sections.
   Example System and Techniques
   [00131    FIG. 1 is a block diagram showing an example network 100 from which
   data may be obtained.       The network 100 may include a central office 102
10 configured for performing techniques in analytics in a utility infrastructure
   environment. The central office 102 may communicate over a network 104, such
   as the Internet, with one or more nodes in a network associated with a utility
   system. The central office 102 may receive data from, and transmit data to, the
   nodes of the network. In one example, a derivation and/or inference process may
15 be used with the data, to identify one or more analytic events or other desired
   information. In another example, data received from the utility network may be
   filtered (e.g., by the use of patterns or templates) to infer or derive at least one
   measurement, exception or event.        The filtration, derivation and/or inference
   process may be applied to vast quantities of data. The filtered data items may fit,
20 and/or be consistent with, patterns of measurements, exceptions and/or events that
   indicate an analytic event.
   [00141    The utility system may include electric, gas, water, sewer, steam or other
   utility systems. The elements of the system may be configured as a network(s),
   according to any desired strategy or architecture. FIG. 1 shows examples of both
25 a mesh network 106 and a star network 108, which are but two network
   architectures according to which the system may be configured.

                                              6
   [00151   The mesh network 106 includes a plurality of nodes 11 A-1 10E, which
   represents any number of nodes.        The nodes may be associated with meters,
   transformers, switches, substations, any supervisory control and data acquisition
   (SCADA) device, etc., and more generally with any circuit and/or system element
 5 with which one- or two-way communication is desired. Within the mesh network
    106, the nodes 110 communicate with each other to relay information in a
   downstream direction 112 and/or an upstream direction 114. Accordingly, the
   central office 102 may establish and conduct communication with the nodes 110,
   and may receive data from one or more of the nodes suitable for filtering and
10 processing for analytic events.
   [00161   Within the star network 108, a central node 116 communicates with one
   or more downstream nodes, represented by nodes 11 8A-l 18D. The star network
   may include downstream flows 120 of information and/or upstream flows 122 of
   information.   Accordingly, the central office 102 may establish and conduct
15 communication with the nodes 116, 118, and may receive data from one or more
   of the nodes suitable for filtering and processing for analytic events.
   [00171   FIG. 2 is a block diagram showing example structure of a system 200
   configured for analytics in a utility infrastructure environment. The system 200 is
   representative of systems that may be operated by the central office 102 (as seen
20 in FIG. 1) or other location, as desired. The system 200 may include one or more
   processors 202 and memory devices 204. In the example shown, a raw data 206
   may be obtained from a plurality of network devices and/or nodes, and may be
   stored on a high-capacity device. A display 208 may include a view screen or
   other input/output device which may provide a user interface 210 to an operator
25 or other user.
   [00181   The memory 204 may include an operating system 212 and one or more
   programs 214. One or more of the program(s) 214 may be configured for data

                                              7
   analysis in a utility environment. The programs may be centrally located at a
   central office or back office, or may be distributed over a network with portions
   of code executed at a plurality of locations. Such programs may receive, filter
   and/or interpret data from the utility network. The data may be filtered, pattern
 5 matched and/or analyzed to derive or infer at least one measurement, exception or
   event. The filtered data items may be examined for fit and/or consistency with
   patterns of measurements, exceptions, events and/or attributes that indicate an
   analytic event. Such analytic events may have value to an operator or the system
   generally, in that they may indicate issues of utility functionality-such as power
10 quality, theft, device failure, and/or other concerns.
   [00191    The event derivation module 216 may filter raw data 206 to locate one or
   more data elements 218 that may be relevant with respect to the identification of
   one or more analytic events. In the example shown, the event derivation module
   216 may filter and/or identify relevant or filtered data elements 218 from among
15 potentially vast quantities of raw data 206. In the example, the filtered data
   elements 218 may include consumption, voltage, transformer and/or other system
   measurements 220, data, system and/or network exceptions 222 and events 224.
   The measurements 220, exceptions 222 and/or events 224 may include electrical,
   water, gas or other utility measurements.       Thus, in the example of FIG. 2, the
20 event derivation module 216 filters the raw data for data elements 218, which
   may include measured values 220, exceptions 222 and/or events 224.
   [00201    The event derivation module 216 may compare data elements 218 to one
   or more patterns within a pattern module 226. Accordingly, the data 218 may be
   filtered by comparison to known patterns of measurements, exceptions, events
25 and/or attributers that indicate an analytic event. In one example, the patterns
   module 226 may include one or more patterns associated with one or more
   analytic events.    Thus, one or more patterns may be compared to filtered data

                                            8
   elements 218 to identify and/or infer existence of one or more analytic events.
   The particular data measurements 220, exceptions 222 and/or events 224
   identified by any particular filter may be considered to be "building blocks"
   which indicate and/or infer the existence of a particular analytic event.
 5 [00211 In one example of the system 200, the pattern module 226 may be
   enhanced by the addition of new patterns that identify analytic events.         For
   example, if system operators become aware of an additional analytic event of
   concern, a pattern of measurements, exceptions and/or events that indicate the
   analytic event may be defined by a pattern, which may be added to the pattern
10 module 226.
   [00221    The event derivation module 216 may also consider one or more
   attributes from an attribute module 228. Attributes may include information that
   is beyond the scope of the data collected from meters, transformers, switches,
   substations, valves, etc., of the utility system and/or network.        Accordingly,
15 attributes may include information such as demographic information about
   specific consumers and/or aggregated demographic information about consumers
   in an area or neighborhood.         Attributes may include almost any useful
   information, such as the nature of the consumer (restaurant, house, etc.), the
   nature and consumption habits of such consumers, the time of day, the date and
20 the year.     Attributes may include information about weather, climate and
   economy, customer history, prior events at the location, etc. The attributes may
   also include information obtained from the utility system or network, such as
   information associated with events. Examples of such attributes include duration
   of an outage event, magnitude of a voltage spike event, value of a low voltage
25 event or measurement, etc. In a further example of attributes and analytic events,
   attributes may indicate increased use on one or more transformers and a related
   (demographic) attribute indicating increased in use of plug-in electric cars. An

                                            9
   analytic event may be recognized based on association of these attributes with
   recognized data elements, defined patterns and/or previously recognized analytic
   events. In operation, the event derivation module 216 may match and/or consider
   the filtered data items 218 together with any of a number of attributes 228 in
 5 operations that derive, infer and/or detect one or more analytic events.        In a
   specific example, an attribute indicating that a business is closed on the weekends
   may be considered when determining if low measured consumption data over the
   weekend is an exception or a normal measured value.              In another specific
   example, a service call attribute may indicate that utility service personnel were
10 on site during the event and therefore the event should be given higher or lower
   priority, depending on context.
   [00231    In the process of recognizing analytic events, the event derivation
   module 216 may also consider one or more previously identified analytic events,
   which may be recorded in an analytic event module 230. Thus, a "complex" or
15 "compound" analytic event may be inferred (e.g., such as by use of a pattern in
   the pattern module 226) by utilization of one or more previously recognized
   analytic events 230, together with one or more filtered data elements 218 and
   attributes 228.   In a specific example, an analytic event (comprising a meter
   removal/replacement event) may be recognized by power down and power up
20 events. Additionally, the meter removal/replacement analytic event, together with
   a period of reduced usage by the consumer may indicate a further analytic event
   (e.g., a meter bypass event).     Similarly, a pattern may associate two meter
   removals with one meter bypass analytic event. And in another example, a meter
   bypass event may include a pattern of two meter bypass analytic events and a
25 period of reduced usage between them. Accordingly, an analytic event may be
   used as a building block for a further analytic event. This may be continued in a
   recursive and/or nested manner for any number of analytic events.

                                            10
   Example User Interface
   [00241   FIG. 3 is an example of a user interface 210 configured as part of an
   analytics system configured for operation in a utility infrastructure environment.
 5 The user interface 210 may be displayed on a screen 300 or other output device,
   such as at the central office 102 or other location. In the example shown, a listing
   302 of one or more service points 304 may be displayed in prioritized order. In
   one example, the user may select from among a variety of prioritized orders, such
   as longest outage, worst low voltage event, etc. Each service point 304 may be
10 identified by customer number or other identification.
   [00251   The user interface 210 may include a listing of analytic events 306 that
   the system (e.g., system 200 of FIG. 2) has identified with respect to a selected
   service point 304. The listing of analytic events 306 may be prioritized, such as
   with the most serious, costly and/or important event listed first. The listing of
15 analytic events 306 may be linked to the listing of service points, in that the
   analytic events 306 displayed occurred at the selected service point 304. In the
   example user interface 210, the analytic events shown in 306 occurred at the
   selected service point 304, indicating a variety of events consistent with potential
   energy theft activity.     Selecting the prioritized service point 304 allows the
20 operator to investigate all analytic events occurring at that service point in a
   relevant time frame.
   [00261   The user interface 210 may include a map 308 of the location 310 of the
   selected service point. The user interface 210 may also include a graphic 312 of
   measured energy (e.g., current use) and voltage at the service location 304.
25 [00271 In operation, a system operator may view the prioritized listing 306 of
   analytic events, which is associated with the list of service points 302.       The
   operator may send resources (e.g., service trucks and workers) to address the

                                           11
   most significant analytic events.     Significantly, the analytic events 306 are
   presented to the operator. That is, the operator does not have to consider lower
   level data (e.g., measured values, exceptions, events, attributes and/or previously
   identified analytic events), and does not have to derive current analytic events
 5 from such information.
   Example Methods
   [00281 In some examples of the techniques discusses herein, the methods of
   operation may be performed by software defined on memory and/or application
10 specific integrated circuits (ASIC).     The memory 204, 206 may comprise
   computer-readable media and may take the form of volatile memory, such as
   random access memory (RAM) and/or non-volatile memory, such as read only
   memory (ROM) or flash RAM. Computer-readable media includes volatile and
   non-volatile, removable and non-removable media implemented in any method or
15 technology for storage of information such as computer-readable instructions,
   data structures, program modules, or other data for execution by one or more
   processors of a computing device.        Examples of computer-readable media
   include, but are not limited to, phase change memory (PRAM), static random
   access memory (SRAM), dynamic random-access memory (DRAM), other types
20 of random access memory (RAM), read-only memory (ROM), electrically
   erasable programmable read-only memory (EEPROM), flash memory or other
   memory technology, compact disk read-only memory (CD-ROM), digital
   versatile disks (DVD) or other optical storage, magnetic cassettes, magnetic tape,
   magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other non
25 transmission medium that can be used to store information for access by a
   computing device. As defined herein, computer-readable media does not include
   communication media, such as modulated data signals and carrier waves.

                                             12
   [00291   FIG. 4 is a flow diagram showing an example method 400 to identify
   analytic events in a utility infrastructure environment. In one example, data may
   be filtered to obtain measurements, exceptions and events.          Attributes and
   patterns may be used to identify one or more analytic events. Once identified,
 5 analytic events may be may be prioritized and reported to an operator or utility
   system through operation of a user interface, automated notification system, or
   automated utility system that may take action without human intervention.
   Examples of analytic events include utility theft and/or system diagnostics,
   problems and failures.
10 [00301 At operation 402, updated data is obtained from a utility network. The
   data may be related to the operation or state of any utility system. Examples of
   such systems include an electrical grid, or a water, steam, natural gas, sewer or
   other utility system. In the context of the example of FIG. 1, the mesh network
    106 or the star network 108 are able to conduct data to the central office 102,
15 where the system 200 of FIG. 2 may be in operation. The data may be refreshed,
   recorded and/or reported from each node at periodic intervals (e.g., 5 minutes, 15
   minutes, 60 minutes or 24 hours, etc.).           The nodes may include meters,
   transformers, switches, substations, etc., and more generally with any circuit
   and/or system element with which one- or two-way communication is desired.
20 [00311 At operation 404, the data are filtered. In the context of the example of
   FIG. 2, the filtering may identify one or more measurements (e.g., electric
   consumption measurements), exceptions (e.g., possibly erroneous consumption
   measurements), and events (e.g., service power-down). Within this data may be
   one or more "building blocks" of one or more analytic events.
25 [00321 At operation 406, attributes of consumer(s) and/or other available
   information are considered along with the filtered data, to determine if a pattern is
   established and a particular analytic event is indicated.    In the context of the

                                             13
   example of FIG. 2, a number of attributes may be associated with portions of the
   data.    For example, demographic information may be associated with an
   individual consumer or consumers within a region. Weather information may be
   associated with consumers in a region for some utilities (e.g., electricity or gas)
 5 but not for others (e.g., sewer or garbage).        In some examples, the use of
   attributes may assist help to distinguish measurement data from exception data.
   For example, electrical consumption may be very high for a particular consumer.
   However, an attribute may indicate that the weather is very cold. Accordingly,
   the high electrical consumption may not be considered to be an exception.
10 Similarly, demographic information may used to assist in identifying exceptions.
   Increased population density and/or a rising economy may indicate that increased
   utility consumption does not constitute an exception.
   [00331    At operation 408, measurements, exceptions, events, attributes, etc., may
   be searched for consistency with an analytic event. In the example of FIG. 2, the
15 event derivation module 216 may utilize a number of patterns or filters (e.g.,
   patterns from the pattern module 226) or otherwise derive or infer an analytic
   event.     Each pattern may match measurements, exceptions and/or events
   consistent with a particular analytic event. Accordingly, by comparing the data to
   a plurality of patterns, a check may be made for consistency with a plurality of
20 analytic events, respectively. In particular, if the filtered data match a particular
   pattern, then a particular analytic event may be indicated.
   [00341    At operation 410, analytic event(s) are recognized in the measurements,
   exceptions and events. In one example, the analytic event(s) are also consistent
   with one or more attribute(s) and/or pattern(s). Thus, one or more particular or
25 specific analytic events may be identified.
   [00351    At operation 412, further or additional analytic events may be identified
   based in part on a pattern of meter measurements, meter exceptions, events,

                                            14
   attributes and/or previously identified analytic event(s).     In the context of the
   example of FIG. 2, one or more previously discovered analytic events may be
   indicated by the analytic events module 230.         These analytic events may be
   considered along with measured data 220, exceptions 222, events 224 and/or
 5 attributes 228 to determine if additional analytic events have occurred.          In
   particular, one or more of the patterns 226 may include analytic events indicated
   by module 230.
   [00361    At operation 414, the analytic events that have been identified may be
   prioritized into a list or other hierarchy.      The prioritization may be made
10 according to a monetary value of each analytic event or based on a value of a
   perceived threat to the operation of the system (e.g., electrical grid).
   [00371 At operation 416, the prioritized list of analytic events may be reported to
   an operator. In the context of the examples of FIGS. 2 and 3, the user interface
   210 may be used to report the prioritized list of analytic events to the operator.
15 Additionally and/or alternatively, the system (e.g., system 200 of FIG. 2) may
   initiate an automated response, including texts, emails, messages, and/or direct
   intervention, changes or input to the system or grid in response to one or more
   analytic events.
   [00381    FIG. 5 provides a specific example of the use of one analytic event in the
20 identification of another analytic event, such as discussed at operation 410 in FIG.
   4. FIG. 5 shows a portion of an electrical grid 500 illustrating a distribution line
   502 that provides energy through a junction point 504 to a distribution lateral line
   506. The distribution lateral line 506 provides power through transformer 508 to
   four houses 510-516 through low voltage power lines 518-524. In one example,
25 data indicating a power outage event at houses 510-516 may be received by
   system 200 (of FIG. 2). Based on data events indicating failure of four houses,
   the system 200 may infer a single analytic event indicating a failure of the

                                            15
   transformer 508 rather than four separate analytic events occurring at houses 510
    516. In particular, a pattern within the pattern module 226 may indicate that
   power outage events at all sites associated with a single transformer may indicate
   an analytic event of a transformer failure.
 5  [00391 Additionally, a second lateral distribution line 526 and transformer 528
   may provide service to additional houses. If similar circumstances result in an
   analytic event indicating failure of transformer 528 then the two analytic events
   may be considered by the system 200. A pattern in the pattern module 226 may
   indicate that analytic events indicating the failure of two transformers 508, 528
10  should result in a single, higher level analytic event indicating possible de
   energization of distribution lateral line 506 at junction 504.       One or more
   attributes and/or a connectivity model provide the system with information on
   which devices are connected and the nature of that connection. In one example,
   the event derivation module 218 is configured to identify a low voltage event in
15 part by using connectivity attributes or a network topology. Thus, measurements,
   exceptions, events, attributes and analytic events may all be considered in
   determining if potentially unrelated groups of events are actually part of a single,
   larger event.    This eliminates the need to investigate each underlying event
   individually, allowing resources to focus on a single cause, a failure at a single
20 junction point in this example.
   Conclusion
    [00401   Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to
    structural features and/or methodological acts, it is to be understood that the
25  subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the
    specific features or acts described.   Rather, the specific features and acts are
   disclosed as exemplary forms of implementing the claims.

                                             16
                                          CLAIMS
   What is claimed is:
           1.     One    or  more    computer-readable     media   storing  computer
   executable instructions that, when executed, cause one or more processors to
 5 perform acts comprising:
           filtering data obtained from a utility network to derive exceptions and
   events, wherein the deriving is based in part on:
                   use of at least one attribute, wherein the at least one attribute is
           associated with a consumer; and
10                 use of at least one pattern, wherein the at least one pattern is
           related to at least one analytic event, respectively;
           recognizing at least one analytic event in the identified exceptions and
   events, wherein the recognized analytic event is consistent with the at least one
   attribute and consistent with the at least one pattern; and
15         reporting the at least one analytic event.
           2.     One or more computer-readable media as recited in claim 1,
   wherein use of the at least one attribute assists in distinguishing measurement
   data from exceptions.
20
           3.     One or more computer-readable media as recited in claim 1,
   wherein:
           use of the at least one attribute comprises use of demographic
   information that assists in identifying exceptions.
25

                                            17
          4.    One or more computer-readable media as recited in claim 1,
   wherein:
          use of the at least one attribute comprises use of weather information.
 5         5.   One or more computer-readable media as recited in claim 1,
   additionally comprising:
          prioritizing at least two analytic events;
          wherein the reporting comprises reporting the at least two analytic
   events according to the prioritization.
10
          6.    One or more computer-readable media as recited in claim 1,
   additionally comprising:
          recognizing nested analytic events.
15        7.    One or more computer-readable media as recited in claim 1,
   wherein the at least one pattern includes at least a previously recognized
   analytic event.
           8.   One or more computer-readable media as recited in claim 1,
20 wherein recognizing the at least one analytic event comprises recognizing a
   conservation analytic event.
          9.    One or more computer-readable media as recited in claim 1,
   wherein recognizing the at least one analytic event is based in apart on:
25        an attributed used to recognize         increased use on one or more
   transformers; and

                                               18
           an attribute used to recognize demographics indicating an increase in
   use of plug-in electric cars.
           10.    One or more computer-readable media as recited in claim 1,
 5 wherein:
           filtering data comprises deriving electric measurements;
           filtering data comprises deriving water measurements; or
           filtering data comprises deriving gas measurements.
10         11.    One or more computer-readable media as recited in claim 1,
   additionally comprising:
           obtaining data from the utility network, wherein the data comprises
   electrical consumption data, switch settings and/or transformer data.
15         12.    A system for analyzing data, comprising:
           a processor and a memory;
           an event derivation module, defined in the memory and executed by the
   processor, to:
                   filter the data for at least one measurement, at least one exception
20         and at least one event; and
                   identify at least one analytic event in the filtered data;
           a pattern module comprising at least one pattern, wherein the at least
   one analytic event is identified by the event derivation module using the at least
   one pattern; and
25         a user interface to report the at least one analytic event.

                                           19
            13.  The system of claim 12, wherein the filter event derivation module
   is configured to identify the at least one analytic event based at least in part on
   at least one attribute.
 5          14.  The system of claim 12, wherein the event derivation module is
   configured to identify the at least one analytic event based at least in part on a
   demographics attribute and a weather attribute.
            15.  The system of claim 12, wherein the event derivation module is
10 configured to identify a further analytic event based in part on the at least one
   analytic event.
            16.  The system of claim 12, wherein the event derivation module is
   configured to utilize connectivity attributes or a network topology to derive an
15 analytic event.
            17.  The system of claim 12, wherein the event derivation module is
   configured to identify an outage event in part by using connectivity attributes
   or a network topology.
20

                                              20
           18.    A method of presenting a user interface, comprising:
           under control of one or more processors configured with executable
   instructions:
           displaying    service points prioritized according      to importance     of
 5 associated analytic events; and
           displaying analytic events of a selected service point.
           19.    The method of claim 18, wherein content within the display of
   selected analytic events is obtained by acts comprising:
10         filtering data obtained from a utility network to derive exceptions and
   events, wherein the deriving is based in part on:
                   use of at least one attribute, wherein the at least one attribute is
           associated with a consumer; and
                   use of at least one pattern, wherein the at least one pattern is
15         related to at least one analytic event, respectively;
           recognizing at least one analytic event in the identified exceptions and
   events, wherein the recognized analytic event is consistent with the at least one
   attribute and consistent with the at least one pattern.
20         20.    The method of claim 18, additionally comprising:
           displaying a location of a selected one of the displayed service points on
   a map; and
           displaying interval data, including recent voltage levels and current
   consumption levels, of the selected one of the displayed service points.
25                                         Itron, Inc.
                              Patent Attorneys for the Applicant
                                  SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
