                                        ABSTRACT
A system (1, 401), monitoring device (5, 405) and computer implemented method to
account for parking of a vehicle (3, 403) in a chargeable parking area (4, 404) or use of
a vehicle (3, 403) in a toll area (406). The monitoring device (5, 405) is associated
with the vehicle (3, 403) and may have one or more electronic circuits operable in a
low power mode and a high power mode. A user input (19) may be associated with the
monitoring device (5, 405) so that a user can confirm or deny that the vehicle (3, 403)
is parked, or should be charged for parking in the chargeable parking area (4, 404), or
should be charged for use of a vehicle in the toll area (406)

                                               1
                 "Vehicle parking or vehicle use in a chargeable area"
Technical Field
[0001]    The present disclosure relates to a method, device and system to account for
parking of a vehicle or use of a vehicle in a chargeable area (such as a chargeable
parking area or a toll area).
Background
[0002]    Providing a parking space for a vehicle to park as part of a transaction is
known. For example, an organisation may allow use of a parking space and in return
receive an income stream (in the form of money or other forms of credit). In some
cases, the organisation is a government that may allow use of a parking space on
government property, such as at a roadside or a parking lot (car park). In other cases,
the organisation may be an operator of a parking lot on private property. Similarly a
toll may be charged for use of a toll area, such as a toll road.
[0003]    Therefore, it is desirable to account for the time that a vehicle is parked in a
parking space as the amount charged may be based on time such as time of arrival. It
may also be desirable to account for the time of the parking of the vehicle as in some
circumstances it is desirable that the vehicle is not parked for longer than a specified
time. Furthermore, it may be desirable to account for use of a toll road which may be
based on physical presence of the vehicle, the type of vehicle, the vehicle size, the
vehicle weight, distance travelled, time, etc.
[0004]    A known device for assisting the organisation to account for, and collect
money, is a parking meter that is associated with a parking space. Typically, a parking
meter collects money (or other forms of payment, such as from a credit card or debit
card), and in exchange the parking meter will specify that a vehicle may park in the
associated parking space for a period of time.

                                              2
[0005]   In many practical applications, parking meters should be placed in close
proximity to the parking space such that a user (usually the driver of the vehicle) can
place money, or credit, into the parking meter after parking the vehicle. Therefore, if
an organisation wishes to charge for parking in a plurality of parking spaces, such as
the roadside for a stretch of road, this may require multiple parking meters.
Accordingly, this may be a substantial expense to the organisation. Furthermore,
parking meters, especially on the roadside, may be susceptible to vandalism and theft.
[0006]   In many practical applications, toll area charges (such as toll roads, congestion
charge zones) are levied by camera vehicle identification processes which require
significant road side infrastructure and maintenance. Accordingly, this may be a
substantial expense to the organisation. Furthermore, road side cameras, may be
susceptible to vandalism and breakdown placing income at risk.
[0007]   Throughout this specification the word "comprise", or variations such as
"comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated
element, integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps, but not the exclusion of
any other element, integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps.
[0008]   Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like
which has been included in the present specification is not to be taken as an admission
that any or all of these matters form part of the prior art base or were common general
knowledge in the field relevant to the present disclosure as it existed before the priority
date of each claim of this application.
Summary
[0009]   A computer-implemented method performed by a vehicle-fitted monitoring
device to account for parking of a vehicle in a chargeable parking area or use of a
vehicle in a toll area, wherein the monitoring device is associated with the vehicle. The
method comprises: sending, over a communications network, device data from the
monitoring device to a server, wherein the device data is based on a position of the

                                              3
vehicle in the chargeable parking area or toll area; receiving, at a user input associated
with the monitoring device, user input data, wherein the user input data is indicative of
a confirmation or a denial from a user that the vehicle is parked or should be charged
for parking or use of a toll area; and sending, over the communications network, the
user input data to the server.
[0010]     This may allow the user to positively confirm or deny that the vehicle is
parked in the chargeable parking area. This may be useful in situations where there is
ambiguity on whether the vehicle is, in fact, parked or in the parking area. This may
also allow the user to have greater control on charges associated with parking.
[0011]     The term "chargeable parking area" includes any area where an administrator
of the area can charge (or derive an income stream) for a vehicle occupying that area.
The chargeable parking area may be a particular parking space, suitable for one vehicle
to be parked. The chargeable parking area may be a wider area that includes multiple
parking spaces, such as a roadside or a parking lot.
[0012]     The term "toll area" includes areas where an administrator can charge (or
derive an income stream) for a vehicle using that area. In some examples, the toll area
may be a toll road where use of the toll road requires a fee. Toll roads may be publicly
operated (such as by a government organisation) or privately operated (such as by a
company). In other examples, the toll area may be a geographic area that includes
multiple roads, streets, etc., where use of a vehicle in that geographic area can be
charged by an administrator. In one example, this may include a congestion charge
zone where use of a vehicle on roads, streets, etc., in the congestion charge zone is
charged. In some examples, the charges may be variable and dependent on the time of
use For example, the charges may be tiered and even free at particular hours. In some
examples, the charges may be fixed at a flat rate per use. In some other examples, the
charges may be variable based on the length of time the vehicle is in the toll area or
using the toll area. In other examples, the distance travelled or the displacement in the
toll area, may be a factor in determining the charges. In yet other examples, the

                                               4
charges may be dependent on other factors such as the type of vehicle, vehicle size,
vehicle weight, etc.
[0013]    The method may further comprise: determining the vehicle is in the chargeable
parking area; and generating, at a user output associated with the monitoring device, an
alert indicative of the vehicle being in the chargeable parking area. Determining the
vehicle being in the chargeable parking area may comprise receiving, over the
communications network, a signal from the server indicative of the vehicle being in the
chargeable parking area.
[0014]    The method may further comprise: sending, over the communications
network, updated device data to the server, wherein the updated device data is based on
an updated position of the vehicle in the chargeable parking area or toll area; and
wherein a time period in the chargeable parking area or toll area is determined based on
time associated with the device data and the updated device data.
[0015]    The method may further comprise: sending, over the communications
network, to the server an authorisation to debit an account balance of a user account
associated with the monitoring device by debiting the user account by a debit value
based on the vehicle being parked for the time period in the chargeable parking area or
toll area. This may include the vehicle having operated for a specified period in the toll
area and may also take into account specified distance travelled in a toll area.
[0016]    In the method described above, the device data may be based on a first output
of a satellite navigation module associated with the monitoring device.
[0017]    The method may further comprise: determining the vehicle is stationary, or the
vehicle motor is non-operational, based on a second output of one or more auxiliary
sensors associated with the vehicle, wherein the second output of the one or more
auxiliary sensors is separate to the first output of the satellite navigation module, where
the device data further includes an indication that the vehicle is stationary.

                                              5
[0018]    In the method, described above, the auxiliary sensors may comprise one or
more of: an accelerometer; a gyroscope; a magnetometer; a digital imaging device; a
radar (radio detection and ranging); a sonar (sound navigation and ranging); and a lidar
(light detection and ranging).
[0019]    A vehicle-fitted monitoring device to account for parking of a vehicle in a
chargeable parking area, wherein a monitoring device is associated with the vehicle.
The monitoring device comprises: a user input to receive user input data, wherein the
user input data is indicative of a confirmation or a denial from a user that the vehicle is
parked or should be charged for parking; a first processing device to: send, over a
communications network, device data from the monitoring device to a server, wherein
the device data is based on a position of the vehicle in the chargeable parking area;
send, over the communications network, the user input data to the server.
[0020]    The monitoring device may further comprise: a user output, and wherein the
first processing device is further provided to: determine the vehicle is in the chargeable
parking area; and generate, at the user output, an alert indicative of the vehicle being in
the chargeable parking area.
[0021]    Some examples of the monitoring devices may have an integrated power
source such as solar cells and/or energy storage means such as batteries, capacitors,
inductors, etc. This may allow the monitoring device to operate without requiring
electrical connection with the vehicle for electrical power. An advantage may include
ease of using the monitoring device with different types of vehicles without requiring
specialist modification or installation. This may include using the monitoring device to
various makes, models, styles and age of vehicles.
[0022]    A computer-implemented method to account for parking of a vehicle in a
chargeable parking area, wherein a vehicle-fitted monitoring device is associated with
the vehicle. The method comprises the steps of: receiving, over a communications
network, device data from the monitoring device associated with the vehicle, wherein
the device data is based on a position of the vehicle; receiving, over the

                                             6
communications network, user input data from a user input associated with the
monitoring device, wherein the user input data is indicative of a confirmation or a
denial from the user that the vehicle is parked or should be charged for parking; and
determining that the vehicle has been parked for at least one time period in a chargeable
parking area based on the device data and the user input.
[0023]    The method may further comprise: receiving, from a data store, geographic
data of the chargeable parking area; determining the vehicle is in the chargeable
parking area based on the device data and geographic data; and sending, over the
communications network, to the monitoring device a signal indicative of the vehicle
being in the chargeable parking area.
[0024]    The method may further comprise: receiving, over the communications
network, updated device data from the monitoring device associated with the vehicle,
wherein the updated device data is based on an updated position of the vehicle;
determining the vehicle is in the chargeable parking area based on the updated device
data and geographic data, or based on the updated device data and the device data; and
determining the at least one time period in the chargeable parking area based on time
associated with the device data and the updated device data.
[0025]    The method may further comprise: determining a debit value based on the
vehicle having been parked for at least one time period in the chargeable parking area;
and determining an account balance of a user account associated with the monitoring
device by debiting the user account by the debit value.
[0026]    The method may further comprise: sending, over the communications
network, a request to transfer funds to an administrator of the chargeable parking area,
wherein the request to transfer funds is based on an account balance of the user
account. The request to transfer funds is sent to one or more of: a debtor associated
with the user account; a third-party holding funds, in escrow, of a user associated with
the user account; and a payment server.

                                             7
[0027]    The method may further comprise: storing the account balance of the user
account in a data store.
[0028]    In the method, the received device data may be based on a first output of a
satellite navigation module associated with the monitoring device.
[0029]    A computer system to account for parking of a vehicle in a chargeable parking
area, wherein a vehicle-fitted monitoring device is associated with the vehicle. The
computer system comprises a second processing device to: receive, over a
communications network, device data from the monitoring device associated with the
vehicle, wherein the device data is based on a position of the vehicle; receive, over the
communications network, user input data from a user input associated with the
monitoring device, wherein the user input data is indicative of a confirmation or a
denial from the user that the vehicle is parked or should be charged for parking; and
determine that the vehicle has been parked for at least one time period in a chargeable
parking area based on the device data and the user input.
[0030]    The computer system may further comprise a data store to store geographical
data of the chargeable parking area. The second processing device may further: receive,
from the data store, geographic data of the chargeable parking area; and determine the
vehicle is in the chargeable parking area based on the device data and geographic data;
and send, over the communications network, to the monitoring device a signal
indicative of the vehicle being in the chargeable parking area.
[0031]    A computer-implemented method performed by a vehicle-fitted monitoring
device to account for parking of a vehicle in a chargeable parking area, or use of a
vehicle in a toll area, wherein the monitoring device includes one or more electronic
circuits operable in a low power mode and a high power mode and the monitoring
device is associated with the vehicle. The method comprises: receiving an output from
one or more auxiliary sensors, wherein the auxiliary sensors comprise one or more of:
an accelerometer; a gyroscope; a magnetometer; a digital imaging device; microphone;
an ultrasonic transducer; and an electromagnetic receiver or transceiver. The method

                                              8
further comprises: determining the vehicle status including whether the vehicle is
parked, or in use, based on the output of the one or more auxiliary sensors and vehicle
status parameters stored in a data store, wherein the vehicle status parameters relate to
statuses of the vehicle including that the vehicle is parked or in use; and based on
determination of the vehicle status, initiating operation of the one or more electronic
circuits in a high power mode. In a learning mode the method comprises: receiving one
or more outputs of the one or more auxiliary sensors that correspond to the vehicle
being parked, or in use: comparing the one or more outputs of the one or more auxiliary
sensors and the vehicle status parameters from the data store to determine a predicted
status of the vehicle including that the vehicle is parked or in use; determining the
standard deviation of respective outputs of the one or more auxiliary sensors for the
predicted status; and updating the vehicle status parameter by calculating, based on the
standard deviation, updated vehicle status parameters to provide a specified acceptable
level of confidence in the predicted status.
[0032]    This may reduce overall power consumption by activating the high power
mode when required
[0033]    A computer-implemented method performed by a vehicle-fitted monitoring
device to account for parking of a vehicle in a chargeable parking area, or use of a
vehicle in a toll area, wherein the monitoring device includes one or more electronic
circuits operable in a low power mode and a high power mode and the monitoring
device is associated with the vehicle, and the method comprises: receiving an output
from one or more auxiliary sensors, wherein the auxiliary sensors comprise one or
more of: an accelerometer; a gyroscope; a magnetometer; a digital imaging device;
microphone; an ultrasonic transducer; and an electromagnetic receiver or transceiver;
determining the vehicle status including whether the vehicle is parked, or in use, based
on the output of the one or more auxiliary sensors; based on determination of the
vehicle status, initiating operation of the one or more electronic circuits in a high power
mode. The monitoring device may include a data store to store vehicle status
parameters, wherein the vehicle status parameters relate to statuses of the vehicle
including that the vehicle is parked or in use, wherein in a learning mode the method

                                              9
comprises: receiving one or more outputs of the one or more auxiliary sensors that
corresponds to the vehicle being parked, or in use; comparing the one or more outputs
of the one or more auxiliary sensors and the vehicle status parameters from the data
store to determine a predicted status of the vehicle including that the vehicle is parked
or in use; receiving user input data indicative of a confirmation or denial from a user
that the vehicle is parked, or in use; and updating the vehicle status parameters in the
data store based on the predicted status of the vehicle and the confirmation or denial.
[0034]    The method may also include an automatic mode, wherein the step of
determining the vehicle status is based on: the output of the auxiliary sensors; and
vehicle status parameters.
[0035]    In the method, initiating operation of the one or more electronic circuits in a
high power mode may comprise one or more of: activating a satellite navigation
module associated with the monitoring device; and activating a communication module
associated with the monitoring device.
[0036]    In the method, initiating operation of the one or more electronic circuits in the
high power mode may be based on determining that the vehicle has changed vehicle
status from parked to in use, or from in use to parked.
[0037]    The method may further comprise: sending, over a communications network,
an output indicative of the location of the vehicle and/or time the vehicle is in the
chargeable parking area.
[0038]    The method may further comprise sending, over a communications network,
an output indicative of the location of the vehicle and/or time or distance the vehicle is
in use in the toll area.
[0039]    The method may further comprise: receiving, over a communications network,
information indicative of the chargeable parking area, or toll area, in the vicinity of the
current location of the vehicle.

                                              10
[0040]     In the method, wherein on completion of the one or more electronic circuits in
the high power mode, the method may further comprise reverting operation of the one
or more electronic circuits to a low power mode.
[0041]     A computer-implemented method performed by a monitoring device to
account for parking of a vehicle in a chargeable parking area, or use of a vehicle in a
toll area, wherein the monitoring device includes one or more electronic circuits
operable in a low power mode and a high power mode and the monitoring device is
associated with the vehicle. The method comprises: determining a current location of
the vehicle; determining a closest chargeable parking area, or toll area, from the current
location of the vehicle; determining a travelling time for the vehicle to travel from the
current location of the vehicle to the closest chargeable parking area, or toll area;
initiating operation of one or more electronic circuits in the low power mode or the
high power mode based on the travelling time.
[0042]     The method may further comprise initiating operation of one or more
electronic circuits in the low power mode during the travelling time and initiating
operation of one or more electronic circuits in the high power mode based on
completion of the travelling time.
[0043]     In the method, determining a closest chargeable parking area, or toll area, from
the current location of the vehicle may further comprise: determining one or more
chargeable parking areas, or toll areas, in the vicinity of the current location of the
vehicle; determining one or more routes from the current location of the vehicle to the
one or more chargeable parking areas, or toll areas; determining time periods to travel
on the one or more routes based on an expected speed on the one or more routes; and
determining the shortest one or more time periods to provide the closest chargeable
parking area, or toll area.
[0044]     A vehicle-fitted monitoring device to account for parking of a vehicle in a
chargeable parking area, or use of a vehicle in a toll area, wherein the monitoring
device is associated with the vehicle and includes one or more electronic circuits

                                              11
operable in a low power mode and a high power mode. The monitoring device
comprises one or more auxiliary sensors comprising one or more of: an accelerometer;
a gyroscope; a magnetometer; a digital imaging device; microphone; an ultrasonic
transducer; and an electromagnetic receiver or transceiver. The monitoring device also
comprises a third processing device to: determine the vehicle status including whether
the vehicle is parked, or in use, based on an output of one or more of the auxiliary
sensors and vehicle status parameters stored in a data store, wherein the vehicle status
parameters relate to statuses of the vehicle including that the vehicle is parked or in use;
and based on determination the vehicle status, initiate operation of the one or more
electronic circuits in a high power mode. In a learning mode, the third processing
device is further configured to: receive one or more outputs of the one or more
auxiliary sensors that correspond to the vehicle being parked, or in use: compare the
one or more outputs of the one or more auxiliary sensors and the vehicle status
parameters from the data store to determine a predicted status of the vehicle including
that the vehicle is parked or in use; determine the standard deviation of respective
outputs of the one or more auxiliary sensors for the predicted status; and update the
vehicle status parameter by calculating, based on the standard deviation, updated
vehicle status parameters to provide a specified acceptable level of confidence in the
predicted status.
[0045]    A vehicle-fitted monitoring device to account for parking of a vehicle in a
chargeable parking area, or use of a vehicle in a toll area, wherein the monitoring
device is associated with the vehicle and includes one or more electronic circuits
operable in a low power mode and a high power mode, the monitoring device
comprising: one or more auxiliary sensors comprising one or more of: an
accelerometer; a gyroscope; a magnetometer; a digital imaging device; microphone; an
ultrasonic transducer; and an electromagnetic receiver or transceiver. The monitoring
device may further comprise: at least one user input to receive user input data, wherein
the user input data is indicative of a confirmation or a denial from a user that the
vehicle is parked, or in use; and a data store to store vehicle status parameters, wherein
the vehicle status parameters relate to statuses of the vehicle including that the vehicle
is parked or in use. The monitoring device may further include a third processing

                                             12
device to: determine the vehicle status including whether the vehicle is parked, or in
use, based on an output of one or more of the auxiliary sensors; and based on
determination the vehicle status, initiate operation of the one or more electronic circuits
in a high power mode. In a learning mode, the third processing device may be further
configured to: receive one or more outputs of the one or more auxiliary sensors that
corresponds to the vehicle being parked, or in use; compare the one or more outputs of
the one or more auxiliary sensors and the vehicle status parameters from the data store
to determine a predicted status of the vehicle including that the vehicle is parked or in
use; receive the user input data indicative of a confirmation or denial from a user that
the vehicle is parked, or in use; and update the vehicle status parameters in the data
store based on the predicted status of the vehicle and the confirmation or denial.
[0046]    The monitoring device may have an automatic mode wherein the third
processing device may be configured to determine the vehicle status based on: the
output of the auxiliary sensors; and vehicle status parameters.
[0047]    In the monitoring device, operation of the one or more electronic circuits in a
high power mode may comprise one or more of: activating a satellite navigation
module associated with the monitoring device; and activating a communication module
associated with the monitoring device.
[0048]    In the monitoring device, operation of the electronic circuits in the high power
mode may be initiated on determination that the vehicle has changed vehicle status
from parked to in use, or from in use to parked.
[0049]    The monitoring device may send, over a communications network, an output
indicative of the location of the vehicle and/or time the vehicle is in the chargeable
parking area.
[0050]    The monitoring device may send, over a communications network, an output
indicative of the location of the vehicle and/or time or distance the vehicle is in use in
the toll area.

                                              13
[0051]     The monitoring device may receive, over a communications network,
information indicative of the chargeable parking area, or toll area, in the vicinity of the
current location of the vehicle.
[0052]     In the monitoring device, on completion of the one or more electronic circuits
in the high power mode, the one or more electronic circuits may revert to a low power
mode.
[0053]     A vehicle-fitted monitoring device to account for parking of a vehicle in a
chargeable parking area, or use of a vehicle in a toll area, wherein the monitoring
device is associated with the vehicle and includes one or more electronic circuits
operable in a low power mode and a high power mode. The monitoring device
comprises a third processing device configured to: determine a current location of the
vehicle; determine a closest chargeable parking area, or toll area, from the current
location of the vehicle; determine a travelling time for the vehicle to travel from the
current location of the vehicle to the closest chargeable parking area, or toll area; and
initiate operation of one or more electronic circuits in the low power mode or the high
power mode based on the travelling time.
[0054]     In the monitoring device, the third processing device may be further
configured to initiate operation of one or more electronic circuits in the low power
mode during the travelling time and initiate operation of one or more electronic circuits
in the high power mode based on completion of the travelling time.
[0055]     In the monitoring device, to determine a closest chargeable parking area, or
toll area, from the current location of the vehicle may comprise the third processing
device configured to: determine one or more chargeable parking areas, or toll areas, in
the vicinity of the current location of the vehicle; determine one or more routes from
the current location of the vehicle to the one or more chargeable parking areas, or toll
areas; determine time periods to travel on the one or more routes based on an expected
speed on the one or more routes; and determine the shortest one or more time periods to
provide the closest chargeable parking area, or toll area.

                                             14
[0056]    The monitoring device may further comprise: a solar cell to receive energy
from light and to generate electrical energy; and a battery to receive energy from the
solar cell and to power the one or more electronic circuits.
[0057]    A computer-implemented method performed by a vehicle-fitted monitoring
device to account for parking of a vehicle in a chargeable parking area, or use of a
vehicle in a toll area, the method comprising: determining one or more chargeable
footprints based on respective chargeable parking areas and/or toll areas, wherein the
chargeable footprints are defined in at least a two-dimensional space; receiving, from a
positioning module at the vehicle, the current position of the vehicle; determining a
vehicle footprint of the vehicle based on the current position of the vehicle from the
positioning module, wherein the vehicle footprint is defined in at least a two
dimensional space; determining one or more overlaps between the vehicle footprint and
the one or more chargeable footprints; and determining a chargeable parking area or
toll area that is used by the vehicle based on the one or more overlap.
[0058]    In some examples, instead of using overlaps, the method may include
determining a spatial distance between the vehicle footprint and one or more
chargeable footprints, whereby if the spatial distance satisfies a threshold (such as at or
under a specified distance), it is determined that the vehicle is in that chargeable
footprint. In some examples, this may include selecting the shortest spatial distance
between the vehicle footprint and surrounding chargeable footprints to determine the
chargeable footprint for accounting.
[0059]    This may allow more accurate determination of the chargeable area or toll area
that the vehicle is located in. In some examples, information defining the chargeable
footprints based on respective chargeable parking areas and/or toll areas are stored in a
data store of the monitoring device. This may allow the monitoring device to
determine the vehicle footprint without relying on information received, over the
communication network, every time the monitoring device is in use. This may reduce
communication of the monitoring device with the server which may in turn reduce
power consumption. It is to be appreciated that from time to time, information on the

                                              15
chargeable footprints may be sent from a server to update the information in the data
store.
[0060]    The method may further comprise determining corresponding overlap areas
for each of the one or more overlaps between the vehicle footprint and the one or more
chargeable footprints. In the method, the step of determining a chargeable parking area
or toll area that is used by the vehicle based on the overlap may further comprise:
comparing the corresponding overlap areas to identify a largest overlap area (or closest
spatial distance to the chargeable parking area); and determining a chargeable parking
area or toll area based on the largest overlap area and corresponding overlap (or closest
distance to the chargeable parking area).
[0061]    A vehicle-fitted monitoring device to account for parking of a vehicle in a
chargeable parking area, or use of a vehicle in a toll area, wherein in use the monitoring
device is fitted to with the vehicle, the monitoring device a fourth processing device to;
determine one or more chargeable footprints based on respective chargeable parking
areas and/or toll areas, wherein the chargeable footprints are defined in at least a two
dimensional space; receive, from a positioning module at the vehicle, the current
position of the vehicle; determine a vehicle footprint of the vehicle based on the current
position of the vehicle from the positioning module, wherein the vehicle footprint is
defined in at least a two-dimensional space; determine one or more overlaps between
the vehicle footprint and the one or more chargeable footprints; and determine a
chargeable parking area or toll area that is used by the vehicle based on the one or more
overlap.
[0062]    In the monitoring device, the fourth processing device may be further
configured to determine corresponding overlap areas for each of the one or more
overlaps between the vehicle footprint and the one or more chargeable footprints.
[0063]    In the monitoring device, wherein to determine a chargeable parking area or
toll area used by the vehicle based on the one or more overlay, the fourth processing
device may be configured to: compare the corresponding overlap areas to identify a

                                              16
largest overlap area; and determine a chargeable parking area or toll area based on the
largest overlap area and corresponding overlap.
[0064]     The monitoring device may further comprise the positioning module to
provide the current position of the vehicle to the fourth processing device, wherein the
positioning module determines the current position of the vehicle based on one or more
of: satellite navigation system data; radio navigation system data; cellular
communication system data; and Wi-Fi positioning systems data.
[0065]     A computer-implemented method to generate a chargeable footprint based on
a respective chargeable parking area and/or toll area, wherein the chargeable footprint
is determined at least in a two-dimensional space, the method comprising: generating,
at a user interface, a map of a geographic area; receiving, with a user input, a selected
subset of the map of the geographic area, wherein the selected subset is defined by an
overlay of a two-dimensional shape on the map of the geographic area, wherein a
chargeable footprint of a chargeable parking area and/or toll area is based on the
selected subset; and storing, at a data store associated with a server, the chargeable
footprint of the chargeable parking area and/or toll area.
[0066]     This may simply and lower the cost of adding or modifying the chargeable
parking area and/or toll area as this may be done remotely by a computer. Furthermore,
this may be done without changing infrastructure, such as installing or removing
parking meters which may save resources.
[0067]     In the method, receiving a selected subset of the map may comprise: receiving,
with the user input, a selection of three or more points at the map; and generating a
polygon based on the three or more points on the map to provide the overlay of the
two-dimensional shape on the map.
[0068]     The method may further comprise receiving, with the user input, a specified
rate for the chargeable parking area and/or toll area.

                                             17
[0069]    The method may further comprise sending, over a communications network,
the chargeable footprint of the chargeable parking area and/or toll area to a monitoring
device associated with a vehicle.
[0070]    There is also provided a computer program comprising machine-executable
instructions to cause a processing device to implement one or more of the methods
described above.
Brief Description of Drawings
[0071]    Examples of the present disclosure will be described with reference to:
[0072]    Fig. 1 is a schematic of a system to account for parking of a vehicle in a
chargeable parking area;
[0073]    Fig. 2 is a schematic diagram of a monitoring device to account for parking of
a vehicle in a chargeable parking area;
[0074]    Fig. 3 is a flow diagram of a method to account for parking of a vehicle in a
chargeable parking area;
[0075]    Fig. 4 is a flow diagram of a method to determine a vehicle is stationary based
on one or more auxiliary sensors;
[0076]    Fig. 5 is a flow diagram of a method to generate an alert indicative of the
vehicle being in the chargeable parking area;
[0077]    Fig. 6 is a flow diagram of a method to determine a time period of a vehicle in
the chargeable parking area;
[0078]    Fig. 7 is a flow diagram of a method to debit a user account by a debit value
associated with parking in the chargeable parking area;

                                              18
[0079]   Fig. 8. illustrates a schematic of chargeable parking areas and toll areas where
a monitoring device associated with a vehicle is used to account for parking in the
chargeable parking area, or use in the toll area;
[0080]   Fig. 9 is a schematic diagram of a monitoring system, including a monitoring
device to account for parking of a vehicle in a chargeable parking area, or use in a toll
area;
[0081]   Fig. 10 is a flow diagram of a method performed by the monitoring device
operable in a low power mode and a high power mode;
[0082]   Fig. 11 is a flow diagram of the method of Fig. 10 including a learning mode;
[0083]   Fig. 12 is flow diagram of the method of Fig. 10 in an example of an
automatic mode;
[0084]   Fig. 13 is a flow diagram of the method of Fig. 10 with an example of
operation of electronic circuits in a high power mode;
[0085]   Fig. 14 is a flow diagram of the method of Fig. 10 with an example to account
for parking in a chargeable parking area where the monitoring device is in
communication with a server to account for charges and receive updates on the
chargeable parking areas;
[0086]   Fig. 15 is a flow diagram of the method of Fig. 10 with an example to account
for use of a toll area where the monitoring device is in communication with a server to
account for charges and receive updates on the toll areas;
[0087]   Fig. 16 is a flow diagram of a method performed by a monitoring device
operable in a low power mode and a high power mode depending on travel time to the
closest chargeable parking areas and/or toll areas;

                                               19
[0088]    Fig. 17 is a flow diagram of the method of Fig. 16 including switching
between low power modes and high power modes;
[0089]    Fig. 18 is a flow diagram of the method of Fig. 16 including an example of the
steps to determine the closest chargeable parking area or toll area based on determining
the shortest travel time;
[0090]    Fig. 19 illustrates a schematic of chargeable parking areas and toll areas where
a monitoring device determines the chargeable parking area, or the toll area, used by
the vehicle based on determining overlapping footprints of the vehicle over the
footprint of the areas;
[0091]    Fig. 20 illustrates a schematic based on Fig. 19 showing overlaps of a footprint
of the vehicle with the chargeable parking areas and toll areas;
[0092]    Fig. 21 is a flow diagram of a method of determining a chargeable parking
area, or toll area, used by the vehicle associated with the monitoring device;
[0093]    Fig. 22 is a flow diagram of the method of Fig. 21 further including steps to
identify the chargeable parking area or the toll area based on the size of the overlap
areas;
[0094]    Fig. 23 illustrate front and rear perspective views of an example monitoring
device;
[0095]    Fig. 24 shows a user interface displaying a list of customer information;
[0096]    Figs. 25 and 26 shows a user interface displaying specific details of a
particular customer;
[0097]    Figs. 27 and 28 shows a user interface displaying details of a specific parking
event;

                                             20
[0098]   Fig. 29 shows a user interface displaying details of a specific customer device.
[0099]   Fig. 30 shows a user interface displaying a list of monitoring devices including
summary details;
[0100]   Fig. 31 shows a user interface for the administrator to change their details;
[0101]   Fig. 32 shows a user interface displaying a list of customer purchases;
[0102]   Fig. 33 show a user interface displaying a log of data received by the server;
[0103]   Fig. 34 shows a user interface displaying a list of authorities (i.e.
administrators);
[0104]   Fig. 35 shows a user interface displaying a list of persons representing the
administrator;
[0105]   Figs. 36 and 37 illustrate user interfaces displaying details of billing from the
system;
[0106]   Fig. 38 shows a user interface with details of a list of parking regions;
[0107]   Fig. 39 shows a user interface with details of a list of parking bays;
[0108]   Fig. 40 shows a user interface for managing parking bays;
[0109]   Figs. 41a to 41b illustrate a sequence to specify a parking bay using polygons;
and
[0110]   Fig. 42 illustrates an example of a processing device.

                                              21
Description of Embodiments
Overview of a first example
[0111]    Fig. 1 illustrates a schematic of a monitoring system 1 to account for parking
of a vehicle 3 that is parked in a chargeable parking area 4. The monitoring system 1
includes a monitoring device 5 associated with the vehicle 3. The monitoring device 5
is in communication, over a communications network 7, to a server 9. The monitoring
device 5 sends to the server 9, device data that is based on a position of the vehicle 3.
The monitoring device 5 also sends user input data that is indicative of a confirmation
or a denial from a user 18 that the vehicle 3 is parked or should be charged for parking,
to the server 9.
[0112]    The monitoring system 1 may allow remote monitoring of parking of the
vehicle 3 as well as providing the user 18 the ability to positively confirm or deny that
the vehicle 3 is parked. This may allow the user 18 to have greater control on charges
associated with parking. This may also be advantageous in situations where it is
difficult for the monitoring device 5 to determine, with satisfactory accuracy, whether
the vehicle 3 is parked in the chargeable parking area 4 as opposed to the vehicle 3
temporarily stopping in the chargeable parking area 4, or alternatively parked near, but
not in, the chargeable parking area 4. Another source of inaccuracy is where the
vehicle may near buildings, or other structures, causing signal multi-path for the
satellite signals leading to erroneous outputs from a satellite navigation module.
[0113]    Referring back to Fig. 1, other elements may also be in communication with
the communications network 7, include processing devices associated with a debtor/
third party 11, a payment server 13 and an administrator 15 of the chargeable parking
area 4. The relationship of these elements will be explained in further detail below.
[0114]    The components of the monitoring device 5 and system 1 will now be
described.

                                              22
Monitoring device 5
[0115]    The monitoring device 5 may be integrated with the vehicle 3, retrofitted to
the vehicle 3, or placed inside the vehicle 3. For example, at least part of the
monitoring device 5 and/or other associated components may be mounted to the
dashboard, mounted to the windscreen, located in the glove box compartment, located
in a storage area of the vehicle, or located under the bonnet of the vehicle. In other
examples, parts of the monitoring device and/or associated components may be
integrated with the radio, entertainment, monitoring and control, and/or navigation
system of the vehicle 3.
[0116]    In some examples, the monitoring device 5 may have an integrated power
source such as batteries, solar cell, capacitors, inductors etc. to power the components
therein. This may allow the monitoring device to operate as a complete unit without
requiring electrical/electronic connection to the electrical system of the vehicle 3. An
advantage of this is that it may allow ease of using the monitoring device 5 with
different vehicles without requiring specialist modification or installation. Thus the
monitoring device 5 may be easily fitted to different makes, models, styles and age of
vehicles.
[0117]    Referring to Fig. 2, the monitoring device 5 includes a first processing device
17 to perform a method 100 described below.
[0118]     The monitoring device 5 also has a user interface to allow interaction with a
user 18. The user interface may include a user input 19 to receive user input data from
the user 18, where the user input data is indicative of a confirmation or a denial from
the user 18 that the vehicle 3 is parked or should be charged for parking. In one
example, the user input 19 may be an electrical or electronic switch or button that can
be actuated by the user 18. This may include a first button for confirming the vehicle is
parked and a second button for denying the vehicle is parked. In other examples, the
user input 19 may be part of a touchscreen interface. In yet another example, the user
input 19 may include a microphone to receive verbal commands from the user 18,

                                             23
whereby the verbal commands are processed by a processing device to determine the
user input data.
[0119]    The user interface may also include a user output 21 to present information to
the user 18. The information may include an alert that the vehicle 3 is in the chargeable
parking area. In one example, the user output 21 may provide one or more visual
indicium, such as light produced by an LED. The one or more LED may provide a
visual indication, either alone, or in conjunction with other visual indicia such as
textual markings next to the LED, that the vehicle 3 is in the chargeable parking area 4.
In another example, the user output 21 may include a display to present the alert to the
user 18. The display may be part of a touchscreen display. In some examples, user
output 21 may be provided by a user output 21 of the vehicle 21, such as an output in
the dashboard of the vehicle 3. In yet other examples, the user output 21 may be an
audio output to provide audible indication that the vehicle 3 is in the chargeable
parking area 4. This may include a speech module to provide verbal output to the user
18. In yet another example, the user output 21 may be a haptic output that is detectable
by the user 18. For example, an electro-mechanical agitator may provide the user with
vibration that can be felt by the user 18. In one example, the haptic output is associated
with a parking brake of the vehicle 3, such that a user can receive an alert that the
vehicle 3 is in a chargeable parking area 4 when the user 18 applies the parking brake.
[0120]    A communications module 23 may allow the monitoring device 5 to
communicate wirelessly to the communications network 7. In one example, the
communication module 23 may allow communication through cellular networks,
including communication with cellular data. This may include communication through
cellular networks that operate on (but not limited to) GPRS, 3G, 4G technology. In
some examples, the communication module 23 may communicate through a local area
network, such as a wireless local area network operating on Wi-Fi technology. These,
in turn, may be in communication to a wider network such as the internet. It is to be
appreciated that other forms (and combinations) of communication may be used to
provide the communication between the monitoring device 5 and the server 9.

                                               24
[0121]     A satellite navigation module 25 may receive signals from a satellite 27 to
provide a first output indicative of a position of the vehicle 3 to the monitoring device
5. The satellite navigation module 25 may receive signals from GPS (Global
Positioning System), GLONASS (GLObal Navigation Satellite System), or other
navigation systems. The satellite navigation module 25 may also receive
supplementary signals, such as signals from a DGPS (Differential Global Positioning
System), and augmentation signals such as from (Wide Area Augmentation System)
and GBAS (Ground Based Augmentation System). The satellite navigation module 25
may also utilise Assisted GPS based on communication signals received by the
communications module 23.
[0122]    In some alternatives, the satellite navigation module 25 may be supplemented,
or substituted with other positioning and navigation systems (such as local positioning
systems). This may include other radio navigation systems that include a system of
radio transmitters (or transceivers) at known positions and a radio receiver (or
transceiver), associated with the monitoring device 5, to output the position of the radio
receiver (that is co-located with the monitoring device 5 and vehicle 3). In one
example, one or more radio transmitters, such as a radio beacon, may be placed in or
near the chargeable parking area, whereby a receiver associated with the monitoring
device 5 may receive radio signals from the radio transmitter to determine the vehicle 3
is in a position in the chargeable parking area 4. In further variations, these other
signals may be used to refine an outputted position from the satellite navigation
module. Other positioning systems that may include Wi-Fi positioning systems.
[0123]    One or more auxiliary sensors 29 may provide a second output that may be
used to determine if the vehicle 3 is stationary. Determining the vehicle 4 is stationary
can be a useful indicator that the vehicle 3 is parked, as opposed to merely moving
through, a chargeable parking area 4. The auxiliary sensors 29 may include
accelerometers and gyroscopes to detect linear or angular acceleration, the absence of
which is indicative of the vehicle 3 being stationary. Other non-limiting examples of
auxiliary sensors 29 may include: magnetometers, digital imaging devices, radar, sonar,
and lidar. Magnetometers detect magnetic fields and if changes in magnetic fields are

                                              25
detected, this may be indicative of movement of the vehicle 4. Digital imaging devices,
such as digital cameras, may detect changes in the surroundings that may also be used
to determine if the vehicle 4 is moving or stationary. Furthermore, radar, sonar
(including ultrasonic transducers), and lidar devices have been integrated in vehicles 4
to assist in parking, cruise control and collision avoidance. These devices may also
provide outputs that can be used to determine if the vehicle 4 is moving or stationary.
The server 9
[0124]    The server 9 includes a second processing device 31 to perform the method
200 discussed below. The server 9 may also have an associated data store 33 to store
geographic data 35 of the chargeable parking area 4 and user information 37 that may
include user account information, including an account balance, associated with the
monitoring device 5. It is to be appreciated that the server 9 may be a cloud based
server.
[0125]    As will be discussed in further detail below, the server 9 determines that the
vehicle 3 is parked for at least one time period in a chargeable parking area based on
the received device data and user input data. In turn, this can be used to account for
parking in the chargeable area by debiting a user account associated with the
monitoring device 5. An account balance of the user account may be settled by a
transfer of funds to the administrator of the chargeable parking area 15. It is to be
appreciated that this could be done various ways such as: sending a request for a
transfer funds to a debtor 11 associated with the user account; sending a request for a
transfer funds to a third party 11 holding funds, in escrow, of a user 18 associated with
the user associated with the user account. In another example, this may also include
sending a request to a payment server 13, such as an electronic funds transfer (EFT)
service provider, to facilitate the transfer of funds to the administrator of the chargeable
parking area 15. It is to be appreciated that in some examples, the user account may
have associated prepayment of funds from the user 18. In other examples, the account
balance of the user account may be settled at periodic time intervals (e.g. post
payment), or after the account balance has reached a threshold level. In yet another

                                              26
example, the request for a transfer of funds may be contemporaneous (or close to) to
the time that the vehicle 3 has parked in the chargeable parking area 4.
Description of an example to account for parking of a vehicle in a chargeable parking
area
[0126]    Referring to Fig. 3, an example to account for parking of the vehicle 3 will
now be described. The method 100 is performed by the monitoring device 5 that is in
communication, over the communications network 7, to the server 9 that performs the
method 200.
[0127]    The monitoring device 5 has associated device data to send to the server 9.
The device data is based on a position of the vehicle 3. The device data may be based
on a first output from the satellite navigation module 25 that provides data to determine
the position of the vehicle 3. The device data may also include a device identifier to
identify the monitoring device 5. The device identifier in turn may be associated with
the user account.
[0128]    The monitoring device 5 then sends 110, over the communications network 7,
device data to the server 9. The monitoring device 5 may send 110 device data to the
server 9 at regular times. For example, the device data may be sent once a minute.
However, other times such as every two minutes, every five minutes, every thirty
seconds, etc. may be used. One consideration is that sending 110 device data may use
resources such as power and data over the communications network. Therefore longer
times between sending data 110 can be more efficient on the resources, but decrease the
granularity of the device data. In other examples, the monitoring device 5 may send
110 device data to the server 9 upon determination of a particular event. In one
example, the monitoring device 5 may send 110 device data after it is determined 105
that the vehicle 3 is stationary (which will be discussed in further detail below). This
may lead to more efficient use of resources as it may not be necessary to send device
data whilst the vehicle 3 is in motion.

                                              27
[0129]    The server 9 receives 210, over the communications network 7, device data
from the monitoring device 5. The device data, or part thereof, may be stored in the
data store 33.
[0130]    When the vehicle 3 is at or near the chargeable parking area 4, the user may
wish to confirm that the vehicle 3 is parked, or deny that the vehicle is parked. For
example, if the user has parked the vehicle 3 in the chargeable parking area 4 and
intends to have the associated user account charged for parking, the user will confirm
the vehicle 3 is parked. Alternatively, if the user has stopped the vehicle 3 temporarily
in the chargeable parking area 4 and does not intend to park, or be charged for parking,
the user will deny the vehicle 3 is parked. In yet another alternative, if the user has
parked in the chargeable parking area 4, but does not intend to be charged (for example,
they may be exempt from paying for that particular chargeable parking area), the user
may operate the user input to deny that the vehicle is parked, or deny that the vehicle
should be charged for parking. In yet another alternative, the vehicle 3 may be parked
in close proximity to the chargeable parking area 4, such as a free parking area 8. The
satellite navigation module 25 may not have the accuracy to distinguish if the vehicle 3
is in the chargeable parking area 4 or in the free parking area 8. Accordingly, if the
vehicle 3 is in the free parking area 8, the user can deny the vehicle 3 is parked in the
chargeable parking area 4.
[0131]    Thus the monitoring device 5 receives 120 the user input data indicative of a
confirmation or a denial from the user 18 at the user input 19. The monitoring device 5
then sends 130, over the communications network 7, the user input data to the server 9.
In turn, the server 9 then receives 220, over the communications network 7, the user
input data.
[0132]    The server 9 then determines 230 that the vehicle has been parked for at least
one time period in a chargeable parking area based on the device data and the user
input.

                                               28
[0133]    In one example, determining 230 that the vehicle 3 has parked for at least one
time period in the chargeable parking 4 may include determining:
          (i) The vehicle 3 is in a position that is within a chargeable parking area,
wherein the position is determined from the device data; and
          (ii) The user input data includes a confirmation from the user 18 that the
vehicle is parked in the chargeable parking area 4.
[0134]    After determining 230 that the vehicle 3 has parked for at least one time period
in the chargeable parking area, information in relation to this determination may be
stored in the data store 33. This may include updating the account balance of the user
information 37 to account for parking of the vehicle 3 in the chargeable parking area 4.
Additional steps in the method to account for parking of a vehicle in a chargeable
parking area
[0135]    The methods 100 and 200 may include additional steps that will now be
discussed below.
Determine the vehicle is stationarybased on output of auxiliary sensors
[0136]    Referring to Fig. 4, the monitoring device 5 may determine 105 the vehicle is
stationary based on the second output of one or more of the auxiliary sensors 29. The
device data that is sent 110 to the server 9, as described above, may further include an
indication that the vehicle is stationary.
[0137]    Determining the vehicle 3 is stationary, as discussed above, may be indicative
of the vehicle 3 being parked. Therefore in one example, the step of sending 110
device data to the server 9 may be initiated when the vehicle is stationary which may
reduce use of power and communication data resources. In another example, the
satellite navigation module 25 may only be active when the vehicle 3 is stationary
which may further save power. In yet further embodiments, one or more steps of the

                                              29
method 100, such as sending 110 device data, may be performed at higher or lower
frequency when the vehicle is stationary.
[0138]    Conversely, detecting that the vehicle 3 is moving may be indicative that the
vehicle 3 is no longer parked. Therefore, in one example, detecting the vehicle 3 is not
stationary may initiate one or more steps of the method 100, such as sending 110
device data. This may also change the frequency that one, or more, step(s) of the
method 100 is performed, such as sending 110 device data.
[0139]    Therefore determining the vehicle 3 is stationary or moving may assist in more
efficient use of power and/or communication data resources. It may also assist in
increasing the granularity of determining the length of time that the vehicle 3 is parked,
since the length of time a vehicle 3 is stationary may be indicative of the length of time
the vehicle 3 has parked.
Generatingan alert that the vehicle is in the chargeableparking area
[0140]    When the vehicle 3 is in (or close to) the chargeable parking area 4, the user
18 may find it useful to receive an alert that the vehicle 3 is in the chargeable parking
area 4. This may prompt the user 18 to confirm or deny the vehicle 3 is parked in the
chargeable parking area 4. It may also assist the user 18 on deciding to park the vehicle
or move to a different area.
[0141]    This will now be described with reference to Fig. 5 that shows steps in the
methods 100 and 200.
[0142]    The method 200 includes the server 9 receiving 212, from the data store 33,
geographic data 35 of the chargeable parking area 4. Geographic data 35 may include,
for example coordinates of a boundary of the chargeable parking area 4. In another
example, geographic data may include a coordinate (such as latitude and longitude) of a
centre of the chargeable parking area, and a radius value from the centre to approximate

                                               30
the chargeable parking area. It is to be appreciated that geographic data may be
represented in other ways.
[0143]    It is to be appreciated that the data store 33 may contain geographic data 35
corresponding to a large number of chargeable parking areas. For example, the data
store 33 may contain geographic data 35 for all chargeable areas in a town, city, state,
or even country. Therefore, the server 9 may receive 212 geographic data that is
relevant to the position of the vehicle 3. In one example, the server 9 determines the
position of the vehicle 9 from the device data, and then makes a request to receive
geographic data for chargeable areas 4 near the vehicle 3.
[0144]    The server 9 may determine 214 that the vehicle 3 is in the chargeable parking
area 4 based on the device data and the geographic data. This may include determining
that the device data indicates the position of the vehicle is within the chargeable
parking area 4 indicated by the geographic data.
[0145] The server 9 then sends 216, over the communications network 7, to the
monitoring device 5 a signal indicative of the vehicle being in the chargeable parking
area 4. This signal is then received 112 by the monitoring device 5.
[0146] The monitoring device 5 then generates 114, at the user output 21, an alert
indicative of the vehicle 3 is in the chargeable parking area 4. As noted above, the alert
may be a visual alert, an audible alert, a haptic alert, etc. The alert may then prompt the
user to interact with the user input 19 to confirm or deny that the vehicle 3 is in the
chargeable parking area 4.
Determining a time period of the vehicle in the chargeableparking area
[0147]    The amount charged for parking a vehicle 3 in the chargeable parking area 4
may be based on the length of time the vehicle is in the parking area. Therefore,
determining the time period of the vehicle in the chargeable parking area 4 is important
for accounting the amount charged.

                                             31
[0148]    In one example, a rate may be charged, that may be quoted in a currency
amount per hour (e.g. $5/hour). It is to be appreciated that in other alternatives, the
amount charged for parking a vehicle 3 may be at variable rates. For example, there
may be a "peak hour" rate, with a higher rate, for busier times and an "off peak" rate,
with a lower rate, for less busy times. In another example, the rates may be
progressive, or regressive, over time as the vehicle 3 stays in the chargeable parking
area 4. In yet further alternatives, the amount charged may be capped based on
reaching a specified currency amount and/or length of time parked.
[0149]    This will now be described with reference to Fig. 6. The monitoring device 5
may send 110 device data at multiple times. As discussed above, this may be done at
regular time intervals, specified time intervals, or may be initiated by an event such as
detecting motion with the auxiliary sensors 29. The sending of subsequent device data
by the monitoring device 5 is shown in Fig. 6 than includes sending 132, over the
communications network 7, updated device data to the server 9, wherein the updated
device data is based on an updated position of the vehicle 3 in the chargeable parking
area 4. The terms "updated device data" and "updated position" refers to the respective
device data and position of the vehicle 3 sent during one or more subsequent sending of
the device data. Therefore, in some cases (and in particular if the vehicle 3 has not
moved), the updated position of the vehicle and the position of the vehicle may be the
same.
[0150]    The updated device data is received 222 by the server 9. The server 9 may
store the updated device data in the data store 33 as part of the user information 37.
This may be retrieved at a later time to account for parking of the vehicle 3.
[0151]    The server 9 may then determine 224 if the vehicle 3 is still in the chargeable
parking area 4. This may be achieved in various ways. In one example, this may
include comparing the updated device data (based on the updated position of the
vehicle) with the geographic data of the chargeable parking area 4. In another example,
this may include comparing the updated device data with the device data (received
earlier in step 210).

                                                32
[0152]     The server 9 may then determine 226 at least one time period in the chargeable
parking area based on time associated with the device data and the updated device data.
Since the device data and updated device data indicates the vehicle has been parked in
the chargeable parking area 4, it is indicative that the vehicle 3 was parked for the time
period there between. Therefore in one example, time may be associated with the
device data and updated device data, such as respective time stamps associated with the
position and updated position. The server 9 may then determine a time period that
elapsed based on the respective time stamps of the position and updated position. In
some examples, the time associated with the device data and updated data may include
time stamps associated with sending 110, 132 and/or receiving 210, 222 the device data
and updated device data.
[0153]     It is to be appreciated for an entire period that a vehicle 3 is parked in the
chargeable parking area, the above mentioned steps may be repeated to determine
multiple discrete time periods in which the vehicle 3 is parked. This may be
aggregated by server 9 to determine the total time which in turn may be used to
determine the total amount to be charged for parking the vehicle in the chargeable
parking area 4.
[0154]     In one variation, the auxiliary sensors 29 may be used to determine when the
vehicle 3 is moving, and hence departing the chargeable parking area 4. This may
initiate the monitoring device 5 to send updated device data to the server 9, which in
turn may determine an end of a time period in the chargeable parking area. In yet
another variation, the user input 19 may receive from the user 18 an indication that the
user wishes to end the time period in the chargeable parking area 4. In yet another
variation, the monitoring device 5 may receive signals associated with vehicle on board
systems, such as the key, ignition switches and other control systems. Therefore
starting the vehicle 3 may initiate the monitoring device 5 to send the updated device
data.

                                               33
Flat rate and determining the vehicle has parked for at least one time period
[0155]     It is to be appreciated than in some embodiments, the amount charged may be
a flat rate. For example, the chargeable parking area may have a flat rate of $20 for
entering and parking in the chargeable parking area, regardless of the length of time the
vehicle 3 is parked. That is, $20 will be charged, regardless of whether the vehicle is
parked for a time period that is 5 minutes, 4 hours, 3 days, etc. In yet another example,
the amount charged may be a flat rate per day. In such cases, determining 230 the
vehicle is parked for at least one time period may include determining that the vehicle
has parked during a 24 hour cycle, and it may not be necessary to determine the length
of time during the 24 hour cycle that the vehicle 3 is parked.
Account balance of a user account associated with the monitoring device
[0156]     After determining 230 that the vehicle 3 has been parked for at least one time
period in the chargeable parking area 4, this information may be stored in the data store
33. The method 200 may further include determining the currency amount that should
be charged in relation to parking the vehicle 3. This will now be described with
reference to Fig. 7.
[0157]     The server 9 determines 232 a debit value based on the vehicle been parked for
at least one time period in the chargeable parking area 4. This may include receiving,
from the data store 33 a schedule of rates and charges associated with the chargeable
parking area 4. This may then be applied to the determined at least one or more time
period in the chargeable parking area.
[0158]     In one illustrative example, it is determined that the vehicle is parked in a
chargeable parking area for a time period of 30 minutes. The rate for parking in the
chargeable parking area is $5 per hour. Therefore the debit value for parking in the
chargeable parking area for 30 minutes is $2.50.

                                              34
[0159]    In another illustrative example, it is determined that the vehicle is parked in
chargeable parking area for a time period of 1 hour. The rate for parking the
chargeable parking area is a flat rate of $20. Therefore the debit value for parking the
chargeable parking area for 1 hour is $20.
[0160]    The server 9 may then apply the debit value to a user account associated with
the monitoring device. This may include determining 234 and account balance of the
user account by debiting the user account by the debit value. This may occur multiple
times such that the user account is debited cumulatively as the vehicle 3 is parked in the
(or another) chargeable parking area 4.
[0161]    As noted above, the account balance needs to be settled, such as by
transferring funds to the administrator 15 of the chargeable parking area. Therefore the
server 9 may send 236, over a communications network, a request to transfer funds to
the administrator 15, wherein the request to transfer funds is based on the account
balance of the user account. In one example, this request may be the full balance of the
account balance, or part of the account balance with respect to charges incurred during
an accounting period. In one example the request is sent by server 9 to the debtor 11
responsible for payment of the user account. In another example, the request is sent by
server 9 to a third party, who may hold funds for a user associated with the user
account, who may then make the payment on behalf of the user.
[0162]    The device data may include a device identifier associated with the user
account. Thus the device data may be used to match the device identifier with the
correct user account. In some examples the user account may require prepayment so
that the user has available funds for use to settle future charges associated with the user
account. Alternatively, the user account may be a "post payment" account where the
user has to pay for the charges after they are incurred.
[0163]    In yet another example, the request is sent by server 9 to a payment server to
transfer money from an account (such as a bank account) of the user associated with the
user account. This may include, for example, if the user has authorised direct debiting

                                               35
of the bank account for charges associated with the user account. Similarly, a user may
also authorise charging of a credit card for such charges.
Authorisation to debit an account
[0164]    The monitoring device 5 may send 134, over the communications network 7,
to the server 9 an authorisation to debit an account balance of a user account associated
with the monitoring device, by debiting the user account by a debit value based on the
vehicle 3 been parked for the time period in the chargeable parking area 4.
[0165]    In one example, the authorisation may be initiated when the user confirms that
the vehicle is parked in the chargeable parking area. That is, the user input data sent to
the server 9 may be an authorisation to debit an account balance of a user account
associated with the monitoring device.
[0166]    In one variation, the authorisation to debit an account may be sent at a later
time. For example, when the monitoring device 5 determines that the vehicle is no
longer parked in the chargeable parking area 4, the monitoring device 5 may send 134
a signal to the server 9 indicating that the vehicle is no longer parked and that the user
account should be debited by the respective debit value.
[0167]    In another example, this may be initiated by the user 18, where upon return to
the vehicle 3, the user 18 may wish to confirm that the vehicle is no longer parked by
operating the user input 19. This in turn, causes the monitoring device to send 134 to
the server 9 a signal indicating the vehicle is no longer parked and to authorise debiting
of the user account for charges associated with parking the vehicle 3 in the chargeable
parking area 4.
[0168]    It is to be appreciated that this may also be applied for authorisation to debit an
account for a vehicle that has operated for a specified period or travelled a specified
distance in a toll area, such as on a toll road.

                                              36
Alternative modes of use
[0169]    It is to be appreciated that the monitoring system 1 and monitoring device 5
may have alternative modes of use in addition to those described above.
[0170]    In one example, the monitoring system 1 may account for parking of the
vehicle 3 if no user input data is received from the user 18. That is, if the user does not
provide a confirmation or a denial that the vehicle 3 is parked, the system 1 and method
100 may determine that the vehicle 3 is parked and should be charged for parking.
[0171]    This may include the monitoring system 1 (including either one or both of the
monitoring device 3 and or server 9) determining that: (i) the vehicle 3 is parked in a
chargeable area 4; and (ii) no user input data has been received within a specified time
period from when the vehicle 3 was parked. As a result of this determination, the
monitoring system 1 may account for the time the vehicle 3 has parked in the
chargeable parking area 4.
[0172]    It is to be appreciated that determining that no user input data has been
received may be achieved in a variety of ways. In one example, the monitoring device
5 may have a timer starting from the determined 105 time that the vehicle is stationary.
If an elapsed time passes beyond a specified time and no user input data is received, the
monitoring device 5 may send a signal to the server 9 indicative of this fact.
Alternatively, the server 9 may determine that no user input data is received based on
(i) receiving 210 device data from the monitoring device 5 that the vehicle 3 in the
chargeable parking area 4 and (ii) determining the absence of receiving 220 user input
data within a specified time. Non-limiting examples of the specified time may be 1, 2,
5, or 10 minutes.
[0173]    In another example, the monitoring system 1 may allow a user 18 to
selectively confirm that the user should be charged for parking. In one example, the
vehicle 3 may in fact be parked in a chargeable parking area 4, but the monitoring
device 5 may not have automatically determined this fact. This may be due to sources

                                               37
of inaccuracy in the navigation module, errors in geographic data 45 of the chargeable
parking area 4, or recent changes in zoning of the chargeable parking area 4, etc.
[0174]    Therefore in one example after the user has parked the vehicle 3, the
monitoring device 5 may provide an output to the user 18 indicating that the vehicle 3
is not in the chargeable parking area 4. This output may be audio, voice message,
message on a visual display or other visual indicia. The user 18 may then specify
through a user interface that the vehicle has parked in the chargeable parking area 4. In
one example, the monitoring device 5 may select the closest chargeable parking area 4
to the monitoring device. In another example, this may include allowing the user to
specify a particular chargeable parking area 4. This may be achieved by the user output
21 providing a list of nearby chargeable parking areas 4 and the user 18 making a
selection from that list via the user input 19. In turn, the monitoring device 5 may then
send to the server 9, a signal indicative of the vehicle being parked in the user specified
chargeable parking area 4. Accounting, and charging, for the time the vehicle 3 is
parked may then be performed in the manner discussed above.
[0175]    It is to be appreciated that in the example above, the use of the monitoring
device relates to accounting for parking of a vehicle in a chargeable parking area can be
adapted to be used to account for use of a vehicle in a toll area. For example, say a
vehicle has parked in location "A" and subsequently parks in a different location "B".
It may be determined that a journey from location "A" to location "B" includes use of a
vehicle in a toll area. Accordingly, the monitoring device may be used to determine
time and location of the vehicle in such a journey that uses the toll area, which in turn
may be used to determine and account for charges for use of the toll area.
Overview of a second example of the monitoring device with power saving feature
[0176]    An example of a monitoring system 401 to account for parking of a vehicle
403' in a chargeable parking area 404', or use of a vehicle 403" in a toll area 406 will
now be described with reference to Figs. 8 and 9. The monitoring system 401 includes
a monitoring device 405 associated with the vehicle 403. The monitoring device 405

                                             38
may determine whether the vehicle is parked or in use in the parking area 404' or toll
area 406 based on the location of the vehicle 403 and/or data from other sensors.
[0177]    The monitoring device 405 includes one or more electronic circuits (such as
processing device 417, communications module 23, satellite navigation module 25 as
shown in Fig. 9) operable in a low power mode and a high power mode and the
monitoring device 40. The monitoring device 405 also includes at least one auxiliary
sensor 429. The auxiliary sensors 429 may include one or more of: an accelerometer, a
gyroscope, a magnetometer, a digital imaging device, microphone, ultrasonic
transducer, sonar, lidar, radar, etc.
[0178]    The monitoring device 405 also includes a third processing device 417 that is
configured to determine 510 the vehicle status including whether the vehicle 403 is
parked, or in use, based on an output from at least one of the auxiliary sensors 29. The
third processing device 417, based on the determined vehicle status, further initiates
operation 520 of the one or more electronic circuit in a high power mode. This method
500 is illustrated in Fig. 10.
[0179]    Therefore electronic circuits of the monitoring device 405 may operate in the
high power mode when required. This may save power as electronic circuits may,
when not needed, be in a low power mode (or even switched off). In some examples
the monitoring device 405 is powered by a battery 438. In some further embodiments,
the monitoring device 405 also includes a solar cell 436 to generate electrical power to
operate the monitoring device 405. This may include using the solar cell 436 to charge
the battery 438. It is to be appreciated that alternative energy storage means, other than
a battery, may be used such as capacitors, inductors, etc. By having such energy
storage, the monitoring device 405 may operate without requiring electrical power
connections to the vehicle 403, which may simplify use of the monitoring device 405
with a variety of vehicles. In some examples, the monitoring device 405 may be
affixed to a windshield or dashboard of a vehicle by adhesive tape or mount 439, where
the solar cell 436 is configured to receive solar light (as shown in the external views of

                                             39
the device in Fig. 23). Thus having selective high power and low power modes can
extend the use of the monitoring device 405 between servicing.
[0180]    In some examples, initiating operation in the high power mode is based on
determining that the vehicle status has changed from parked to in use, or from in use to
parked. This allows the operation in high power mode to be operable during specified
events.
[0181]    For example, if the monitoring device 405 is used to account for parking in a
chargeable parking area and key information is to determine the length of time a car is
parked in the chargeable parking area, significant events indicative of the length of time
is parked may be the when the car changes from in use to parked (i.e. commencement
of parking) and when status changes from parked to in use (i.e. end of parking). The
high power mode may include using satellite navigation module 25 to determine the
position of the vehicle 405 and sending information to a server 9 via the
communications module 23. Whilst the car is parked (where the vehicle status would
not change) the electronic circuits such as the third processing device, 417,
communications module 23 and satellite navigation module 25 may be in a low power
mode.
[0182]    The monitoring system 401 may also be used to account for use of a vehicle in
a toll area 406. For example, the monitoring system 401 may be used to account for
use of a toll road, based on per use, per kilometre/mile, or based on time.
[0183]    Further details of this system 401 will be described in further detail below.
Learning mode
[0184]    Motor vehicles vary in characteristics between engine types, transmission
types, model of vehicle, etc. Therefore output from the auxiliary sensors that
correspond to changes of vehicle status may vary between motor vehicles.
Accordingly, the monitoring device 405 may include data store 432 to store vehicle

                                              40
status parameters that are relevant to the particular vehicle 403. Such status parameters
relate to statuses of the particular vehicle 403 including that the vehicle is parked or in
use. In some examples, the monitoring device 405 may have a learning mode that
updates the vehicle status parameters based on input from a user through the user input
19 and via the use of the vehicle. This feedback may improve the ability of the
monitoring device 405 to accurately determine the vehicle status.
[0185]    Referring the Fig. 11, and example of the learning mode is illustrated. This
may include receiving 501 one or more outputs of the at least one auxiliary sensors 429
that correspond to the vehicle 403 being parked, or in use. The method 500 then
includes comparing 503 the one or more outputs of the at least one auxiliary sensors
429 and the vehicle status parameters from the data store 432. The result of this
comparison 503 is to determine a predicted status of the vehicle 403 which may include
that the vehicle is parked or in use.
[0186]    The learning mode further comprises receiving 505 user input data indicative
of a confirmation or denial from a user that the vehicle is parked, or in use. The
method 500 then includes updating 507 the vehicle status parameters in the data store
432 based on the predicted status of the vehicle and the confirmation or denial.
[0187]    Updating the vehicle status parameters may include determining the standard
deviation of the respective outputs of the auxiliary sensors and using this standard
deviation data to calculate vehicle status parameters that would provide a specified
acceptable level of confidence in the accuracy of the predicted status. Updating may
include applying a weighting, or otherwise adjusting, the vehicle status parameters.
[0188]    Thus the learning mode allows the monitoring device to update and refine the
vehicle status parameters in monitoring device. This may allow adaptation to the
characteristics of the type and model of the vehicle. It may also allow adaptation to the
idiosyncrasies of particular vehicle as well as driving style(s) of user(s) of the vehicle.

                                               41
[0189]    In some examples, the initial vehicle status parameters may include a generic
set of vehicle status parameters which, through the learning mode above, updates the
vehicle status parameters to provide more accurate predicted statuses. In other
examples, the initial vehicle status parameters for the vehicle type/model may be
provided in the data store 432. This may include the data store having a plurality of
sets of vehicle status parameters and where the particular vehicle type/model can be
specified (such as through the user input 19 and/or via the communications module 23).
In yet further examples, a set of vehicle status parameters may be sent from the server 9
to the monitoring device 405 via the communications network 7. This may include a
set for the vehicle type/model or even a previously set based on previously updated
vehicle status parameters for that vehicle 403. For example, if a monitoring device
needs to be replaced, the vehicle status parameters may be copied from the data store
432 and saved into the data store of a replacement monitoring device.
[0190]    It is to be appreciated that the learning mode may be a deliberate event where
the user specifies that the monitoring device 405 to operate in a learning mode. In this
mode the user may be prompted to perform particular actions, such as switching the
engine on, switching the engine off, engaging/disengaging the parking brake, driving
in/out of a parking spot, opening the doors, locking the doors, activating/deactivating
the alarms, changing gears in the transmission, etc. In other examples, the learning
mode may be performed on an ad hoc basis whereby user input (such as at 505)
indicative of a confirmation or denial of a particular status of the vehicle causes the
monitoring device to learn by updating 507 the vehicle status parameters.
Vehicle status parameters
[0191]    An example of vehicle status parameters are provided in Table 1 below.

                                                42
Vehicle status       Audio              Vibration      Linear             Angular
                                                       acceleration       acceleration
Parked                0 to 60 dB        0 to 10 Hz     -0.1 to 0.1 g      -0.1 to 0.1 rad/s2
In use                > 60 dB           > 10Hz         >10.1 g            > |0.1 rad/s2I
                               Table 1 - Vehicle status parameters
[0192]      The vehicle status parameters may include values that are indicative of the
vehicle status. For example, if the auxiliary sensors provide an output that correspond
to less than 60 dB of sound, less than 10 Hz of vibration, less than 10.1 g| of linear
acceleration and less than 10.1 rad/s 2 | of angular acceleration, then these conditions may
indicate that a vehicle has parked. Equally, if the volatility of readings exceeds certain
pre-defined learnt standard deviations, then the car motor is in operation thus indicating
the car may be moving or preparing to stop or be parked. In some examples,
determination of the vehicle status may require these conditions to be met over a period
of time, having such measured values to be within such ranges for 30 seconds, a
minute, 5 minutes, etc. This may be useful to exclude behaviour that does not
correspond to the actual vehicle status. For example, if a vehicle is stopped in traffic
(or at a traffic light) the auxiliary sensors may provide an output that is within ranges
that correspond to a parked vehicle. However, a vehicle stopped in traffic is typically
stopped for less than a few minutes at a time. Therefore using time as a further
condition can exclude a vehicle in start and stop traffic (such as during a traffic jam) as
a vehicle that is parked. It is also to be appreciated that only a subset of the above
values may be used. For example, if a vehicle is parked near a noisy area (such as a
busy road), the audio detected by the auxiliary sensors may be above the threshold (in
the case 60 dB). However the output of the other sensors (giving an output within the
range of a "parked" vehicle) can be used as a check determine that the vehicle is parked
(i.e. if at least 3 of 4 vehicle status parameters for a parked vehicle are satisfied, then it
is determined that the vehicle is parked).

                                               43
Automatic mode
[0193]    In one example, the monitoring device 405 may operate in an automatic mode
to determine the status of the vehicle without additional user input. Referring to Fig.
12, the step of determining 510' the vehicle status is based on: the output of the
auxiliary sensors 429; and the vehicle status parameters in the data store 432.
Comparison of the output of the auxiliary sensors 429 with the vehicle status
parameters may allow a more accurate determination of the vehicle status by taking
into account particular characteristics of the vehicle 403. For example, this may
include determining whether the output of the auxiliary sensors matches the vehicle
status parameters (or subset thereof) in Table 1.
[0194]    In some examples, the automatic mode may only be available once a threshold
of accuracy has been achieved with the vehicle status parameters. This may include
multiple iterations of updating the vehicle status parameters discussed above until a
specified level of accuracy is achieved.
The high power mode and low power mode
[0195]    In some examples, initiating operation 520 of one or more electronic circuits
in the high power mode include relatively energy intensive routines. In one example as
illustrated in Fig. 13, this includes activating 522 a satellite navigation module 25 to
determine the location of the monitoring device 405 and vehicle 403. In another
example, this may include activating 524 the communication module 23 associated
with the monitoring device 405, which may include transmitting and receiving data. In
yet another example, the high power mode may include operating the third processing
device 417 in a high power mode (such as at a relatively higher clock speed).
[0196]    Conversely, the monitoring device 405 may operate in a low power mode
before, after, and between the high power modes. In some examples, this may include
deactivating, or placing in a sleep mode, the satellite navigation module 25 and/or the
communication module 23. This also pacing the third processing device 417 in a low

                                              44
power mode where power consumption is less (such as at a lower clock speed). This
may also include placing the auxiliary sensors 429 in a low power mode (such as at a
lower sampling rate, or even turning off one of the auxiliary sensors 429).
[0197]    In some examples, the high power mode is initiated 520 on determination that
the vehicle 403 has changed status from parked to in use, or from in use to parked.
This may be useful since in some circumstances, this change is indicative of a
chargeable "event". For example if the method 500 and device 405 were used to
account for parking, the important events to determine are when and where the vehicle
has commenced parking (i.e. from in use to parked) and when parking has ended (i.e.
from parked to in use). In this example, other information such as where and the route
that the vehicle is taking in use (e.g. during a journey) is not important and therefore
(high) power resources do not need to be allocated to the electronic circuits.
Conversely, whilst the vehicle is parked and remains stationary, it may not be necessary
to send location updates and therefore the satellite navigation module 25 and
communications module 23 may remain in a low power mode.
Sending information to account for charges and receiving updates on chargeable
parking area/toll area
[0198]    The monitoring device 405 may communicate with the server 9 over the
communications network 7 to receive information updates on the chargeable parking
areas 404 and toll areas 406. The chargeable parking areas 404 and toll areas 406 may
change from time to time as new parking areas or toll areas/roads are built or changed
or rezoned. Furthermore, the data store 432 of the monitoring device 405 has a finite
capacity and it may not be possible to store information (such as locations and
boundaries) of all chargeable parking areas 404 and toll areas 406. Therefore, in one
example, the monitoring device 405 receives updated information in relation to
chargeable parking areas 404 and toll areas 406 that are in the vicinity of the
monitoring device 405/vehicle 403 (or vicinity of places frequented). This will be
discussed below with reference to Figs. 14 and 15.

                                             45
[0199]    An example to account for parking of a vehicle in the chargeable parking area
404 will be described with reference to Fig. 14. The monitoring device 405 may send
530, over the communications network 7, an output indicative of the location of the
vehicle 403 and/or time the vehicle is in the chargeable parking area 404. This output
is then received 610 by the server 9. The server 9 may use this information to charge
an account associated with the monitoring device. An example of charging an account
is discussed above with reference to Fig. 7.
[0200]    The server 9 may send 620, over the communications network 7, information
indicative of the chargeable parking area(s) 404 in the vicinity of the current location of
the vehicle 403. For example if the vehicle has arrived in a new area where the
monitoring device 405 does not have information on chargeable parking areas in the
vicinity, this information may include such information including the geographical
locations and boundaries of the chargeable parking area, other definitions of the
chargeable parking area, valid parking times and rates. In other examples, even if the
vehicle has some information on the chargeable parking areas in the vicinity, the server
9 may send 620 updates of this information. In turn, the monitoring device 405 may
then receive 540 information indicative of the chargeable parking area 404 in the
vicinity of the current location of the vehicle 403 which may then be stored in the data
store.
[0201]    An example to account for use of a vehicle in a toll area 406 will be described
with reference to Fig. 15. The monitoring device 405 may send 532, over the
communications network 7, an output indicative of the location of the vehicle 403
and/or the time the vehicle is in use in the toll area 406. This output is received 630 by
the server 9 that in turn may use this information to charges an account associated with
the monitoring device 405 as previously described with reference to Fig. 7. However,
the method may differ in that determining a debit value for use of the toll area may be
based on the use of the toll area, which may be by distance travelled in the toll area 406
instead of based on time. However, it is to be appreciated that in some examples, the
debit value for use of the toll area 406 may be time based, including the length of time

                                               46
the vehicle is in the toll area, the time of entry into the toll area, or the time of departure
of the toll area, or a fixed fee.
[0202]    The server 9 may send 640, over the communications network 7, information
indicative of the toll area(s) 406 in the vicinity of the current location of the vehicle
403. Like the example of the parking areas above, this may be useful if the vehicle has
arrived in a new area where the monitoring device 405 does not have relevant
information on the chargeable parking area(s) or if the information needs to be updated.
In turn this information is received 542, over the communications network 7, at the
monitoring device 405 which may then be stored in the data store 432. Such
information may include the particular roads that form the toll area, geographic
boundaries of the toll area, other definitions of the toll area, the valid toll times, the
rates (which may include fixed rates, variable rates depending on time, or variable rates
depending on kilometres/miles travelled), etc. It may also include information in
relation to chargeable footprints 451, 453 described in further detail below. An
advantage of storing information on chargeable parking areas and toll areas in the data
store 432 of the monitoring device 405 (and receiving such information as updates, as
required, from the server 9) is that it may reduce the amount of communication of data
through the communication module 23. Such a reduction in communication may
reduce the power used by the monitoring device 405. This may be in contrast with a
device that receives such information from the server 9, or a cloud, every time the
vehicle is parked or in use which in comparison may consume more power.
[0203]    The sending 530, 532 and receiving 540, 542 via the communications network
7 involves activating the communications module 23. Furthermore sending the
location of the vehicle 403 may require activation of the satellite navigation module 25.
The use of these modules may, in some examples, operation of electronic circuits in a
high power mode. After completion in a high power mode, the method 500 may then
include reverting operation 550 of the one or more electronic circuits to a low power
mode. This may include placing the communications module 23 and the navigation
module 25 in a sleep mode.

                                              47
Initiating operation of low power mode and high power mode based on proximity of
chargeable parking area and toll area
[0204]    The method 500 may further include initiating operation of low power mode
and high power mode based on the proximity of the chargeable parking areas 404
and/or toll areas 406 to the location of the vehicle 403. For example if the vehicle 403
commences a journey (i.e. transitions from parked to in-use) the monitoring device 405
may enter into a high power mode and determine the present location of the vehicle
403. If the vehicle 403 is, for example, a substantial distance away from the closest
chargeable parking area 404 or toll area 406, the monitoring device 405 will not need to
enter into a high power mode until at least the shortest reasonable travel time for the
vehicle to travel to the chargeable parking area 404 or toll area 406. Thus during this
travel time, the monitoring device may enter into a low power mode that may include
placing the auxiliary sensors 429 into a low power mode.
[0205]    Examples of this will now be described with reference to Figs. 16 to 18. The
method 500 may include determining 560 a current location of the vehicle 403. This
may include determining the location with the satellite navigation module 25 (such as
when it is activated 522 in a high power mode) as discussed above. The method 500
further includes determining 570 a closest chargeable parking area, or toll area, from
the current location of the vehicle 430. The monitoring device 403 then determines 580
a travelling time for the vehicle to travel from the current location of the vehicle 403 to
the closest chargeable parking area 404, or toll area 406. The method 500 then includes
initiating 590 operation of at least one electronic circuit in the low power mode or high
power mode based on the travelling time. In some examples, as shown in Fig. 17, this
includes initiating operation 591 of at least one electronic circuit in the low power
mode during the travelling time and initiating operation 593 of at least one electronic
circuit in the high power mode based on completion of the travelling time.
[0206]    An example of the step of determining 570 a closest chargeable parking area
or toll area from the current location of the vehicle 403 will now be described with
reference to Fig. 18. This may include determining 571 one or more chargeable

                                              48
parking areas 404, or toll areas 406, in the vicinity of the current location of the vehicle.
For example, this may include identifying such areas 404, 406 within a radius of the
current location (e.g. within 20 kilometres of the current location). This may also
include incrementally increasing the radius if no areas 404, 406 are identified (e.g. 20
kilometres, 30 kilometres, 40 kilometres, etc.). The method 500 includes determining
573 one or more routes from the current location to the one or more chargeable parking
areas 404, or toll areas 406 that were determined to be in the vicinity. Next, the method
500 includes determining 575 time periods to travel on the one or more routes based on
an expected speed on the one or more routes. In some examples, the expected speed
may be based on the speed limit(s) on the routes. The method 500 then includes
determining 577 the shortest one or more time periods, where the shortest time period
corresponds to the closest chargeable parking area 404, or toll area 406.
[0207]     An advantage of this example is that the closest chargeable parking area 404,
or toll area 406, is determined as the closest area by travel time as opposed to closest by
shortest linear distance. Thus this example takes into account winding roads, speed
limits, rivers, and other geographic features, etc that can vary the practical travel times
to the closest areas 404, 406.
[0208]     However in some alternatives, it is to be appreciated that the step of
determining 570 a closest chargeable parking area 404, or toll area 406, may simply
include determining the areas 404, 406 by straight line distance from the current
location. This alternative may be useful in instances where there is no information in
relation to roads, speed limits, etc to effectively calculate the shortest route. This
alternative may also require less processing power.
Overview of a method of determining a chargeable parking area or toll area used by the
vehicle associated with a monitoring device
[0209]     A method 800 of determining the chargeable parking area 404, or toll area
406, used by a vehicle 403 will now be described with reference to Figs. 19 to 23. This
method 800 may be used with the methods 100, 500 described above and may be

                                               49
implemented by a processing device 17, 417 in the monitoring device 5, 405. The
method 800 includes determining 810 one or more chargeable footprints 451, 453,
based on respective chargeable parking areas 404, and/or toll areas 406. For example,
this may include defining chargeable footprints 451, 453 as a two-dimensional space
such as a rectangle as shown in Fig. 19. It is to be appreciated that the footprint may be
other shapes, such as a circle, ellipse, a triangle, pentagon, or other polygon.
[0210]    Information in relation to the chargeable footprints 451, 453, such as the
boundaries and identifiers, may be stored in the data store 432. This may allow the
monitoring device to perform the method 800 without relying on receiving information
on the chargeable footprints 4515, 453 every time the monitoring device 5, 405
determines the vehicle is in use or is parked (in particular for frequently used
chargeable areas). Instead, receiving such information may be reduced to when there
are updates to the chargeable footprints 451, 453 in the vicinity. This may save sending
and receiving large amounts of data through the communication's module 23 and
thereby reduce power consumption of the monitoring device 5, 405.
[0211]     In further examples, the footprint may include three-dimensional space which
may be useful for places where chargeable areas may be close in longitude and latitude
but distinguishable by elevation. For example, a multi-storey carpark which may have
different pricing structures dependent on the level in which a car is parked (such as for
"early bird" parking). This may also be useful where chargeable parking or toll areas
overlap, such as a toll road that may pass above or below a chargeable parking area. In
another example, a toll road may be elevated above a non-toll road, so that only
vehicles on the elevated toll road should be charged.
[0212]    The method 800 further includes determining 820 a vehicle footprint 455 of
the vehicle 403 based on a current position of the vehicle, wherein the vehicle footprint
is defined in at least a two-dimensional space (and in some examples, three
dimensional space). The current position of the vehicle 403 may be a point position
457 provided by a positioning module 24 (which may determine the position based on
one or more of: satellite navigation system data; radio navigation system data; cellular

                                             50
communication system data; Wi-Fi positioning system data). The vehicle footprint 455
may be a rectangle (or any other shape as described above for the chargeable footprint)
that is created from the current position. This may include having the current point
position 457 at the centre of the vehicle footprint 455 as shown in Fig. 20.
Furthermore, it is to be appreciated that the size of the footprint does not need to
exactly match the size of the vehicle and in some cases the footprint may be larger than
the vehicle. A larger footprint may be advantageous in cases where the positioning
module/satellite navigation module has relatively large accuracy errors. In yet further
examples, the vehicle footprint may be variable based on an expected accuracy of the
satellite navigation module. For example, the DOP (dilution of precision), such as
horizontal DOP, may be used as a factor for adjusting the size of the vehicle footprint.
Therefore if the DOP value is higher (meaning greater expected errors), then the
vehicle footprint may accordingly be larger.
[0213]    The method 800 further includes determining 830 one or more overlaps 461,
463 between the vehicle footprint 455 and the chargeable footprint 451, 453. Where
three-dimensional space is used, the overlap may be determined as a volume of overlap.
[0214]      The method 800 further includes determining 840 a chargeable area 404, or
toll area 406, used by the vehicle 403 based on the one or more overlaps 461, 463. An
identifier of the determined chargeable area 404, or toll area 406, may then be sent
from the monitoring device 405 to the server 9 to allow accounting for the use of the
areas 404, 406. The identifier may include, for example, a parking bay number, toll
identifier, etc.
[0215]    An advantage of the method 800 may include providing more accurate
determination of the chargeable area 404 or toll area 406 that is used. In some
positioning systems, such as a satellite navigation system, the point position 457 may
have an error (e.g. +/-10m circular error probable or root means square). Referring to
Fig. 20, the current point position 457'   indicated by the satellite navigation may be
outside of a chargeable area 404 even though the vehicle 403'       may be in fact inside
the chargeable area 404. By using the footprints, this may allow a determination of an

                                             51
overlap 461"' between the vehicle footprint 45"' and the chargeable parking area 404
even though the indicated point position 457"' is outside of the chargeable parking
area 404. This allows accounting of the vehicle 405'       parked in the chargeable
parking area 404.
Determining position where the vehicle footprint overlaps multiple chargeable parking
areas and/or toll areas
[0216]    In some situations, the vehicle footprint 455 may overlap multiple areas. For
example, referring to Figs. 19 and 20, the vehicle footprint 455 overlaps the chargeable
parking area 404 with overlap 461. The vehicle footprint 455 also overlaps the toll area
406' with overlap 463. Since it may be desirable for a vehicle 403 to be accounted for
in one place at a time, the method 800 may further include steps to select only one of
the areas 404, 406'.
[0217]    Referring to Fig. 22 the method 800 may include determining 835
corresponding areas for each of the one or more overlaps 461, 463 between the vehicle
footprint 455 and the chargeable parking area 404 and toll area 406'.
[0218]    To determine 840 the chargeable parking area 404 or toll area 406' that is used
by the vehicle 403 may then include comparing 842 the overlaps 461, 463 to identify
the largest overlap and determine 844 the chargeable parking area 404, or toll area
406', based on the largest overlap area and corresponding overlap. In the example in
Fig. 20, the largest overlap area is overlap 461. This overlap 461 corresponds to toll
area 406' and therefore toll area 406' may be determined to be the toll area that is used
by the vehicle 403 and accounted for (and to the exclusion of simultaneously charging
a user for parking in chargeable parking area 404).
[0219]    It is to be appreciated that ambiguity may be clarified by information derived
from other determinations, such as those described previously. For example, if the
vehicle footprint 455 overlaps both a toll area 406 (such as a toll road) and a parking
area 404, and it is determined that the vehicle status is "parked", it may be inferred that

                                               52
the vehicle is parked in the parking area 404. Such an inference may be further
supported if it is not permissible to park in the toll area 404. Conversely, if it is
determined that the vehicle status is "in use", then it may be possible to exclude the
possibility that the vehicle is parked in the parking area 404 (and conclude that the
vehicle is in use at the toll area 406).
[0220]    It is to be appreciated that non-chargeable areas (i.e. free public access roads
or parking) may also have respective footprints. This may allow the monitoring device
to determine if a vehicle is using the non-chargeable area or a chargeable parking area,
or toll area. This may be useful, for example, in cases where the non-chargeable areas
are adjacent to the chargeable parking areas 404, or toll areas 406.
Determining the chargeable parking area or toll area based on spatial distance between
vehicle footprint and chargeable footprint
[0221]    In some examples, instead of using overlaps the method may include
determining the chargeable parking area or toll area based on the closest chargeable
footprint print to the vehicle footprint. This may be used in examples where there may
be large inaccuracies in the positioning module/satellite navigation module such that
overlaps as described above may not occur. An example of using the spatial distance
may include determining the spatial distance between the vehicle footprint and the
chargeable footprints in the vicinity. The shortest spatial distance may then be selected
and the corresponding chargeable footprint and chargeable area (i.e. chargeable parking
area or toll area) may be determined.
Managing user accounts
[0222]    Fig. 24 to 39 illustrates a user interface 900 for managing user accounts. The
user interface 900 may be a display of computing device, such as a desktop computer,
laptop computer, and/or a mobile communication device such as a tablet computer,
smart phone, etc. The computing device or mobile communication device may be in
communication with the server 9.

                                              53
[0223]    At the left of page displayed on the user interface 900 is a menu for a
custodian to select details to be viewed and managed. Fig. 24 shows a list of customers
903 (i.e. user 18) that can be managed by a custodian. In some examples, the custodian
may be operating the server 9. The list of customers 903 includes the names 905,
contact details 907, account balance 909, and status 911 of the customers. This allows
the custodian to view the customers and select a customer for further review.
[0224]    Figs. 25 and 26 show details of a customer selected for further review. Fig. 25
shows a summary of the customer's details including name 905, contact detail 907,
address 913, status 911 and account balance 909. There is also a selectable icon to edit
customer details 915, view billing details 917, credit customer 919 (i.e. credit customer
account), and view invoices 921 of the customer. Fig. 26 shows a list of customer
monitoring devices 923 that is associated with the customer. For example, a customer
may have multiple vehicles and therefore multiple monitoring devices 5, 405. This
includes the customer name for the particular device 924, the serial number of the
device 926, the last heartbeat 928 of the device (which shows the location and time of
last communication with the device) and the battery charge 930. An icon 922 allows
selection of a specific device for viewing further details, such as that shown in Fig. 29.
[0225]     Fig. 26 also shows a list of parking events 925 for the customer. This
includes a monitoring device identifier 927, the parking authority 929 (that manages the
parking area 4, 404/toll area 406), and the name 931 of the particular parking area 4,
404 or toll area 406. Also displayed are the commenced time 933, completed time 935
and the charges 937 for that parking event. An icon 939 is also provided to allow a
user to view further details, which will be discussed with reference to Figs. 27 and 28.
[0226]    Figs. 27 and 28 show details of a specific parking event. In addition to the
summary details of the parking event provided in the list 925 shown in Fig. 26, this also
includes additional detail such as parking region name 932, the total time parked 934,
and the acceptance type 936. The acceptance type 936 may be "MANUAL" which
indicated that a user operated the user input 19 of the monitoring device 5, 405 to
confirm that the vehicle is parked in the chargeable parking area 4, 404. The

                                              54
acceptance type 936 may also be "AUTOMATIC" in cases where the device
determines that the vehicle was parked without a user operating the user input 19. Fig.
28 shows the cost breakdown 941 for the parking event. The cost breakdown 941
shows four items which reflects the different rates charged for different time periods for
the parking event. This includes for each time period, the starting time 942, the end
time 943, the length of time 944, the rate 945, and the amount charged 946 for that time
period. Details of the geo location 947 for the parking event are also provided,
including the latitude 948, longitude 949, time stamp 950 associated with obtaining the
geo location, the number of satellites 951 used to determine the geo location, and an
accuracy parameter 952 of the determined geo location.
[0227]   Fig. 29 shows details of a specific customer device. This includes the
customer name 905, contact details 907, customer name for the particular device 924
and serial number of the device 926. This also includes details of the last heartbeat
928, which includes the time and location of the last know communication, the last
battery charge 930 and the map version 953. There is also a list of the last events 955
of the device.
[0228]   It is appreciated that Figs. 25 to 29 illustrate details that can be reviewed by a
custodian of the system 1, 401. However these are also details that may be reviewed by
the customer (i.e. user 18) that is associated with the monitoring device 5, 405. In
some examples, this may be the owner/driver of the vehicle 3, 403.
[0229]   Fig. 41 illustrates a list of monitoring devices 5, 405 that is available for
review by the custodian. This includes the serial numbers 927 of the monitoring
devices 5, 405, the customer name 905, and the status 999 of the monitoring device 5,
405. The custodian may therefore review and amend details of the monitoring devices
5, 405. For example, if a monitoring device is lost or stolen, the custodian may cancel
the monitoring device.

                                               55
Managing the administrator accounts
[0230]    Figs. 31 to 41 illustrate the user interface 900 that may be used by the
administrator 15 of the chargeable parking areas 4, 404 and/or toll areas 406. In
particular, this may allow them to set up and modify the chargeable parking areas 4,
404 and toll areas 406. It may also allow the administrator 15 to monitor usage of the
areas. In some examples, the custodian that operates the system 1, 401 and the
administrator 15 of the chargeable parking area 4, 404 and/or toll area 406 may be the
same entity. For example, the custodian may be a government body that is charged
with operating the system 1, 401 as well as receiving income from the use of the areas
4, 404, 406. In other examples, the custodian operating the system 1, 401 may be a
separate organisation whereby one or more administrators 15 may seek use of the
system 1, 401. For example, the custodian may be a commercial company offering this
system 1, 401 that is working under contracts with various local governments. Thus in
some examples, the custodian may have access to the accounts of multiple
administrators 15.
[0231]    Fig. 31 shows a page where the administrator may change their details 957.
[0232]    Fig. 32 shows a list of customer purchases 959. This shows the details of
payment by the customers to settle the account balances associated with parking in the
chargeable parking areas 4, 404 and/or use of the toll area 406. This includes the
customer name 905 and customer email 907 associated with the account that is linked
to the monitoring device 5, 405. It also includes the time and date 961 that payment for
the account was made, the details of the payer 961, and a taxation invoice number 963
for that payment.
[0233]    Fig. 33 shows a log of data 965 received by the server 9 from the monitoring
devices 5, 405. This may include a log related to heartbeat information and/or parking
events from the monitoring device 5, 405.

                                                 56
[0234]    Fig. 34 shows a list 967 of authorities (i.e. administrators 15 of the chargeable
parking areas). This view may typically be available to a custodian in situations where
multiple administrators use the system 1. 401. Such authorities may be a department of
a local government that is in charge of administration of the chargeable parking areas.
This list allows an authorised user of the custodian, to view and access details in
relation to each of the authorities. It may also allow an overarching authority to review
details of sub-administrators who are responsible for their respective chargeable
parking areas 4; 404. Fig. 35 shows a list of individual persons (e.g. a comptroller) 969
representing the administrator 15 of the chargeable parking authority. This includes the
individual person's username 971, actual name 973, contact details 975, the authority
977 (i.e. administrator 15 of the chargeable parking area the person is representing),
and status 979.
[0235]    Fig. 36 illustrates details of billing 981 from the system 1, 401. This example
is arranged by the billing type 983, and shows the authority 977, rates 945 and status
985. This allows a person to select and review the performance of particular billing
types and chargeable parking areas. Such metrics may be used for planning, budgeting
and reporting. Fig. 37 is similar to Fig. 36 but is sorted by billing methods 987. This
includes an indication of the billable method 989, the billing unis 991 and status 985.
Defining parking regions and parking bays
[0236]    Fig. 38 illustrates details 992 of the parking regions (which may be a
chargeable parking area 4, 404 administered by the administrator 15). This includes a
definition of the parking region (chargeable parking area 4, 404) as an area within a
radius 994 of a point position 995. The list of parking regions 993 allows a person to
review and amend the details of the parking regions. Icons 1001 also allow review of
the parking regions 1005 in relation to a map 1003 of a geographic area 1007 as shown
in Fig. 40.
[0237]    Fig. 39 illustrates a list of details 996 of parking bays 1009. In this example,
the parking bays 1009 may be a subset of chargeable parking areas 4, 404 in a parking

                                                57
region 993. This may allow differential pricing within chargeable parking areas 4, 404.
This may also assist addition, review, and auditing of the chargeable parking areas 4,
404. The number 997 are indicated in the list of details 996 as well as icons 1000 to
edit and manage the parking bays 1009
[0238]    Fig. 40 illustrates how parking bays 1009 may be managed via the user
interface 900, which includes a map 1003 of a geographic area 1007. This illustrates
three parking bays 1009', 1009", and 1009" that are within the parking region 1005.
The interface allows specification of parking bay manes 1011, the billing type 1013,
start time 1015 and end time 1017 for the chargeable parking area 4. The billing type
1013 may include selecting the price rate, such as different rates per unit time or a fixed
rate.
[0239]    Figs. 41a to 41d illustrate a sequence to specify a parking bay 1009. The
specified parking bay 1009 may be used as a basis for defining a chargeable footprint
451, 453 (as described above) for a chargeable parking area 4, 404 and/or toll area 406.
Fig. 41a illustrates, at part of the user interface 900, a map 1003 of a geographic area
1007. This includes a selectable icon 1021 for the administrator 15 to "DRAW A
SHAPE". The parking bay 1009 may then be selected by the administrator 15 by
drawing an overlay of a two-dimensional shape 1023, representing the desired selected
subset, on the map 1003. This may include using the user input to select three or more
points 1025 on the map 1003. These points are then used by a processing device to
generate a polygon 1027 to provide the overlay of the two-dimensional shape 1023. In
some examples, this may include joining the closest adjacent points 1025 together to
form an enclosed two-dimensional shape.
[0240]    The selected subset (which in this example is represented by the two
dimensional shape 1023) may then be used to determine the chargeable footprint 451,
453. The chargeable footprint may then be stored in the data store 33 and/or sent, over
the communications network 7, to the monitoring device 5, 405.

                                              58
[0241]    The advantage of this system is to allow an administrator to easily create, edit
and manage parking areas 4, 404, or toll areas 406 through the network 7 without
necessarily changing physical infrastructure. For example, in known parking systems a
parking meter was a physical device located around a parking area. If an administrator
15 wishes to change the parking areas, conditions, or rates, a technician would need to
go out go out to the site to install, move and/or service the parking meter. Examples of
the present disclosure may allow the administrator to implement such changes via a
user interface of a computing device that is located remote from the parking area. Such
a computing device, that is connected to the network 7, may implement the changes at
the server 9 and at the monitoring device 5, 405 without the need for a site visit to
modify physical infrastructure.
Variations
[0242]    It is to be appreciated that the monitoring device 5 and 405 described above
may, in some examples, be incorporated into the same device. In other examples, some
of the features described in the monitoring device 5 may be incorporated in the
monitoring device 405, and conversely some of the features described in the monitoring
device may be incorporated in the monitoring device 5. Therefore various features
from the methods 100, 500 and 800 may be performed by the monitoring device.
Furthermore, although more than one processing devices have been described, it is to
be appreciated that the methods 100, 500, 800 may be performed on the same
processing device.
Processing device
[0243]    Fig. 42 illustrates an example of a processing device 17, 31, 417. The
processing device may be in the form of a computer. The processing device 17, 31,
417 may be used at the monitoring device 5, 405 and/or the server 9. The processing
device may also be used with one or more devices associated with the debtor/third
party 11, payment server 13, and administrator 15 of the chargeable parking area. The
processing device 17, 31, 417 includes a processor 310, a memory 320 and an interface

                                             59
device 340 that communicate with each other via a bus 330. The memory 320 stores
instructions and data for implementing the method 100, 200, 500, 600, 800 described
above, and the processor 310 performs the instructions from the memory 320 to
implement the method 100, 200, 500, 600, 800. The interface device 340 facilitates
communication with the communications network 7 and, in some examples, with the
user interface and other peripherals. It should be noted that although the processing
device 17, 31, 417 may be independent network elements, server 9 may also be part of
another network element. Further, functions performed by the processing device 17, 37,
417 may be distributed between multiple network elements.
[0244]    It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that numerous variations
and/or modifications may be made to the above-described embodiments, without
departing from the broad general scope of the present disclosure. The present
embodiments are, therefore, to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not
restrictive.

                                              60
CLAIMS:
1.        A computer-implemented method performed by a vehicle-fitted monitoring
device to account for parking of a vehicle in a chargeable parking area, or use of a
vehicle in a toll area, wherein the monitoring device is associated with the vehicle, and
the method comprises:
          - sending, over a communications network, device data from the monitoring
device to a server, wherein the device data is based on a position of the vehicle in the
chargeable parking area;
          - receiving, at a user input associated with the monitoring device, user input
data, wherein the user input data is indicative of a confirmation or a denial from a user
that the vehicle is parked or should be charged for parking or use of a toll area; and
          - sending, over the communications network, the user input data to the server.
2.        The computer-implemented method according to claim 1, wherein the method
further comprises:
          - determining the vehicle is in the chargeable parking area; and
          - generating, at a user output associated with the monitoring device, an alert
indicative of the vehicle being in the chargeable parking area.
3.        The computer-implemented method according to claim 2, wherein determining
the vehicle is in the chargeable parking area comprises:
          - receiving, over the communications network, a signal from the server
indicative of the vehicle being in the chargeable parking area.

                                             61
4.       The computer-implemented method according to any one of the preceding
claims, wherein the method further comprises:
         - sending, over the communications network, updated device data to the
server, wherein the updated device data is based on an updated position of the vehicle
in the chargeable parking area or toll area;
         wherein a time period in the chargeable parking area or toll area is determined
based on time associated with the device data and the updated device data.
5.       The computer-implemented method according to claim 4, wherein the method
further comprises:
         - sending, over the communications network, to the server an authorisation to
debit an account balance of a user account associated with the monitoring device by
debiting the user account by a debit value based on the vehicle having been parked for
the time period in the chargeable parking area or toll area.
6.       The computer-implemented method according to any one of the preceding
claims, wherein the device data is based on a first output of a satellite navigation
module associated with the monitoring device.
7.       The computer-implemented method according to claim 6, wherein the method
further comprises:
         - determining the vehicle is stationary based on a second output of one or more
auxiliary sensors associated with the vehicle, wherein the second output of the one or
more auxiliary sensors is separate to the first output of the satellite navigation module,
         wherein the device data further includes an indication that the vehicle is
stationary.

                                             62
8.       The computer-implemented method according to 7 wherein the auxiliary
sensors comprise one or more of:
         - an accelerometer;
         - a gyroscope;
         - a magnetometer;
         - a digital imaging device;
         - a radar;
         - a sonar; and
         - a lidar.
9.       A vehicle-fitted monitoring device to account for parking of a vehicle in a
chargeable parking area, wherein the monitoring device is associated with the vehicle,
the monitoring device comprising:
         - a user input to receive user input data, wherein the user input data is
indicative of a confirmation or a denial from a user that the vehicle is parked or should
be charged for parking;
         - a first processing device to:
                - send, over a communications network, device data from the monitoring
device to a server, wherein the device data is based on a position of the vehicle in the
chargeable parking area;
                - send, over the communications network, the user input data to the
server.

                                              63
10.      The vehicle-fitted monitoring device of claim 9 further comprising:
         - a user output,
         wherein the first processing device is further provided to:
                - determine the vehicle is in the chargeable parking area; and
                - generate, at the user output, an alert indicative of the vehicle being in
the chargeable parking area.
11.      A computer-implemented method to account for parking of a vehicle in a
chargeable parking area, wherein a vehicle-fitted monitoring device is associated with
the vehicle, and the method comprises the steps of:
         - receiving, over a communications network, device data from the monitoring
device associated with the vehicle, wherein the device data is based on a position of the
vehicle;
         - receiving, over the communications network, user input data from a user
input associated with the monitoring device, wherein the user input data is indicative of
a confirmation or a denial from the user that the vehicle is parked or should be charged
for parking; and
         - determining that the vehicle has been parked for at least one time period in a
chargeable parking area based on the device data and the user input.
12.      The computer-implemented method according to claim 11, wherein the
method further comprises:
         - receiving, from a data store, geographic data of the chargeable parking area;

                                             64
         - determining the vehicle is in the chargeable parking area based on the device
data and geographic data; and
         - sending, over the communications network, to the monitoring device a signal
indicative of the vehicle being in the chargeable parking area.
13.      The computer-implemented method according to claim 12, wherein the
method further comprises:
         - receiving, over the communications network, updated device data from the
monitoring device associated with the vehicle, wherein the updated device data is based
on an updated position of the vehicle;
         - determining the vehicle is in the chargeable parking area based on the
updated device data and geographic data, or based on the updated device data and the
device data; and
         - determining the at least one time period in the chargeable parking area based
on time associated with the device data and the updated device data.
14.      The computer-implemented method according to any one of claims 11 to 13,
wherein the method further comprises:
         - determining a debit value based on the vehicle having been parked for at
least one time period in the chargeable parking area; and
         - determining an account balance of a user account associated with the
monitoring device by debiting the user account by the debit value.
15.      The computer-implemented method according to any one of claims 11 to 14,
wherein the device data is based on a first output of a satellite navigation module
associated with the monitoring device.

                                              65
16.      A computer system to account for parking of a vehicle in a chargeable parking
area, wherein a vehicle-fitted monitoring device is associated with the vehicle, the
computer system comprising:
         - a second processing device to:
                -receive, over a communications network, device data from the
monitoring device associated with the vehicle, wherein the device data is based on a
position of the vehicle;
                - receive, over the communications network, user input data from a user
input associated with the monitoring device, wherein the user input data is indicative of
a confirmation or a denial from the user that the vehicle is parked or should be charged
for parking; and
                - determine that the vehicle has been parked for at least one time period
in a chargeable parking area based on the device data and the user input
17.      The computer system according to claim 16 further comprising:
         - a data store to store geographical data of the chargeable parking area;
         wherein the second processing device is further provided to:
                - receive, from the data store, geographic data of the chargeable parking
area;
                - determine the vehicle is in the chargeable parking area based on the
device data and geographic data; and
                - send, over the communications network, to the monitoring device a
signal indicative of the vehicle being in the chargeable parking area.

                                              66
18.       Computer program comprising machine-executable instructions to cause a
processing device to implement the method according to any one of claims 1 to 8, 11 to
15, 19 to 31,46 to 48 and 53 to 57.
19.       A computer-implemented method performed by a vehicle-fitted monitoring
device to account for parking of a vehicle in a chargeable parking area, or use of a
vehicle in a toll area, wherein the monitoring device includes one or more electronic
circuits operable in a low power mode and a high power mode and the monitoring
device is associated with the vehicle, and the method comprises:
          - receiving an output from one or more auxiliary sensors, wherein the auxiliary
sensors comprise one or more of:
                 - an accelerometer;
                 - a gyroscope;
                 - a magnetometer;
                 - a digital imaging device;
                 - microphone;
                 - an ultrasonic transducer; and
                 - an electromagnetic receiver or transceiver;
          - determining the vehicle status including whether the vehicle is parked, or in
use, based on the output of the one or more auxiliary sensors and vehicle status
parameters stored in a data store, wherein the vehicle status parameters relate to
statuses of the vehicle including that the vehicle is parked or in use;

                                             67
          - based on determination of the vehicle status, initiating operation of the one or
more electronic circuits in a high power mode,
          wherein in a learning mode the method comprises:
          - receiving one or more outputs of the one or more auxiliary sensors that
correspond to the vehicle being parked, or in use:
          - comparing the one or more outputs of the one or more auxiliary sensors and
the vehicle status parameters from the data store to determine a predicted status of the
vehicle including that the vehicle is parked or in use;
          - determining the standard deviation of respective outputs of the one or more
auxiliary sensors for the predicted status; and
          - updating the vehicle status parameter by calculating, based on the standard
deviation, updated vehicle status parameters to provide a specified acceptable level of
confidence in the predicted status.
20.       A computer-implemented method performed by a vehicle-fitted monitoring
device to account for parking of a vehicle in a chargeable parking area, or use of a
vehicle in a toll area, wherein the monitoring device includes one or more electronic
circuits operable in a low power mode and a high power mode and the monitoring
device is associated with the vehicle, and the method comprises:
          - receiving an output from one or more auxiliary sensors, wherein the auxiliary
sensors comprise one or more of:
                 - an accelerometer;
                 - a gyroscope;
                 - a magnetometer;
                 - a digital imaging device;

                                              68
                 - microphone;
                 - an ultrasonic transducer; and
                 - an electromagnetic receiver or transceiver;
          - determining the vehicle status including whether the vehicle is parked, or in
use, based on the output of the one or more auxiliary sensors;
          - based on determination of the vehicle status, initiating operation of the one or
more electronic circuits in a high power mode,
          wherein the monitoring device includes a data store to store vehicle status
parameters, wherein the vehicle status parameters relate to statuses of the vehicle
including that the vehicle is parked or in use, wherein in a learning mode the method
comprises:
          - receiving one or more outputs of the one or more auxiliary sensors that
corresponds to the vehicle being parked, or in use;
          - comparing the one or more outputs of the one or more auxiliary sensors and
the vehicle status parameters from the data store to determine a predicted status of the
vehicle including that the vehicle is parked or in use;
          - receiving user input data indicative of a confirmation or denial from a user
that the vehicle is parked, or in use; and
          - updating the vehicle status parameters in the data store based on the
predicted status of the vehicle and the confirmation or denial.
21.       A computer-implemented method according to either claim 19 or 20, wherein
in an automatic mode, the step of determining the vehicle status is based on:
          - the output of the auxiliary sensors; and

                                              69
          - vehicle status parameters.
22.       A computer-implemented method according to any one of claims 19 to 21,
wherein initiating operation of the one or more electronic circuits in a high power mode
comprises one or more of:
          - activating a satellite navigation module associated with the monitoring
device; and
          - activating a communication module associated with the monitoring device.
23.       A computer-implemented method according to any one of claims 19 to 22
wherein initiating operation of the one or more electronic circuits in the high power
mode is based on determining that the vehicle has changed vehicle status from parked
to in use, or from in use to parked.
24.       A computer-implemented method according to any one of claims 19 to 23
wherein the method comprises:
          - sending, over a communications network, an output indicative of the location
of the vehicle and/or time the vehicle is in the chargeable parking area.
25.       A computer-implemented method according to any one of claims 19 to 24
wherein the method comprises:
          - sending, over a communications network, an output indicative of the location
of the vehicle and/or time or distance the vehicle is in use in the toll area.
26.       A computer-implemented method according to any one of claims 19 to 25
wherein the method further comprises:

                                             70
          - receiving, over a communications network, information indicative of the
chargeable parking area, or toll area, in the vicinity of the current location of the
vehicle.
27.       A computer-implemented method according to any one of claims 19 to 26
wherein on completion of the one or more electronic circuits in the high power mode,
the method further comprises:
          - reverting operation of the one or more electronic circuits to a low power
mode.
28.       A computer-implemented method performed by a vehicle-fitted monitoring
device to account for parking of a vehicle in a chargeable parking area, or use of a
vehicle in a toll area, wherein the monitoring device includes one or more electronic
circuits operable in a low power mode and a high power mode and the monitoring
device is associated with the vehicle, and the method comprises:
          - determining a current location of the vehicle;
          - determining a closest chargeable parking area, or toll area, from the current
location of the vehicle;
          - determining a travelling time for the vehicle to travel from the current
location of the vehicle to the closest chargeable parking area, or toll area; and
          - initiating operation of one or more electronic circuits in the low power mode
or the high power mode based on the travelling time.
29.       A computer-implemented method according to claim 28 wherein the method
further comprises:

                                             71
         - initiating operation of one or more electronic circuits in the low power mode
during the travelling time and initiating operation of one or more electronic circuits in
the high power mode based on completion of the travelling time.
30.      A computer-implemented method according to either claim 28 or 29 wherein
determining a closest chargeable parking area, or toll area, from the current location of
the vehicle comprises:
         - determining one or more chargeable parking areas, or toll areas, in the
vicinity of the current location of the vehicle;
         - determining one or more routes from the current location of the vehicle to the
one or more chargeable parking areas, or toll areas;
         - determining time periods to travel on the one or more routes based on an
expected speed on the one or more routes; and
         - determining the shortest one or more time periods to provide the closest
chargeable parking area, or toll area.
31.      A computer-implemented method according to any one of claims 19 to 27
further comprising the method according to any one of claims 28 to 30.
32.      A vehicle-fitted monitoring device to account for parking of a vehicle in a
chargeable parking area, or use of a vehicle in a toll area, wherein the monitoring
device is associated with the vehicle and includes one or more electronic circuits
operable in a low power mode and a high power mode, the monitoring device
comprising:
         - one or more auxiliary sensors comprising one or more of:
                - an accelerometer;

                                              72
                 - a gyroscope;
                 - a magnetometer;
                 - a digital imaging device;
                 - microphone;
                 - an ultrasonic transducer; and
                 - an electromagnetic receiver or transceiver;
          - a third processing device to:
                 - determine the vehicle status including whether the vehicle is parked, or
in use, based on an output of one or more of the auxiliary sensors and vehicle status
parameters stored in a data store, wherein the vehicle status parameters relate to
statuses of the vehicle including that the vehicle is parked or in use; and
                 - based on determination the vehicle status, initiate operation of the one
or more electronic circuits in a high power mode,
          wherein in a learning mode, the third processing device is further configured
to:
                 - receive one or more outputs of the one or more auxiliary sensors that
correspond to the vehicle being parked, or in use:
                 - compare the one or more outputs of the one or more auxiliary sensors
and the vehicle status parameters from the data store to determine a predicted status of
the vehicle including that the vehicle is parked or in use;
                 - determine the standard deviation of respective outputs of the one or
more auxiliary sensors for the predicted status; and

                                               73
                 - update the vehicle status parameter by calculating, based on the
standard deviation, updated vehicle status parameters to provide a specified acceptable
level of confidence in the predicted status.
33.       A vehicle-fitted monitoring device to account for parking of a vehicle in a
chargeable parking area, or use of a vehicle in a toll area, wherein the monitoring
device is associated with the vehicle and includes one or more electronic circuits
operable in a low power mode and a high power mode, the monitoring device
comprising:
          - one or more auxiliary sensors comprising one or more of:
                 - an accelerometer;
                 - a gyroscope;
                 - a magnetometer;
                 - a digital imaging device;
                 - microphone;
                 - an ultrasonic transducer; and
                 - an electromagnetic receiver or transceiver;
          - at least one user input to receive user input data, wherein the user input data
is indicative of a confirmation or a denial from a user that the vehicle is parked, or in
use;
          - a data store to store vehicle status parameters, wherein the vehicle status
parameters relate to statuses of the vehicle including that the vehicle is parked or in use;

                                              74
          - a third processing device to:
                 - determine the vehicle status including whether the vehicle is parked, or
in use, based on an output of one or more of the auxiliary sensors; and
                 - based on determination the vehicle status, initiate operation of the one
or more electronic circuits in a high power mode;
          wherein in a learning mode, the third processing device is further configured
to:
                 - receive one or more outputs of the one or more auxiliary sensors that
corresponds to the vehicle being parked, or in use;
                 - compare the one or more outputs of the one or more auxiliary sensors
and the vehicle status parameters from the data store to determine a predicted status of
the vehicle including that the vehicle is parked or in use;
                 - receive the user input data indicative of a confirmation or denial from a
user that the vehicle is parked, or in use; and
                 - update the vehicle status parameters in the data store based on the
predicted status of the vehicle and the confirmation or denial.
34.       A vehicle-fitted monitoring device according to either claim 32 or 33, wherein
in an automatic mode the third processing device is configured to determine the vehicle
status based on:
          - the output of the auxiliary sensors; and
          - vehicle status parameters.

                                              75
35.       The monitoring device according to any one of claims 32 to 34, wherein
operation of the one or more electronic circuits in a high power mode comprises one or
more of:
          - activating a satellite navigation module associated with the monitoring
device; and
          - activating a communication module associated with the monitoring device.
36.       A vehicle-fitted monitoring device according to any one of claims 32 to 35
wherein operation of the electronic circuits in the high power mode is initiated on
determination that the vehicle has changed vehicle status from parked to in use, or from
in use to parked.
37.       A vehicle-fitted monitoring device according to any one of claims 32 to 36
wherein the monitoring device sends, over a communications network, an output
indicative of the location of the vehicle and/or time the vehicle is in the chargeable
parking area.
38.       A vehicle-fitted monitoring device according to any one of claims 32 to 37
wherein the monitoring device sends, over a communications network, an output
indicative of the location of the vehicle and/or time or distance the vehicle is in use in
the toll area.
39.       A vehicle-fitted monitoring device according to any one of claims 32 to 38
wherein the monitoring device receives, over a communications network, information
indicative of the chargeable parking area, or toll area, in the vicinity of the current
location of the vehicle.
40.       A vehicle-fitted monitoring device according to any one of claims 32 to 39
wherein on completion of the one or more electronic circuits in the high power mode,
the one or more electronic circuits revert to a low power mode.

                                             76
41.      A vehicle-fitted monitoring device to account for parking of a vehicle in a
chargeable parking area, or use of a vehicle in a toll area, wherein the monitoring
device is associated with the vehicle and includes one or more electronic circuits
operable in a low power mode and a high power mode, the monitoring device
comprising a third processing device configured to:
         - determine a current location of the vehicle;
         - determine a closest chargeable parking area, or toll area, from the current
location of the vehicle;
         - determine a travelling time for the vehicle to travel from the current location
of the vehicle to the closest chargeable parking area, or toll area; and
         - initiate operation of one or more electronic circuits in the low power mode or
the high power mode based on the travelling time.
42.      A monitoring device according to claim 41 wherein the third processing
device is further configured to:
         - initiate operation of one or more electronic circuits in the low power mode
during the travelling time and initiate operation of one or more electronic circuits in the
high power mode based on completion of the travelling time.
43.      A monitoring device according to either claim 41 or 42 wherein to determine a
closest chargeable parking area, or toll area, from the current location of the vehicle
comprises the third processing device configured to:
         - determine one or more chargeable parking areas, or toll areas, in the vicinity
of the current location of the vehicle;
         - determine one or more routes from the current location of the vehicle to the
one or more chargeable parking areas, or toll areas;

                                              77
          - determine time periods to travel on the one or more routes based on an
expected speed on the one or more routes; and
          - determine the shortest one or more time periods to provide the closest
chargeable parking area, or toll area.
44.       A monitoring device according to any one of claims 32 to 40 further
comprising features of the monitoring device according to any one of claims 41 to 43.
45.       A monitoring device according to any one of claims 32 to 44 further
comprising:
          - a solar cell to receive energy from light and to generate electrical energy; and
          - a battery to receive energy from the solar cell and to power the one or more
electronic circuits.
46.       A computer-implemented method performed by a vehicle-fitted monitoring
device to account for parking of a vehicle in a chargeable parking area, or use of a
vehicle in a toll area, the method comprising:
          - determining one or more chargeable footprints based on respective
chargeable parking areas and/or toll areas, wherein the chargeable footprints are
defined in at least a two-dimensional space;
          - receiving, from a positioning module at the vehicle, the current position of
the vehicle;
          - determining a vehicle footprint of the vehicle based on the current position of
the vehicle from the positioning module, wherein the vehicle footprint is defined in at
least a two-dimensional space;

                                              78
         - determining one or more overlaps between the vehicle footprint and the one
or more chargeable footprints; and
         - determining a chargeable parking area or toll area that is used by the vehicle
based on the one or more overlap.
47.      A computer-implemented method according to claim 46 further comprising:
         - determining corresponding overlap areas for each of the one or more
overlaps between the vehicle footprint and the one or more chargeable footprints.
48.      A computer implemented method according to 47, wherein the step of
determining a chargeable parking area or toll area that is used by the vehicle based on
the overlap comprises:
         - comparing the corresponding overlap areas to identify a largest overlap area;
and
         - determining a chargeable parking area or toll area based on the largest
overlap area and corresponding overlap.
49.      A vehicle-fitted monitoring device to account for parking of a vehicle in a
chargeable parking area, or use of a vehicle in a toll area, wherein in use the monitoring
device is fitted to the vehicle, the monitoring device comprising:
         - a fourth processing device to;
                - determine one or more chargeable footprints based on respective
chargeable parking areas and/or toll areas, wherein the chargeable footprints are
defined in at least a two-dimensional space;
                - receive, from a positioning module at the vehicle, the current position
of the vehicle;

                                            79
                - determine a vehicle footprint of the vehicle based on the current
position of the vehicle from the positioning module, wherein the vehicle footprint is
defined in at least a two-dimensional space;
                - determine one or more overlaps between the vehicle footprint and the
one or more chargeable footprints; and
                - determine a chargeable parking area or toll area that is used by the
vehicle based on the one or more overlap.
50.      A vehicle-fitted monitoring device according to claim 49 wherein the fourth
processing device is further configured to:
         - determine corresponding overlap areas for each of the one or more overlaps
between the vehicle footprint and the one or more chargeable footprints.
51.      A vehicle-fitted monitoring device according to claim 50, wherein to
determine a chargeable parking area or toll area used by the vehicle based on the one or
more overlay, the fourth processing device is configured to:
         - compare the corresponding overlap areas to identify a largest overlap area;
and
         - determine a chargeable parking area or toll area based on the largest overlap
area and corresponding overlap.
52.      A vehicle-fitted monitoring device according to any one of claims 49 to 51
further comprising:
         - the positioning module to provide the current position of the vehicle to the
fourth processing device, wherein the positioning module determines the current
position of the vehicle based on one or more of:

                                               80
          - satellite navigation system data;
          - radio navigation system data;
          - cellular communication system data; and
          - Wi-Fi positioning systems data.
53.       A vehicle-fitted monitoring device according to any one of claims 49 to 52,
further comprising a data store for storing information defining the one or more
chargeable footprints.
54.       A computer-implemented method to generate a chargeable footprint based on
a respective chargeable parking area and/or toll area, wherein the chargeable footprint
is determined at least in a two-dimensional space, the method comprising:
          - generating, at a user interface, a map of a geographic area;
          - receiving, with a user input, a selected subset of the map of the geographic
area, wherein the selected subset is defined by an overlay of a two-dimensional shape
on the map of the geographic area, wherein a chargeable footprint of a chargeable
parking area and/or toll area is based on the selected subset; and
          - storing, at a data store associated with a server, the chargeable footprint of
the chargeable parking area and/or toll area.
55.       A computer-implemented method according to claim 54, wherein receiving,
with a user input, a selected subset of the map comprises:
          - receiving, with the user input, a selection of three or more points at the map;
and

                                             81
         - generating a polygon based on the three or more points on the map to provide
the overlay of the two-dimensional shape on the map.
56.      A computer-implemented method according to either claim 54 or 55 further
comprising:
         - receiving, with the user input, a specified rate for the chargeable parking area
and/or toll area.
57.      A computer-implemented method according to any one of claims 54 to 56
further comprising:
         - sending, over a communications network, the chargeable footprint of the
chargeable parking area and/or toll area to a vehicle-fitted monitoring device associated
with a vehicle.
58.      A computer implemented method according to any one of claims 46 to 48,
wherein determining the one or more chargeable footprints based on respective
chargeable parking areas and/or toll areas comprises:
         - receiving, over the communications network, the chargeable footprint of the
chargeable parking area and/or toll area determined by the method according to any one
of claims 54 to 57.

<removed-date>
                                                             1/42
                                           11                       13                         9
                                                                                         Server
                   1                Debtor / third            Payment
                                       party                   server
                                                                                                     31
<removed-apn>
                                                                                         Processor
              27
                                                            Network
                                                                                                     33
                             Satellite                              7
                                                                                     Data Store
                                                                                          User
                                                                                                     37
                                                                                      information
                                                                                      Geographic
                                                                                        data         35
                                                     Base Station
                       21
                                                                                   Administrator
              18                                                                   of chargeable
                                                                                   parking area
                             User output Monitoring
                                          device               5                          15
                                   User
                   User
                                   input
                            19                                 3
                                                Vehicle
                                 Chargeable                         Free parking
                                                      4
                                 parking area                           area         8
                                                             Fig. 1

<removed-date>
                                                     2/42
<removed-apn>
                                                     Communications
                                                        module             23
                        21
                                                                                    29
                                                                                accelerometer
                             User output
                                                    Processing device
              18
                                                                                 gyroscope
                                User
                                input          17
                   User                                                              29
                   19
                                                    Satellite navigation
                                                          module
                                                             25
                                           5
                                                    Fig. 2

<removed-date>
                                                        3/42
                                       5
              100   Monitoring                                                                             9
                     device                              Network
                                                                                                Server
                                                                 7
                         Send device data from the
<removed-apn>
                       monitoring device to a server,
              110        wherein the device data is                                                      200
                         based on a position of the
                       vehicle in the chargeable area
                                                                      Receive device data from
                                                                       the monitoring device             210
                                                                     associated with the vehicle
                      Receive user input data, wherein
                    the user input data is indicative of a
              120   confirmation or a denial from a user
                          that the vehicle is parked
                         Send the user input data
              130             to the server
                                                                      Receive user input data            220
                                                                    Determine that the vehicle
                                                                   has been parked for at least
                                                                 one time period in a chargeable         230
                                                                    parking area based on the
                                                                  device data and the user input
                                                        Fig. 3

<removed-date>
                                                          4/42
                     Monitoring                                                         9
              5       device                              Network
                                                                               Server
<removed-apn>
                                                                    7
                     Determine the vehicle is stationary
                    based on a second output of one or
                  more auxiliary sensors associated with
                  the vehicle, wherein the second output
                  of the one or more auxiliary sensors is
                     separate to the a first output of the
                                                                        105
                    satellite navigation module, wherein
                     the device data further includes an
                  indication that the vehicle is stationary
                                                                         100
                                                                        110
                                                         Fig. 4

<removed-date>
                                                           5/42
                     Monitoring                                                                               9
                5     device                               Network
               100                                                                               Server 200
                                                                     7
<removed-apn>    110                                                                                        210
                                                                    Receive geographic data of
                                                                    the chargeable parking area          212
                                                                 Determine the vehicle is in the
                                                               chargeable parking area based on          214
                                                              the device data and geographic data
                                                                  Send to the monitoring device a
                                                                  signal indicative of the vehicle is    216
                                                                   in the chargeable parking area
                     Receive a signal from the server
              112    indicative of the vehicle is in the
                         chargeable parking area
                       Generate an alert indicative
              114        of the vehicle is in the
                        chargeable parking area
              120                                                                                        220
                                                       Fig. 5

<removed-date>
                                                          6/42
                    Monitoring                                                                              9
              5                                      Network
                     device
              100                                                                          Server
<removed-apn>
                                                                   7
                                                                                                      200
              130
                                                                                                            220
                         Send updated device data to
                       the server, wherein the updated
              132         device data is based on an
                        updated position of the vehicle
                        in the chargeable parking area
                                                                  Receive updated device data from
                                                                  the monitoring device associated
                                                                    with the vehicle, wherein the           222
                                                                 updated device data is based on an
                                                                   updated position of the vehicle
                                                                      Determine the vehicle is
                                                                  in the chargeable parking area
                                                                   based on the updated device
                                                                                                            224
                                                                     data and geographic data,
                                                                  or based on the updated device
                                                                      data and the device data
                                                                   Determine a time period in the
                                                                 chargeable parking area based on
                                                                  time associated with the device           226
                                                                 data and the updated device data
                                                                                                            230
                                                      Fig. 6

<removed-date>
                                                      7/42
                     Monitoring                                                                     9
               5      device                          Network
              100                                                                        Server    200
                                                               7
<removed-apn>
               130
                                                                                                   230
                                                              Determine a debit value based on
                                                               the vehicle been parked for at
                                                                                                   232
                                                                 least one time period in the
                                                                   chargeable parking area
                        Send an authorisation to debit
                        an account balance of a user          Determine an account balance of a
                         account associated with the           user account associated with the
                                                               monitoring device by debiting the   234
                        monitoring device by debiting
              134                                               user account by the debit value
                      the user account by a debit value
                          based on the vehicle been
                         parked for the time period in
                         the chargeable parking area              Send a request to transfer
                                                                 funds to an administrator of
                                                                the chargeable parking area,
                                                               wherein the request to transfer     236
                                                               funds is based on an account
                                                                 balance of the user account
                                                     Fig. 7

<removed-date>
                                    8/42
                             404'            451'
<removed-apn>
              405'
              403'
                                                      406
                           406'
                     453'                           405'
                                                    403'
                            403
                                                     453
                            405
              404
                     451            Fig. 8

<removed-date>
                                                        9/42
                   401                                                                   436
                                                                                    Solar cell
<removed-apn>
                                                      Communications
                                                         module
                                          417                                        Battery
                              21
                                                                    23
                                                                                         438
                                                                                accelerometer
                                   User output
                                                      Processing device
              18
                                                                                 gyroscope
                                      User
                                      input
                     User
                                                                                                     429
                         19
                                        Satellite               Positioning
                                   navigation module                                      Data
                                                                 module
                                                                                          store
                   405
                                                 25                    24
                                                                                               432
                                                                            9
                                              Network
                                                           7                    Server
                                                      Fig. 9

<removed-date>
                                                            10/42
                                      405
                    Monitoring                                                 9
                     device                                 Network
                                                                      Server
                                                                 7
<removed-apn>
              500
                       Determine the vehicle status
                     including whether the vehicle is
                      parked, or in use, based on an
              510      output of one or more of the
                             auxiliary sensors
              520
                      Based on determination of the
                    vehicle status, initiate operation of
                     at least one routine of the one or
                    more electronic circuits in the high
                                power mode
                                                        Fig. 10

<removed-date>
                                                   11/42
                                 405
               Monitoring                                                          9
                device                              Network
                                                                          Server
                                                         7
<removed-apn>
               Receive one or more outputs of one
                 or more auxiliary sensors that
                corresponds to the vehicle being              501
                        parked, or in use
                Compare the one or more outputs
               of the at least one or more auxiliary
                    sensors and vehicle status
                parameters from the data store to             503
               determine a predicted status of the
               vehicle including that the vehicle is
                          parked, or in use
                                                                    500
                Receive user input data indicative
                of a confirmation or denial from a
                                                              505
               user that the vehicle is parked, or in
                               use
                    Update the vehicle status
               parameters in the data store based             507
                  on the predicted status of the
                 vehicle and the confirmation or
                             denial
              510
                                                  Fig. 11

<removed-date>
                                                         12/42
                                       405
                     Monitoring                                                 9
                      device                                 Network
                                                                       Server
                                                                  7
<removed-apn>
              500
                         Determine the vehicle status
                       including whether the vehicle is
              510'
                        parked, or in use, based on an
                         output of one or more of the
                      auxiliary sensors and the vehicle
                     status parameters in the data store
              512
                        Determine that the vehicle has
                     changed vehicle status from parked
                      to in use, or from in use to parked
              520
                       Based on determination of the
                     vehicle status, initiate operation of
                      at least one routine of the one or
                     more electronic circuits in the high
                                 power mode
                                                        Fig. 12

<removed-date>
                                                        13/42
                                     405
                    Monitoring                                                           9
                     device                             Network
                                                                                Server
                                                              7
<removed-apn>                                                        500
              510
                                                                          520
                                                                    522
                      Activate a satellite navigation
                                 module
                                                                        524
                    Activate a communication module
                                                        Fig. 13

<removed-date>
                                                          14/42
                                       405
                     Monitoring                                                                                9
                      device                              Network
                                                                                                Server
                                                                 7
<removed-apn>
              520
                                                                                                    600
                                                                     500
               530       Send, over a communications
                     network, an output indicative of the
                      location of the vehicle and/or time
                        the vehicle is in the chargeable
                                 parking area                          Receive, over a communications
                                                                     network, an output indicative of the
                                                                      location of the vehicle and/or time
                                                               610      the vehicle is in the chargeable
                                                                                 parking area
                                                                        Send, over a communications
                                                               620     network, information indicative of
                                                                      the chargeable parking area in the
                                                                     vicinity of the current location of the
                                                                                     vehicle
                      Receive, over a communications
                      network, information indicative of
                     the chargeable parking area in the
              540    vicinity of the current location of the
                                     vehicle
                      On completion of the at least one
               550    routine in the high power mode,
                      reverting operation of the one or
                      more electronic circuits to a low
                                power mode
                                                         Fig. 14

<removed-date>
                                                              15/42
                                      405
                     Monitoring                                                                                    9
                      device                                       7
                                                              Network
              520
                                                                                                   Server
                                                                    7
<removed-apn>
                                                                        500                                  600
               532      Send, over a communications
                     network, an output indicative of the
                      location of the vehicle and/or time
                     or distance the vehicle is in use in
                                  the toll area                           Receive, over a communications
                                                                        network, an output indicative of the
                                                                         location of the vehicle and/or time
                                                              630       or distance the vehicle is in use in
                                                                                     the toll area
                                                                           Send, over a communications
                                                                         network, information indicative of
                                                              640        the toll areas in the vicinity of the
                                                                           current location of the vehicle
                      Receive, over a communications
                      network, information indicative of
              542     the toll areas in the vicinity of the
                        current location of the vehicle
                      On completion of the at least one
              550     routine in the high power mode,
                      reverting operation of the one or
                      more electronic circuits to a low
                                power mode
                                                         Fig. 15

<removed-date>
                                                   16/42
                               405
              Monitoring                                                       9
               device                                 Network
                                                                      Server
                                                           7
<removed-apn>                                                      500
              Determine a current location of the
                           vehicle
                                                        560
                Determine a closest chargeable
               parking area, or toll area, from the
                 current location of the vehicle        570
               Determine a travelling time for the
                vehicle to travel from the current
              location of the vehicle to the closest
                 chargeable parking area, or toll       580
                               area
               Initiate operation of one or more
              electronic circuits in the low power
                mode or the high power mode             590
                  based on the travelling time
                                                  Fig. 16

<removed-date>
                                                     17/42
                               405
              Monitoring                                                        9
               device                                 Network
                                                                       Server
                                                           7
<removed-apn>                                                       500
              Determine a current location of the
                           vehicle
                                                        560
                Determine a closest chargeable
               parking area, or toll area, from the
                 current location of the vehicle        570
               Determine a travelling time for the
                vehicle to travel from the current
              location of the vehicle to the closest
                 chargeable parking area, or toll       580
                               area
                                                                590
              Initiate operation of at one or more
              electronic circuits in the low power
                mode during the travelling time
                                                                591
                Initiate operation of one or more
              electronic circuits in the high power
               mode based on completion of the                  593
                          travelling time
                                                  Fig. 17

<removed-date>
                                                  18/42
                               405
              Monitoring                                                                9
               device                              Network
                                                                         Server
                                                         7
<removed-apn>    Determine a current location of the
                                                                                  500
                           vehicle
                                                       560
                                                                   570
              Determine one or more chargeable
              parking areas in the vicinity of the
                                                             571
                current location of the vehicle
              Determine one or more routes from
              the current location of the vehicle to
              the one or more chargeable parking
                              areas                          573
              Determine one or more time periods
               to travel on the one or more routes
              based on an expected speed on the
                        one or more routes                   575
              Determine the shortest one or more
              time periods to provide the shortest
                   chargeable parking area                   577
               Determine a travelling time for the
                vehicle to travel from the current
              location of the vehicle to the closest
                    chargeable parking area
                                                       580
               Initiate operation of one or more
              electronic circuits in the low power
                                                       590
                mode or the high power mode
                  based on the travelling time
                                                 Fig. 18

<removed-date>
                                     19/42
                              404'             451'
              455'
<removed-apn>
               405'
               403'
                                                        406
                                                                453
                              406'
                                                      405'
                     453'
                                                      403'
                                                              455'
                             403
                                                       405'
                              405
                     455
                 404
                                                                403'
                            451      Fig. 19

<removed-date>
                                     20/42
                                               451'
                              404'
              455'
<removed-apn>
              457'
                       461'                            406
                              406'
                                                              455'
                     453'
                                                      457'
                                                       461'
                              455
                                                               457'
                                                      455'
                             461        457
               463
               404
                            451      Fig. 20             461'

<removed-date>
                                                          21/42
                                      405
                    Monitoring                                               9
                     device                               Network
                                                                    Server
                                                               7
<removed-apn>
              800
                    Determine one or more chargeable
                       footprints based on respective
                    chargeable parking areas and/or toll
              810      areas, wherein the chargeable
                     footprints are defined in at least a
                           two-dimensional space
              820
                    Determine a vehicle footprint of the
                    vehicle based on a current position
                     of the vehicle, wherein the vehicle
                    footprint is defined in at least a two-
                             dimensional space
              830    Determine one or more overlaps
                     between the vehicle footprint and
                       the one or more chargeable
                                footprints
                       Determine a chargeable parking
              840    area or toll area that is used by the
                      vehicle based on the one or more
                                    overlap
                                                         Fig. 21

<removed-date>
                                                         22/42
                                    405
                    Monitoring                                                      9
                     device                              Network
                                                                           Server
                                                              7
<removed-apn>
              800
                     Determine one or more overlaps
                     between the vehicle footprint and
              830      the one or more chargeable
                                footprints
              835
                    Determine corresponding overlap
                    areas for each of the one or more
                      overlaps between the vehicle
                      footprint and the one or more
                          chargeable footprints
                    Compare the corresponding overlap              840
                     areas to identify a largest overlap
                                    area                            842
                     Determine a chargeable parking
                      area or toll area based on the
                        largest overlap area and                     844
                         corresponding overlap
                                                     Fig. 22

<removed-date>
                    23/42
              405
                                    21
<removed-apn>
                                     19
               19
                              436
              436
              405
                    Fig. 23

                                                                     <removed-apn>          <removed-date>
                                                                                  900
                                                                             bnn@e.com
                                                               909     911
                             905              907
                                                                                                 24/42
                                   fr@e.com
                             E     je@e.com         0411444111
                       901                               903
0410111889
             Fig. 24

                  <removed-apn>            <removed-date>
                            bnn@e.com
          905   905   fr@e.com            907
          913   913                       913
          913   913                       907
          911                               915
                                                  25/42
                                            917
                                            919
                                            921
Fig. 25

                                                               <removed-apn>         <removed-date>
                     923         924         926                            930
                                                         928
                                                                                        922
          Device 2
               925         927         929         931     933     935            937
                                                                                              26/42
                                                                                        939
Fig. 26

                         <removed-apn>     <removed-date>
          927      924
            931   932             929
                                                27/42
          933     935             934
            936
Fig. 27

                                             <removed-apn>    <removed-date>
                941
                                     944            946
          942                943           945
                      934           937
                                                                   28/42
           947
                      948          949               950
                       951           952
Fig. 28

                                                   <removed-apn>         <removed-date>
                                                          bnn@e.com
                924
                905                          907                 907
                      fr@e.com
          924                          924                       926
                      Device 2
                928                      930                      953
                                 928
                                                                              29/42
          955
Fig. 29

                                      <removed-apn>           <removed-date>
                                               bnn@e.com
                998
                      999       905      922
          927
                            E
                            E
                                                                   30/42
Fig. 30

                            <removed-apn>       <removed-date>
                                 bnn@e.com
          bnn@e.com
                                                     31/42
                      957
Fig. 31

                                              <removed-apn>        <removed-date>
                                                    bnn@e.com
                             959
                                   961
          905          907                    961                963
                                   ad@a.com
            fr@e.com               zz@a.com                             32/42
            fr@e.com               zz@a.com
                                   ad@a.com
            fr@e.com               zz@a.com
Fig. 32

                <removed-apn>         <removed-date>
                       bnn@e.com
                 965
          928
                                           33/42
Fig. 33

                <removed-apn>       <removed-date>
                     bnn@e.com
          967
                                         34/42
Fig. 34

                                        <removed-apn>           <removed-date>
                                                 bnn@e.com
                969
                      973   975   977      979
          971
                                                                     35/42
Fig. 35

                            <removed-apn>         <removed-date>
                                   bnn@e.com
          981
                                               985
                983   977    945
                                                       36/42
Fig. 36

                          <removed-apn>        <removed-date>
                                bnn@e.com
          987
                    989   991
                ?
                                                    37/42
Fig. 37

                                <removed-apn>        <removed-date>
                992
                                      bnn@e.com
                        995
          993     997         994      1001
                                                          38/42
Fig. 38

                            <removed-apn>        <removed-date>
                                  bnn@e.com
                996
          993         977   997
                                                      39/42
                                         1000
Fig. 39

                                        <removed-apn>            <removed-date>
                          1007                1005
             1003                1009'
                                                  bnn@e.com
                                                         1009
                                                                      40/42
                 1009
          1011                   1013      1015      1017
Fig. 40

                                      <removed-apn>     <removed-date>
                       1021
1003
                              1003                 1025''
  1007
                                                    1025'
Fig. 41a                                            Fig. 41b
                                                                        41/42
                              1025'
                                                            1003
 1003
                         1025'                     1025'
                                                   1023
                          1025'
  1025''                                           1025'
                           1025''
                                                              1025'
                       1025'
                                                     1027
Fig. 41c     Fig. 41                                Fig. 41d

<removed-date>
                                      42/42
              17/31/417
<removed-apn>
                                                 Memory
                                                   320
                                                   Data
                          Processor                322
                             310
                                                Instructions
                                                     324
                                                               330
                                          Bus
                          Interface
                             340
                          To/From
                          Network
                                      Fig. 42

