                                             Abstract
   A method of gaming is disclosed which comprises the steps of providing a plurality of
   display positions and selecting a plurality of symbols for display at respective display
 5 positions. A base pay table is defined and is usable to determine a prize applicable for
   a winning outcome when the winning outcome occurs, wherein a winning outcome
   associated with a particular prize comprises a defined win combination of x symbols.
   Also defined is a special pay table usable to determine a prize applicable for a winning
   outcome when the winning outcome occurs, wherein for a particular prize defined in
10 both the base pay table and the special pay table, a winning outcome defined in the
   special pay table and associated with the particular prize comprises less than x of the
   symbols of the defined win combination. It is determined whether a winning outcome
   exists and, during normal game mode, the base pay table is used to determine a
   particular prize applicable for a winning outcome when the winning outcome occurs. It
15 is also determined whether a trigger condition exists and if the trigger condition is
   determined, special game mode is implemented during which the special pay table is
   used to determine a particular prize applicable for a winning outcome when the winning
   outcome occurs.
20
   9913053_1 (GHMatter) P80771.AU.4

                                                       1
                                 A GAMING SYSTEM AND A METHOD OF GAMING
   Field of the Invention
 5 The present invention relates to a gaming system and to a method of gaming.
   Background of the Invention
   It is known to provide a gaming system arranged to randomly display several symbols
10 from a predetermined set of symbols and to determine a game outcome such as a
   game win based on the displayed symbols. In some arrangements, a win outcome is
   determined by comparing the occurrence of symbols with a pay table so that a
   corresponding prize may be awarded to a player.
15 Such gaming systems may commonly be implemented as a stepper machine provided
   with reels with each reel carrying several symbols of the set, or a video machine
   wherein selected symbols are displayed on virtual reels on a graphical display device.
   However, while such gaming systems provide users with enjoyment, a need exists for
20 alternative gaming systems in order to maintain or increase player enjoyment.
   Summary of the Invention
   In accordance with a first aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of
25 gaming, the method being performed by a gaming system, the method comprising:
                providing a plurality of display positions;
                selecting a plurality of symbols for display on a display of the gaming system at
   respective display positions;
                defining a base pay table usable to determine a prize applicable for a winning
30 outcome when the winning outcome occurs, wherein a winning outcome associated
   with a particular prize comprises a defined win combination of x symbols;
                defining a special pay table usable to determine a prize applicable for a winning
   outcome when the winning outcome occurs, wherein for a particular prize defined in
   both the base pay table and the special pay table, a winning outcome defined in the
35 special pay table and associated with the particular prize comprises less than x of the
   symbols of the defined win combination;
   9913053_1 (GHMatters)P80771.AU.4

                                                   2
               determining whether a winning outcome exists;
               during normal game mode, using the base pay table to determine a particular
   prize applicable for a winning outcome when the winning outcome occurs;
               determining whether a trigger condition exists;
 5             implementing special game mode when a trigger condition is determined;
               implementing the special pay table by modifying the base pay table on the
   display in an animated sequence so as to inform the player that the special pay table is
   being implemented; and
               during special game mode, using the special pay table to determine a particular
10 prize applicable for a winning outcome when the winning outcome occurs.
   The defined win combination may comprise multiple symbols of the same kind. The
   defined win combination may be any win combination associated with card games
   such as poker. The defined win combination may comprise a sequence of symbols,
15 such as a sequence of numbers.
   In one embodiment, a winning outcome defined in the special pay table and associated
   with the particular prize comprises x-1 of the symbols of the defined win combination.
20 In one embodiment, the method comprises modifying the base pay table so as to form
   the special pay table.
   In one embodiment, the method comprises displaying the base pay table and/or the
   special pay table. In one embodiment, the base pay table and the special pay table are
25 displayed concurrently. In an alternative embodiment, the base pay table is displayed
   during normal game mode and the special pay table is displayed during special game
   mode. In one embodiment, the special pay table replaces the base pay table during
   special game mode.
30 It will be appreciated that displaying the pay table and/or the special pay table may
   comprise displaying information relating to the pay table and/or the special pay table.
   The trigger condition may occur when a specific game outcome occurs.
35 In addition, the trigger condition may occur when a game event occurs during a game
   such as display of a particular symbol, in response to player input, based on the
   amount or type of bet placed. Alternatively, the trigger condition may occur when a
   99130531 (GHMatter) P80771.AU.4

                                                       3
   special game is purchased by a player.
   In accordance with a second aspect of the present invention there is provided a
   gaming system comprising:
 5             a symbol selector arranged to select a plurality of symbols for display at a
   corresponding plurality of display positions;
               a trigger condition determiner arranged to determine whether a trigger condition
   exists;
               a feature implementer arranged to implement a special game mode when a
10 trigger condition occurs,
               an outcome evaluator arranged to determine whether selected symbols
   correspond to a winning symbol combination;
               a base pay table usable to determine a prize applicable for a winning outcome
   when the winning outcome occurs, wherein a winning outcome associated with a
15 particular prize comprises a defined win combination of x symbols;
               a special pay table usable to determine a prize applicable for a winning
   outcome when the winning outcome occurs, wherein for a particular prize defined in
   both the base pay table and the special pay table, a winning outcome defined in the
   special pay table and associated with the particular prize comprises less than x of the
20 symbols of the defined win combination;
               a prize allocator arranged to allocate a prize to a player when a winning symbol
   combination exists; wherein
               in normal game mode the prize is determined from the base pay table; and
               in special game mode the prize is determined from the special pay table; and
25                          wherein the gaming system is arranged so as to implement the special
   pay table by modifying the base pay table on a display in an animated sequence so as
   to inform the player that the special pay table is being implemented.
   The defined win combination may comprise multiple symbols of the same kind. The
30 defined win combination may comprise any win combination associated with a card
   game.
   In one embodiment, a winning outcome defined in the special pay table and associated
   with the particular prize comprises x-1 of the symbols of the defined win combination.
35
   The system may be arranged so as to modify the base pay table so as to form the
   special pay table.
   99130531 (GHMatter) P80771.AU.4

                                                4
   In one embodiment, the system is arranged so as to display the base pay table and/or
   the special pay table.
   In an alternative embodiment, the system is arranged such that the base pay table and
 5 the special pay table are displayed concurrently.
   The system may be arranged such that the base pay table is displayed during normal
   game mode and the special pay table is displayed during special game mode.
10 In one embodiment, the system is arranged such that the special pay table is displayed
   in place of the base pay table during special game mode.
   In accordance with a third aspect of the present invention there is provided a computer
   program arranged when loaded into a computer to instruct the computer to operate in
15 accordance with the gaming system of the second aspect.
   In accordance with a fourth aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
   computer readable medium having a computer readable program code embodied
   therein for causing a computer to operate in accordance with the gaming system of the
20 second aspect.
   In accordance with a fifth aspect of the present invention, there is provided a data
   signal having a computer readable program code embodied therein to cause a
   computer to operate in accordance with the gaming system of the second aspect.
25
   Brief Description of the Drawings
   The present invention will now be described by way of example only, with reference to
   the accompanying drawings, in which:
30 Figure 1 is a schematic block diagram of components of a gaming system in
   accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
   Figure 2 is a schematic block diagram of functional components of a gaming system in
   accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
35
   Figure 3 is a diagrammatic representation of a gaming system in accordance with an
   embodiment of the present invention with the gaming system implemented in the form
   9913053_1 (GHMatter) P80771.AU.4

                                                5
   of a stand alone gaming machine;
   Figure 4 is a schematic block diagram of operative components of a gaming machine
   shown in Figure 3;
 5
   Figure 5 is a schematic block diagram of components of a memory of the gaming
   machine shown in Figure 3;
   Figure 6 is a schematic diagram of a gaming system in accordance with an alternative
10 embodiment of the present invention wherein the gaming system is implemented over
   a network;
   Figure 7 is a flow diagram illustrating game play of a gaming system in accordance
   with an embodiment of the present invention;
15
   Figure 8 is a diagrammatic representation of an example screen displayed by a gaming
   system in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
   Figure 9 is a diagrammatic representation of a pay table displayed by a gaming system
20 in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention during implementation of
   normal game mode; and
   Figure 10 is a diagrammatic representation of a modified pay table of a gaming system
   in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention during implementation of
25 special game mode.
   Description of an Embodiment of the Invention
   The present gaming system operates such that during game play a plurality of symbols
30 are randomly selected from a set of symbols and displayed at a corresponding plurality
   of display positions, the symbols shown at the display positions being used to
   determine game outcomes by comparing the displayed symbols with defined winning
   combinations.
35 In one conventional type of gaming machine, a display area including 15 display
   positions is presented to a player with each display position including one symbol. The
   display positions are arranged in five vertically disposed reels with each reel having
   9913053_1 (GHMatters)P80771.AU.4

                                                  6
   three visible display positions. After the reels are spun and subsequently stopped, the
   display positions show a random selection of symbols. Generally, with such games a
   plurality of win patterns in the form of win lines are defined which extend across the
   reels and include one display position from each reel. Typically the symbols that form
 5 a win line are compared with winning symbol combinations defined in a pay table so as
   to determine whether a player of the game should receive an award. For example, if
   winning symbol combinations are based on poker hands, a particular prize would be
   awarded if the win line comprises four aces. Other winning symbol combinations and
   corresponding prizes may also be defined by a pay table.
10
   The game comprises normal game mode and special game mode. During normal
   game mode, a defined number of symbols are required to achieve a particular prize.
   During special game mode, the gaming system is arranged to decrease the number of
   symbols required to achieve the particular prize. For example, if four aces are required
15 to achieve a particular prize during normal game mode, during special game mode a
   win line comprising only three aces will result in the player being awarded the particular
   prize. As a consequence, the likelihood of obtaining a larger prize increases and the
   likelihood of obtaining a winning outcome increase.
20 Referring to the drawings, there is shown a schematic block diagram of a gaming
   system 10 arranged to implement a probabilistic game of the type wherein several
   symbols from a set of symbols are randomly displayed, and a game outcome is
   determined on the basis of the displayed symbols. The system is of the type including
   multiple game modes such as being operable in normal game mode wherein a base
25 game is implemented and special game mode wherein a feature game is implemented.
   With some such probabilistic games, the set of symbols used during normal game
   mode include standard symbols and function symbols, and the game outcome is
   determined on the basis of the displayed standard symbols and the function associated
30 with any displayed function symbol. For example, standard symbols may resemble
   fruit such as apples, pears and bananas with a win outcome being determined when a
   predetermined number of the same fruit appear on a display along a win line, or are
   displayed according to defined outcome patterns such as scattered, and so on. The
   function associated with a function symbol may be for example a wild function wherein
35 display of the function symbol is treated during consideration of the game outcome as
   any of the standard symbols. A function symbol may be represented as the word
   "WILD", a star, or by any other suitable word or symbol. Other functions are also
   9913053_1 (GHMatters)P80771.AU.4

                                                 7
   envisaged such as scatter functions, multiplier functions, repeat win functions, jackpot
   functions and feature commencement functions.
   Referring to Figure 1, a schematic diagram of components of a gaming system 10 in
 5 accordance with the present embodiment is shown. The components comprise a
   player interface 30 and a game controller 32. The player interface 30 is arranged to
   enable interaction between a player and the gaming system and for this purpose
   includes input/output components required for the player to enter instructions and play
   the game.
10
   Components of the player interface 30 may vary but will typically include a credit
   mechanism 34 to enable a player to input credits and receive payouts, one or more
   displays 36 which may comprise a touch screen, and a game play mechanism 38
   arranged to enable a player to input game play instructions.
15
   The game controller 32 is in data communication with the player interface 30 and
   typically includes a processor 40 arranged to process game play instructions and
   output game player outcomes to the display 36. Typically, the game play instructions
   are stored as program code in a memory 42 that can also be hardwired. It will be
20 understood that in this specification the term "processor" is used to refer generically to
   any device that can process game play instructions and may include a microprocessor,
   microcontroller, programmable logic device or other computational device such as a
   personal computer or a server.
25 A functional diagram illustrating operative components of the game controller 32 is
   shown in Figure 2.
   The memory 42 is arranged to store symbols data 14 indicative of a plurality of
   symbols, in the present example associated with a plurality of reels, win lines data 15
30 indicative of available win lines, function data 16 indicative of one or more functions
   allocatable to the symbols, and game instruction data 18 indicative of game
   instructions usable by the gaming machine 10 to control operation of the game. The
   game instruction data 18 comprises base pay table data 19 indicative of defined win
   combinations and associated prizes when a base game is played, and special pay
35 table data 20 indicative of defined win combinations and associated prizes when a
   feature game is played.
   9913053_1 (GHMatters)P80771.AU.4

                                                 8
   The game controller 32 includes a symbol selector 21 which is arranged to select
   several symbols from the available symbols 14 for display to a player in a plurality of
   display positions, in this example by spinning reels containing the symbols and
   stopping the reels so as to display at least one symbol on each reel. In this example,
 5 the selection carried out by the symbol selector 21 is made using a random number
   generator 22.
   It will be appreciated that the random number generator 22 may be of a type which is
   arranged to generate pseudo random numbers based on a seed number, and that in
10 this specification the term "random" will be understood accordingly to mean truly
   random or pseudo random.
   With this embodiment, the game controller 32 also comprises a trigger determiner 23
   arranged to determine whether a trigger condition exists and to instruct a feature
15 implementer 24 to implement a special game mode when a trigger condition has been
   detected. Such a trigger condition may be the display of a particular symbol or
   combination of symbols.
   The feature implementer 24 causes the special pay table data 20 to be used in
20 determining a prize when an associated defined win combination occurs during special
   game mode. The special pay table data 20 is arranged such that the number of
   symbols required to achieve a particular prize is reduced compared to the base pay
   table data 19.
25 In this example, the game controller 32 also comprises a function allocator 27 arranged
   to select and allocate one or more functions to one or more symbols. Such functions
   include a wild function, a scatter function, or any other function which may be applied
   to a symbol or to the game.
30 The game controller 32 also comprises an outcome evaluator 28 which in accordance
   with game instructions 18 and the associated base and special pay table data 19, 20
   determines game outcomes based on the symbols selected for display to the player by
   the symbol selector 21.
35 The game controller 32 also comprises a prize allocator 29 arranged to allocate a prize
   to a player when a winning outcome exists.
   9913053_1 (GHMatters)P80771.AU.4

                                                 9
   In this example, the gaming system is operable in normal game mode and special
   game mode.
   During normal game mode, a base pay table is used to determine whether a winning
 5 outcome exists and a prize awarded to a player for the winning outcome. During
   special game mode, the gaming system is arranged such that an alternate special pay
   table is used to determine a prize for the player when a winning symbol combination
   occurs.
10 In the embodiment described below, the symbol selector 21, the trigger determiner 23,
   the feature implementer 24, the function allocator 27, the outcome evaluator 28, and
   the prize allocator 29 are at least partly implemented using the processor 40 and
   associated software although it will be understood that other implementations are
   envisaged.
15
   The gaming system 10 can take a number of different forms.
   In a first form, a player operable gaming device in the form of a stand alone gaming
   machine is provided wherein all or most components required for implementing the
20 game are present in the gaming machine.
   In a second form, a distributed architecture is provided wherein some of the
   components required for implementing the game are present in a player operable
   gaming device and some of the components required for implementing the game are
25 located remotely relative to the gaming device. For example, a "thick client"
   architecture may be used wherein part of the game is executed on a player operable
   gaming terminal and part of the game is executed remotely, such as by a gaming
   server; or a "thin client" architecture may be used wherein most of the game is
   executed remotely such as by a gaming server and a player operable gaming terminal
30 is used only to display audible and/or visible gaming information to the player and
   receive gaming inputs from the player.
   However, it will be understood that other arrangements are envisaged. For example,
   an architecture may be provided wherein a gaming device is networked to a device
35 server and the respective functions of the gaming machine and the gaming server are
   selectively modifiable. For example, the gaming system may operate in stand alone
   gaming machine mode, "thick client" mode or "thin client" mode depending on the
   9913053_1
          (GHMatters)P80771.AU.4

                                               10
   game being played, operating conditions, and so on. Other variations will be apparent
   to persons skilled in the art.
   A gaming system in the form of a stand alone gaming machine 50 is illustrated in
 5 Figure 3. The gaming machine 50 includes a console 52 having a display 54 on which
   is displayed representations of a game 56 that can be played by a player. A mid-trim
   60 of the gaming machine 50 houses a bank of buttons 62 for enabling a player to
   interact with the gaming machine, in particular during gameplay. The mid-trim 60 also
   houses a credit input mechanism 64 which in this example includes a coin input chute
10 64A and a bill collector 64B. Other credit input mechanisms may also be employed, for
   example, a card reader for reading a smart card, debit card or credit card.
   A top box 66 may carry artwork 68, including for example pay tables and details of
   bonus awards and other information or images relating to the game. Further artwork
15 and/or information may be provided on a front panel 69 of the console 52. A coin tray
   70 is mounted beneath the front panel 69 for dispensing cash payouts from the gaming
   machine 50.
   The display 54 is in the form of a video display unit, particularly a cathode ray tube
20 screen device. Alternatively, the display 54 may be a liquid crystal display, plasma
   screen, or any other suitable video display unit. The top box 66 may also include a
   display, for example a video display unit, which may be of the same type as the display
   54, or of a different type. The display 54 may comprise a touch screen usable by a
   player to interact with the gaming machine, in particular during game play.
25
   The display 54 in this example is arranged to display representations of several reels,
   each reel of which has several associated symbols. Typically 3, 4 or 5 reels are
   provided. During operation of the game, the reels first appear to rotate then stop with
   typically three symbols visible on each reel. Game outcomes are determined on the
30 basis of the visible symbols together with any special functions associated with the
   symbols.
   A player marketing module (PMM) 72 having a display 74 is connected to the gaming
   machine 50. The main purpose of the PMM 72 is to allow the player to interact with a
35 player loyalty system. The PMM has a magnetic card reader for the purpose of
   reading a player tracking device, for example as part of a loyalty program. However
   other reading devices may be employed and the player tracking device may be in the
   99130531 (GHMatters)P80771.AU.4

                                                11
   form of a card, flash drive or any other portable storage medium capable of being read
   by the reading device. In this example, the PMM 62 is a Sentinel III device produced
   by Aristocrat Technologies Pty Ltd.
 5 Figure 4 shows a block diagram of operative components of a gaming device 100
   which may be the same as or different to the gaming machine shown in Figure 3.
   The gaming machine 100 includes a game controller 101 having a processor 102.
   Instructions and data to control operation of the processor 102 in accordance with the
10 present invention are stored in a memory 103 which is in data communication with the
   processor 102.
   Typically, the gaming machine 100 will include both volatile and non-volatile memory
   and more than one of each type of memory, with such memories being collectively
15 represented by the memory 103.
   Figure 5 shows a block diagram of the main components of an exemplary memory
   103. The memory 103 includes RAM 103A, EPROM 103B and a mass storage device
   103C. The RAM 103A typically temporarily holds program files for execution by the
20 processor 102 and related data. The EPROM 103B may be a boot ROM device and/or
   may contain some system or game related code. The mass storage device 103C is
   typically used to store game programs, the integrity of which may be verified and/or
   authenticated by the processor 102 using protected code from the EPROM 103B or
   elsewhere.
25
   The gaming machine has hardware meters 104 for purposes including ensuring
   regulatory compliance and monitoring player credit, an input/output (1/O) interface 105
   for communicating with a player interface 120 of the gaming machine 100, the player
   interface 120 having several peripheral devices. The input/output interface 105 and/or
30 the peripheral devices may be intelligent devices with their own memory for storing
   associated instructions and data for use with the input/output interface or the peripheral
   devices. A random number generator module 113 generates random numbers for use
   by the processor 102.
35 In the example shown in Figure 4, the peripheral devices that communicate with the
   game controller 101 comprise one or more displays 106, a touch screen and/or bank of
   buttons 107, a card and/or ticket reader 108, a printer 109, a bill acceptor and/or coin
   99130531 (GHMatters)P80771.AU.4

                                               12
   input mechanism 110 and a coin output mechanism 111. Additional hardware may be
   included as part of the gaming machine 100, or hardware may be omitted as required
   for the specific implementation.
 5 In addition, the gaming machine 100 may include a communications interface, for
   example a network card 112. The network card may, for example, send status
   information, accounting information or other information to a central controller, server
   or database and receive data or commands from the central controller, server or
   database.
10
   It is also possible for the operative components of the gaming machine 100 to be
   distributed, for example input/output devices 106,107,108,109,110,111 may be
   provided remotely from the game controller 101.
15 Figure 6 shows a gaming system 200 in accordance with an alternative embodiment.
   The gaming system 200 includes a network 201, which for example may be an
   Ethernet network, a LAN or a WAN. In this example, three banks 203 of two gaming
   machines 202 are connected to the network 201. The gaming machines 202 provide a
   player operable interface and may be the same as the gaming machines 40,100 shown
20 in Figures 3 and 4, or may have simplified functionality depending on the requirements
   for implementing game play. While banks 203 of two gaming machines are illustrated
   in Figure 6, banks of one, three or more gaming machines are also envisaged.
   One or more displays 204 may also be connected to the network 201. The displays
25 204 may, for example, be associated with one or more banks 203 of gaming machines.
   The displays 204 may be used to display representations associated with game play
   on the gaming machines 202, and/or used to display other representations, for
   example promotional or informational material.
30 In a thick client embodiment, a game server 205 implements part of the game played
   by a player using a gaming machine 202 and the gaming machine 202 implements part
   of the game. With this embodiment, as both the game server 205 and the gaming
   machine 202 implement part of the game, they collectively provide a game controller. A
   database management server 206 may manage storage of game programs and
35 associated data for downloading or access by the gaming devices 202 in a database
   206A. Typically, if the gaming system enables players to participate in a Jackpot game,
   a Jackpot server 207 will be provided to monitor and carry out the Jackpot game.
   99130531 (GHMatters)P80771.AU.4

                                                13
   In a variation of the above thick client embodiment, the gaming machine 202 may
   implement the game, with the game server 205 functioning merely to serve data
   indicative of a game to the gaming machine 202 for implementation.
 5 With this implementation, a data signal containing a computer program usable by the
   client terminal to implement the gaming system may be transferred from the game
   server to the client terminal, for example in response to a request by the client terminal.
   In a thin client embodiment, the game server 205 implements most or all of the game
10 played by a player using a gaming machine 202 and the gaming machine 202
   essentially provides only the player interface. With this embodiment, the game server
   205 provides the game controller. The gaming machine will receive player instructions,
   and pass the instructions to the game server which will process them and return game
   play outcomes to the gaming machine for display. In a thin client embodiment, the
15 gaming machines could be computer terminals, e.g. PCs running software that
   provides a player interface operable using standard computer input and output
   components.
   Servers are also typically provided to assist in the administration of the gaming system
20 200, including for example a gaming floor management server 208 and a licensing
   server 209 to monitor the use of licenses relating to particular games. An administrator
   terminal 210 is provided to allow an administrator to monitor the network 201 and the
   devices connected to the network.
25 The gaming system 200 may communicate with other gaming systems, other local
   networks such as a corporate network, and/or a wide area network such as the
   Internet, for example through a firewall 211.
   A loyalty program server 212 may also be provided.
30 Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that in accordance with known techniques,
   functionality at the server side of the network may be distributed over a plurality of
   different computers. For example, elements may be run as a single "engine" on one
   server or a separate server may be provided. For example, the game server 205 could
   run a random number generator engine. Alternatively, a separate random number
35 generator server could be provided.
   Examples of specific implementations of the gaming system will now be described in
   99130531 (GHMatters)P80771.AU.4

                                                14
   relation to a stand alone gaming machine 50 although it will be understood that
   implementation may also be carried out using other gaming system architectures such
   as a network architecture of the type shown in Figure 6.
 5 In this example, the gaming system comprises five reels, each of which has an
   associated set of symbols.
   The reels comprise standard symbols and optionally one or more function symbols and
   win outcomes are determined on the basis of the symbols visible at the display
10 positions when the reels stop rotating.
   Typically, a player will purchase or otherwise obtain win entitlements such as several
   win lines which are used in the game to determine win outcomes. If the displayed
   symbols on the reels have symbols associated with a winning combination such as a
15 winning combination disposed on a win line, the player wins a prize.
   The gaming system is operable in normal game mode and special game mode and
   may be arranged to commence special game mode when a predetermined game
   outcome occurs. Special game mode may comprise one or more free games. Special
20 game mode may commence automatically on the basis of a game event occurring
   during a game such as display of a particular symbol, based on game outcomes
   determined by the gaming system, or may be prompted by a player pressing a button
   on the gaming system 10 after the player has identified that a game outcome
   corresponding to special game mode requirements has occurred.
25
   The gaming system 10 may also be arranged so as to determine eligibility for special
   game mode, for example based on the amount or type of bet placed, based on certain
   time periods and so on.
30 Special game mode may also be arranged to commence when a special game is
   purchased by a player.
   A specific example will now be described in relation to flow diagram 250 shown in
   Figure 7 which illustrates steps 252 to 268 of a method of gaming implemented by the
35 gaming system according to the present embodiment.
   In this example five virtual reels 280, 282, 284, 286, 288 are provided and displayed on
   99130531 (GHMatter) P80771.AU.4

                                                 15
   a graphical display device 54 in a display area 302, as shown in Figure 8. However, it
   will be understood that any number of reels may be provided.
   During implementation of a base game, the reels are spun and subsequently stopped
 5 254 to show a plurality of symbols 300 in the display area 302. The display area 302 is
   divided into 15 display positions 304, with each display position 304 showing one
   symbol 300 and each reel including 3 associated display positions 304.
   Winning outcomes are determined with reference to winning combinations of symbols
10 300 appearing in defined win lines 306 or defined win combinations such as defined
   scatter combinations. Each defined win line 306 includes one display position from
   each reel.
   The outcome generator 28 determines 254 whether the symbols displayed at the
15 display positions correspond to a winning outcome and, if a winning outcome exists, a
   prize associated with the winning outcome is awarded to the player. This
   determination 254 is made by comparing the symbols displayed at the display
   positions with a base pay table 308. The base pay table 308 may be displayed on the
   graphical display device 54 or, for example, on a separate display (not shown).
20 Alternatively, the base pay table 308 may not be displayed.
   As shown in Figure 9, base pay table 308 shows the number 312 of symbols 310
   required in a win line 306 to achieve a corresponding prize 314. In this example, the
   base pay table 308 shows that five aces results in a prize of five hundred credits, four
25 aces results in a prize of one hundred credits, three aces results in a prize of fifty
   credits and two aces results in a prize of three credits. The pay table also shows the
   prize that would result if particular numbers of King symbols (K), Queen symbols (Q)
   and Jack symbols (J) are displayed at display positions 304 to form at least a portion of
   win line 306.
30
   It will be appreciated that this is only one example of a base pay table 308 and that any
   number or variation of winning outcomes and associated prizes may be shown.
   In the present example a winning combination of four aces exists so a prize of one
35 hundred credits is awarded to a player in accordance with the base pay table 308.
   If a trigger condition exists 256, special game mode commences which causes
   99130531 (GHMatter) P80771.AU.4

                                                 16
   implementation 258 of a special feature. The special feature may include one or more
   special games.
   During implementation of a special game, a special pay table 316 (see Figure 10) is
 5 used to determine win outcomes and prizes. In this example, the special pay table 316
   is displayed in place of the base pay table 308. The reels are then spun and
   subsequently stopped to show a plurality of symbols in the display positions. Winning
   outcomes are then determined with reference to symbols appearing in defined win
   lines 306 and with reference to the special pay table 316.
10
   In this example, as shown in Figure 10, the special pay table 316 shows a different
   number 318 of symbols 310 required to achieve the same payout 314 as that defined
   in the base pay table 308. In this example the special pay table 316 shows that four
   aces will result in a prize of five hundred credits, three aces results in a prize of one
15 hundred credits, two aces results in a prize of fifty credits, and one ace results in a
   prize of three credits. A corresponding difference in the numbers of King, Queen and
   Jack symbols required to achieve corresponding payouts is also shown. In this way, by
   using the special pay table 316 during special game mode, a decreased number 318 of
   symbols 310 is required to achieve equivalent prizes to those attainable during normal
20 game mode.
   In one embodiment, the base pay table 308 is modified upon commencement of
   special game mode so as to form the special pay table 316. The modification made to
   the pay table 308 to form the special pay table 316 may be displayed, for example, as
25 an animated sequence or similar.
   It will be understood that with the above described embodiments the base pay table
   and the special pay table are based on the number of same symbols required to
   achieve a particular prize. However, variations are possible. For example, the base
30 pay table and the special pay table may show any appropriate winning combination
   and associated payout. The pay table and the modified pay table may indicate the
   number of symbols required to form winning combinations such as straights, flushes
   and other poker hands, or winning combinations of any other type of game that may be
   implemented on a gaming machine. For example, in normal game mode five
35 sequential symbols may be required to form a straight so as to achieve a particular
   prize whereas in special game mode only four of those five sequential symbols will be
   required to achieve the same prize.
   99130531 (GHMatter) P80771.AU.4

                                                  17
   Further, although the special pay table is described as being displayed in place of the
   base pay table during special game mode, it will be appreciated that each pay table
   may be displayed concurrently. Alternatively, the pay tables may not be displayed.
 5 In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention, except
   where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
   implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is
   used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to
   preclude the presence or addition of further features in various embodiments of the
10 invention.
   It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred to herein, such
   reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of the
   common general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
15
   Modifications and variations as would be apparent to a skilled addressee are
   determined to be within the scope of the present invention.
   99130531 (GHMatters)P80771.AU.4

                                                           18
   The Claims Defining the Invention are as Follows:
   1.          A method of gaming, the method being performed by a gaming system, the
   method comprising:
 5                          providing a plurality of display positions;
                             selecting a plurality of symbols for display on a display of the gaming
               system at respective display positions;
                             defining a base pay table usable to determine a prize applicable for a
               winning outcome when the winning outcome occurs, wherein a winning
10             outcome associated with a particular prize comprises a defined win combination
               of x symbols;
                             defining a special pay table usable to determine a prize applicable for a
               winning outcome when the winning outcome occurs, wherein for a particular
               prize defined in both the base pay table and the special pay table, a winning
15             outcome defined in the special pay table and associated with the particular
               prize comprises less than x of the symbols of the defined win combination;
                            determining whether a winning outcome exists;
                             during normal game mode, using the base pay table to determine a
               particular prize applicable for a winning outcome when the winning outcome
20             occurs;
                            determining whether a trigger condition exists;
                             implementing special game mode when a trigger condition is
               determined;
                            implementing the special pay table by modifying the base pay table on
25             the display in an animated sequence so as to inform the player that the special
               pay table is being implemented; and
                             during special game mode, using the special pay table to determine a
               particular prize applicable for a winning outcome when the winning outcome
               occurs.
30
   2.          The method of claim 1, wherein the defined win combination comprises multiple
               symbols of the same kind.
   3.          The method of claim 1, wherein the defined win combination comprises any win
35             combination associated with a card game.
   4.          The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein a winning outcome
   99130531 (GHMatter) P80771.AU.4

                                                          19
                defined in the special pay table and associated with the particular prize
                comprises x-1 of the symbols of the defined win combination.
   5.           The method of any one of the preceding claims further comprising the step of
 5              modifying the base pay table so as to form the special pay table.
   6.           The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the base pay table is
                displayed during normal game mode and the special pay table is displayed
                during special game mode.
10
   7.           The method of claim 6, wherein the special pay table is displayed in place of
                the base pay table during special game mode.
   8.           A gaming system comprising:
15                           a symbol selector arranged to select a plurality of symbols for display at
                a corresponding plurality of display positions;
                             a trigger condition determiner arranged to determine whether a trigger
                condition exists;
                             a feature implementer arranged to implement a special game mode
20              when a trigger condition occurs,
                             an outcome evaluator arranged to determine whether selected symbols
                correspond to a winning symbol combination;
                             a base pay table usable to determine a prize applicable for a winning
                outcome when the winning outcome occurs, wherein a winning outcome
25              associated with a particular prize comprises a defined win combination of x
                symbols;
                             a special pay table usable to determine a prize applicable for a winning
                outcome when the winning outcome occurs, wherein for a particular prize
                defined in both the base pay table and the special pay table, a winning outcome
30              defined in the special pay table and associated with the particular prize
                comprises less than x of the symbols of the defined win combination;
                             a prize allocator arranged to allocate a prize to a player when a winning
                symbol combination exists; wherein
                             in normal game mode the prize is determined from the base pay table;
35              and
                             in special game mode the prize is determined from the special pay table;
                and
   9913053_1 (GHMatters)P80771.AU.4

                                                       20
                             wherein the gaming system is arranged so as to implement the special
               pay table by modifying the base pay table on a display in an animated
               sequence so as to inform the player that the special pay table is being
               implemented.
 5
   9.          The system of claim 8, wherein the defined win combination comprises multiple
               symbols of the same kind.
   10.         The system of claim 8, wherein the defined win combination comprises any win
10             combination associated with a card game.
   11.         The system of any one of claims 8 to 10, wherein a winning outcome defined in
               the special pay table and associated with the particular prize comprises x-1 of
               the symbols of the defined win combination.
15
   12.         The system of any one of claims 8 to 11 wherein the system is arranged so as
               to modify the base pay table so as to form the special pay table.
   13.         The system of any one of claims 8 to 12, wherein the system is arranged such
20             that the base pay table is displayed during normal game mode and the special
               pay table is displayed during special game mode.
   14.         The system of claim 13, wherein the system is arranged such that the special
               pay table is displayed in place of the base pay table during special game mode.
25
   15.         A computer program arranged when loaded into a computer to instruct the
               computer to operate in accordance with a gaming system, the gaming system
               being in accordance with any one of claims 8 to 14.
30 16.         A computer readable medium having a computer readable program code
               embodied therein for causing a computer to operate in accordance with a
               gaming system, the gaming system being in accordance with any one of claims
               8 to 14.
35 17.         A data signal having a computer readable program code embodied therein to
               cause a computer to operate in accordance with a gaming system, the gaming
               system being in accordance with any one of claims 8 to 14.
   99130531 (GHMatters) P80771.AU.4

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
