                                    ABSTRACT
       Disclosed are systems and methods for monitoring and controlling a real
time oxidation-reduction potential in a hot water system to inhibit corrosion in the
hot water system. The method includes defining one or more operational protective
zones in the hot water system. One or more of the operational protective zones
includes an oxidation-reduction potential probe that is operable to measure a real
time oxidation-reduction potential in the hot water system at operating temperature
and pressure. The probe transmits the measured real-time potential to the controller,
which assesses and interprets the transmitted potential to determine whether it
conforms to an oxidation-reduction potential setting. If the measured potential does
not conform the oxidation-reduction potential setting, the controller is operable to
feed or remove one or more active chemical species into or from the hot water
system and further operable to change at least one system parameter.

WO 2014/130247                                                        PCT/US2014/014920
        SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR MONITORING AND CONTROLLING
                        CORROSION IN HOT WATER SYSTEMS
                                    TECHNICAL FIELD
             [0001]   This invention relates generally to systems and methods for
    monitoring and controlling corrosion in hot water systems. More specifically, the
    invention relates to measuring real-time oxidation-reduction potential at operating
    temperature and pressure in one or more operational protective zones and using
    those measurements to control feed of active chemical species. The invention has
    particular relevance to locally and/or globally monitoring and controlling corrosion
    in simple or complex hot water systems.
                                       BACKGROUND
             [0002]   Hot water systems are generally composed of all-ferrous metallurgy
     or mixed metallurgy, such as copper or copper alloy systems, nickel and nickel
    based alloys, and stainless steel and may also be mixed with mild steel components.
    Many general classes/components of hot water systems exist, such as boilers, hot
    water heaters, heat exchangers, steam generators, nuclear power electric systems
    combustion engine and diesel coolant systems, evaporator systems, thermal
    desalination systems, papermaking operations, fermentation processes, the like, and
     attached ancillary devices. They are dynamic operating systems that undergo a
    myriad of REDOX Stress events (i.e., any electrochemical event in the hot water
     system related to changes in oxidative or reductive potential). Such events generally
    include any process that implicates the oxidation-reduction potential ("ORP") space
     or regime in the system.
             [0003]   These events result from a multitude of factors including leaks from
    various components, contamination from air in-leakage, malfunctioning pumps,
     seals, vacuum lines, and gauges. Further, increased use of oxygen-enriched water,
     such as boiler make-up water, returned steam condensate, and/or raw surface or
     subsurface water, deaerator malfunctions, steam and turbine load swings, and
    problems with chemical feed pumps cause unplanned reduction or increase in
                                               1

WO 2014/130247                                                        PCT/US2014/014920
    chemical treatment feed rates. Uncontrolled REDOX Stress events can cause serious
    corrosion problems, such as localized corrosion, stress corrosion, corrosion fatigue,
     and/or flow accelerated corrosion problems in hot water systems. By their nature,
    these problems tend to be electrochemical and thus tied-in to the oxidative-reductive
    properties of the environment and structural material interaction. Moreover,
    corrosion problems may be exacerbated if a pH of the hot water strays from a
    targeted control range.
             [0004]   Although some conventional methods          are practiced today to
    identify REDOX Stress events in hot water systems, because of hot water system
    dynamics most REDOX Stress events are unpredictable. For example, boiler water
    temperatures can range from about 240'C at about 6 MPa to about 310'C at about
     10 MPa; at these high temperatures, chemical reactions can occur quickly.
    Conventional methods have inherent drawbacks(see below) at such conditions, and
    therefore are not widely practiced. As a consequence, the majority of REDOX Stress
    events go undetected and thus uncorrected. Uncontrolled REDOX Stress events can
    lead to serious corrosion problems in these systems, which negatively impact plant
    equipment life expectancy, reliability, production capability, safety, environmental
    regulations, capital outlay, and total plant operation costs.
             [0005]   Identifying REDOX Stress events and monitoring pH of the hot
    water currently includes both online instruments and grab sample wet chemical
     analysis test methods. In both approaches, the sample has to first undergo sample
    conditioning, such as cooling, prior to measurement. Examples of online instruments
    include dissolved oxygen meters, cation conductivity instruments, room temperature
     ORP instruments, pH instruments, sodium analyzers, hardness analyzers, specific
    conductivity meters, silica analyzers, particle and turbidity meters, reductant
     analyzers, and the like. General corrosion monitoring, such as coupon and
    electrochemical analysis, is typically performed after cooling a sample or at elevated
    temperatures. Grab sample test methods include analyzing for dissolved oxygen, pH,
    hardness, silica conductivity, total and soluble iron, copper, and silica, reductant
    excess, and the like.
                                                 2

WO 2014/130247                                                          PCT/US2014/014920
             [0006]    Some drawbacks of these methods include the following. Grab
     sample analysis gives a single point in time measurement and consequently is not a
    viable continuous monitoring method for REDOX Stress events or the pH of the hot
    water. It also often has inadequately low-level detection limits. Moreover, a pH
    reading from a grab sample analysis in a cooled sample stream may need to be
    corrected to account for the temperature variation.
             [0007]    Online monitors do not provide a direct measurement of REDOX
     Stress and thus cannot indicate whether or not a REDOX Stress event is occurring at
     any particular time. Corrosion monitors detect general corrosion, but are not capable
     of measuring changes in local corrosion rates caused by REDOX Stress events.
     Online reductant analyzers measure the amount of reductant, but not the net REDOX
     Stress a system is undergoing at system temperature and pressure. That REDOX
     Stress can occur in the apparent presence of a reductant is thus another drawback of
    this technique.
             [0008]    Dissolved   oxygen    ("DO") meters        have   similar drawbacks.
    Measuring the amount of DO (an oxidant) but not necessarily the net REDOX Stress
     a system is undergoing is not an accurate indicator of corrosion stress. The sample
     also must be cooled prior to DO measurement thus increasing the lag time in
    detecting when the REDOX Stress event started. Further, the potential for oxygen
    consumption in the sample line could cause inaccurate readings. REDOX Stress can
     also occur in the apparent absence of DO and little or no DO in the sample could
    potentially be a false negative. In addition, all of the instruments described above are
    relatively costly to purchase, and require frequent calibration and maintenance.
             [0009]    Corrosion coupons give a time-averaged result of general system
    corrosion. Again, this technique does not offer a real-time indication or control of
    REDOX Stress events. Online electrochemical corrosion tools are inadequate for
    localized   corrosion determinations     and cannot be used in low conductivity
    environments.
             [0010]    Room temperature ORP is a direct measurement of the net ORP of
     a sample taken from the system. A drawback of this technique is that it fails to
                                                3

WO 2014/130247                                                       PCT/US2014/014920
    indicate what is happening at system temperature and pressure. REDOX Stress
    events that occur at operating temperature and pressure often cannot be observed at
    room temperature, as process kinetics and thermodynamics vary with temperature.
    In addition, room temperature ORP measuring devices are more sluggish and more
    likely to become polarized. Reliability of such devices is poor and they need
    frequent calibration and maintenance.
             [0011]   There thus exists an ongoing need to develop methods of accurately
    monitoring and controlling real-time ORP and pH in hot water systems at operating
    temperature and pressure.
                                         SUMMARY
             [0012]   This disclosure accordingly provides systems and methods for
    monitoring and controlling ORP and pH in a hot water system in real-time at
     operating temperature and pressure. A myriad of processes occurring in a hot water
     system contribute to the ORP, which in turn acts as a REDOX Stress indicator for
    the hot water system. In contrast to conventional room temperature measurements,
     ORP measurements taken in real-time at system operating temperature and pressure
     are capable of indicating primary and secondary REDOX Stress events occurring in
    the system and the pH of the hot water, all in real-time. Such real-time ORP
    monitoring may be used to measure, identify, and assess REDOX Stress demands in
    the system and the pH of the hot water, and therefore can act as a direct or indirect
    corrosion process indicator.
             [0013]   In an aspect, the invention provides a system for monitoring and
    controlling corrosion in a boiler. The system includes an oxidation-reduction
    potential probe and a controller unit. The oxidation-reduction potential probe is
    capable of measuring a reduction potential of a boiler water substantially in real time.
    The controller unit is operatively coupled to the oxidation-reduction potential probe,
     and activates at least one water treatment chemical in response to the measured
    reduction potential so as to maintain a pH within a predetermined range.
                                               4

WO 2014/130247                                                        PCT/US2014/014920
             [0014]   In another aspect, the invention provides a method of monitoring
     and controlling corrosion in a hot water system. The method includes measuring a
    reduction potential of a hot water substantially in real time using an oxidation
    reduction potential probe, and activating at least one water treatment chemical in
    response to the measured reduction potential so as to maintain a pH within a
    predetermined range.
             [0015]   It is an advantage of the invention to provide a method of inhibiting
    corrosion in a hot water system based upon measuring a real-time ORP at operating
    temperature and pressure in the hot water system and reacting to the measured ORP
    by feeding one or more active chemical species into the hot water system to
    maintain an ORP setting and/or pH of the hot water.
             [0016]   Another advantage of the invention is to provide a hot water system
    corrosion control device including a receiver, a processor, a transmitter, and a
    feeding device, which work in unison to control a real-time ORP and/or pH in one or
    more operational protective zones in the hot water system.
             [0017]   A further advantage of the invention is to increase hot water system
    efficiency by enabling improved maintenance and control of system parameters.
             [0018]   Yet another advantage of the invention is to decrease operating
    costs for a variety of hot water systems and components by accurately preventing
    corrosion.
             [0019]   The foregoing has outlined rather broadly the features and technical
     advantages of the present invention in order that the detailed description of the
    invention that follows may be better understood. Additional features and advantages
     of the invention will be described hereinafter that form the subject of the claims of
    the invention. It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the conception
     and the specific embodiments disclosed may be readily utilized as a basis for
    modifying or designing other embodiments for carrying out the same purposes of the
    present invention. It should also be realized by those skilled in the art that such
                                                 5

WO 2014/130247                                                         PCT/US2014/014920
    equivalent embodiments do not depart from the spirit and scope of the invention as
     set forth in the appended claims.
                        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
              [0020]    FIG. 1 is a schematic illustration of an ORP measurement and
    monitoring system 6 according to one embodiment of the invention, illustrating an
     oxidation-reduction potential measuring device 10 and a controller unit 8.
              [0021]    FIG. 2 is a side view of the ORP measuring device 10 of FIG. 1,
     shown with flow-through cell 25, union tee 50, and external pressure-balanced
    reference electrode assembly 75.
              [0022]    FIG. 3 is a schematic diagram of an embodiment of the flow
    through cell 25 of FIG. 2, having ports 25a, 25b, 25c, and 25d, sensor 26, high
    pressure fitting 78, and coupler 28.
              [0023]    FIG. 4 is a schematic diagram of an embodiment of the union tee
     50 of FIG. 2.
              [0024]    FIG. 5 illustrates an embodiment of the sensor 26 of FIG. 3.
              [0025]    FIG. 6 depicts a preferred embodiment of a resistance temperature
    detector 300 of the ORP measuring device 10 of FIG. 2.
              [0026]    FIG. 7 is a cutaway view of the ORP measuring device 10 of FIG.
    2.
              [0027]    FIG. 8 depicts an embodiment of the external pressure-balanced
    reference electrode assembly 75 of FIG. 2, including external tube 76, high-pressure
    fitting 78, high-pressure connector 80, internal tube 82, reference electrode 84,
    porous frit 86, insert 88, multi-fitting housing 90, reducing union 92, BNC connector
     94, locking nut 96, bolt 98, and fastener 102.
              [0028]    FIG. 9 shows an embodiment of the multi-fitting housing 90 of
    FIG. 8.
                                                 6

WO 2014/130247                                                       PCT/US2014/014920
             [0029]   FIG. 10 is a graph plotting the ORP measured at various pH using
    the ORP measuring device 10 of FIG. 2.
             [0030]   FIG. 11 is a graph plotting a pH control zone of the ORP
    measurement and monitoring system of FIG. 1.
             [0031]   FIG. 12 depicts various "ORP Control Zones," where the ORP
     setting of the ORP measuring device 10 of FIG. 2 may be different for systems at
    various temperatures.
             [0032]   FIG. 13 illustrates feeding multiple REDOX active species at
    various locations to control the @T ORP (trademark of Nalco Company) at a single
    location of the ORP measurement and monitoring system of FIG. 1.
                                DETAILED DESCRIPTION
             [0033]   Described herein are systems and methods for monitoring and
    controlling real-time ORP and pH in hot water systems at operating temperature and
    pressure. The systems and methods can be advantageous in preventing corrosion of
    the hot water systems and components. The system includes an oxidation-reduction
    potential probe and a controller unit. The oxidation-reduction potential probe is
    capable of measuring a reduction potential of the hot water substantially in real time.
    The controller unit is operatively coupled to the oxidation-reduction potential probe,
     and activates at least one water treatment chemical in response to the measured
    reduction potential so as to maintain a pH within a predetermined range.
    I) Definitions
             [0034]   Any ranges given either in absolute terms or in approximate terms
     are intended to encompass both, and any definitions used herein are intended to be
    clarifying   and not limiting. Notwithstanding that the numerical ranges            and
    parameters setting forth the broad scope of the invention are approximations, the
    numerical values set forth in the specific examples are reported as precisely as
    possible. Any numerical value, however, inherently contains             certain errors
                                               7

WO 2014/130247                                                        PCT/US2014/014920
    necessarily resulting from the standard deviation found in their respective testing
    measurements. Moreover, all ranges disclosed herein are to be understood to
    encompass any and all subranges (including all fractional and whole values)
     subsumed therein.
             [0035]   Unless expressly stated to the contrary, use of the term "a" is
    intended to include "at least one" or "one or more." For example, "a device" is
    intended to include "at least one device" or "one or more devices."
             [0036]   As used herein, "hot water system," "system," and like terms refer
    to any system where hot water is in contact with metallic surfaces, including for
    example an oil extraction system. "Hot water" means water having a temperature
    from about 37 0 C up to about 370'C. The system may operate at or below
     atmospheric pressure or a pressure up to about 4,000 psi.
             [0037]   "ORP," "@T ORP," "at-T ORP," and "real-time ORP" refer to
     oxidation-reduction potential for an industrial water system at operating temperature
     and pressure. In certain instances herein, ORP is indicated as room temperature
     ORP.
             [0038]   "ORP measuring device" and "ORP probe" refer to any device
    capable of measuring and transmitting a real-time ORP signal. Though any suitable
    device may be used, a preferred device is disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser.
    No. 11/668,048, entitled "High Temperature and Pressure Oxidation-Reduction
    Potential Measuring and Monitoring Device for Hot Water Systems," published as
    U.S. Publication No. 2008/0179179 on July 31, 2008, and U.S. patent application
     Ser. No. 12/114,288, entitled "High Temperature and Pressure Oxidation-Reduction
    Potential Measuring and Monitoring Device for Hot Water Systems," published as
    U.S. Publication No. 2008/0202553 on Aug. 28, 2008, each of which is incorporated
    herein by reference in its entirety. Typically, the ORP probe includes a temperature
    detector, a noble metal electrode, and a reference electrode.
                                                8

WO 2014/130247                                                         PCT/US2014/014920
              [0039]    "Active chemical species" refers to oxidants, reductants, corrosion
    inhibitors, corrodants, and other species that have an effect on or influence the ORP
    in a hot water system. Such species are described in more detail below.
              [0040]    "REDOX Stress" refers to any electrochemical event in a hot water
     system related to changes in oxidative or reductive potential, either directly or
    indirectly.
              [0041]    "Controller system," "controller," and similar terms refer to a
    manual operator or an electronic device having components such as a processor,
    memory device, digital storage medium, cathode ray tube, liquid crystal display,
    plasma display, touch screen, or other monitor, and/or other components. In certain
    instances, the controller may be operable for integration with one or more
     application-specific integrated circuits, programs, computer-executable instructions,
     or algorithms, one or more hard-wired devices, wireless devices, and/or one or more
    mechanical devices. Some or all of the controller system functions may be at a
    central location, such as a network server, for communication over a local area
    network, wide area network, wireless network, internet connection, microwave link,
    infrared link, and the like. In addition, other components such as a signal conditioner
     or system monitor may be included to facilitate signal-processing algorithms.
              [0042]    "pH Altering Species" and similar terms refers to any agent that
     alters the activity and concentration of hydrogen ions in solution. These agents may
    be a strong acid or base such as HCl or NaOH or may be weak acids and bases such
     as acetic acid or ammonium. Exemplified pH altering species may be phosphates
     (CaPO 4 , MgPO 4). Other representative non-limiting examples of pH Altering
     Species include ammonia and amines, such as cyclohexylamine, Morpholine,
    diethylaminoethanol (DEAE), methoxypropylamine, monoethanolamine, the like,
     and combinations thereof, metal hydroxides like sodium, lithium, potassium,
    magnesium and calcium, acids like sulfuric, hydrochloric, phosphoric, nitric, boric,
     acetic, oxalic, erythorbic, ascorbic, tartronic,     gallic, and material containing
    phosphates like mono, di and tri sodium phosphate.
                                                 9

WO 2014/130247                                                             PCT/US2014/014920
              [0043]    "REDOX altering chemicals" and similar terms refers to any
    element or compound in a reduction-oxidation (redox) reaction that donates an
    electron to another species. Other representative non-limiting examples of REDOX
     altering     chemicals     include    hydrazine,      sulfite,     carbohyrazide,     N,N
    diethylhydroxylamine,        hydroquinone,     erythorbate,     methyl    ethyl  ketoxime,
    hydroxylamine,           tartronic       acid,        ethoxyquin,          methyltetrazone,
    tetramethylphenylenediamine,          semi-carbazides,         diethylaminoethanal,      2
    ketogluconate,      N-isopropylhydroxylamine,       ascorbic     acid,   gallic acid,   and
    hydroxyacetone, fluorine, oxygen, chlorine, hypochlorite, bromine, iodine, ozone,
    hydrogen peroxide, hydrogen, nitrite, nitrate, chromate, permanganate, metal
    hydrides (NaH, CaH 2 , and LiAlH 4 , for example), and sulfides (like hydrogen
     sulfide).
    II) ORP Measurement and Monitoring System
              [0044]    The present invention is directed to a system for monitoring and
    controlling real-time ORP and pH in hot water systems at operating temperature and
    pressure. Referring to FIG. 1, the hot water system generally includes one or more
    feed water ("FW") pumps and a steam producer (e.g., a boiler). The steam producer
    receives the feed water and generates steam for subsequent use in various processes,
     and discharges hot water via a blow-down line. The ORP measurement and
    monitoring system 6 (hereinafter referred to as the "ORP system") is positioned
    within the blow-down line or a side sample stream, and includes an ORP
    measurement and monitoring device or probe 10 (hereinafter referred to as the "ORP
    measuring device") and a controller unit 8. The ORP measuring device 10 is capable
     of measuring a reduction potential of the hot water substantially in real time. The
    controller unit 8 is operatively coupled to the ORP measuring device 10, and
     activates at least one water treatment chemical in response to the measured reduction
    potential so as to maintain a pH within a predetermined range.
             A) ORP Measuring Device
              [0045]    Referring to FIGS. 2 and 3, preferred embodiments of the ORP
    measuring device 10 are illustrated and explained, where like numerals denote like
                                                 10

WO 2014/130247                                                       PCT/US2014/014920
    components. In FIG. 2, an embodiment of ORP measuring device 10 is shown with
    flow-through cell 25, sensor 26, union tee 50, and external pressure-balanced
    reference electrode assembly 75. The flow-through cell ("FTC") typically is the
     "foundation" of the ORP measuring device 10 to which other components are
    connected, including the temperature detector, sensor, and external pressure
    balanced reference electrode assembly ("EPBRE"). In alternative embodiments,
    however, other components may be separate from the FTC and thus not directly
    connected to the FTC. In this embodiment, coupler 28 connects the FTC to the union
    tee and fitting 78 connects the FTC to the EPBRE.
             [0046]    Preferred fasteners include 1/4 or 3/8 inch NPT fittings for coupler
    28 and fitting 78. These connectors may be any suitable size and the examples
    herein are not intended to be limiting. For instance, a 3/8 inch female adaptor may
    be used for coupler 28, such as Part No. SS-6-TA-7-4, and reducing union Part No.
     SS-400-R-6BT may be used for fitting 78 (both available from Swagelok® in Solon,
     Ohio). In this embodiment, the EPBRE is illustrated "hanging" underneath and
    vertically with respect to the FTC. Such a vertical configuration is one embodiment
     and it should be appreciated that the EPBRE may be positioned at any angle relative
    to the FTC according to alternative embodiments. Preferably, the ORP device is
    installed so that the EPBRE points directly downward and towards the ground. This
    downward position maintains the EPBRE base at ambient temperature and ensures
     against bubble formation within the electrolyte solution (explained below). If the
    base of the EPBRE is not at ambient temperature, corrections are typically made to
     adjust for thermal potentials within the electrode. The temperature of the base of the
    EPBRE may be determined using any suitable temperature-sensing device.
             [0047]    FIG. 3 illustrates a preferred embodiment of FTC 25. Though this
     schematic illustrates an embodiment having four ports, 25a to 25d, it is envisioned
    that the FTC may have additional ports such as for attaching or adding other
    components or for accommodating additional inflows and/or outflows. Some or all
    ports may be internally or externally connected or separate. An example of a
    preferred four-port FTC is 3/8 inch tube fitting, union cross Part No. SS-600-4
     (available from Swagelok® in Solon, Ohio). In a preferred embodiment, the FTC is
                                                 11

WO 2014/130247                                                         PCT/US2014/014920
    constructed of the 3/8 inch stainless steel cross and includes a bored-through
    configuration having 4 connected ports. It is contemplated that the bore size and
     other dimensions of the FTC may be chosen to accommodate any possible flowrate,
     as determined for each application. Preferred and typical flowrates include from
     about 50 ml/min to about 1,000 ml/min. More preferred flowrates are from about
     100 ml/min to about 500 ml/min.
             [0048]    As shown in FIG. 3, inflow port 25b accommodates a water inflow
    from the hot water system and outflow port 25a directs the water back into the
     system or into a waste stream. In alternative embodiments, valves or other flow
    control devices may be used to control inflow and outflow into the FTC. One
    embodiment of such a flow control system is illustrated and explained in FIG. 9
    below. It should be appreciated that the invention may include more than one inflow
     and/or outflow port, which may be configured to work in unison, independently
    controllable, or configured and operated in any suitable fashion. Port 25c in this
    embodiment includes high-pressure fitting 78 that connects the FTC to the EPBRE.
             [0049]   In an embodiment, sensor 26 is associated with the FTC and
    protrudes into near the center of the FTC. In one embodiment, the sensor includes an
     ORP probe. In another embodiment, the sensor includes a temperature detector. In a
    further embodiment, the sensor includes both the ORP probe and the temperature
    detector. In an embodiment, the temperature detector is a temperature-dependent
    resistance sensor, described in more detail below. When the water inflow contacts
    the ORP probe, for example, an ORP signal is produced between the ORP probe and
    the reference electrode that is relayed to the control system. The ORP probe is
    typically positioned in relation to porous frit 86, as explained in more detail below.
    Preferred materials for the porous frit include ceramic or electroceramic materials,
     such as zirconia, polymeric materials, the like, or any other suitable porous material.
    It is preferred that the porous frit be inert to hot water system processes and ORP
     signal measurement.
             [0050]   In FIG. 4, an embodiment of union tee 50 is shown including
    coupler 28, temperature detector electrical connection 54, ferrules 56a and 56b, ORP
                                               12

WO 2014/130247                                                         PCT/US2014/014920
    probe connection 58, L-bracket 60, and BNC connectors 62a and 62b. Coupler 28
    connects the FTC at port 25d to the union tee. A preferred connector for coupler 28
    is Part No. SS-6-TA-7-4 (available from Swagelok* in Solon, Ohio). In a preferred
    embodiment, the union tee includes two 1/8 inch tube connectors having a 1/4 inch
    NPT connector on the remaining end that connects to coupler 28. In an embodiment,
    the union tee is mounted on or attached to the L-bracket or other stabilizing device
     or attachment. In alternative embodiments, the union tee may have other suitably
     sized fittings, which may be standard, metric, small, large, or any suitable
    configuration. One end of the union tee is connected to the flow-through cell
     according to an embodiment. Connected at the other two ends of the union tee are
    the temperature detector electrical connection and the ORP probe connection.
    Though any suitable union tee may be used, a preferred union tee is Part No. SS
    200-3-4TMT (available from Swagelok* in Solon, Ohio).
             [0051]   FIG. 5 depicts an embodiment of sensor 26 having temperature
    detector 26a (at the "tip" of the sensor), insulating heat shrink 26b, noble metal band
    26c, wire 26d, anchoring heat shrink 26e, and tube 26f. In this embodiment, tube 26f
    is a one end closed stainless steel tube having an outside diameter of about 1/8 inch
     and extending from about the center of the flow-through cell into the union tee. It
     should be appreciated that the tube may be of any suitable diameter, as determined
    for each application. The tube functions to provide support for noble metal band 26c
     ("band") and may include any corrosion-resistant material, such as stainless steel of
     any suitable composition, aluminum, other metals and plastics, and combinations
    thereof. In a preferred embodiment, the band functions as a passive ORP sensor. The
     ORP of the sample water is measured on the passive surface relative to the reference
    electrode. The band is located, in an embodiment, near the center of the FTC (as
    explained above for FIG. 3) and is in direct contact with the aqueous stream.
             [0052]   In   a preferred   embodiment,      the  temperature   detector  is a
    temperature-dependent resistance sensor (such as a PT100, PT200, PT1000, CU10,
    N1120). In one embodiment, the temperature-dependent resistance sensor is encased
    within tube 26f and is not directly exposed to the aqueous stream. The temperature
    detector may also include a standard thermocouple (such as type J, K, T, or E) or
                                                13

WO 2014/130247                                                         PCT/US2014/014920
     other temperature-sensing device according to alternative embodiments. In an
    embodiment, sensor 26 includes both an ORP probe having a noble metal band and
     a temperature detector, which are combined into one integrated component. In one
    embodiment, the sensor includes a plurality of wires. For example, wire 26d may
    transmit the ORP signal and one or more other wires transmit temperature signal(s).
             [0053]    In a more preferred embodiment, the temperature detector includes
     a plurality of wires or electrical leads. Such a configuration overcomes errors
    introduced as a result of the inherent resistance of the electrical leads. FIG. 6
    illustrates a resistance temperature detector with two positive electrical leads 303
     and 304 and two negative electrical leads 305 and 306. Fitting 309 corresponds to
    BNC fitting 62a in FIG. 4. To ascertain temperature in the area about resistor 300,
    voltage (or current) is applied across the resistor, with the resulting voltage drop
    being used to determine temperature (as known in the art for resistance-based
    temperature detectors). Any deviations from the known voltage are related to
    changes in the resistance of resistor 300 as a function of temperature.
             [0054]    A configuration as in FIG. 6, where the resistance temperature
    detector includes a plurality of positive electrical leads and a plurality of negative
    electrical leads allows a user or controller to factor out inherent measurement errors.
    For example, measuring the voltage drop between positive electrical leads 303 and
     304 and negative electrical leads 305 and 306 allows the controller to more
     accurately measure the voltage drop across any pair of positive/negative electrical
    leads. The resultant measurement provides an accurate reading of the voltage drop
     across resistor 300, which in turn provides a more accurate temperature reading.
             [0055]    In the embodiment depicted in FIG. 6, resistor 300 corresponds to
    temperature sensor 26a of FIG. 5. Positive electrical leads 303 and 304 connect to
    fitting 309 at point 302 and negative electrical leads 305 and 306 connect to fitting
     309 at point 307. Positive lead 301 connects point 309 to resistor 300 and negative
    lead 308 connects point 307 to resistor 300.
             [0056]    Alternative configurations for the temperature detector may include
     one, two, or more temperature detectors used either independently or in conjunction
                                                14

WO 2014/130247                                                        PCT/US2014/014920
    with one another. For example, if two temperature detectors are employed, one
    detector may be used to monitor temperature near the FTC while the other monitors
    the temperature near the reference electrode. Such configurations allow the user or
     operator of the ORP device to evaluate and calculate thermal potentials that might
    exist along the length of the EPBRE. This data would then be used to correct and
    deconvolute ORP values with respect to temperature differentials and potentials.
              [0057]   The wire and band may include any noble metal, such as gold,
     silver, tantalum, platinum, rhodium, copper, and/or the like. Platinum is preferred. In
     an embodiment, any wire herein described may include an insulating material, such
     as plastic or a fluoroelastomer (as used herein throughout referring generally to
    fluoroelastomers such as PTFE, TFE, and FEP), wrapped around such wire. Wire
    26d is connected to the band and transmits an electrical signal to anodic connection
     58. In an embodiment, other wires (not shown) transmit an electrical signal to
    temperature detector electrical connection 54 from an "active" portion of a
    resistance temperature detector that resides within the closed end of the tube at tip
    26a. FIG. 7 illustrates a detailed cutaway view of the spatial relationship between
     several described components according to a preferred embodiment. In one
    embodiment, the tail end of sensor 26 protrudes through the union tee and into the
     space on the opposite side of the union tee from the FTC (as shown in FIG. 7). In
    this embodiment, the active portion of the temperature-dependent resistance sensor
    is located within the tube 26f at tip 26a.
              [0058]   A preferred embodiment of the reference electrode includes EPBRE
    75, which acts to encase and thermally isolate the reference electrode. Illustrated in
    FIG. 8 is an embodiment of EPBRE 75 including external tube 76, high-pressure
    fitting 78, high-pressure connector 80, internal tube 82, reference electrode 84,
    porous frit 86, insert 88, multi-fitting housing 90, reducing union 92, BNC connector
     94, locking nut 96, bolt 98, and fastener 102. The external tube in this embodiment
    is a 1/8 to 1/2 inch inner diameter stainless steel tube and houses the internal tube. In
     an embodiment, the EPBRE includes one or more inserts 88, which function to
     allow the internal tube to be separated to refresh, check, replace, refurbish, etc. the
    electrolyte solution, as explained in more detail below.
                                                15

WO 2014/130247                                                           PCT/US2014/014920
             [0059]     It should be appreciated that the external tube, the internal tube, and
    insert may be made of any suitable material of any suitable size, such as stainless
     steel, aluminum, a fluoroelastomer, plastic, other suitable polymeric material, or
     other suitable metal. Preferably, the external tube is stainless steel (such as 1/4 inch
     outside diameter 316 stainless steel tubing available from McMaster-Carr* in
    Elmhurst, Ill.) and the internal tube is a fluoroelastomer having a tight fit with the
    external tube. In this example, external tube 76 is about 5 to about 25 inches long.
    Preferably, the external tube is about 10 to about 20 inches in length. The length of
    the external tube acts to thermally isolate the reference electrode (within the
    EPBRE) from the hot water system while maintaining about equal pressure between
    the hot water system and the reference electrode. It is made from any suitable tubing
    material, and any suitable diameter or length may be used.
             [0060]     An embodiment for the multi-fitting housing or "base" of the
    EPBRE is illustrated in FIG. 9, which includes sealed junction 100, fastener 102,
     and reference electrode connection 84b of the reference electrode. The sealed
    junction preferably       includes  a non-metallic,     multi-ferrule   material.  In   this
    embodiment, the sealing material in the sealed junction comprises 3 separate
    fluoroelastomer ferrules secured with a 3/16 inch nut to the multi-fitting housing. An
    example of such a ferrule "assembly" includes Part No. T-303 and T-304 (available
    from Swagelok® in Solon, Ohio). In other embodiments, different types of seals and
     sealing materials may be used for the sealed junction. For example, the sealing
    material may include a gasket, elastomer, silicone, cork, flared fitting, rubber sleeve,
     o-ring, or any suitable seal or sealing material. In this embodiment, the ferrules
    function to place pressure on reference electrode 84, which is encased by the internal
    tube. Connector 80 is attached to reducing union 92 by, for example, standard
     stainless steel ferrules. The ferrules place pressure on the external tube thus holding
    it in place and providing a pressure-safe boundary.
             [0061]     The reference electrode is preferably about 2.5 to about 3.5 inches
    long and is tapered from tip 84a to sealed junction 100. In an embodiment, the
    reference electrode diameter remains constant from the sealed junction to reference
    electrode connection 84b. The reference electrode connection end is typically about
                                                 16

WO 2014/130247                                                                  PCT/US2014/014920
     0.125 inches in diameter and the tip is typically about 0.01 inches in diameter. These
    diameters may be any suitable diameter according to alternative embodiments. The
    reference electrode (preferably a silver/silver chloride half-cell, where the tapered
    rod-shaped electrode includes silver with a silver chloride coating) extends from
    inside the internal tube (i.e., the tip is in contact with the electrolyte filling solution)
    to the end of the external tube and contacts the reference electrode connection. The
    reference electrode connection end includes a notch to accommodate a wire
    connecting the reference electrode to BNC connector 94 operable to transmit the
    electrical signal from the reference electrode to a receiver or controller, according to
     an embodiment. Bolt 98 acts to prevent the reference electrode from ejecting under
     system pressure and is typically made from any electrically isolating material, such
     as nylon, PVC, or other plastic.
              [0062]     In some embodiments, the ORP measuring device 10 is capable of
    measuring the reduction potential substantially in real time at a water temperature of
     100 0 C or higher. In further embodiments, the ORP measuring device 10 is capable
     of measuring the reduction potential substantially in real time at a water temperature
     of at least 110'C, at least 120'C, at least 130'C, at least 140'C, at least 150 0 C, at
    least 160 0C, at least 170 0 C, at least 180 0 C, at least 190 0 C, at least 200 0 C, at least
    210 0 C, at least 220 0 C, at least 230 0 C, at least 240 0 C, at least 250 0 C, at least 260 0 C,
     at least 270 0 C, at least 280 0 C, at least 290 0 C, at least 300 0 C, or at least 310 C.
              [0063]     In some embodiments, the ORP measuring device 10 is capable of
    measuring the reduction potential substantially in real time at a water pressure of 0.1
    MPa or higher. In further embodiments, the ORP measuring device 10 is capable of
    measuring the reduction potential substantially in real time at a water pressure of at
    least 0.2 MPa, at least 0.3 MPa, at least 0.4 MPa, at least 0.5 MPa, at least 0.6 MPa,
     at least 0.7 MPa, at least 0.8 MPa, at least 0.9 MPa, at least 1 MPa, at least 2 MPa, at
    least 3 MPa, at least 4 MPa, at least 5 MPa, at least 6 MPa, at least 7 MPa, at least 8
    MPa, at least 9 MPa, at least 10 MPa, at least 11 MPa, at least 12 MPa, at least 13
    MPa, at least 14 MPa, at least 15 MPa, at least 16 MPa, at least 17 MPa, at least 18
    MPa, at least 19 MPa, at least 20 MPa, at least 21 MPa, at least 22 MPa, at least 23
    MPa, at least 24 MPa, at least 25 MPa, at least 26 MPa, or at least 27 MPa.
                                                     17

WO 2014/130247                                                        PCT/US2014/014920
             [0064]   In some embodiments, the ORP measuring device 10 is capable of
    determining the pH of the hot water substantially in real time. For example, when a
    change in the performance in the hot water makeup system allows more or less
     sodium, phosphate, hydroxide, combinations of pH altering species to leak into the
    hot water, the pH value of the hot water may move up or down. The ORP measuring
    device 10 may detect substantially in real time such changes in pH values of the hot
    water that may be subtle and may be seen only later in a grab sample analysis. By
    detecting the pH changes quickly, and implementing a revised chemical dosage on
     an automated basis, improved control and an extended asset life span could be
     achieved.
             [0065]   Referring to FIG. 10, the ORP measured by the ORP measuring
    device 10 at operating temperature and pressure can be correlated to the pH of the
    water (measured at room temperature in this case). For example, increasing the
    room-temperature pH from 7 to 12 can result in decreasing the at-temperature ORP
     (measured at 260'C or 500'F) in an amount about 540 mV. In contrast, the ORP
    measured at room temperature decreases in an amount of about 300 mV for the same
    change in the pH. The room-temperature ORP change (about -300 mV in this case)
    is only about 56% of the at-temperature ORP change (about -540 mV in this case)
    for the pH change from 7 to 12. Thus, the at-temperature ORP measurement can
    provide greater resolution, clarity, and sensitivity compared to the room-temperature
     ORP measurement. Although FIG. 10 illustrates the correlation of ORP to the room
    temperature pH, in other embodiments the ORP may be correlated to the at
    temperature pH.
             [0066]   Referring also to FIG. 1, the ORP measuring device 10 may be
    positioned within the side stream or the blow-down line of the hot water system. For
    example, the ORP measuring device 10 may monitor the ORP before the FW Pump
     (at the sample point labeled "1" in FIG. 1), after the FW Pump and before the
    blowdown and sample stream (at the sample points labeled "2" or "3" in FIG. 1), or
     on the blowdown and sample stream (at the sample point labeled "4" in FIG. 1). The
    user-controlled positioning may allow local corrosion protection for a specific unit
     and/or groups of units, as well as global corrosion protection.
                                                18

WO 2014/130247                                                        PCT/US2014/014920
              B) Controller Unit
              [0067]  As explained below, the controller, controller unit, or controller
     system 8 activates at least one water treatment chemical in response to the measured
    reduction potential so as to maintain a pH within a predetermined range. In one
    embodiment, the controller or controller system 8 is automated. In another
    embodiment, the controller 8 is manual or semi-manual, where an operator interprets
    the signals and determines feed water chemistry, such as oxygen or other oxidant,
     oxygen scavenger or other reductant, corrosion-inhibitor, corrodant dosage, and/or
    pH of the hot water. In an embodiment, the measured ORP signal is interpreted by
    the controller system 8 that controls FW chemistry according to the described
    method. In some embodiments, the controller system 8 is capable of generating an
     alert/alarm when    the measured reduction potential changes        by more than a
    predetermined amount. In further embodiments, the controller system 8 is capable of
     generating an alert/alarm when the measured reduction potential changes by more
    than a predetermined amount in a predetermined amount of time. As described
     above, the ORP measuring device 10 can provide greater sensitivity compared to
    room-temperature ORP measurements. In response to the at-temperature ORP
    measurement, the controller unit 8 can provide an early warning that the system is
    changing so as to potentially preempt deleterious effects of the change, such as
    deposit, corrosion, caustic gouging, or acid phosphate attack in the hot water system.
              [0068]  In an embodiment, the controller system 8 also interprets measured
    temperature to determine the amount of active chemical to add or remove, if any.
    The controller system 8 is also operable to determine if changing or adjusting a
     system parameter (for example boiler blow down or other system flow rates) is
    needed in addition to or instead of adding or removing one or more chemical species
    from the hot water system. The temperature detector might also be used for
    information purposes, such as in alarm schemes and/or control schemes. It should be
     appreciated that the control scheme may incorporate pump limiters, alarming,
    intelligent control, and/or the like, based off further inputs, such as pH, DO levels,
     and other water constituents/properties.
                                                19

WO 2014/130247                                                        PCT/US2014/014920
    II) Method of Using the ORP Measurement and Monitoring System
             A) Real-time ORP control
             [0069]     The invention is capable of detecting and reacting to both primary
     and secondary REDOX Stress events. Typically, the implementer knows the system
    corrosion control implications and possible REDOX stressors and is able to
     accordingly select one or more of the defined operational protective zones to
     appropriately monitor a given system's @T ORP space. In this way, it is possible to
    control corrosion by feeding or removing REDOX active species based off local
     and/or remote @T ORP readings as a primary REDOX Stress indicator. The @T
     ORP space is monitored and measured to assess and identify system demands,
    which are then compared to known/formulated metrics to react, solve, and control
    REDOX Stress events. As an indicator of secondary REDOX Stress, the invention
    can detect corrosion processes resulting from prior, primary REDOX Stress, where
    the primary REDOX stressor is no longer evident.
             [0070]     Conventional corrosion control regimes use one point feed. The
    disclosed invention uses targeted feed by precisely determining the needed active
    chemicals and the proper amount/dosage of those chemicals. For example, relatively
     oxidizing zones, such as low-pressure FW heaters (copper-based metallurgy), and
    more reducing zones, with high-pressure FW heaters (non copper-based metallurgy),
    may be       differentiated to alleviate   flow-accelerated  corrosion-related  issues.
    Relatively oxidizing conditions within all ferrous FW heaters at sections of
    pressurized water reactors versus relatively reducing final FW heater regimes for
     stress corrosion cracking mitigation in steam generators.
             [0071]     The ORP probe may detect several different factors that contribute
    to REDOX Stress events in the hot water system. For example, an ORP probe in a
     selected zone can act as a direct indicator of corrosion in that zone or in another
    zone. In an embodiment, the real-time ORP is measured in a first selected zone and
     one or more active chemical species are fed to the first selected zone, if the
    measured real-time ORP at the first selected zone or the calculated ORP does not
    conform to the ORP setting for the first selected zone. In another embodiment, the
                                                20

WO 2014/130247                                                        PCT/US2014/014920
    real-time ORP is measured at a first selected zone and one or more active chemical
     species are fed at one or more other selected zones, if the measured real-time ORP
     or the calculated ORP does not conform to the ORP setting for the first selected
    zone. In a further embodiment, one or more real-time ORPs are measured at one or
    more of the selected zones and one or more other real-time ORPs are calculated for
     one or more other selected zones, based upon one or more of the measured real-time
     ORP(s).
             [0072]   As described above, in some cases, the measured ORP in a first
    zone is used to calculate an ORP for another zone. Such calculations may be done
    by making various assumptions regarding system dynamics or by measuring
    temperature/water chemistry differences between zones. Using mixed potential
    theory and thermodynamic principles known to those skilled in the art also allows
    for approximating conditions in other zones. However, such calculations are
    typically subject to inherent inaccuracies; thus, the preferred method is to measure
    the real-time ORP in situ in selected zones.
             [0073]   Several important factors exist for determining or defining specific
     operational protective/control zones for a system. The goal for any particular system
    is to achieve @T ORP "Plant Specific Boiler Best Practices" for that system. For
    instance, certain plants are limited to certain chemistries due to control philosophy,
    environmental constraints, economics, industry standards, etc. System temperatures
     also may dramatically vary from one plant to another, which requires adjusting the
     specific control philosophy employed, explained in more detail in the below
    Examples. Different plants may also have a unique REDOX Stress baseline and
    insipient changes to the baseline may need to be determined.
             [0074]   Other factors include, specific ORP altering species purposefully
     added or inherently present; engineering alloys         of construction for various
    portions/entities in the system; desired general and local corrosion mitigation;
    dosing limitations; other system design specifics; special considerations, such as
    flow-accelerated corrosion, stress, and corrosion cracking; system variability. Those
                                               21

WO 2014/130247                                                        PCT/US2014/014920
     skilled in the art would understand how to assess these and other system
    variables/specifics to implement the invention for a specific plant or system.
             [0075]   Ideally, any portion of a plant can have its @T ORP REDOX Stress
    measured and controlled using @T ORP. That is, the REDOX active species is fed
    directly to a specific piece of equipment (or groups of equipment) and the @T ORP
     of the water in that piece of equipment is measured in situ and controlled for
    corrosion mitigation. This invention more specifically addresses corrosion local to
    the part(s) being protected and transport of corrosion products with concomitant
    deleterious effects of that corrosion transport elsewhere in the system, including
    fouling, heat transfer surface coating, turbine deposition, etc. This type of full
    equipment monitoring and control approach is often not possible due to system
    limitations and economics. As such, parts of systems typically need to be handled as
    whole entities. In some cases, the entire feed water train of a boiler system might be
    the entity. Alternatively, only small portions of the system or groups of portions of
    the system are the entity. It is contemplated that any portion, component, or entity
     (including the entire     system viewed as       one entity) may be selected and
    monitored/controlled.
             [0076]   In an aspect, the ORP setting for one selected zone may overlap
    with another defined or selected zone. In another aspect, the ORP setting for one
     selected zone is completely independent of each and every other defined or selected
    zone. In a further aspect, the ORP setting for one selected zone is partially
    dependent upon factors in one or more other defined or selected zones.
             [0077]   In an embodiment, the ORP setting is determined for a first selected
    zone and additional ORP settings are optionally determined for additional selected
    zones, if any. In one embodiment, each additional ORP setting is independently
    determined. Alternatively, one or more of the ORP settings may be dependent upon
     one or more other ORP settings. ORP settings are generally dependent and based
    upon operational limitations of the hot water system.
             [0078]   Determining the ORP setting for any particular system may be
     accomplished by any suitable method. A preferred method is described in U.S. Pat.
                                                22

WO 2014/130247                                                       PCT/US2014/014920
    No. 7,666,312, "Method of Inhibiting Corrosion in Industrial Hot Water Systems by
    Monitoring and Controlling Oxidant/Reductant Feed through a Nonlinear Control
    Algorithm,"     which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. It is
    contemplated, however, that any method known to those skilled in the art may be
    employed to ascertain the ORP setting. In an embodiment, the ORP setting is an
     ORP set point that is chosen from one or more single values. In another
    embodiment, the ORP setting is an ORP set range chosen from one or more ranges
     of values. Over time, the ORP setting for any selected zone may be adjusted or
    changed. For example, a given plant may have a timetable outlining ORP settings
    for different parts/components of the system at different times. This timetable would
    typically be based upon operational factors in the system that may change as
    demands on the system change. Some zones might be kept relatively reducing and
     other zones might be relatively more oxidizing. The @T ORP control zones would
    be accordingly adjusted and monitored to compensate for these differences.
             [0079]    In one embodiment, one or more of the selected zones may be in a
    monitoring and/or alarm mode, while one or more other selected zones is in a
    control mode. A selected zone in a monitoring and/or alarm mode is capable, in an
    embodiment, of switching between these modes. Such switching may either be
    manually controlled or automatic. Several examples are presented below of how @T
     ORP system design can be used for REDOX stress control.
             [0080]    In another embodiment, the @T ORP is measured across any pump
    to detect pump or seal corrosion or failure. In another embodiment, the method may
    be used to detect heat exchanger tube leaks as one active chemical species might
    transfer through the leak in the heat exchanger to the other side (e.g., shell side to
    tube side or visa versa). Another example would be a surface condenser cooling
    water leak into a FW condensate hot well. In a further embodiment, the method may
    be used to detect any unwanted intrusion of external active chemical species (i.e.,
     system contaminants). In an alternative embodiment, @T ORP can be used to form a
     "fingerprint" of specific REDOX stressors in a system. In this way, it can be used as
     an early warning system for boiler tube rupture as more boiler makeup water is
                                              23

WO 2014/130247                                                        PCT/US2014/014920
     added to the system from time to time with a concomitant increase in the REDOX
     stress.
             [0081]   In some embodiments, a suite of "fingerprint" signals may be
    measured in addition to the @T ORP, including, but not limited to, a rate of change
     of @T ORP, a statistical data scatter in @T ORP, @T ORP decay signals, and
    corrosion potential of engineering alloys. Based on such signals, REDOX altering
    chemical feed may be controlled via computer-based open-loop tuning or PID
    control algorithms in a hot water system. In further embodiments, the computer
    based open-loop tuning or PID control algorithms may be applicable to any
    chemical system where a potential reading may be used to control the feed of
    chemicals for any reason.
             [0082]   Measured or calculated ORP values, and additional "fingerprint"
     signals may indicate amounts of electrochemically active species in one or more of
    the selected zones. Such an indication may either be directly seen in the zone where
    the ORP was measured or inferred in another zone where the ORP was not directly
    measured. In certain cases, the measured or calculated ORP and additional
     "fingerprint" signals may indicate an amount of chemical that indirectly affects an
     amount of electrochemically active species in one or more selected zones. In a more
    typical case, the electrochemically active species directly influences the measured or
    calculated ORP and additional "fingerprint" signals.
             [0083]   In one embodiment, the method includes ramping from one of the
     selected zones to another one of the selected zones after a triggering event. Any
    event that causes a shift or change in the real-time ORP and additional "fingerprint"
     signals in one or more control zones may be a triggering event. A person having
     ordinary skill in the art would be able to analyze such options and choose one or
    more triggering events for a system. For example, bringing pumps or other parts of
    the system online (or taking offline) may be a triggering event. Steam pressure
    changes due to downstream use changes, such as between turbine driving and other
    lower pressure uses, may also be chosen as a triggering event. Triggering may also
    be based on activating various condensate streams, which could introduce specific
                                               24

WO 2014/130247                                                        PCT/US2014/014920
    REDOX stressors in the system. Such triggering events could be detected by probes,
    relays, monitors, etc., while remaining detectable by changes in the real-time ORP in
     one or more control zones. Moreover, the rate of change of these and other events
    may dictate the ramping rate from one control zone to another control zone,
    including instantaneous, timed, step-wise, or other suitable ramping modes.
             [0084]   Representative triggering events may also include numerous timed
     operations or timetables or other plant dynamics. A timetable could be a fixed
     startup time followed by ramp up in some system operations over time. For
    example, 30 minutes after initiating FW flow, the real-time ORP should be within
     100 mV of the desired ORP setting. After 20 minutes of full load firing of the boiler,
    the real-time ORP should be ramped up to the ORP setting. The ramping may also
    be triggered when an ORP setting has been achieved elsewhere in the system, such
     as upstream components. For example, once an upstream control zone has achieved
    its ORP setting (or is within, for instance, 50 mV), a downstream control zone is
     activated or brought into a control mode. Such sequencing of real-time ORP control
    is one preferred method of triggering.
             [0085]   Changing plant dynamics may also initiate triggering and/or
    ramping. In an embodiment, the triggering event can include plant power output
    changes. For example, a 5% power output decrease may be the triggering event that
    initiates real-time ORP changes in one or more control zones in the system. The
    procedure used to initiate the real-time ORP changes might be, for example, an
    immediate signal to change the ORP setting for one or more control zones or a
     gradual ramp to a new ORP setting. This procedure may be based upon the rate or
    magnitude     of power     decline.  Furthermore,   the  triggering   and/or ramping
    mechanisms might be complex interconnections of multiple signals and timing.
             [0086]   In a preferred embodiment, changes and adjustments to FW
    chemistry includes adding or removing (when possible) oxygen or other oxidant,
     oxygen scavenger or other reductant, corrosion-inhibitor, corrodant, and/or other
     active chemicals to the FW. By definition, oxygen scavengers are reducing agents,
     although not all reducing agents are necessarily oxygen scavengers. Reducing
                                               25

WO 2014/130247                                                           PCT/US2014/014920
     agents, suitable as oxygen scavengers, satisfy the thermodynamic requirements that
     an exothermic heat of reaction exists with oxygen. For practical applications,
    reasonable reactivity is typically required at low temperatures. That is, there should
    be some favorable kinetics of reaction. Furthermore, other changes and adjustments
    to FW chemistry, such as for system control and corrosion control may include
     adding/removing       other   oxidizing   agents    (oxidants),  other  reducing   agents
     (reductants), and/or other active or inert chemicals.
              [0087]    It is also highly desirable that the reducing agent and its oxidation
    products are not corrosive and do not form products that are corrosive when they
    form in steam generating equipment. Typically, certain oxygen scavengers function
     optimally in certain pH ranges, temperatures, and pressures and are also affected by
    catalysis in one way or another. The selection of the proper oxygen scavengers for a
     given system can be readily determined based on the criteria discussed herein and
    knowledge of those skilled in the art.
              [0088]    Preferred reductants (i.e., oxygen scavengers) include hydrazine,
     sulfite,   bisulfite,    carbohyrazide,    N,N-diethylhydroxylamine,       hydroquinone,
    erythorbate or erythorbic acid, methyl ethyl ketoxime, hydroxylamine, tartronic
     acid, ethoxyquin, methyltetrazone, tetramethylphenylenediamine, semi-carbazides,
    diethylaminoethanol,         monoethanolamine,        2-ketogluconate,    ascorbic    acid,
    borohydrides, N-isopropylhydroxylamine, gallic acid, dihydroxyacetone, tannic acid
     and its derivatives, food-grade antioxidants, the like, and any combinations. It
     should be appreciated that any active chemical species may be used in the method of
    the invention.
              [0089]    Representative     oxidants   include   oxygen,   hydrogen   peroxide,
     organic (alkyl and aryl) peroxides and peracids, ozone, quinone, acid and base forms
     of nitrates and nitrites, the like, and combinations.
              [0090]    Representative corrodants include mineral acids (e.g., HCl, H2 SO 4 ,
    HNO 3 , H 3PO 4) and their salts/derivatives; caustics (e.g, Na, K, Li, hydroxides);
     ammonium hydroxide; chelants, such as EDTA, NTA, HEDP; phosphonic acid and
    polyphosphonic acids; phosphonates; water soluble and/or dispersable organic
                                                  26

WO 2014/130247                                                        PCT/US2014/014920
    polymeric complexing agents, such as acrylic acid homopolymers, copolymers, and
    terpolymers; acrylamide; acrylonitrile; methacrylic acid; styrene sulfonic acids; the
    like; and combinations.
             [0091]    Representative corrosion inhibitors include alkali and amine salts of
    phosphate and polyphosphates; neutralizing amines; molybdates; tungstates; borates;
    benzoates; filming inhibitors, such as alkyl, alkenyl, and aryl polyamines and their
    derivatives;   surfactant compositions, such as that disclosed in U.S. Pat. No.
     5,849,220; oligomeric phosphinosuccinic acid chemistries, such as that disclosed in
    U.S. Pat. No. 5,023,000; the like; and combinations.
             [0092]    In another embodiment of the invention, one or more chemical
     species are removed from the hot water system. For example, oxygen may be
    removed from a main process water sidestream via a membrane process. Any
     suitable membrane may be used for such removal and one skilled in the art would
     select a suitable membrane and sidestream procedure. Nitrogen or a lower oxygen
    concentration carrier gas (or main process water sidestream) may be present on one
     side of a gas permeable membrane and the process water is on the other side of the
    membrane. The oxygen present in the main process water sidestream would diffuse
     out of the main process water sidestream to equilibrate its partial pressure across the
    membrane which would then lower the oxygen content in the main process water
     and lower the ORP. In an embodiment, a dearator or similar deaeration process may
    be incorporated to mechanically remove or strip non-condensable gases (e.g.,
     oxygen) out of the main system with counter flowing steam (having a lower
    dissolved oxygen value). The main system flow thus has its ORP lowered by the
    lowering of its inherent dissolved oxygen value. Such removal of chemical species
    may occur without or in conjunction with the addition of other chemical species into
    the hot water system.
             [0093]    In another embodiment of the invention, a non-chemical technique
    to change at least one system parameter may be used either alone or in conjunction
    with chemical addition/removal to adjust or conform the measured ORP. The ORP
    in any one actual zone (or linked zone) might be affected by non-chemical-addition
                                               27

WO 2014/130247                                                         PCT/US2014/014920
    techniques, upstream of the ORP control zone. Representative non-chemical
    techniques and system parameters include, for example, choosing a particular type
     of feed pump or condensate pump; partitioning flow of the system process stream;
    blending or combining streams; selecting materials of construction of various parts
     of the hot water system to control the rate of oxidation; cathodic protection;
    electromagnetic    wave production; physical      property changes;       the like;    and
    combinations thereof.
             B) Real-time pH control
             [0094]   In some embodiments, the controller unit 8 activates at least one
    water treatment chemical in response to the measured reduction potential so as to
    maintain a pH within a predetermined range. The ORP measurement and monitoring
     system 6 can thus detect, determine, and deliver real-time pH control. In the
    detecting step, a reduction potential of a hot water is measured substantially in real
    time using the ORP measuring device 10. The ORP measurement and monitoring
     system 6 then determines a response.
             [0095]   In the delivering step, at least one water treatment chemical is
     activated in response to the measured reduction potential so as to maintain a pH
    within a predetermined range. Referring to FIG. 10, for example, if a room
    temperature pH of 9-10 is desired, with a set point or target of 9.5, the at
    temperature ORP control zone or space may be from about -200 mV to about -300
    mV, with a set point or target of -250 mV. In some embodiments, the desired room
    temperature pH may be at least 9.0, at least 9.1, at least 9.2, at least 9.3, at least 9.4,
     at least 9.5, at least 9.6, at least 9.7, at least 9.8, or at least 9.9. In further
    embodiments, the desired room-temperature pH may be no more than 10.0, no more
    than 9.9, no more than 9.8, no more than 9.7, no more than 9.6, no more than 9.5, no
    more than 9.4, no more than 9.3, no more than 9.2, or no more than 9.1. To achieve
    the desired room-temperature pH, the at-temperature ORP control zone or space
    may be set or targeted to be at least -300 mV, at least -290 mV, at least -280 mV, at
    least -270 mV, at least -260 mV, at least -250 mV, at least -240 mV, at least -230
    mV, at least -220 mV, or at least -210 mV. In further embodiments, the at
                                               28

WO 2014/130247                                                      PCT/US2014/014920
    temperature ORP control zone or space may be set or targeted to be no more than
    200 mV, no more than -210 mV, no more than -220 mV, no more than -230 mV,
    no more than -240 mV, no more than -250 mV, no more than -260 mV, no more
    than -270 mV, no more than -280 mV, or no more than -290 mV.
             [0096]   Also referring to FIG. 11, a pH control zone is illustrated with
    hatching    (roughly a parallelogram).     To maintain the pH within a desired
    predetermined range, water treatment chemicals such as phosphate or other pH
     altering species are used or fed into the hot water. In some embodiments, the water
    treatment chemicals also include sodium (sodium hydroxide), and the sodium and
    the phosphate are added together to the hot water. In other embodiments, however,
    the sodium and the phosphate are added separately to the hot water. In further
    embodiments, at least one inert tracer molecule for measuring a concentration of a
    phosphate, and the controller unit 8 activates the feed of the water treatment
    chemicals in response to the measured concentration of the phosphate so as to
    maintain the pH within the predetermined range at the measured concentration of the
    phosphate and sodium to phosphate ratio.
             [0097]   By activating the water treatment chemical in response to the at
    temperature ORP rather than the room-temperature ORP, reaction time can be
    quicker (down to 10s or minutes based on sample flow and water sample
    conditioning apparatus like sample lines, coolers etc., thus avoiding undesirable
    boiler water chemistry),      and excessive     unwanted chemical   usage may be
     substantially avoided. Although FIG. 11 illustrates the correlation of phosphate
    values to room-temperature pH, in other embodiments the phosphate values may be
    correlated to the at-temperature pH. Phosphate values might also be correlated to
    TRASAR& values.
             C) Applications
                     1) Hot Water / Boiler System
             [0098]    In some embodiments, the disclosed ORP measurement and
    monitoring system 6 may be used in a variety of hot water systems, including both
                                               29

WO 2014/130247                                                       PCT/US2014/014920
    direct and satellite active chemical feeding designs. "Direct" feeding typically refers
    to measuring real-time ORP at a zone and feeding active chemical to the same zone.
     "Satellite" feeding usually refers to measuring real-time ORP at a zone and feeding
     active chemical to a different zone. Representative systems and system components
    include condensers, both tube and shell side; heat exchangers; pumps; seals; mild
     steel or copper-based FW heaters; copper-based alloy surface condensers; dearators;
    water tube and fire tube boilers; paper machines; condensate receivers; steam
    condensate transfer lines with or without steam traps; process             liquid heat
    exchangers;       evaporators;    desalination   systems;  sweet-water     condensers;
     attemperated water sources; flow-accelerated corrosion protection; air heaters;
    engine coolant systems for diesel and gasoline; and the like.
                      2) Papermaking System
              [0099]    In some embodiments, the disclosed ORP measurement and
    monitoring system 6 may be used in a variety of papermaking processes, such as
     Kraft pulping and bleaching processes; wafer polishing and planarization processes
     (e.g., silicon wafer polishing); combustion gas emission (e.g., SO 2, NOx, mercury);
    fermentation processes;       geothermal processes; and aqueous organic REDOX
     synthesis (i.e., polymerization processes that require REDOX initiators).
                      3) Oil Extraction System
              [00100] In some embodiments, the disclosed ORP measurement and
    monitoring system 6 is applicable to water purification in an oil extraction process.
     Oil is produced as an emulsion containing water. The water can be separated from
    the oil and used for processes such as steam generation. The steam may be useful for
    injection into oil-bearing formations, thereby increasing the rate of oil production.
    Water produced with oil may require purification before it can be used for other
    processes such as steam generation. Sulfide ion is an impurity commonly found in
    water produced from the oil extraction process. Sulfide ion can produce odorous and
    potentially toxic hydrogen sulfide gas. However, the sulfide ion can be destroyed by
     adding hydrogen peroxide to the hot water, optionally with a catalyst. To assure
    complete destruction of the sulfide ion, hydrogen peroxide may need to be added in
                                                 30

WO 2014/130247                                                         PCT/US2014/014920
    excess. However, adding a large excess of hydrogen peroxide can be wasteful and
    potentially cause problems with corrosion of the metal equipment used to process
    the water stream. Thus, careful control of the hydrogen peroxide addition can be
    desirable. In some embodiments, at-temperature ORP measurement can be used to
    control the addition of hydrogen peroxide. The at-temperature ORP measurement
    may facilitate a rapid response to changes in the water stream, and potentially result
    in reducing waste of hydrogen peroxide, thereby increasing the efficiency of sulfide
    destruction.
             [00101] The foregoing may be better understood by reference to the
    following examples, which are intended for illustrative purposes and are not
    intended to limit the scope of the invention or its application in any way.
    III) Examples
                                          EXAMPLE 1
             [00102] FIG. 12 depicts how the ORP setting may be different for systems
     at different temperatures. The temperatures shown in FIG. 12 may represent, for
    example, different plants or different operational protective/control zones in the
     same plant. In this Example, the ORP setting is an ORP set range selected from a
     series of ranges, shown as vertical lines labeled "Preferred," "Broader," and
     "Broadest." Depending upon the sophistication of equipment in the plant (i.e.,
     operational limitations), the useable ORP set range or point may vary. That is, some
    plants are able to handle a narrow, or preferred, ORP set range, whereas other plants
     are able to handle only a broader ORP set range. The @T ORP numbers would
    typically be recorded against an external pressure balanced reference electrode
     (designated as "EPBRE" in FIG. 12) having 0.1 normal potassium chloride filling
     solution.
                                          EXAMPLE 2
             [00103] This Example illustrates feeding multiple REDOX active species at
    various locations to control the @T ORP at a single location, as shown in FIG. 13.
    The controlling @T ORP probe was placed directly upstream of the feed location for
                                               31

WO 2014/130247                                                       PCT/US2014/014920
    REDOX active species #2. The @T ORP probe was used to measure the @T ORP
    prior to the feed of REDOX active species #2. The @T ORP probe was then
     switched to control the feed of another REDOX active species (#1), being fed
    upstream of the single @T ORP probe. It should be noted that when REDOX active
     species #2 (that was being manually controlled) was turned off, the effect of that loss
    quickly permeated the plant water chemistry and was sensed by the @T ORP probe.
    The controller (in this Example, the controller was automated for REDOX active
     species #1) immediately initiated additional feed of REDOX active species #1 to
    make-up for the shortfall in REDOX active species #2.
             [00104] The controlled feed of REDOX active species #1 was able to
     achieve and maintain the @T ORP setting thus minimizing corrosion in the heat
    exchangers during this event. Note that as soon as the REDOX active species #2 was
    manually turned back on, the corrosion control device (i.e., the @T ORP probe
     system) immediately compensated by cutting feed of REDOX active species #1 to
    maintain the desired @T ORP setting for corrosion control.
                                        EXAMPLE 3
             [00105] This Example illustrates an unpredicted response of the @T ORP
    probe to measure corrosion events directly and how real-time ORP measurements
     act as a direct indicator of corrosion in hot water systems from REDOX Stress
    events.
             [00106] The @T ORP probe reacts to the formation of corrosion products in
    the FW. The REDOX stresses in the FW include the complex conjugate ionic
    corrosion pairs like Fe2+/Fe3+ or Cu+/Cu2+, for example. In an all iron-based FW
    heater, water of high DO (i.e., greater than 500 ppb) starts to enter the FW heater.
    The room temperature ORP and real-time ORP at the heater inlet were initially -125
    mV and -280 mV, respectively. On experiencing the added REDOX stress event,
    the room temperature ORP and real-time ORP at the heater inlet rose to -70 mV and
    -30 mV, respectively. The sensitivity of the @T ORP probe (real-time ORP
    increases 250 mV) is clearly seen as compared to the room temperature ORP probe
     (increased only 55 mV). The real-time and room temperature ORP probes at the FW
                                              32

WO 2014/130247                                                      PCT/US2014/014920
    heater exit were initially -540 mV and -280 mV, respectively. After the high
    REDOX stress event the real-time and room temperature ORP probes at the FW
    heater exit became -140 and -280 mV, respectively. It is important to note that the
    real-time ORP rose by 400 mV, whereas the room temperature ORP showed no
    change.
             [00107] It is not intended to be bound to any particularly theory; however,
     one theory that the room temperature ORP measurements at the exit of the FW
    heater showed no change was that the DO exiting the FW heater remained
    unchanged throughout the DO ingress event at the inlet of the FW heater. The reason
    the real-time ORP numbers rose so dramatically at the FW heater exit was most
    likely because of the corrosion that had occurred in the FW heater itself. This event
     generated a plentiful supply of ionic oxidized iron species, which the @T ORP
    probe detected, but the room temperature ORP probe did not.
             [00108] The same effect was seen across copper based FW heaters where
    the dissolved oxygen was consumed within the FW heaters. Once again, room
    temperature ORP measurements showed no change at the exit of the FW heaters, but
     @T ORP probe responses showed elevated numbers as oxidized copper ionic
     species (conjugate pairs) were released into the FW and exited the FW heater, only
    to be sensed by the @T ORP probes and not the room temperature ORP instruments.
                                         EXAMPLE 4
    Non-Chemical Techniques
             [00109] The paragraphs below provide several examples of non-chemical
    techniques to change a system parameter that could be used to control measured
     ORP in a hot water system. One of skill in the art would be able to utilize these
    techniques without undue experimentation.
             [00110] Pump Choice: Pumps can be notoriously bad actors for air ingress
     (often an undesirable affect) and can add to REDOX stress in systems. Depending
     on whether such ingress was desired or conversely its exclusion was desired the
    choice of feed pump or condensate pump type could affect the ORP measurements
                                              33

WO 2014/130247                                                       PCT/US2014/014920
    quite drastically. For example, pump design parameters, such as piston packing,
    check valves, diaphragms, seals, glands, impellers, etc. are all zones of possible
    failure and air ingress. Air ingress typically occurs on the lower pressure side of a
    pump during the suction phase of pumping.
             [00111] Partitioning: Stream flow and quantity can just be partitioned so
    that some or part of the system flow is diverted via sidestream to pieces of apparatus
    that can affect the inherent ORP and return it to the main system stream. For
    example, electrochemical ionization processes could be used to affect its chemical
    properties and thus ORP properties in the sidestream.
             [00112] Blending: System or process streams with different ORP properties
    could be blended together in known/controlled/calculated ratios to affect the ORP
     and thus corrosion of the downstream system.
             [00113] Materials:   Separate   sections  of system made      from different
    materials that could affect the ORP and corrosion properties could be incorporated
     and used in a specific combination to achieve the desired ORP for the hot water
     system. For example, a material that would have a great affinity for dissolved
     oxygen (e.g., any material that can actively oxidize, such as aluminum, chrome, the
    like, and combinations thereof, and even, more reactive would be lithium, sodium,
    magnesium, zinc, the like, and combinations thereof) to reduce locally the dissolved
     oxygen values in the process water by oxidizing at a controlled rate. Later in the
    process the water would then have lower ORP values and lowered propensity to
    corrode other materials which would then be better protected. This is somewhat
     similar to anodic protection except that in this case an entire zone, or piece of
    equipment, might be the anodic zone to protect a later zone from corrosive forces.
     One or more ORP-affecting species (e.g., a piece of hardware or system component)
     are added upstream from a later zone that requires specific ORP numbers for
    corrosion protection. While the pieces of hardware are generally thought to be
    metallic they need not be. For example activated carbon might prove to be an
    effective chemistry altering species, and thus ORP altering species as well.
                                               34

WO 2014/130247                                                         PCT/US2014/014920
             [00114] Cathodic      Protection:   Impressed   current  similar  to  cathodic
    protection may be used to alter the ORP space whereby sections of equipment or
    zones contacting process water can be catholically protected. In one extreme case
    the cathodic protection could be run at high enough impressed electrochemical
    voltages to introduce chemical altering species, like hydrogen. Hydrogen would then
    in and of itself lower ORP values and could combine with oxygen locally (or
    downstream) to lower the measured ORP values.
             [00115] Electromagnetic Waves: Pieces of apparatus could be in a zone of
    electromagnetic wave production, such as light sources, ultra-violet additions,
    microwave-inducing waves, the like, and combinations thereof. The electromagnetic
    wave sources could be on continuously or intermittently such as in a controlled
    fashion, pulsed, etc. The wave sources, via their specific action could be used to
     affect the ORP species either directly or indirectly in any zone. For example, LTV
    light may activate a cobalt-catalyzed reaction between oxygen and sulfite in the
    water.
             [00116] Physical Properties: Purposeful and localized changes in physical
    properties, for example temperature, pressure, flow, turbulence, and the like might
    be designed to locally affect the system ORP and thus the resultant corrosivity.
             [00117] All of the compositions and methods disclosed and claimed herein
    can be made and executed without undue experimentation in light of the present
    disclosure. While this invention may be embodied in many different forms, there are
    described in detail herein specific preferred embodiments of the invention. The
    present disclosure is an exemplification of the principles of the invention and is not
    intended to limit the invention to the particular embodiments illustrated.
             [00118] Furthermore, the invention encompasses any and all possible
    combinations of some or all of the various embodiments described herein. Any and
     all patents, patent applications, scientific papers, and other references cited in this
     application, as well as any references cited therein, are hereby incorporated by
    reference in their entirety. It should also be understood that various changes and
    modifications to the presently preferred embodiments described herein will be
                                                 35

WO 2014/130247                                                       PCT/US2014/014920
     apparent to those skilled in the art. Such changes and modifications can be made
    without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention and without diminishing
    its intended advantages. It is therefore intended that such changes and modifications
    be covered by the appended claims.
                                                36

WO 2014/130247                                                         PCT/US2014/014920
                                            CLAIMS
    The claimed invention is:
             1. A system for monitoring and controlling corrosion in a hot water system,
    comprising:
                 an oxidation-reduction potential probe capable of measuring a reduction
            potential of the hot water substantially in real time; and
                 a controller unit operatively coupled to the oxidation-reduction potential
            probe, wherein the controller unit activates a feed of at least one water
            treatment chemical in response to the measured reduction potential so as to
            maintain a pH within a predetermined range.
            2. The system of claim 1, wherein the oxidation-reduction potential probe is
    capable of measuring the reduction potential substantially in real time at a water
    temperature of lOOC or higher.
             3. The system of claim 1, wherein the oxidation-reduction potential probe is
    capable of measuring the reduction potential substantially in real time at a water
    pressure of 0.1 MPa or higher.
            4. The system of claim 1, wherein the oxidation-reduction potential probe is
    capable of determining the pH of the hot water substantially in real time.
             5. The system of claim 1, wherein the controller unit is capable of
     generating an alert/alarm when the measured reduction potential changes by more
    than a predetermined amount.
             6. The system of claim 1, wherein the controller unit is capable of
     generating an alert/alarm when the measured reduction potential changes by more
    than a predetermined amount in a predetermined amount of time.
            7. The system of claim 1, wherein the hot water is discharged or sampled
    via a blow-down line and/or a side stream, and the oxidation-reduction potential
    probe is positioned within the side stream or the blow-down line.
                                               37

WO 2014/130247                                                         PCT/US2014/014920
            8. The system of claim 1, wherein the controller unit controls the feed of the
    water treatment chemicals to achieve a desired reduction potential.
            9. The system of claim 1, further comprising at least one inert tracer
    molecule for measuring a concentration of a pH altering species, and wherein the
    controller unit activates the feed of the water treatment chemicals in response to the
    measured concentration of the pH altering species so as to maintain the pH within
    the predetermined range at the measured concentration of the pH altering species
     and sodium to pH altering species ratio.
             10. A method of monitoring and controlling corrosion in a hot water system,
    the method comprising:
                  measuring a reduction potential of the hot water substantially in real
            time using an oxidation-reduction potential probe; and
                  activating a feed of at least one water treatment chemical in response to
            the measured reduction potential         so as to maintain a pH within a
            predetermined range.
             11. The method of claim 10, wherein the reduction potential is measured
     substantially in real time at a water temperature of 100C or higher.
             12. The method of claim 10, wherein the reduction potential is measured
     substantially in real time at a water pressure of 0.1 MPa or higher.
             13. The method of claim 10, wherein a pH of the hot water is determined
     substantially in real time using the oxidation-reduction potential probe.
             14. The method of claim 10, further comprising generating an alert/alarm
    when the measured reduction potential changes by more than a predetermined
     amount.
             15. The method of claim 10, further comprising generating an alert/alarm
    when the measured reduction potential changes by more than a predetermined
     amount in a predetermined amount of time.
                                                 38

WO 2014/130247                                                          PCT/US2014/014920
              16. The method of claim 10, wherein the hot water is discharged or sampled
    via a blow-down line and/or a side stream, and wherein the method further
    comprises positioning the oxidation-reduction potential probe within the side stream
     or the blow-down line.
              17. The method of claim 10, wherein the feed of the water treatment
    chemicals is controlled to achieve a desired reduction potential.
              18. The method of claim 10 further comprising measuring a concentration of
     a pH altering species using at least one inert tracer molecule, and wherein the water
    treatment chemicals are activated in response to the measured concentration of the
    pH altering species so as to maintain the pH within the predetermined range at the
    measured concentration of the pH altering species and sodium to pH altering species
    ratio.
              19. The method of claim 18, wherein the hot water is fed from a feed-water
    pump to a boiler, and wherein the inert tracer molecule is added to the boiler or
    before the boiler and monitored before and/or after the boiler.
             20. The method of claim 18, wherein the water treatment chemicals include
     sodium and a phosphate.
             21. The method of claim 20, wherein the sodium and the phosphate are
     added together to the hot water.
             22. The method of claim 20, wherein the sodium and the phosphate are
     added separately to the hot water.
             23. A system for monitoring and controlling corrosion in a hot water system,
    comprising:
                   an  oxidation-reduction     potential  probe    capable    of  measuring
             substantially in real time at least one of a rate of change of a reduction
             potential of the hot water, a statistical data scatter in reduction potential of
             the hot water, a decay signal in the reduction potential of the hot water, and a
             corrosion potential; and
                                                39

WO 2014/130247                                                         PCT/US2014/014920
                  a controller unit operatively coupled to the oxidation-reduction potential
            probe, wherein the controller unit activates a feed of at least one REDOX
             altering chemical in response to the measured reduction potential.
            24. The system of claim 23, wherein the oxidation-reduction potential probe
    is capable of measuring the reduction potential substantially in real time at a water
    temperature of 100 C or higher.
            25. The system of claim 23, wherein the oxidation-reduction potential probe
    is capable of measuring the reduction potential substantially in real time at a water
    pressure of 0.1 MPa or higher.
            26. The system of claim 23, wherein the controller unit is capable of
     generating an alert/alarm when the measured reduction potential changes by more
    than a predetermined amount.
            27. The system of claim 23, wherein the controller unit is capable of
     generating an alert/alarm when the measured reduction potential changes by more
    than a predetermined amount in a predetermined amount of time.
            28. The system of claim 23, wherein the hot water is discharged or sampled
    via a blow-down line and/or a side stream, and the oxidation-reduction potential
    probe is positioned within the side stream or the blow-down line.
            29. The system of claim 23, wherein the controller unit controls the feed of
    the REDOX altering chemicals to achieve a desired reduction potential.
             30. A system for monitoring and controlling hydrogen peroxide in water
    produced in an oil extraction process, the system comprising:
                  an oxidation-reduction potential probe capable of measuring a reduction
            potential of the water substantially in real time; and
                  a controller unit operatively coupled to the oxidation-reduction potential
            probe, wherein the controller unit activates a feed of hydrogen peroxide in
            response to the measured reduction potential so as to maintain a sulfide ion
            concentration within a predetermined range.
                                                40

WO 2014/130247                                                      PCT/US2014/014920
             31. The system of claim 30, wherein the oxidation-reduction potential probe
    is capable of measuring the reduction potential substantially in real time at a water
    temperature of 100 C or higher.
             32. The system of claim 30, wherein the oxidation-reduction potential probe
    is capable of measuring the reduction potential substantially in real time at a water
    pressure of 0.1 MPa or higher.
             33. The system of claim 30, wherein the oxidation-reduction potential probe
    is capable of determining the sulfide ion concentration of the water substantially in
    real time.
             34. The system of claim 30, wherein the controller unit is capable of
     generating an alert/alarm when the measured reduction potential changes by more
    than a predetermined amount.
             35. The system of claim 30, wherein the controller unit is capable of
     generating an alert/alarm when the measured reduction potential changes by more
    than a predetermined amount in a predetermined amount of time.
             36. The system of claim 30, wherein the controller unit controls the feed of
    the hydrogen peroxide to achieve a desired reduction potential.
                                             41

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
