                                              Abstract
                Method of cleaning of a milk system with dispensing device, which system
   is associated with a beverage maker, comprising a control unit and a cleaning mod
   ule (10). The method comprises the following steps: replacing a milk container of the
 5 milk system with the cleaning module (10), comprising at least two zones (12, 14),
   cleaning fluid being filled in a first zone (12) and in a second zone (14), and a clean
   ing agent being filled in a chamber (24); connecting the first zone (12) and the sec
   ond zone (14) with docking units (18, 18') of the milk system for suctioning cleaning
   fluid, conveying the cleaning fluid through the milk system and at least partial recircu
10 lation of the cleaning fluid in the cleaning module (10); rinsing of the milk system with
   cleaning fluid, cleaning fluid being conveyed through the milk system out of the first
   zone (12) and/or out of the second zone (14) of the cleaning module (10) and being
   led out; rinsing of the circuit of the milk system, cleaning fluid being extracted from
   the second zone (14), being heated by means of a heating device and being led back
15 into the chamber (24), whereby it reaches the second zone (14) via a fluid-conductive
   connection (26); terminating the circuit rinsing, cleaning fluid being led out and a
   valve device (42) of the second zone (14) being closed when the filling level of clean
   ing fluid in the second zone (14) drops below a predetermined level; and final rinsing
   of the milk system with cleaning fluid from the first zone (12). Furthermore a device
20 for carrying out the method is described.
                                                                           (Figure 2)

       1/2
     26       32,32'          18,18'
                       16,16'
24
                        12
  10       40
                     FIG. 1

                                                  1
                                      CLEANING SYSTEM
               Technical Field of the Invention
               This invention relates to a method and a device for cleaning of a milk sys
   tem, which is associated, for example, with a beverage maker.
 5             State of the Art
               For the preparation of beverages, such as, for example, coffee and choco
   late, there are a multitude of devices available, ranging from manual system to fully
   automatic machine. The delicacies able to be produced using a beverage maker in
   clude drinks containing milk such as cappuccino, latte macchiato or caf6 latte, requir
10 ing milk and/or milk foam for preparation. The milk is generally stored in a corre
   sponding device, for example a milk container, which is integrated into a beverage
   maker or is associated with a beverage maker and is connectible thereto via a feed
   system. Starting from the milk container, the milk, via supply devices and possibly
   processing devices, is heated and foamed, for example, and, together with a coffee
15 or chocolate drink, is dispensed at an outlet.
               All elements which come into contact with milk in such a system must be
   cleaned regularly in order to fulfill the required hygienic standards. Thereby desirable
   is a possible automated cleaning process which is quick, safe and independent of
   operating personnel that leads to the desired reproducible cleaning result.
20             Known from DE 10 2014 215 689 is a device and a method for cleaning a
   feed unit for milk in a beverage dispensing device, whereby disposed in the feed unit,
   besides a milk container, are a cleaning agent tank filled with cleaning agent and an
   extraction pump connected thereto. For a cleaning mode, the milk container is re
   placed with a cleaning mixture tank into which the cleaning agent is transferred. In
25 addition, or alternatively, fresh water can be led into the mixture container in order to
   provide a cleaning solution of a particular concentration or a rinsing solution for a
   cleaning mode. The cleaning solution is discharged and soiled system elements are
   rinsed by means of the feed unit of the beverage dispensing device.

                                                 2
                Disadvantageous with this method is that the cleaning with cleaning agent
   and the rinsing with fresh water take place via the same mixture container. This re
   quires time since, for example, the cleaning agent tank must first be completely emp
   tied before a change of rinsing fluid is possible. Above and beyond this, a large quan
 5 tity of fresh water is used. Furthermore the system does not provide for any checking
   as to whether a cleaning has in fact taken place. An unintentional contamination of
   the milk with cleaning agent can occur so that it is possible for a contaminated bev
   erage to be prepared.
                Summary of Invention
10              The present invention has the object of simplifying the cleaning of a milk
   system associated with a beverage maker, of shortening the required cleaning time,
   of designing in a way that is reproducible for a user, of reducing the error proneness
   and of making possible a monitoring.
                The objects are achieved with a method according to the invention for
15 cleaning a milk system, in particular associated with a beverage maker, comprising
   the following steps, that first a milk container is replaced by a cleaning module having
   at least two zones, whereby cleaning fluid is filled in a first zone and in a second
   zone and a cleaning agent is filled in a chamber.
   First and second zones are at least partially in fluid-conductive connection to one an
20 other depending upon the level of filling of the filled cleaning fluid. There follows a
   connection of the first zone and the second zone with docking units of the milk sys
   tem for suctioning of cleaning fluid, conveying of the cleaning fluid through the milk
   system and leading back of the cleaning fluid into the cleaning module. After the
   connection, the milk system is rinsed with cleaning fluid, cleaning fluid being con
25 veyed through the milk system out of the first zone and/or out of the second zone of
   the cleaning module. There follows a circuit rinsing of the milk system, cleaning fluid
   being withdrawn from the second zone, being heated by means of a heating device
   and being led back into the chamber, whereby it reaches the second zone via a fluid
   conductive connection. The circuit rinsing is terminated after a predefined cleaning
30 cycle. Afterwards there follows a final rinsing of the milk system with cleaning fluid
   which is withdrawn from the first zone.
                Provided for, according to the invention, is that the cleaning fluid filled into
   the first and second zones is fresh water.

                                                   3
                 Through releasing of the cleaning fluid into a third zone or a drip tray, for
   example, which is already provided as an element of the beverage maker, the filling
   level drops in the second zone. If a predetermined low filling level is reached, a valve
   device of the second zone closes, and cleaning fluid, for example cold fresh water, is
 5 withdrawn from the first zone for the final rinsing.
                 This method combines in itself several advantages. In particular the first
   rinsing with fresh water can be carried out quickly, without heating capacity being
   applied. A heating device integrated in the beverage container is advantageously
   used in particular for the circuit rinsing, preferably a thick film heating element. This
10 thick film heating element with its advantageous thermal characteristics makes pos
   sible a combined cold-hot cleaning method. Proven advantageous has also been a
   stepwise increasing concentration of cleaning agent in the cleaning fluid, so that an
   optimal cleaning can take place with simultaneous prevention of milk deposit and an
   effective elimination of milk fat. Furthermore, with the method and the device still to
15 be described, a docking system of the milk container can also be cleaned from the
   outside in which milk deposits would otherwise remain. The circuit rinsing likewise
   saves resources.
                 It has proven advantageous that the switching between individual rinsing
   steps can take place without control. The switching over takes place according to the
20 filling level, for example when the filling level of the cleaning fluid filled in the first and
   second zones has dropped in such a way that between the first and the second zone
   no fluid-conductive connection exists. Likewise a switching over to final rinsing takes
   place when the filling level causes a closing of the valve device in the second zone,
   which is preferably designed as float valve.
25               Provided for is that the existing milk container is replaced with a cleaning
   module according to the invention, the latter being pushed into a correspondingly de
   signed housing so that in its final position the cleaning module is in fluid-conductive
   connection with provided docking units and further connecting means. The presence
   and exact position of the cleaning module can be detected by a mechanical, RFID,
30 Hall, Reed or similar sensor and transmitted to a provided control unit in order to start
   the cleaning process. This automatic detection prevents a malfunction and is thus
   especially user-friendly.

                                                  4
                 Furthermore a monitoring can also be provided in order to verify that the
   drip tray, into which the cleaning fluid is conducted during the final cleaning, is re
   moved and cleaned before the system is enabled again for beverage preparation.
                 At the beginning of the cleaning method according to the invention, a sup
 5 ply of cleaning fluid, in particular fresh water, takes place from at least one of the first
   and/or second zones of the cleaning module. At least a portion of the cleaning fluid
   from the first zone and/or second zone of the cleaning module is thereby suctioned in
   a first rinsing step. It is preferably provided for that first and second zones are at least
   partially connected in a fluid-conductive way. If the filling level sinks to a certain level
10 during withdrawal of fresh water, the fluid-conductive connection between first and
   second zone is interrupted; the first rinsing step ends.
                 Alternatively valve devices can be provided in the fluid-conductive connec
   tions, which valve devices are opened and/or closed by means of a control unit in
   order to control the withdrawal of the cleaning fluid.
15               This phase of the cleaning method serves the purpose of thorough rinsing
   of the components to be cleaned whereby lacteal calculus accumulation is preferably
   prevented through cold fresh water, which accumulation is to be observed in particu
   lar with a rinsing with hot water. During this first phase, also referred to as pre-rinsing,
   in particular a portion of the stored fresh water is withdrawn and led out, whereby al
20 ternatively it can be led out into the drip tray or an existing third zone.
                 In a following step, the cleaning fluid withdrawn from the second zone is
   conducted in the circuit, i.e. it is suctioned from the second zone and led back into
   the chamber with the cleaning agent, from where it again reaches the second zone.
   When the led-back cleaning fluid arrives in the chamber, it absorbs the cleaning
25 agent stored there. For example, stored in the chamber is a cleaning agent concen
   trate, in particular a cleaning tablet, which gradually releases cleaning components
   into the led back cleaning fluid. The concentration of the cleaning components in the
   cleaning fluid conducted in the circuit thereby changes, which cleaning fluid is also
   designated in the following as cleaning or rinsing solution. From the chamber, the
30 cleaning or rinsing solution with a changed proportion of cleaning components
   reaches the second zone and forms there a reservoir of cleaning fluid. Through the
   conducting of the cleaning fluid into the chamber and a thereby accompanying dy
   namic flow movement, the cleaning components are thereby mixed advantageously

                                                 5
   with the cleaning or respectively rinsing solution, and in particular a cleaning compo
   nent provided as a solid can dissolve to a large extent without residue.
                The cleaning or rinsing solution conducted in the circuit can preferably be
   heated in this phase of the cleaning method by means of a heating element, prefera
 5 bly with a heating element based on thick film technology. In particular the cleaning
   or rinsing solution conducted in the circuit can be heated to a defined temperature,
   which, with a view to the hygienic effect to be achieved, amounts to at least 700C to
   800C. With the circulation of the cleaning or rinsing solution, this heating can be car
   ried out in an especially energy-saving way. Moreover short cleaning times result in
10 an advantageous way, during which cleaning times the milk system to be cleaned
   cannot be used in its normal operational mode.
                In a further step of the cleaning method, the circuit mode is terminated,
   whereby the cleaning and rinsing solution is led into the existing third zone of the
   cleaning module or alternatively into the existing drip tray of the beverage maker. The
15 third zone or respectively the drip tray thus provide a collecting container for the
   cleaning or respectively rinsing solution to be led out of the system and discarded.
   After a certain cleaning time, whereby the cleaning fluid is heated and, containing
   cleaning agent, is conducted in the circuit, the cleaning fluid is led into the third zone
   or respectively into the drip tray, whereby the fluid level in the second zone drops.
20 Starting from a certain low fluid level, an existing valve device, preferably designed
   as float valve, closes off the cleaning fluid supply from the second zone, whereby
   automatically fresh water is suctioned out of the first zone, which fresh water is con
   ducted into the third zone or alternatively into the drip tray. The existing heating ele
   ment is switched off, so that the now lower temperature of the fresh water indicates a
25 final rinse.
                To check an obtained cleaning effect of the cleaning method, the conduct
   ance for the cleaning or respectively rinsing solution is determined. For this purpose,
   a conductance sensor is provided, preferably in the suction region of the pump, with
   in the circuit of the cleaning or respectively rinsing solution, which sensor measures
30 the actual electrolytic conductivity of the conveyed fluid and thereby gives information
   about the nature of the fluid or respectively its contamination level. Moreover it can
   be thereby verified which fluid is located in the pipe system. The conductance sensor
   can transmit signals to a control unit in order to indicate whether a cleaning operation
   has been successfully run. If the cleaning has been incomplete, in particular if the

                                                  6
   required standards of hygiene have not been met, the entire system can be blocked.
   This offers a reliable check for the operating personnel.
                The method according to the invention comprises as means a cleaning
   module for a milk system with a dispensing device, which is associated with a bever
 5 age maker, in particular a coffee machine. Also understood thereby is an independ
   ent cleaning module, however, which is designed as stand-alone system.
                The cleaning module according to the invention for a milk system with a
   dispensing device, for example a discharge head, comprises a cleaning container for
   receiving cleaning fluid, whereby the cleaning container has at least two zones. Fur
10 thermore the cleaning module has connection means, so that the at least two zones
   are connectible to the milk system in a fluid-conductive way such that cleaning fluid is
   able to be extracted, is able to be conveyed through the milk system and is able to be
   led back at least partially into the cleaning module. The compact cleaning module is
   easily manageable, so that also its cleaning can take place without any problems.
15              The milk system or respectively the beverage maker comprises at least in
   part a system of pipes or lines, at least one conveying device and a dispensing de
   vice, storage containers and possibly an air enrichment element as well as at least
   one heating element and a control unit.
                With the cleaning module according to the invention, a cleaning of a milk
20 system in connection with a beverage maker can take place, in particular a cleaning
   of those system components which are in direct contact with milk, whether they are
   supply devices, processing devices or dispensing devices for suctioning, conveying,
   preparing and dispensing of milk taken from at least one milk container. In particular
   it is also foreseen that interfaces, i.e. for example docking units and dispensing de
25 vices, are able to be cleaned both from the inside as well as also from the outside.
   Especially advantageous thereby is that the discharge head of a beverage maker no
   longer has to be disassembled in order to be cleaned since, according to the inven
   tion, it can be cleaned both from the inside as well as from the outside.
                The cleaning module is connectible in a simple way to the milk system of a
30 beverage maker; in particular, a milk container disposed in a housing can be re
   placed with the cleaning module. Existing connection and suction means for suction
   ing milk out of the milk container and conveying milk in the system of lines are con-

                                                  7
   nectible to the cleaning module in such a way that now a provided cleaning fluid is
   suctioned out of the cleaning module by the suction means and is conveyed through
   those system components of the milk system which are in contact with milk, and is at
   least partially led back.
 5         In being exchanged with the milk container, the cleaning module can, for ex
   ample, be inserted into the housing and can be connected to the connection means
   of the milk system in a fluid-conductive way. For example, the docking units provided
   within the framework of the milk system and possibly further existing connection
   means can be used e.g. for a leading back, whereby a flawless connection is facili
10 tated.
           The cleaning module has a plurality of zones, preferably a first and a second
   zone, which are at least partially connected to one another in a fluid-conductive way.
   In one embodiment, the cleaning module can comprise three zones, whereby prefer
   ably at least one of the three zones is designed as a separate and detachable con
15 tainer. Furthermore the cleaning module can comprise a detachable element on
   which the docking units and further connecting means are provided. This multipartite
   feature facilitates a cleaning of the individual parts of the cleaning module, as well as
   a replacement of individual elements, for example.
           The cleaning module stores cleaning fluid at least in a first and in a second
20 zone, whereby in the second zone a chamber is also provided in which a cleaning
   agent can be filled, and which is connected to the second zone in a fluid-conductive
   way. In a phase of the cleaning method, cleaning fluid can be led back into the
   chamber of the second zone, whereby this cleaning fluid overflows into the second
   zone and thus is able to be conducted into the circuit. After termination of the circula
25 tion phase, the cleaning fluid is collected, for example in the existing third zone,
   which provides a collection container for waste water, or alternatively in the drip tray.
   Preferably such a collection container is designed in a way that is detachable from
   the cleaning module, so that the cleaning fluid captured therein can be discarded.
           Filled into the first zone and into the second zone of the cleaning module can
3o be fresh water as cleaning fluid, and cleaning agent can be filled into the chamber at
   the beginning of the cleaning method. First and second zones are connected to one
   another in a fluid-conductive way at least partially, depending upon the filling level, or

                                                8
   respectively separated from one another to the extent that there is pure fresh water in
   the first zone.
            The cleaning module is preferably designed in such a way that, via a cleaning
   head connected to the dispensing device and a recirculation line into at least the
 5 chamber, the cleaning fluid at this dispensing device of the milk system is able to be
   led back into the third zone of the cleaning module or into the drip tray. The cleaning
   head is preferably designed in such a way that a rinsing of the dispensing device by
   the cleaning fluid is possible from the inside and from the outside. A cleaning head is
   thereby disposed on the dispensing device; for example it is connected thereto by
10 means of magnets on the discharge side of the dispensing device. The disposed
   cleaning head is designed in such a way that the inside and outside of the dispensing
   device is preferably rinsed by a cleaning fluid in turbulent flow. Through the design of
   the cleaning head, an intensive cleaning is possible, whereby the cleaning fluid flows
   out of the dispensing device completely, for example through an outlet opening, pro
15 vided at the lowest point of the dispensing device.
                The cleaning module thus comprises at least two zones, designed, for ex
   ample, as containers connectible to one another which can be filled with different
   media independently of one another. The media comprise fluids, for example fresh
   water or cleaning fluid, and/or solids, for example a cleaning tablet (cleaning tab).
20 First and second zones are connected at least partially in a fluid-conductive way de
   pending upon the filling level; for example first and second zones are partially sepa
   rated from one another by a partition. The first and the second zone of the cleaning
   module are thereby in fluid-conductive connection to a suction side of the suction
   means, for example with the conveying device of the milk system. In particular the
25 suction means comprise at least two fluid-conductive connections for the first and the
   second zone. The chamber and possibly the third zone are in fluid-conductive con
   nection at least indirectly with the discharge side of the suction means.
                The cleaning module comprises valve devices in the fluid-conductive con
   nections of the first and of the second zones. Preferred are float valves which close
30 depending upon the filling level.
                First and second zones can be filled manually with cleaning fluid, prefera
   bly cold fresh water. A manual filling is advantageous compared with an automatic
   filling taking place within the milk system or respective in an associated beverage

                                                 9
   maker since at least no fresh water connection and further components have to be
   provided. Thus there exists a certain independence as regards the peripheral equip
   ment. Furthermore a manual filling is able to be carried out in a shorter time than a
   filling by means of an integrated pump.
 5              Stored in the chamber, formed in the second zone of the cleaning module,
   is a cleaning agent, for example in the form of a concentrate or respectively in the
   form of a cleaning tablet. The filling of the chamber with cleaning agent can likewise
   take place manually, which is less prone to error and is above and beyond that verifi
   able. This chamber is in fluid-conductive connection with the second zone of the
10 cleaning module. Preferably the cleaning fluid is led back from the dispensing device
   of the milk system via the cleaning head connected there and the included recircula
   tion line into the chamber of the second zone, whereby it is possibly enriched there
   with cleaning agent. In particular the cleaning fluid led back into the chamber reaches
   the second zone via a line or an overflow in order to be led in circulation during a
15 phase of the cleaning method. This leading back or recirculation has proven to be
   especially water-saving.
                Furthermore, in one embodiment, there is a recirculation line, having a
   valve, connectible to the third zone or alternatively to the drip tray so that recirculat
   ed, used cleaning fluid can be collected which is no longer fed into the recirculation
20 cycle and is dischargeable in a simple way.
                The cleaning module according to the invention is used to clean a milk
   system integrated in a beverage maker or associated therewith. A beverage maker is
   in particular a coffee machine, comprising at least one conveying device with a suc
   tion line on the suction side and an outlet line on the discharge side of the conveying
25 device. Fluid is thus able to be suctioned via the suction line and is able to be con
   veyed via the conveying device and the outlet line to a dispensing device, designed
   in particular as a discharge head.
                Moreover the device for cleaning can have furthermore valves, pumps,
   heating elements and/or a conductance sensor.
30              Brief Description of the Drawinqs

                                                 10
                Further preferred features and preferred embodiments will be explained in
   the following with reference to embodiment examples and the figures. Shown thereby
   are:
                Figure 1, a schematic view of a cleaning module according to the inven
 5 tion;
                Figure 2, a schematic view of a cleaning module according to the invention
   with fluid-conductive connections.
                Detailed Description of Embodiments of the Invention
                Shown schematically in Figure 1 is an embodiment example of a cleaning
10 module 10 according to the invention. In the embodiment example, the cleaning
   module 10 is divided into zones, which are formed at least partially by containers
   connectible to one another. Included is a first zone 12 and a second zone 14, which
   are filled with cleaning fluid, preferably fresh water, before start of a cleaning pro
   cess. The fresh water provides a rinsing solution for a first cleaning phase and for a
15 final rinsing. The fresh water stored in the second zone 14 is used in particular for a
   recirculation.
                First and second zones 12, 14 are connectible in a fluid-conductive way to
   a suction side of at least one conveying device of a milk system or respectively of a
   beverage maker (not shown). Provided in particular are connection means 16, 16',
20 which are connectible to docking units 18, 18' of the milk system or respectively of
   the beverage maker. The connection means 16, 16' can be designed in such a way
   that a rinsing of the docking units 18, 18' of the milk container can also take place
   from the outside. Connection lines 32, 32' to the individual zones extend to the con
   nection means 16, 16'.
25              Provided furthermore in the cleaning module 10 in the embodiment shown
   is a third zone 20, which is connectible by means of a connection piece 22 to a return
   line (not shown). Formed in the second zone 14 is a chamber 24 which is connectible
   in a fluid-conductive way to the second zone 14. In particular an overflow element 26
   is provided so that cleaning fluid from the chamber 24 reaches the second zone 14.
30 The chamber 24 is in fluid-conductive connection with a second connecting piece 28,

                                                 11
   by means of which the chamber 24 is connectible at least indirectly with a discharge
   side of the at least one conveying device.
                Shown in Figure 2 are the fluid-conducting connections to the individual
   zones of the cleaning module 10. Starting from the docking units 18, 18', the connec
 5 tion lines 32, 32' extend, which provide a fluid-conductive connection to the first zone
   12 and to the second zone 14, i.e. connect these zones to the at least one conveying
   device (not shown). Shown furthermore is that stored cleaning fluid from the first
   zone 12 is connected to the connection lines 32, 32' at a connecting piece 38 via a
   suction port 34 and a valve device 36. Likewise leading to the connecting piece 38 is
10 a fluid-conducting connection 40, starting from the second zone 14 and comprising a
   valve device 42. The second valve device 42 is in particular designed as float valve,
   the fluid-conducting connection 40 being interrupted when a filling level in the second
   zone 14 has dropped below a certain level.
                It can be learned furthermore from Figure 2 that coming out into the
15 chamber 24 formed in the second zone 14, is a recirculation line 44, via which clean
   ing fluid is recirculated and furthermore arrives via overflow 26 in the second zone
   14, in order to be led again into the circuit. Stored in the chamber 24 is preferably a
   cleaning agent concentrate which gradually passes into the cleaning fluid through the
   rinsing of the chamber 24.
20              Also discernible in Figure 2 is the third zone 20, which is likewise connect
   ible to a second recirculation line 46 in a fluid-conductive way. The cleaning fluid
   conveyed into the third zone 20 via the second recirculation line 46 is collected in the
   third zone 20. This collected cleaning fluid can be emptied manually with removal of
   the cleaning module 10. The third zone 20 is preferably designed as detachable col
25 lection container.
                In this specification, the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprising" or
   similar terms are intended to mean a non-exclusive inclusion, such that a system,
   method or apparatus that comprises a list of elements does not include those ele
   ments solely, but may well include other elements not listed.
30

                                             12
             The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be
  taken as, an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part
  of the common general knowledge.
5

                                                   13
                                                 Claims
                  1. Method of cleaning of a milk system with dispensing device, which milk
   system is associated with a beverage maker, comprising a control unit and a clean
   ing module, having the steps:
 5               a) replacing a milk container of the milk system by the cleaning module,
   comprising at least two zones, cleaning fluid being filled in a first zone and in a sec
   ond zone, and a cleaning agent being filled in a chamber;
                 b) connecting the first zone and the second zone with docking units of the
   milk system for suctioning cleaning fluid, conveying the cleaning fluid through the
10 milk system and at least partial recirculation of the cleaning fluid in the cleaning mod
   ule;
                 c) rinsing of the milk system with cleaning fluid, cleaning fluid being con
   veyed through the milk system out of the first zone and/or out of the second zone of
   the cleaning module and being led out;
15               d) rinsing of the circuit of the milk system, cleaning fluid being extracted
   from the second zone, being heated by means of a heating device and being led
   back into the chamber, whereby it reaches the second zone via a fluid-conductive
   connection;
                 e) terminating the circuit rinsing, cleaning fluid being led out and a valve
20 device of the second zone being closed when the filling level of cleaning fluid in the
   second zone drops below a determined level; and
                 f) final rinsing of the milk system with cleaning fluid from the first zone.
                 2. Method according to claim 1, wherein in step a) fresh water as cleaning
   fluid is filled in the first zone and second zone.
25               3. Method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein step c) is started by a control
   unit when a correct position of the cleaning module is transmitted by a sensor to the
   control unit.

                                                    14
               4. Method according to claim 1 or 3, wherein the cleaning method com
   prises measuring the conductance of the cleaning fluid, the captured data being
   transmitted to the control unit.
               5. Method according to one of the claims 1 to 4, wherein the switchover to
 5 the subsequent step takes place according to the measured conductance.
               6. Cleaning module for a milk system with a dispensing device as means
   for the method according to claims 1 to 5, associated with a beverage maker, the
   cleaning module having at least two zones for receiving cleaning fluid, the at least
   two zones being connectible to the milk system in a fluid-conductive way such that
10 cleaning fluid is able to be withdrawn from the cleaning container, is able to be con
   veyed through the milk system and is able to be led back into the cleaning container
   at least partially.
               7. Cleaning module according to claim 6, wherein in the second zone a
   chamber is formed and is connected to the second zone 14 by means of a fluid
15 conductive connection.
               8. Cleaning module according to claim 6 or 7, wherein the cleaning mod
   ule is exchangeable with a milk container of the milk system and is connectible in a
   fluid-conductive way with docking units of the milk system, cleaning fluid being ex
   tractable out of at least the first zone and the second zone and being able to be led
20 back at least partially into the chamber.
               9. Cleaning module according to claim 6 to 8, wherein fresh water as
   cleaning fluid is fillable at least into the first zone and into the second zone of the
   cleaning container.
               10. Cleaning module according to one of the claims 6 to 9, wherein dis
25 posed in the fluid-conductive connections to the first zone is at least one valve de
   vice.
               11. Cleaning module according to one of the claims 6 to 10, wherein dis
   posed in the fluid-conductive connections to the second zone is at least one valve
   device, which closes when a filling level of cleaning fluid in the second zone has fall
30 en under a level.

                                                 15
                12. Cleaning module according to one of the claims 6 to 11, wherein a
   cleaning agent is fillable into the chamber, whereby cleaning fluid flows into the
   chamber via a recirculation line and out of the chamber via a fluid-conveying connec
   tion into the second zone.
 5              13. Cleaning module according to one of the claims 6 to 12, wherein at the
   dispensing device of the milk system, via a cleaning head connectible thereto and a
   recirculation line, the cleaning fluid is able to be led back into the chamber.
                14. Cleaning module according to one of the claims 6 to 13, wherein
   cleaning fluid is able to be led out into a drip tray of the beverage maker.
10              15. Cleaning module according to one of the claims 6 to 13, wherein
   cleaning fluid is able to be led back into a third zone, which is included in the cleaning
   module.
                16. Cleaning module according to claim 15, wherein the third zone is de
   signed as separable container.
15

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                1/2
FIG. 1

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                2/2
FIG. 2

