                                           -13
                                        Abstract
In an aspect there is disclosed, a sound attenuation device (10) for fitting with a wheel
(12) of a track-type machine in a fitted condition. The device (10) may include a body
(14) adapted to couple at or toward a rim (16) of the wheel (14) such that the body
(14) is substantially suspended radially of the rim (16), the body (14) including a
damping material (20) so as to damp vibration associated with the wheel (12) thereby
providing sound attenuation. A wheel assembly and related method of sound
attenuation are also disclosed.

     1/7
                  5
                     12
                    10
   Figure 1
            12
                5
-              14
  Fr                    28
  Figure 2

                                            -1
          Device & Method for Attenuating Sound associated with a Wheel
Technical Field
[001]    The invention relates to a device and method for attenuating or damping sound
from a wheel, such as an idler wheel or sprocket wheel, of a track-type machine. The
invention also relates to a wheel assembly including such a sound attenuation or
damping device.
Background
[002]    Track-type machines typically include tracks located at either side of the
machine. The tracks include a chain formed from a series of metal links that are
coupled end-to-end to form a loop that is driven by drive components such as sprocket
wheels and one or more idler wheels.
[003]   During operation the tracks and links, which are typically metallic, emit noise
as the tracks are driven and impact with the drive components. In particular, the metal
links of the tracks contact metal tread portions of the idler wheel and/or sprocket
wheels during use that generates noise and vibration due to the metal-to-metal contact.
The emitted noise is undesirable, especially, when the track-type machine is utilised
near to residential or other noise sensitive areas.
[004]   AU 2013327485 discloses an idler wheel assembly for a track-type machine.
The idler wheel assembly includes a circular body, and a sound dampening member.
The circular body includes a central hub portion, an annular flange portion integral
with the central hub portion, and a circumferential rim portion. The circumferential
rim portion may define an annular cavity along with the central hub portion and the
annular flange portion. The sound dampening member disposed in the annular cavity
and a retainer plate positioned adjacent to the sound dampening member. AU
2013327485 also discloses an idler wheel assembly for a track-type machine that has

                                            -2
a sound dampening coating provided on the circular body. The sound dampening
coating may be polyurethane.
[005]   A problem with the above sound dampening member relates to the
performance (i.e. level of sound attenuation). Another problem relates to its longevity
in operation and subsequent degradation of sound dampening.
[006]   The invention disclosed herein seeks to overcome one or more of the above
identified problems or at least provide a useful alternative.
Summary
[007]   In accordance with a first broad aspect there is provided, a sound attenuation
device for fitting with a wheel of a track-type machine in a fitted condition, the device
including a body adapted to couple at or toward a rim of the wheel such that the body
is substantially suspended radially of the rim, the body including a damping material
so as to damp vibration associated with the wheel thereby providing sound
attenuation.
[008]   In an aspect, the wheel includes a central hub that is radially spaced apart from
the rim so as to define an annular recess at a front face of the wheel between the
central hub and the rim, and wherein the device is arranged such that the body is
substantially suspended within the annular recess in the fitted condition.
[009]   In another aspect, the wheel is provided in the form an idler wheel.
[0010] In yet another aspect, the wheel includes a central hub having the rim.
[0011] In yet another aspect, the wheel is a sprocket-wheel having a sprocket located
toward a rear face thereof for engaging a track, the body being located between
substantially within an annular recess defined between a front face of the wheel, the
sprocket and the track.

                                            -3
[0012] In yet another aspect, the device includes a flange extending from the body,
the flange being arranged to couple to the rim.
[0013] In yet another aspect, the body contains the damping material.
[0014] In yet another aspect, the body includes an annular cavity and the damping
material is housed within the annular cavity.
[0015] In yet another aspect, the flange extends radially outwardly from the annular
cavity.
[0016] In yet another aspect, the flange is continuous about the annular cavity.
[0017] In yet another aspect, the annular cavity includes at least one wall, and
wherein the at least one wall is spaced apart from the wheel in the fitted condition.
[0018] In yet another aspect, the annular cavity has a front wall, a rear wall, an inner
wall and an outer wall, and wherein the flange extends radially outwardly of the outer
wall to the rim.
[0019] In yet another aspect, in the fitted condition the annular cavity is located by the
flange such that the rear wall, inner wall and outer wall are each spaced apart from
internal surfaces of the annular recess of the wheel and the outer wall of the annular
cavity is arranged toward a front face of the rim.
[0020] In yet another aspect, the flange is annular so as to engage an annular edge of
the rim.
[0021] In yet another aspect, an annular edge of the rim of the annular recess includes
a step to which the flange is seated and coupled in the fitted condition.
[0022] In yet another aspect, the annular cavity has a square or rectangular cross
section.

                                           -4
[0023] In yet another aspect, the body and flange are formed from a metallic based
material, and the damping material is a non-metallic based material.
[0024] In yet another aspect, the damping material is polyurethane or a bituminous
material.
[0025] In accordance with a second broad aspect there is provided, a sound
attenuation device for fitting with a wheel of a track-type machine in a fitted
condition, the device including a body adapted to couple proximate to a rim of the
wheel such that the body is substantially suspended radially of the rim so as to be
spaced apart from and free from contact with other surfaces of the wheel, the body
including a damping material so as to damp vibration associated with the wheel
thereby providing sound attenuation.
[0026] In accordance with a third broad aspect there is provided, a wheel assembly
including a rim and a sound attenuation device as defined in any one of the previous
claims coupled to the rim.
[0027] In accordance with a fourth broad aspect there is provided, a method for sound
attention of a wheel having a rim, the method including arranging a sound attenuation
advice such that a damping body thereof is suspended from the wheel proximate or at
the rim so that the damping body is free from contact with other surfaces of the wheel
thereby damping vibrations associated with the rim to provide sound attenuation.
Brief Description of the Figures
[0028] The invention is described, by way of non-limiting example only, by reference
to the accompanying figures, in which;
[0029] Figure 1 is a perspective view illustrating a first example of a sound
attenuation device in a fitted condition with an idler wheel;
[0030] Figure 2 is a perspective exploded parts view illustrating the sound attenuation
device fir fitting with the idler wheel;

                                            -5
[0031] Figure 3 is an perspective sectional view illustrating the sound attenuation
device in the fitted condition with the idler wheel;
[0032] Figure 4 is a front view illustrating the sound attenuation device in the fitted
condition with the idler wheel;
[0033] Figure 5 is a top view illustrating the sound attenuation device in the fitted
condition with the idler wheel;
[0034] Figure 6 is a side sectional view illustrating the sound attenuation device in the
fitted condition with the idler wheel along section B-B as shown in Figure 4;
[0035] Figure 7 is a perspective exploded parts view of a second example of the
sound attenuation device for fitting with a sprocket-wheel;
[0036] Figure 8 is a front view illustrating the sound attenuation device fitted with the
sprocket-wheel in the fitted condition;
[0037] Figure 9 is a side sectional view illustrating the sound attenuation device fitted
with the sprocket-wheel in the fitted condition;
[0038] Figure 10 is a view of a example of the sound attenuation device fitted with
the sprocket-wheel in the fitted condition; and
[0039] Figure 11 is a perspective sectional view illustrating the sound attenuation
device fitted with the sprocket-wheel in the fitted condition.
Detailed Description
[0040] Referring to Figures 1 to 6, there is shown a wheel assembly 5 including a
sound attenuation device 10 for fitting with the wheel or wheel part 12 of a track-type
machine (not shown) in a fitted condition. In this example, the wheel 12 is an idler
wheel. However, in the second example disclosed below, the wheel 12 may be

                                           -6
provided in the form of a sprocket-wheel (also known as simply a "sprocket"). The
sound attenuation device 10 may be provided on or with other rotating wheel or wheel
like parts.
[0041] The device 10 includes a body 14 adapted to couple to a rim 16 of the wheel
 12 such that the body 14 is substantially suspended radially of the rim 16. The body
 14 includes a damping material 20 so as to damp vibration associated with the wheel
 12 thereby providing sound attenuation. In more detail, in this example, the wheel 12
includes a central hub 22 that is radially spaced apart from the rim 16 so as to define
an annular recess 24 at or toward a front face 26 of the wheel 12 between the central
hub 22 and the rim 16. In this example, the device 10 is arranged such that the body
 14 is substantially suspended within the annular recess 24 in the fitted condition.
[0042] Turning to the device 10 in more detail, the device 10 includes a flange 28
arranged to extend from the body 14. The flange 28 is arranged to couple to the rim
 16. The body 14 includes an annular cavity 30 and the damping material 20 is housed
within the annular cavity 30. The damping material 20 may be a polymer material
such as polyurethane, a natural or synthetic rubber or bituminous material. The
damping material 20 may be introduced into the annular cavity 30 during forming or
via an inlet (not shown).
[0043] In this example, the annular cavity 30 has a square or rectangular cross section
32 having opposing inner and outer side walls or side surfaces 34, 35, a back wall or
inner surface 36 and a front wall or outer surface 38 that faces outwardly of the wheel
12. The flange 28 extends radially outwardly from the annular cavity 30 and may be
contiguous with or form the front wall 38. In this example, the flange 28 is continuous
about the annular cavity 30 so as to be an annular flange 39. However, more than one
flange or discrete flange segments may be provided.
[0044] In this example, in the fitted condition the flange 28 is arranged to radially
space and suspend the annular cavity 30 within the annular recess 24 with the annular
cavity 30 spaced apart from internal surfaces 31 of the annular cavity 30. In more
detail, the inner side wall 34 is spaced apart from an inside face 40 of the annular
recess 24 toward the rim 16, and the outer side wall 35 is spaced apart from an outer

                                           -7
side face 42 of the annular recess 24 toward the hub 22. The back wall 36 is spaced
apart from a recessed face 44 of the annular recesses 24 that extends between the
inside face 40 and outer side face 42. The front wall or outer surface 38 may be about
level with or flush with the rim 16, and slightly recessed relative to the front face 26
of the hub 22 to protect the device 10.
[0045] In this example, an annular inner edge 50 of the rim 16 includes a step 52 to
which the flange 28 is seated and coupled in a fitted condition. The body 14 and
flange 28 may be formed from metal so as to securely house and shield the damping
material 20. The step 52 may be machined into the rim 16 and the flange 28 may be
welded to the step 52 and therefore coupled to the rim 16. The device 10 functions by
having only a single annular area of contact with the rim 16 so as to damp vibrations
at the rim 16 and hence attenuate sound emitted from the wheel 12.
[0046] A method of installation and use may include machining the rim 16 so as to
include the step 52 at the annular inner edge 50 thereof, and fitting the device 10 to
the wheel 12 by coupling, such as by welding, the flange 28 to the step 52 with the
body 14 suspending from the flange 28 substantially within the annular recess 24 of
the wheel.
[0047] Referring now to Figure 7 to 11, there is shown a second example of the
device 10 in which like parts are denoted by like numerals. This example functions
similarly to the first example. However, in this example, an outer side face 60 of a
central hub 62 of the sprocket wheel 64 provides the rim 16. The device 10 is coupled
in the fitted condition to the outer side face 60 by the flange 28 that in this example
extends radially inwardly of the body 14 as opposed to radially outwardly as
illustrated in the first example in Figures 1 to 6. The flange 28 is interposed between
the sprocket wheel 12 and the cap 72 and includes a plurality of apertures 66 that are
arranged to align with respective pluralities of apertures 67, 68, 70 of the flange 28,
annular cavity 30 and a cap 72 of the central hub 62 to allow the device 10 to be
coupled to the central hub 62.
[0048] In this example, the configuration of the annular cavity 30 that contains the
damping material 20 is similar to that described above and is not described again here.

                                           -8
However, it is noted that the position of the annular cavity 30 is in this example
suspended in a recess 63 defined between the rim 16 of the hub 62, an inner sprocket
66 and a track 69 that is driven by the inner sprocket 66. The annular cavity 30 is set
back from the front face 78 of the central hub 62 so as to be protected from potential
impact with debris or other objects. This second example functions in a similar way to
the first example in that the device 10 seeks to damp vibrations of the rim 16 and
therefore assist to attenuate sound emitted from the sprocket wheel 12. The method of
use may be similar to the first example, although coupling in this example may be
accomplished via fasteners (not shown).
[0049] Advantageously, there have been described two examples of a device for
attenuating sound from a wheel, in this example, wheels in the form of an idler wheel
and a sprocket wheel. The device includes a body that contains a damping material
that is coupled to the wheel at or toward a rim thereof at preferably a single annular
point or area of contact about the rim or side surface proximate to the rim. Depending
on the configuration of the wheel, the body may be coupled to an inner or outer side
or face of the rim by a flange that spaces the annular cavity of the body from contact
with other surfaces of the wheels. The device is able to be retrofitted and seeks to
reduce vibration at or toward the wheel rims and therefore attenuation sound emitted
from the rim and wheel.
[0050] Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
"comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or
group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of
integers or steps.
[0051] The reference in this specification to any known matter or any prior
publication is not, and should not be taken to be, an acknowledgment or admission or
suggestion that the known matter or prior art publication forms part of the common
general knowledge in the field to which this specification relates.

                                          -9
[0052] While specific examples of the invention have been described, it will be
understood that the invention extends to alternative combinations of the features
disclosed or evident from the disclosure provided herein.
[0053] Many and various modifications will be apparent to those skilled in the art
without departing from the scope of the invention disclosed or evident from the
disclosure provided herein.

                                           -10
The claims defining the Invention are as follows:
 1.      A sound attenuation device for fitting with a wheel of a track-type machine in
a fitted condition, the device including a body adapted to couple at or toward a rim of
the wheel such that the body is substantially suspended radially of the rim, the body
including a damping material so as to damp vibration associated with the wheel
thereby providing sound attenuation.
2.       The sound attenuation device according to claim 1, wherein the wheel includes
a central hub that is radially spaced apart from the rim so as to define an annular
recess at a front face of the wheel between the central hub and the rim, and wherein
the device is arranged such that the body is substantially suspended within the annular
recess in the fitted condition.
3.       The sound attenuation device according to claim 2, wherein the wheel is
provided in the form an idler wheel.
3.       The sound attenuation device according to claim 1, wherein the wheel includes
a central hub having the rim.
4.       The sound attenuation device according to claim 3, wherein the wheel is a
sprocket-wheel having a sprocket located toward a rear face thereof for engaging a
track, the body being located between substantially within an annular recess defined
between a front face of the wheel, the sprocket and the track.
5.       The sound attenuation device according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein
the device includes a flange extending from the body, the flange being arranged to
couple to the rim.
6.       The sound attenuation device according to claim 5, wherein the body contains
the damping material.
7.       The sound attenuation device according to claim 6, wherein the body includes
an annular cavity and the damping material is housed within the annular cavity.

                                           -11
8.      The sound attenuation device according to claim 7, wherein the flange extends
radially outwardly from the annular cavity.
9.      The sound attenuation device according to claim 7, wherein the flange is
continuous about the annular cavity.
 10.    The sound attenuation device according to claim 7, wherein the annular cavity
includes at least one wall, and wherein the at least one wall is spaced apart from the
wheel in the fitted condition.
 11.    The sound attenuation device according to claim 7, wherein the annular cavity
has a front wall, a rear wall, an inner wall and an outer wall, and wherein the flange
extends radially outwardly of the outer wall to the rim.
 12.    The sound attenuation device according to claim 11, wherein in the fitted
condition the annular cavity is located by the flange such that the rear wall, inner wall
and outer wall are each spaced apart from internal surfaces of the annular recess of the
wheel and the outer wall of the annular cavity is arranged toward a front face of the
rim.
 13.    The sound attenuation device according to claim 7, wherein the flange is
annular so as to engage an annular edge of the rim.
 14.    The sound attenuation device according to claim 13, wherein an annular edge
of the rim of the annular recess includes a step to which the flange is seated and
coupled in the fitted condition.
 16.    The sound attenuation device according to claim 7, wherein the annular cavity
has a square or rectangular cross section.
 17.    The sound attenuation device according to claim 7, wherein the body and
flange are formed from a metallic based material, and the damping material is a non
metallic based material.

                                          -12
 18.     The sound attenuation device according to claim 17, wherein the damping
material is polyurethane or a bituminous material
 19.    A sound attenuation device for fitting with a wheel of a track-type machine in
a fitted condition, the device including a body adapted to couple proximate a rim of
the wheel such that the body is substantially suspended radially of the rim so as to be
spaced apart from and free from contact with other surfaces of the wheel, the body
including a damping material so as to damp vibration associated with the wheel
thereby providing sound attenuation.
20.     A wheel assembly including a rim and a sound attenuation device as defined in
any one of the previous claims coupled to the rim.
21.     A track-type machine including sound attenuation device as defined in any one
of claims I to 19.
22.     A method for sound attention of a wheel having a rim, the method including
arranging a sound attenuation advice such that a damping body thereof is suspended
from the wheel proximate or at the rim so that the damping body is free from contact
with other surfaces of the wheel thereby damping vibrations associated with the rim to
provide sound attenuation.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
